filed 1/26/15 p. v. goodwin ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. michael frank goodwin, defendant and appellant. b197574 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga052683) appeal from a judgment of the superior court for the county of los angeles. teri schwartz, judge. affirmed. gail harper, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, michael r. johnsen and louis w. karlin, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________ 2 summary in the early morning of march 16, 1988, mickey and trudy thompson were shot and killed in the driveway of their bradbury estates home, as they were leaving for work, by two gunmen who left the scene on bicycles and were never apprehended. more than 13 years later, defendant michael frank goodwin was arrested in orange county for the murders. after the orange county prosecution was dismissed for improper venue, defendant was prosecuted in los angeles county, and in january 2007, a jury convicted him of the first degree murder of both victims, and found true special allegations of multiple murders and that the murders were committed by means of lying in wait. the prosecution adduced evidence of bitter lawsuits between defendant and mr. thompson over business matters in the three years preceding the murders, lawsuits that ended badly for defendant. many witnesses testified to expressed hatred of mr. thompson and defendantnumerous threats, repeated to many witnesses over a lengthy period of time, that he intended to kill mr. thompson and hurt his family. there was eyewitness testimony placing defendant, with binoculars, in a car (with another unidentified man) parked in the thompson neighborhood a few days before the murders. and there was evidence defendant and his wife liquidated assets and left the country on a newly purchased yacht five months after the murders. the defense case challenged the eyewitness identification of the man in the parked car and tried to prove the murders were the result of a robbery gone wrong rather than a that investigators made numerous errors and improperly focused their efforts on defendant rather than undertaking an unbiased search for the truth. defendant challenges his convictions on many grounds. he contends the case been recused, or the two prosecutors should have been removed, because of the seizure, retention and review of attorney-client privileged documents. he contends the evidence was insufficient for conviction, claiming the eyewitness identification of defendant as the man in the parked car was not credible evidence of a 3 connection between defendant and the killers or of any agreement to murder the thompsons. he contends the long delay in prosecuting him was unjustified and prejudicial, violating his state and federal constitutional rights to due process of law. he asserts a possible pitchess1 violation. he asserts error in the admission of expert testimony on financial transactions that occurred after mickey thompson won a large judgment against defendant. he asserts the trial court improperly admitted evidence that mr. thompson mr. . he contends the trial court erred in excluding evidence, including evidence of potential third party culpability; evidence that mickey thompson had purchased a large quantity of gold just before the murders; and evidence that another individual had failed three polygraph examinations but nevertheless investigators failed to pursue him as a suspect. he asserts error in giving a conspiracy instruction; error in instructing the jury it could consider a on a yacht five months after the murders as evidence of flight and consciousness of guilt. he asserts multiple forms of prosecutorial misconduct. he contends dismissal is required because of outrageous government conduct , claiming among other things that through her personal connections with the orange county district attorney. and he asserts reversal is required based on the cumulative effect of multiple errors in the case. 1 pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531 (pitchess). 4 our review of the record discloses no prejudicial error, and we affirm the judgment. facts 1. background mickey thompson was a well-known race car driver who set a land speed record in his youth. by the 1980s, mr. thompson was running a successful sports promotion company that sponsored indoor stadium races, principally with off-road, four-wheeled vehicles. defendant ran a similar business, stadium motor sports corporation, promoting stadium motorcycle racing. in 1984, the two men entered into a business venture together to promote stadium motor sports events. the deal involved a stock transfer agreement with the parties combining their businesses and sharing profits and losses, 70 percent to defendant and 30 percent to mr. thompson. within months, the business relationship deteriorated. defendant refused to advance monies for an event according to the 70/30 formula, and then claimed mr. company.2 mr. thompson sued defendant and his company in october 1984. in february 1986, the trial court entered judgment for mr. thompson totaling over $790,000 in damages, prejudgment interest and attorney fees. in the years after the litigation began, mr. thompson continued to successfully promote motor sports events in various arenas, while . defendant had originated the idea of staging motorcycle events at the stadium in anaheim, and had done so successfully for years. but after 1987, gregory smith, the 2 charles stewart linkletter, who worked for defendant in 1984 while the business venture with mr. thompson was being negotiated, overheard a conversation between -minute out of his later, mr. linkletter drove from laguna to the thompson residence to get mr. 5 anaheim stadium executive director, stopped doing business with defendant and hired including the event defendant previously produced. (one of several reasons for the defendant was very upset when he received the news that his proposal for those events had been rejected in favor of mr. thompson. anaheim stadium executives announced the change at a press conference in august 1987, and the events held in january 1988 were very successful. defendant had held an exclusive contract for motor sports events at the rose bowl in 1985 and 1986, but the pasadena city council selected mr. thohold an event in may 1987, which also made defendant very angry. mr. thompson was also selected to run an event in the summer of 1988, but the murders prevented that. igorous attempts to collect on his judgment against defendant using private sureties to satisfy the appellate bond requirement, but were not able to find any assets, which appeared to have been transferred. in september 1986, defendant changed the name of his company and filed for bankruptcy protection. in november 1986, defendant filed for personal bankruptcy. mr. lawyers, who was responsible for attempting to collect the judgment, described the the judgment for mr. thompson was affirmed on appeal and the supreme court denied review on january 29, 1988, a few months before the murders. in another lawsuit defendant filed in orange county against mr. thompson and his company, the court ordered summary judgment in favor mr. thompson on march 2, 1988, about two weeks before the murders. after the bankruptcy filings in september and november 1986, mr. thompson had wanted to settle the matter, and there were extensive settlement negotiations. 6 apparenat the last minute and it would fall apart. was not negotiating in good faith. ow named entertainment specialties, inc. (esi), the bankruptcy examiner recommended appointment of a trustee for esi. as the company had been sold by e.s.i. company owned and operated by man named charles clayton. when he examined the books and the transfer to sxi, mr. coyne found d determined that and the most interested of whom was mr. thompson. mr. coyne discovered that sxi was in default on payments to esi for assets transferred to sxi, and believed the activity of defendant, his wife, esi and sxi to be fraud primary assets had been shifted away. mr. coyne took steps to recover the assets, and sxi eventually paid $385,000 of the outstanding $500,000 owed. mr. coyne pursued recovery of the remaining amount paid to his wife and parents. at a meeting a few weeks before the murders, defendant, within inches of mr. coynes face and said, ll describing his 2. threats against mr. thompson we summarize now the evidence of the multiple occasions on which defendant expressed his hatred of mr. thompson and his intent to kill him during the years preceding the murders. 7 a. william and nina wilson in january or february 1988, william and nina wilson hosted dinner at their home for defendant and his wife. (mr. wilson was general manager of jack murphy stadium in san diego, and had also managed the rose bowl; he had worked with both mr. thompson and defendant on various motor sports promotions.) when mr. wilson asked defendant how he was doing, defendant replied, nina wilson heard the conversation and both the wilsons believed defendant was serious. mr. was shock[ed]. when he saw how b. gregory smith mr. smith, the anaheim stadium executive, was subpoenaed to testify at a bankruptcy court hearing in 1987. this was at a time when decisions were being made or had recently been made about the award of the anaheim motorcycle event to mr. thompson. mr. smith was sitting at the back of the courtroom before the hearing threatening. he had had several conversations with defendant before, and in every one, but the courtroom conversa 8 c. scott hernandez 1987, when defendant closed the office. the office walls were thin, and the offices of defendant and mr. hernandez shared a wall, so mr. hernandez could overhear discussions in s adjoining officecame up frequently and was a source of tension in the offiwas brought up by [defendant], it was usually in a rageful manner. not geared towards the office personnel, but him expressing his anger and frustration . . . . on one occasion, mr. hernandez heard defendant on the telephone with his hernandez described (in 2002, mr. hernandez told a detective that this incident occurred in february or march 1987, rather than late 1987.) d. cheryl sarantis cheryl sarantis was an employee of defendmr. thompson on a regular basis, every day that defendant was in the office. on one occasion, she heard lamps crashing against the wall of the conference she also was going to destroy mickey (when police interviewed ms. sarantis, she said what defendant said, and not a direct quote from defendant.) e. kathy weese kathy weese, who was then known as kathy johnson, worked for defendant for six to eight months as a secretary in 1986. she often answered the telephone when overheard defendant say, twice, . the two continued to 9 argue, and ms. weese heard defendant say, and a motor vehicle to have you taken out and i will take (ms. weese did not tell police about that statement when she was interviewed in 1997, but the detective who interviewed her heard ms. weese testify to the same effect at a preliminary hearing in orange county in 2002.)3 f. barron wehinger barron wehinger, 16 years old in the fall of 1984, lived with his stepfather, tom villelli, in durango, colorado. defendant visited the durango residence, and discussed with mr. villelli his tell his stepfatherhe was going to kill mr. st his power to run the superbowl of motorcross, his million-dollar-a- replied, was vivid in his memory because, around the same time, defendant had visited and somebody offers you a chance to ride superbowl of motorcross, you listen to every word mr. wehinger did not mention anything about the $50,000 when he testified at the preliminary hearing in this case, and he never mentioned anything about a hit man to the police or to the prosecutor. in his previous testimony, mr. wehinger said that the only [(defendant)] would have him [(mr. thompson)] 3 ms. weese had a criminal history. she used aliases and had several theft-related convictions. she had walked away from a colorado halfway house (because she was beaten and her daughter was attacked) to come to los angeles. defendant had ms. weese arrested, claiming she embezzled money. she was acquitted of that charge, but spent eight months in custody awaiting trial and later was sent back to colorado to 10 in 2003, mr. wehinger told police he heard defendant talking in late 1987, or perhaps 60 or 90 days before the murders, rather than in 1984. g. penn weldon in november or december 1987, penn weldon, a private investigator, met defendant to discuss possible investigative work for defendant. defendant was very upset and angry during the hour- by mickey thompson; that he was so angry he had recently thrown a chair through the window of his house; and ted to get even with defendant wanted mr. weldon to investigate mr. ip bartinetti, and place listening devices in mr. bartinettrefused to do that, but agreed to and did perform other investigative actions relating to mr. bartinetti. h. karen dragutin in the months preceding the murders, karen dragutin was at a laguna beach restaurant with a man who knew defendant very well, and they were joined by defendant ude changed when the conversation turned to lawyers and lawsuits and mickey thompson. defendant became angry, ; ; as going to get out of it is if mickey ms. dragutin also testified going to bermuda. and it was still in the context of that conversation. so my conclusion ement about the boat and going to bermuda to die . . . . i. gregory keay before the murdpolice interviewed mr. 11 ) j. dale newman in the fall of 1987, dale newman and a friend flew to mexico to go diving, and met defendant, who sent a 60-foot boat to the beach to pick them up. that evening, they were on the bridge deck with defendant and his wife. mr. newman overheard defendant and his wife commiserating over a legal matter. mr. newman did not recall his exact ing bad was k. john williams john williams was a deputy marshal in orange county from 1986 through 1988. , in the ckey thompson is fucking dead. extramr. thompson, and both repeated that mr. incident to his supervisor, and telephoned mr. thompsonsuccessful levy and the threatening comments. mr. williams testified that the incident occurred about three months before the thompson murders, but documentation showed a writ to levy was issued on june 4, 1986; a levy worksheet was dated june 11, 1986; and a receipt for the towing service . mr. williams, when shown these documents, continued to insist the incident did not occur in august 1986. (after the bankruptcies were filed in september and november 1986, mr. thompson would have been unable to levy on the mercedes, and in january 1988, defendant surrendered his mercedes to a representative of the bankruptcy trustee without incident.) 12 l. nancy lucia nancy lucia (formerly wilkinson) worked for the thompsons on weekends for several years lucia came to the home in the fall of 1987 to show trudy thompson her wedding photographs. while they were in an upstairs room looking at the photographs, mickey thompson came upstalose the window. close the drapes. [defendant] could have a sniper out there the drapes were open at the time. m. joel weissler joel weissler wa he met defendant in 1984 or 1985, at a race promoted by his uncle, where the thompsons introduced defendant company for the four-hour racing event. mr. weissler also spoke briefly to defendant at a later event. in late 1987 or early 1988, mr. weissler overheard defendant on the telephone. mr. weissler was talking on the telephone with trudy thompson, and could hear mickey thompson in the background, speaking with defendant on another phone line. mr. weissler heard defendant sayr. family out about a month later, mr. weissler was visiting the thompsons home. he saw , mr. thompson was very agitated and repeatedly said at the time of the funeral, mr. weissler told a detective he had heard defendant make threats, but he was not asked for any details about the threats. in august 1991, he and an uncle went to a police station in los angeles and met with the police to 13 when mr. weissler was asked whether he mentioned the phone conversations he had heard to the police at the august 1991 meeting, he said he did not recall and he thought what he had to say was very redundant. n. lance johnson lance johnson was a friend and neighbor of the thompsons. years after the collene campbell. defendant walked by, and mr. johnson heard him whisper to ms. 4 3. the setting for the murders and other pre-murder facts the thompsons lived on woodlyn lane in several driveways led out of the thompson property, one of them to woodlyn lane, which was electronically gated. there was a locked gate between woodlyn lane and royal oaks, and a bike path below royal oaks. the home was also accessible via mt. olive drive. ronald and tonyia stevens lived on mt. olive drive. several days before the murders, near midday, as mr. stevens drove past the horse corral next to his home, he noticed a car parked on the wrong side of the street. looking through binoculars in the direction of the nearby grammar school. mr. stevens pulled into his driveway at the far end of the corral. his wife and daughter were there, and they told him the people in the car had been there for five or ten minutes. mr. stevens asked his wife to call the police and walked through the corral to investigate. he approached from behind the car, a blue-green, rusted and dirty 1970s chevy station wagon with arizona plates. 4 mr. recall stating those words to the police. 14 from a distance of eight feet, mr. stevens saw two men in the car. the one in the light-ish on the back portion of his head, was holding binoculars. mr. stevens looked at the s face for about a minute, mostly from his left profile as mr. stevens approached, the driver turned around and looked directly at him, and then drove away. mr. stevens made a ber it. he also wrote down the license plate of the car on a business card. (mr. stevens told police that he was only able to view the driver from the side; at trial he was asked if he remembered telling the detective that he had only gotten within 15 or 20 feet of the driver, but he did not recall saying that. he also did not remember telling the detective he was not sure which man had the binoculars.) tonyia stevens r three days before the murder, between noon and 3:00 p.m. she was driving her daughter home from school, and turned left into her driveway. as she passed the car, she looked directly at the men and got a face-on view of the driver, who was just putting down binoculars. she and her daughter went into the house and talked about whether to call the police, because that type of car was out of place in the area, and she was concerned about child abduction. then her husband arrived, told ms. stevens to call the police, and went back outside. ms. stevens followed him through the corral toward the car. she came within 10 or when he looked in her direction. after the driver sped away, ms. stevens called the sherifdepartment from a telephone in the garage to report the suspicious-looking car; she mr. stevens said that, even with binoculars, the thompson residence and woodlyn lane wo on one occasion she saw a station wagon in the parking lot, an older station wagon with 15 out-of-state plates, that had never been in the parking lot before and that she never saw again. 4. the murders the prosecution sought to show that mickey thompson was executed after this was exactly how defendant wanted it to happen. the evidence was as follows. a. allison triarsi the witness to the murders fourteen-year-old allison triarsi witnessed the murders. the thompson home was across the street from and down the hill below the triarsi residence. at 6:00 a.m. on the day of the murders, miss -pitched voice. she also heard multiple gunshots. her mother came in, grabbed her, and pushed her to the floor of the dining room. it had floor to ceiling windows, so she could see everything that happened in front of the thompson home. miss triarsi saw mickey thompson toward the top of the thompson driveway, by the garage door. the thompson minivan was in the driveway with the doors open. trudy thompson was towards the bottom of the downward sloping driveway. there was a man with mr. thompson miss triarsi heard mr. thompson say, over and over, a statement that was directed at the bottom of the mr. thompsoagitated in his actions. he was moving in an agitated way. he was mr. it appeared mr. thompson while mickey thompson was pleading with the gunman, trudy thompson was on her knees at the bottom of the drivew 16 thompson walked up close to her and was standing over her. up to this point, miss triarsi had not seen anyone shoot a gun. the gunman near trudy then shot her in the head. she fell to the ground and did not move. miss triarsi did not remember what the gunman who shot trudy did next miss triarsi saw mr. thompson tr miss triarsi ran outside down the driveway, because she thought trudy might still be alive. miss triarsi ran to her, but trudy thompson never moved and had blood all over her head. miss triarsi wanted to go to mickey thompson, but then she opped over a stone wall, ducked and waited there. her mother realized where she had gone and was halfway down the driveway, running miss triarsi never went up to the top of the driveway where mr. thompson was lying. she did not see either of the gunmen escaping, but she heard a clicking noise, like a 10-speed bike with thin wheels. the sound came from the direction of the back way out of the thompson property, and grew fainter and fainter. b. lance johnson the witness to the escape a neighbor of the thompsons, lance johnson, was wakened by five or six gunshots. he ran to the window, and after 15 to 20 seconds of silence, he heard mickey thompson loudly screaming, several times, then, he heard another series of gunshots, followed by silence. he got out his gun, went to one of his front windows, and saw two african-american males riding bicycles (english racer bikes) down one of several driveways leading out of the thompson property, this one leading to woodlyn lane. as they started down woodlyn lane in front of his home, he yelled for them to stop, but they did not look in his direction. he then fired a shot at them, but they just pedaled faster. one of them had a 17 . . . more or less pear- c. other witnesses to the escape wilma johnson was driving eastbound along royal oaks drive north, at about 6:00 a.m., and saw two men with bicycles run in front of her van near the intersection with woodlyn lane, causing her to brake suddenly. she saw one of them very clearly, a ed sweatshirt. they were on foot, pushing 10-speed bikes that looked new and shiny, and running diagonally across the street. they disappeared through a break in the fence toward the bicycle path that ran parallel to royal oaks on the other side of the fence. claudette freidinger was driving through bradbury, -morning, on her way home from taking her son to work. she stopped at an intersection on royal oaks. she saw two black men on good bicycles headed toward her, one with a horeally, really at the four-way stop. one of them looked in her direction. they were headed southbound, toward the freeway. (when police interviewed her, ms. freidinger said her son began work at 7:00 a.m., and expressed doubt about the involvement of the person she saw based on the timing.) d. the escape route the escape route down the back side of the thompson property to woodlyn lane was a leading to an electronically controlled gate at woodlyn lane, and then to royal oaks. a wo the gate was electronic, but could be easily opened manually by applying pressure to one of the supporting arms. from there, at woodlyn and royal oaks, a bicyclist would be able to pass through a break in the wooden fence bordering royal oaks, to the running and bike path below. the bike path intersected mt. olive, a few blocks from access to the freeway. 18 e. the murder scene and initial investigation the base of the steep, downward sloping the top of the driveway, close to the garage door. both had fatal gunshot wounds to the head, as well as gunshot wounds to their bodies. trudy thompson would have been visible to and within speaking distance of mickey thompson. a van appeared to have was on the ground, and there was a bullet hole in the windshield. when criminalist elizabeth devine arrived a few hours later, she saw money and she found shoe prints in several locations, some of them from an area where miniature orange trees were planted; she also found freshly cut orange peels in the same area. deputy sheriff linda arthur photographed a stun gun that was in the driveway.5 cash. trudy thompson was wearing high-value gold and diamond jewelry, and there was $3,700 in cash inside her purse in the van. there was no indication of any attempt to remove property from either of the thompsons, no sign of forced entry to the house, and the house alarm was armed and had not been set off. the garage door was closed. there was a safe inside the garage, but no indication it had been tampered with. detective reynold verdugo found expended bullet projectiles and casings at various locations at the scene, as well as two live rounds. criminalist manuel munoz determined that all of the expended cartridge casings from the scene were 9-millimeter luger caliber, and two firearms were used. four expended casings and two live rounds were from the same weapon; the other four expended casings were from a second weapon. two expended bullets removed from trudy thom 5 kathy weese later testified that she saw a stun gun in a box in a storage area of idence while she was house-sitting there in 1986. 19 fired from the same weapon. the others, found inside the garage, near the garage, to the second weapon. mickey thompson suffered seven gunshot wounds, three to his stomach, one to his hip, two to the back of his hand, and one to his head, behind his right ear. trudy thompson suffered two gunshot wounds, one to her lower stomach, likely inflicted first, which could have occurred while she was sitting in the van, and one to the back of her head. 5. actions before and after the murders: the yacht and the gold fe, indicated to a bank representative that she was in the process of deciding on the purchase of a yacht. in january 1988, ms. goodwin entered into a purchase agreement with fraser yachts for a $400,000 yacht, and wrote a check serving as an earnest money deposit for the purchase. a boat loan for ms. statement for the yacht was dated april 28, 1988, and a certificate of ownership dated may 3, 1988, showed ms. goodwin as the owner of the yacht, namwith a mortgage of $200,000 encumbering the yacht. in may 1988, a coin dealer engaged in two transactions he said were with defendant. he believed his initial contact with defendant was by telephone. he sold, in the two transactions, almost $350,000 in gold coinsby on june 27, 1988, defendant brought the 57-foot yacht named believe to a marina in south carolina, managed by victor utsey, for installation of bilge pumps and radio equipment. the yacht was in the marina for about six weeks. after that outfitting, the yacht would have been capable of sailing offshore, such as to the turks and caicos islands, or to the bahamas and south america. the yacht was large enough for transatlantic sail or anywhere in the world, if defendant had the capacity to produce potable water, and it was small enough to sail into small waterways and inlets. two people could live on the boat for an extended period of time. on the second or third 20 day of august, defendant unexpectedly asked mr. utsey to expedite the work. mr. utsey did so, and defendant sailed away from the marina. in may 1991, a boat surveyor named frank magee was retained by maryland t three to four weeks in guatemala searching for it. during that time, he had a phone conversation with and defendant on the dulce river in guatemala, and repossessed the yacht for the bank. 6. the investigation and arrest initially in charge of the murder investigation. he retired in january 1992. (one of the investigation after detective griggs retired, and in 1995, detective mark lillienfeld was assigned to take over the investigation. (the murders had aired in 1988 and several times since then.) at various times in his investigation of defendant, detective lillienfeld sought assistance from the dea, the fbi, customs, and other law enforcement agencies; sought and received authorization for a wiretap of in 1998, detective lillienfeld attended a meeting with the sheriff and the then-district attorney, gil garcetti. mr. garcetti rejected the case against defendant as having insufficient evidence for a successful prosecution. (goodwin v. superior court (apr. 23, 2004, g031285) [nonpub. opn.].) in 1999, defendant had a conversation with randy garell, the owner of a store specializing in firearms and outdoor apparel and equipment. the two men knew each wanted to know how guns were traced; mr. garell told him. (defendant told mr. garell 21 he was trying to investigate the thompson case because he was a suspect, and defendant some things that were not true about weapons [) then, in early 2000, defendant came to the store again and asked if stun guns were traceable. mr. garell said stun guns were not traceable, and did not fall under the same restrictions as guns. detective lillienfeld also interviewed gail moreau-hunter in march 1999. ms. moreau-hunter lived with defendant in colorado in 1991 and 1992. ms. moreau-hunter told detective took responsibility for the murdersthe detective that defendant (goodwin v. superior court, supra, g031285, at p. 9.) (ms. moreau-hunter testified at the preliminary hearing in los angeles but not at trial that sometime in 1992, i hired ) in early 2001, detective lillienfeld interviewed ronald and tonyia stevens for the first time. they gave the detective the information about the man with binoculars parked in front of their house a few days before the murders, as described in part 3, ante. (mr. stevens had called the police several times, not long after the murders, saying he thought he had some information about the thompson murders; he was told a detective would call him back, but no one ever did.) in march 2001, mr. stevens viewed a photographic lineup-pack. he had described the man with binoculars acomplexion. he later testified that he saw the person who had been in the car in front of his house in the six-pack. he and his wife were asked to view a live lineup, separately, and both of them identified the defendant. in december 2001, detective lillienfeld home, seizing thousands of documents. defendant was arrested and charged by the 22 orange county district attorney with the 1988 murders and with conspiracy to commit murder. on april 23, 2004, the court of appeal issued a writ ordering the trial court to dismiss the case for lack of venue.6 dence, not previously considered by the los angeles district attorney prior to its rejection of the case, can and should be given to the los angeles district attorney for reconsideration of that decision, or to the office of the attorney general for its review goodwin v. superior court, supra, g031285, at p. 34.) the los angeles district attorney charged defendant with the murders, and after a six-day preliminary hearing in october 2004, defendant was held to answer and arraigned on october 28, 2004. 7. the trial the trial court denied successive motions to dismiss the case, to recuse the los as delineated in detail post s were erroneous. trial began in october 2006. in addition to the facts already described, other evidence was adduced as follows. a. karen stephens- karen stephens-kingdon was a certified public accountant, an investigative auditor for the orange county distr, and a certified fraud examiner and internal auditor. she had previously testified as an expert forensic accountant or investigative auditor. in early 1992, she was asked to look at the financial records of defendant and his wife to 6 defendant had previously sought a writ, after denial of his motion to recuse the personal relationship with mickedisinterested goodwin v. superior court, supra, g031285, at pp. 2-3.) 23 1986, 1987 and 1988, ms. stephens-kingdon testified that while the yacht diane goodwin purchased the goodwins residence in laguna beach, which they purchased and lived in together, appeared to have been purchased with commingled assets, and was liquidated (converted into cash or other liquid assets) in 1988. ms. stephens-kingdon testified in particular about two investments jga whitehawk and desert investors that were in the name of diane goodwin in 1988. ms. goodwin put what ms. stephens-kingdon both the goodwins into those investments in her own name. then, there was a distribution from jga whitehawk to diane goodwin for $365,000 on may 6, 1988, and a few days later, a portion of those funds was used to purchase $275,000 in gold coins, and $10,000 was wired offshore. similarly, $215,000 was distributed from desert investors to diane goodwin in may 1988; she transferred $140,000 to an account offshore and purchased $75,000 in gold coins. [ed] up going stephens-opinion was based on early tax returns, the liquidated in 1988and then the records show that it all funnels into di. . . the she also based her opinion in part on correspondence purporting to be from defendantinvestors] transaction and not to discuss 24 thompson issue. (this testimony was admitted only to show the basis for ms. stephens- ms. stephens-kingdon also reviewed bank statements showing that on or about march 16, 1988 (the date of the murders), there was a $20,000 withdrawal from diane . ms. stephens- b. evidence of a robbery motive for the murders the defense adduced evidence intended to suggest a robbery motive for the murders. eric millerbefore the murders. mr. thompson was talking to lee haslam about investments. rene laporte interviewed mr. miller about a month after the murders, and took notes of the interview. according to those notes (detective laporte had no independent recollection of the interview)mickey thompson say he had taken possession of a valuable item and named . . . a detective -examination, he testified his notes were a paraphrasing of the conversation with mr. miller.) the notes became part of a report that was given to detective griggs, who was then managing the investigation. detective laporte did not, and was not directed to, look into mr. records to see if he could match up the dollar amount specified with any sort of deposit or outgoing notation in those records. sandra men riding racing bikes down woodlyn lane, canvas bat trial, drawstring robert wiborg, a coin dealer, testified that coins shipped via brinks come in sealed canvas bags, generally white, that look like a regular bank bag and usually have a metal seal on the top. 25 a few weeks after the murders, detective sister, collene campbell, and a locksmith at the thompson home. ms. campbell had asked detective jansen to accompany her while she had a locksmith break into the safes in the thompson home, so that the deputy could note what was in the safes. the detectivenotes referred to damage to the safe in the garage olt bar bent. his notes did not indicate whether the locksmith created the damage or pointed it out to detective jansen, but he testified that he said that if the damage he noted had been there when he arrived, he would detective somebody says we damaged it more the safe in the bedroom closet contained jewelry and two envelopes of money. c. the expert on eyewitness identifications the defense presented testimony from an expert on eyewitness identification, dr. kathy pezdek. she described the factors that influence the accuracy of eyewitness identifications. dr. pezdek opined that a 13-year delay between seeing an individual and indeed that the probability of correctly identifying a person, seen one time very briefly, after 11 months (much less 13 years) is zero. dr. pezdek also testified about suggestive lineup and identification procedures, as well as the relationship between the accuracy of an identification and the confidence of the witness in making it. d. the firearms expert for the defense, jacobus swanepoel, examined the ballistics evidence and visited the crime scene. he determined the expended casings came from two different firearms, but could not make that determination with respect to the fired bullets. based on the placement of expended cartridge cases in relation to expended bullets, mr. swanepoel opined that both guns were fired at both victims, and mickey thompson likely received his fatal head wound while he was lying down. 26 e. investigation deficiencies and inconsistencies the defense produced evidence purporting to show deficiencies in the investigation of the murders, as well as evidence of inconsistencies between the testimony witnesses gave in court and their previous statements to police investigators. i. investigative deficiencies detective griggs, the lead investigator until january 1992, telephone records and set up a database, but did not do the same thing for mickey (and neither did detective lillienfeld). detective griggs did no financial investigation into defendant or mickey thompson or any thompson family member or employee. detective lillienfeld did not attempt to get financial or telephone records of individuals employed in the thompson home. there were notes in the original investigation about arizona license plates on a car related to a suspect other than defendant. even after ronald and tonyia stevens told him about the arizona license plate on the car in front of their house, detective lillienfeld did not run the arizona license plate noted in the investigative file through the computer system, to find out if that license plate number was associated with a station wagon. over the years, detective lillienfeld was privy to clues involving black men as suspected shooters, but he never showed any photographs of african-american men to any witnesses in the case. a hair was removed from the stun gun found at the crime scene, but detective lillienfeld did not ask for dna testing on it, nor did he submit the fingernail clippings and scrapings taken from the thompsons for testing. (the defense eventually tested these items.) ii. witness inconsistencies in addition to inconsistencies already noted, there were others. when detective lillienfeld first interviewed allison triarsi in 1997, she told him that she thought the shooter could have been a white man; that she believed her recollection was influenced by her mother; that it was possible trudy thompson was shot while she (allison) was running down her driveway; and that she had talked to a school psychologist about the incident. 27 when detective lillienfeld first interviewed tonyia stevens in 2001, she said she could not recall whether or not the car she saw parked in front of her home a few days before the murders was occupied. she did not tell him that the person she saw in the car reminded her of a childhood friend (as she did when she testified in court), and his report deputy sheriff john rodriguez, the first officer to arrive on the scene, interviewed lance johnson (who saw the two black men leaving the scene) an hour or so after the murders. mr. johnson told him he was awakened by gunshots and [d]screaming for then a few moments later there were several more shots, after which he went outside and saw the bicyclists escaping. detective laporte interviewed mr. johnson that day, and stated in 8. the verdicts the jury convicted defendant of both counts of first degree murder on january 7, 2007, also finding the lying in wait and multiple murder allegations true. the trial court imposed consecutive terms of life without the possibility of parole, and made other orders not at issue on this appeal. discussion 7 7 after filing his opening brief, defendant requested judicial notice be taken of (1) the transcript of the preliminary hearing held in orange county in 2002; (2) the docket and unpublished decision in goodwin v. superior court, supra, g031285; (3) the docket in people v. dimascio (case no. g005903) (a case in which mickey thompson testified (see pt. 9, post)); and (4) the grand jury testimony of detective lillienfeld. we take judicial notice of item (2), the docket and unpublished opinion in goodwin v. superior court, as thfor dismissal based on the delay in prosecuting defendant. we otherwise deny thompson testified in the case, so judicial notice accomplishes nothing. as for the grand 28 1. the dismissal and recusal claims defendant first contends the trial court erred in refusing to dismiss the case, to recuse the district a. these contentions are grounded on the seizure, retention and review of hundreds of attorney-client privileged documents. a. the factual and procedural background on december 13, 2001, police executed a search warrant for in orange county, seizing thousands of documents filling more than 120 bankers boxes. then-attorney, jeffrey benice, wrote to the orange county prosecutor telling him the boxes of documents and computers seized contained attorney-client privileged documents, and demanding appointment of a special master to required only when a search warrant sought documents in the possession or control of an issues of prosecutorial and police misconduct, . . . presentation of false evidence manufactured by deright to counsel and attorney-client privilege by both the [orange county district detective lillienfeld, testimony contradicting his trial testimony and testimony pts. 1 & 16, post.) if indeed they are relevant, they should have been presented to the trial court in the firnothmerely occasional arguments by counsel or testimony referring to the preliminary reviewing courts generally do not take judicial notice of evidence not presented to the trial court. when reviewing ts judgment, an appellate court will consider only matters which were part of the record at the time the judgment was entered. [citation.](vons companies, inc. v. seabest foods, inc. (1996) 14 cal.4th 434, 444, fn. 3; people v. preslie as a general rule the court should not take such notice if, upon examination of the entire record, it appears that the matter has not been presented to and considered by the trial court in the first instancehere. 29 attorney. according to defendant, the documents were held by the orange county prosecutors for several months, copied and then most of them were returned to defendant. more than two years later, after the court of appeal found venue was improper in orange county, the copies of the seized documents were forwarded to the los angeles . the attorney-client privilege issue, and his trial counsel did not discover it until she reviewed the seized documents provided to her in discovery. the documents seized (copies of which were later reviewed by a special master appointed by the trial court, as described post) included some 475 pages (by the that were ultimately found to be attorney-client privileged communicated to communicated to his lawyers in letters back. it does involve his strategies and his defendant made a series of motions seeking a remedy for the invasion of -client privilege. i. the first motion to dismiss on december 9, 2004, defendant moved to dismiss the case, claiming intentional from the due process clause to dismiss a case for outrageous conduct. defendant claimed that of the thousands of documents seized were named in the search warrant, and submitted a sampling under seal of 35 documents that were obviously privileged. the motion asserted the authorities were aware when they executed the search me office were privileged documents. (defendant told detective lillienfeld so when the detective served him with a grand jury subpoena in march 2001, and defendant posted signs on his office door.) the motion also asserted that detective lillienfeld procured the services of thurston michael (butch) jones, who was working as an office assistant for defendant and later for 30 aissues he had learned during at the hearing on march 17, 2005, the court stated, as to the 35 samples submitted, noted that no evidence presented at the preliminary hearing came from those documents. the court posed the pertinent question as whether the los angeles district attorney had evidence that came from potentially privileged information. the prosecutor made no objection to a court order precluding the prosecutor from presenting any evidence derived from potentially privileged communications. defendant orally requested recusal of the prosecutor as an alternative to dismissal, arguing that the first time the los angeles prosecutors saw an obviously privileged 40,000 g] the los angeles prosecutor was not made aware of the objections here might be the court thus denied the motion to dismiss and the recusal request. but, since there were hundreds of other privileged documents, the court ruled the defense could present those to the court under seal, for review by the court or a special master. this would ultimately provide the court with a means of enforcing its tentative remedy: that no evidence derived from potentially privileged documents could be used. the court also concluded a hearing would be necessary on the claim that detective lillienfeld had interfered with attorney-client privilege by using butch jones to report on information obtained in attorney-client conferences. 31 ii. the second set of motions on april 7, 2005, defendant filed motions under seal, including a motion to dismiss for egregious governmental misconduct; attorney-client privileged documents, and violation fifth and sixth amendment rights; and a motion for the return of illegally seized documents under penal code section 1538.5. the court held numerous hearings, with the following results. on april 27 and may 16, 2005, the court took testimony from detective lillienfeld, michael (butch) jones, and attorney jeffrey benice with respect to mr. jones to obtain attorney-client privileged information. the trial court denied that basis for ismiss, interference with the attorney/client privilege . . . mr. for mr. benice; he did some copying for mr. benice and [defendant]. he may have looked saw no nforcement to interfere with the attorney/client could have been asked or should have been asked. but that in no way causes me concern such that i should find th to recuse the district ajackson. mr. jackson stated he was the only current employee of the district aoffice who had reviewed the material obtained through the search warrant. he stated that, to the extent any document he reviewed was protected by attorney-client privilege, he had not disclosed it to anyone else, nor would he do so in the future. he further stated any privileged document; the office had not and would not use any privileged 32 information; all evidence introduced at trial would be derived from independent sources; all prenothing obtained has had or will have any effect whatsoever on the decisions about the scope and nature of the investigation and prosecution, about what witnesses to call (and in what order), about what questions to ask (and in what order), about what lines of defense to anticipate in presenting the case-in-chief, and about what to save for possible on june 2, 2005, alan jackson and pat dixon. (the recusal motion was based on the district attorney having seen both privileged documents and documents asserted to be beyond the scope of the search warrant.) the court denied the motion without prejudice, finding no showing of a conflict that would deprive defendant of a fair trialf privileged material, that they have agreed . . . not to use . . . in any way and not to use any evidence obtained other facts are developed . . . he defense will] renew that motion and possibly [penal code section 1424 (section 1424)] (under section 1424, a motion to disqualify a nted unless the evidence shows that a conflict of interest the court also observed, as to the section 1538.5 motion for return of property, that the defense had shown th to the prosecution. the court decided to appoint a special master to determine which documents were privileged and which were beyond the scope of the warrant. on january 25, 2006, the defense again moved, under seal, to dismiss the charges based on egregious governmental misconduct, or in the alternative to recuse the entire the defense provided a 33 detailed analysis of the privileged materials and why the case should be dismissed based on february 6, 2006, the trial court again refused to recuse the entire district office needs to be recused in this matter . . . . the court observed it had reviewed the pribut that a hearing should be held on the possible recusal of the two prosecutors. (the prosecutor had had no access to the sealed pleadings, and no opportunity to respond to the defense claim privileged information.) have egregious misconduct on the part of this prosecutorial agency such that the court would have to dismiss the case as a sanction, at a hearing on february 15, 2006, on the recusal issue, prosecutor jackson the court found no authority to disqualify a prosecutor who has been tainted by attorney/client privilege the court decided prosecutor jackson should review the privileged documents , so that he would have the opportunity to demonstrate that the privileged material had already been disclosed to others such that the court could find a waiver of the privilege. the prosecutor then filed, for a hearing on march 6, 2006, a detailed analysis of the documents the special master concluded were privileged, not, and cannot, establish that he has suffered any prejudice as a result of [deputy district attorney] alan ja the prosecutor described the documents and categorized them as either (1) documents with no facial indication that they were protected communications; (2) nonprejudicial as not pertaining 34 to the thompson murders; or (3) documents to which waiver applied because the subject matter had been published in alternate, unprivileged sources. the prosecutor attached various publications, including a transcribed interview from s most wanted, s memorandum to the producers of that television show, and as systematically published in almost every media forum available his thoughts, theories, defenses, excuses, accusations, analyses and beliefs at the march 6 hearing, the court expressed doubt that it had inherent authority to recuse the district attorney (as opposed to authority under section 1424), and ruled: waiver; no. 2, the issue of the documents being irrelevant and third argument that there was no prejudice, . . . aauthority to recuse the da to enforce the order that i made earlier. i am not prepared to and, even assuming i do [have inherent authority], . . . there has been no substantial showing of prejudice which would warrant the court taking that next step [removing prosecutor jackson]. i think the remedy that i imposed earlier in these -client all of the available information to me including now all of the information that i have seen that is in the public domain let me put it that way. not that it is not privileged, but it is information in the public domain and so based upon all of the available information that i have as of this moment, i am not prepared to take a step that i think is a drastic step that does implicate separation of powers arguments and is a remedy that i would have been prepared to utilize in the appropriate case. this is not the appropriate case given all of the available iii. the motion to exclude witnesses in may 2006, defendant filed a motion to exclude the trial testimony of 12 witnesses, including phillip bartinetti, dolores cordell, jeffrey coyne, and karen 35 stephens-kingdon and in the alternative, again renewed its recusal and removal motions. the named witnesses would be changing theories of the [(the ones that pertained to )]. (in 1993, defendant was charged in federal court with bankruptcy and loan fraud, and was ultimately convicted of making false statements to a financial institution. according to defendant, some of the named nesses to financial allegations has been exposed. his thought processes and conduct relating to his handling of the civil judgment and bankruptcy have been exposed. his right to testify on his own behalf has been compromised as he is now going to have to face a prosecutor who is armed with information that he received outside the bounds of the rules governing the prosecutor challenged the defense to pointhe defendant has suffered a prejudice so bad that he cannot receive a fair trial if i call the court seriously by the people. i assume that the people are calling witnesses that they were planning on calling all along. and that they did not obtain any new information from actually a great deal of merit based on what i have reviewed and what i ruled on in the previous litigation in terms of whether or not they are able to comply with my order. i think they are. and the remedy was that they were not permitted to use evidence obtained from the privileged material. and they say they are not. [] and i guess until we get to a point during trial 36 else i can do pretrial in that regard. i mean is an unfortunate situation i think we all court exclude testimony. [] relevant at this trial. and it does appear that the financial motive is the motive in this the recusal of these prosecutors from this case. but, again, the court has the ability to b. the law we begin our discussion of the legal basis for rejecting recusal claims with a few prefatory comments. we share the that attorney-client privileged documents appeared to have beenegregious misconduct.we do not condone or countenance those actions. but established principles of law govern our review of claims that a criminal proceeding should be dismissed or prosecutors recused on that account. as our narration of the proceedings in the trial court shows, the court took great care in its assessment of the circumstances surrounding the seizure, retention and review of the privileged documents, entertaining renewed motions, engaging a special master, and holding multiple hearings as the defense developed its evidence and theories. the trial court gave meticulous attention to the evidence and arguments presented. in so attorney-client privilege, and showed skepticism about claims of prosecutorial ignorance of privileged matters. we have done so as well in our independent review of the record. but in the end, we cannot gainsay the trial conclusions office that committed th and that the necessary showing of we turn to our discussion of defendant several different but related claims. 37 i. dismissal for outrageous governmental misconduct defendant contends the case should have been dismissed based on outrageous governmental misconduct that violated his due process rights. he asserts the district prosecutors, both the district attorney was responsible for the conduct of detective lillienfeld of the los angeles shewho headed the search team that seized the documents in orange county and who home office door asserting attorney-client privilege and directing police to his attorney . . . defendant argues that, just as the prosecutor is responsible for any nondisclosure of favorable evidence under brady v. maryland (1963) 373 u.s. 83 (brady), including presumed to be r-client privilege, whether committed by government agents from orange county or los angeles. and, defendant says, dismissal is required whether or not he can demonstrate prejudice. defendant is mistaken on all counts. first, we note the standard of review. people v. uribe (2011) 199 cal.app.4th 836, 857 (uribe).) a deferential standard of review applies to the factual determination of whether and to what extent misconduct occurred. (id. at pp. 857-858.) whether the governmental conduct id. thereby warranting dismissal is subject to independent rev second, where a defendant seeks dismissal for outrageous governmental acts, [is] required and . . . the absence of such a showing preclude[s] dismissal as a sanction for prosecutorial 38 misuribe, supra, 199 cal.app.4th at p. 861; id. at p. 865 -shocking in the sense that it involved false and . . . onduct employed to obtain a conventitled to dismissal for outrageous governmental conduct shocking the conscience in ; see also united states v. morrison (1981) 449 u.s. 361, 367, 362, 365-366 (morrison) who met with the defendant without the permission or knowledge of her counsel, disparaged her counsel and told her she would face a stiff jail term if she did not cooperate concluded that dismissal of the indictment . . . has had no adverse impact upon the criminal , dismissal of the indictment is plainly inappropriate, even though the violation may have been in this case, the trial court found angeles prosecutors in the first place. specifically, the court found that this egregious misconduct, and that the los angeles prosecutor was not made aware of the objections that had been made in orange county years after the fact to then bring it was undisputed that the los angeles district attorney had nothing to do with dixon relied on any privileged materials to make any decision in the trial of the case (and mr. jackson at any attorney/client pfiltered through 60-odd boxes or 40-odd 39 the trial court later reviewed the privileged material the special master had segregated, and reiterated its earlier finding of no egregious misconduct by the prosecutors. still later, the court repeated that once the case came to los angeles, there had been no misconduct on the part of the los angeles district a defendant identified no privileged document relied on by the prosecutors to his prejudice (or at all), either at trial or on appeal. defendant is left to argue that the prosecutor may be taxed, for purposes of a claim of outrageous governmental misconduct, with actions taken or not taken by the orange ffice. there is no pertinent authority for that notion, and we reject it. defendant cites brady and its progeny for the principle that the prosecutor is responsible for disclosing evidence favorable to the defense, and that duty includes the kyles v. whitley (1995) 514 u.s. 419, 437; in re brown (1998) 17 cal.4th 873, 879 (brown) [ and os behalf is ) but the legal authorities on outrageous government misconduct do not employ the principle, nor is there reason to do so. a brady violation can be remedied only by providing the defense with the exculpatory material. without the the simple expedient of leaving relevant evidence to repose in the hands of another agency while ut [citations.]brown, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 879.) that principle has no logical application in the context of an outrageous misconduct claim. case authority likewise supports the conclusion that a prosecutor is not chargeable with the outrageous misconduct of another agency. (see people v. shrier (2010) 190 cal.app.4th 400, 405, 417 (shrier) [dismissal was too drastic a remedy where law enforcement agents intentionally eavesdropped on attorney-client privileged communications; [e]xclusion of overheard communications and any derivative evidence 40 boulas v. superior court (1986) 188 cal.app.3d 422, 432 (boulas) [[morrison, supra, 449 u.s. 361] that the defendant outside of the presence of her attorney. in contrast, the record before this court contains substantial evidence of such participation on the part of a deputy district attorney.].) defendant points out that the detective who headed the search team in orange -client privileged documents. but the trial court expressly found the search warrant was properly executed. and while defendant broadly e, retention and review of the privileged supported by legal authorities for the proposition that the warrant was improperly executed in the first instance. even if we were to hold the los angeles prosecutors responsible for all that went before, it would avail defendant nothing. [a] conduct requiring dismissal. (uribe, supra, 199 cal.app.4th at p. 861.) defendant cites several california cases where dismissal of charges was upheld or required based on -client relationship. but in all of them, not only was the prosecutor complicit in an intentional interference between attorney and client, but prejudice appeared on the face of the matter. neither factor applies here. in boulas, for example, law enforcement officers, with the tacit approval of the prosecutor, undermined the defehis attorney by telling the defendant that he had to fire his attorney and retain another attorney in order to secure a plea bargain. (boulas, supra, 188 cal.app.3d at p. 427.) we find it to be beyond [peradventure] that the . . . course of conduct undertaken by law id. at p. 433.) boulas points out that the high 41 court in morrison, which found dismissal an improper remedy in that case, out the possibility of ordering the dismissal of a case upon a proper showing of 8 (boulas, at p. 431.) but there was no such showing here. defendant argues that prejudice may be presumed where the privileged documents citing federal cases where government informants participated in attorney-client conferences and provided the prosecution with confidential information about the . (e.g., united states v. levy (3d cir. 1978) 577 f.2d 200, 208 (levy) [actual disclosure of defense strategy occurred; [w]here there is a knowing invasion of the attorney-client relationship and where confidential information is disclosed to the government, we think that there are overwhelming considerations militating against a standard which tests the sixth amendment violation by weighing how prejudicial to the federal cases do not assist defendant. first, we need not follow federal authorities other than the high court.9 second, in this case the trial court did not find any 8 see also barber v. municipal court (1979) 24 cal.3d 742. there, an undercover police officer posing as a codefendant attended confidential attorney-client conferences with the other defendants (the district attorney knew he was a police officer and did not inform defense counsel). this was a violation of the right to counsel, and there was (id. has directly gained any confidential information which may be subject to suppression, the . [codefendants] have been prejudiced in their ability to prepare their defense. they no longer feel they can freely, candidly, and wid. at p. 756.) 9 in any event, those authorities are split on the question whether a deliberate attempt by the government to obtain defense strategy information or to otherwise interfere with the attorney-defendant relationship through the use of an undercover agent constitutes a per se violation of the sixth amendment. (see united states v. danielson (9th cir. 2003) 325 f.3d 1054, 1070-1071, discussing cases; see also united states v. glover (9th cir. 1979) 596 f.2d 857, 863-864 & fn. 10 [ 42 deliberate intrusion by the los angeles prosecutor in the attorney-cldefendant fails to identify in his opening brief that was revealed in the privileged documents. by contrast, in levy the court specifically identified the defense strategy learned by the prosecutor.10 here, instead of pointing to any defense trial strategy or tactics that were revealed in the privileged materials, defendant argues t the order not to use privileged information at trial , bankruptcy fraud, and at the murder trial, the prosecutors called witnesses who testified, as mentioned previously, about tranassets instance claiming the prosecutors used the privileged communications that interfere with the attorney-xistence of prejudicial evidence derived from an alleged interference with the attorney-client relationship is relevant in determining if the defendant has been denied the right to 10 in levy, the government learned that the defense intended to dispute the credibility s key witnessesthereby necessarily became privy to the fact that this was the only likely defense strategy that the prosecution had to anticipate.levy, supra, 577 f.2d at p. 208.) the government witnesses were two black men who claimed strategy obviously would be to discredit the black witnesses by attempting to establish that blacks were never admitted to that priva of this planned strategy would permit it not only to anticipate and counter such an attack on its witnesses credibility, but also to select jurors who would be more receptive to the testimony of black witnesses against white ethnic defendants.ibid.) 43 pertained motive,privileged documedefendant with conspiracy and murder for financial gain, and defendant claims, without citing to any particular documents, that his communications with his lawyer exposed the fallacy in the notion that defendant stood to gain financially from mr. whether [the prosecutors] read these documents and therefore changed their say if they just are a little bit more on the ball than the district attorneys in orange speculation, without reference to any supporting evidence, does not suffice, and it seems obvious the question of financial gain or its absence could be investigated and determined without regard to privileged communications. defendant points to nothing to show the prosecutors used any privileged document, or evidence derived from a privileged document, and the prosecutor avers none of the documents were used to make any prosecutorial decision. as for the financial witnesses, they were intimately involved in the bankruptcy litigation, thus accounting for their trial testimony. there was no showing they were privy to any privileged documents, and defendant does not attempt to trace any testimony to a privileged source. dismissal cannot be based on unsupported speculation.11 11 defendant also cites a connecticut opinion, state v. lenarz (2011) 301 conn. 417, prosecutor has invaded the attorney-client privilege by reading privileged materials containing trial strategy, regardless of whether the invasion of the attorney-client convincing evidence. (id. at p. 425.) california cases do not so hold, and in any event, in lenarz, road id. id. at p. 442); and the state had the burden to prove that any prejudice could be cured by a less drastic remedy than dismissal (id. at pp. 443-444), which it could not do in that case (id. at p. 445). no similar findings were made, or could have been made, here. 44 defendant also cites morrow v. superior court (1994) 30 cal.app.4th 1252 (morrow). there, the court held: re a prosecutor orchestrates courtroom eavesdropping on a privileged attorney-client communication and the witnesses thereto invoke the privilege against self-incrimination, the prosecution may not successfully oppose a motion to dismiss on the ground that n(id. at p. 1258.) appropriate remedy. even when the issue is narrowed to a sixth amendment violation, dismissal is still appropriate because hid. at p. 1251, citing morrison, supra, 449 u.s. at p. 365.) this case bears no comparison to morrow; here, the prosecutor engaged in no misconduct, and indeed demonstrated to the satisfaction of the trial court that nothing in the privileged materials was or would be used to the prejudice of defendant. (see shrier, supra, 190 cal.app.4th at pp. 405, 417 [exclusion of overheard communications and any derivative evidence was the appropriate remedy for eavesdropping on attorney-client communications where prosecutor was unaware of the eavesdropping plan].) prosecutors here engaged in no misconduct, and that in any event their review of attorney-client privileged material did not result in the prejudice to defendant that is necessary to justify the sanction of dismissal. our independent review of the record onduct in the constitutional sense of violating . . . .uribe, supra, 199 cal.app.4th at p. 858.) and there was no showing of any use of privileged documents or information derived from them by the prosecutors in trying the case. in short, the required showing of prejudice to id. at p. 861.) as the high court said in morrisonsubject to the general rule that remedies should be tailored to the injury suffered from the constitutional violation and should not unnecessarily irelief appropriate in the circumstances to assure the defendant the effective assistance of 45 morrison, supra, 449 u.s. at pp. 364, 365.) that is exactly what the trial court did here. ii. recusal issues defendant argues the trial court erred in denying his motions to recuse the los ange, or to remove prosecutors jackson and dixon from s prosecution. we review this claim for an abuse of discretion(hariguchi v. superior court (2008) 43 cal.4th 706, 711-712, fns. omitted (hariguchi) [of law are reviewed de novo, and its application of the law to the facts is reversible only ].) we find no abuse of discretion. under section 1424unless the evidence shows that a conflict of interest exists that would render it unlikely that the defendant would receive a fair trial(id., subd. (a)(1).) section 1424 establishes -part test: (i) is there a conflict of interest?; and (ii) is the conflict so severe as to disqualify the district attorney fr [citation.] (people v. eubanks (1996) 14 cal.4th 580, 594, 583-584 (eubanks) [substantial financial assistance interest].) for likelihood of [citation.] (people v. vasquez (2006) 39 cal.4th 47, 56 (vasquez).) the ; in the absence of any such conflict, a trial court shouls prerogative to select who hariguchi, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 709.) sal arguments, the relevant facts. those facts lead to the same result: no error by the trial court. 46 here, the trial court repeatedly found that no conflict existed. in june 2005: only thing i can say is that the people are in possession of privileged material, that . . . they agreed not to use that material in any way and not to use any evidence obtained as a receive anything other than a fair trial based on in february 2006: [section] in march [section] 1424 situation in my opinion and i think i have been consistent in saying that. defendant fails entirely to identify any conflict of interest, merely repeating his seizing and reviewing privileged communications and first, as we have seen, that is not a proper characterization of the as the supreme court has said, and his statements constitute substantial evidence. (hollywood v. superior court (2008) 43 cal.4th 721, 730 (hollywood).) second, defendant showed no conflict of interest no [citation.] (eubanks, supra, 14 cal.4th at p. 594.) vasquez explains the point: [citation.] impartiality, in this context, means . . . exercise his or her discretionary functions in the interests of the people at large, and not vasquez, supra, 39 cal.4th at p. 55 [because of a close family relationship between longtime employees o also hollywood, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 731 [trial court did not abuse its discretion in finding no cognizable conflict of interest under section 1424, where prosecutor disclosed 47 case files to filmmaker and acted as a consultant on a movie about the s life fear of criminal sanctions might alter how [the prosecutor] handled this case, the trial court found [the prosecutor] credible and concluded the possibility that confidential documents might have been disclosed inadvertently would not prevent [the prosecutor] from acting fairly toward [the created a conflict of interest such that the prosecutor might not exercise his discretionary functions in an evenhanded manner. as hollywood as a free-form vehicle through which to express judicial condemnation of distasteful, or even improper, prosecutorial actions. [s]ection 1424 offers no relief for actions simply because they appear, or are, improper. [citations.] the legislature has closely defined the limits of judicial authority to recuse prosecutors, and we must observe them. . . . a defendant must identify, and a court must find some conflict of interest that renders it hollywood, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 735, fn. omitted.) the trial court found none here, and we can find no abuse of its discretion in that finding. defendant next argues that, apart from penal code section 1424, the court had inherent power under code of civil procedure section 128, subdivision (a)(4) to remove prosecutors jackson and dixon. under that statute, evobedience to its the conduct of its ministerial officers, and of all other persons in any manner connected with a judicial proceeding before it, proc.,  128, subd. (a)(4)&(5).) but section 1424 now specifies the requirements for disqualification, and it was enacted in response to the case which established that section 128 gives the court power to remove a prosecutor. (people v. superior court (greer) (1977) 19 cal.3d 255, 269 [concluding, before the enactment of section 1424, 48 participating in the prosecution of a criminal charge when the judge determines that the attorney suffers from a conflict of interest which might prejudice him against the accused and thereby affect, or appear to affect, his ability to impartially perform the discretionary functions of his office]; see eubanks, supra, 14 cal.4th at pp. 590-591 [section 1424 [citation] whereas greer allowed disqualification even when the conflict mi but the point is (eubanks, at p. 591) is required for recusal, and there was no such conflict in this case. even in a case where the circumstances present a conflict of interest, the conflict would be disabling only if it makes it unlikely that defendant will receive fair treatment. (eubanks, supra, 14 cal.4th at p. 594.) that returns us to the point we have already case for outrageous government misconduct: there was no showing of prejudice to deany conflict of interest that might be identified under section 1424 would not [citation.]eubanks, at p. 594; see also people v. griffin (2004) 33 cal.4th 536, 570, err in denying defendant's under the united states constitution, specifically . . . the due process clause of the .) the prosecutors. finally, defendant makes one other point. he contends the right to counsel is violated when a state agent is present at attorney-client conferences, and that detective a spy for several weeks, mr. jones had gleaned from his presence at attorney-in this argument, defendant fails to acknowledge that the court 49 then-lawyer (jeffrey benice), from detective lillienfeld, and from mr. jones, and found otherwise. specifically, the court found there was no enforcement to interfere with the attorney/client privilege or to obtain privileged t say that detective lillienfeld attempted to intentionally obtain detective lillienfeld testified that mr. jones told him on one occasion that defendant was going to meet with mr. benice on defense strategy, but he never indicated that he (mr. jones) attended any such meetingsupplied to detective lillienfeld. mr. jones also told the detective, who confirmed the information, that defendant, not mr. benice, paid mr. jones, whose job was as a runner, a messenger, and a researcher for defendant. mr. benice testified thatsuggestion, he paid mr. jones once or twice to review and obtain documents from case filemr. jones did no substantive legal work for him, and he did not invite mr. jones into strategy meetings. and mr. jones testified that he never supplied detective lillienfeld with information he gleaned from meetings with defendant and mr. benice. in short, substantial evidence that there was no intentional interference with the attorney-client relationship through the use of mr. jones as an informer in contrast to both cases defendant cites. (see barber, supra, 24 cal.3d at p. 755 [finding a violation of the right to counsel and prejudice from the violation; see fn. 8, ante] and morrow, supra, 30 cal.app.4th at p. 1258 [prosecutor orchestrated courtroom eavesdropping on attorney-client communication]; see also weatherford v. bursey (1977) 429 u.s. 545, 558 [unless [undercover agent] communicated the substance of the [attorney-client] conversations and thereby created at least a realistic possibility of injury to [the defendant] or benefit to the state, there can be no sixth amendment here being no tainted evidence . . . , no communication of 50 defense strategy to the prosecution, and no purposeful intrusion by [undercover agent], there was no violation of the sixth amendment extent to which [prosecutorial] decisions were affected whether consciously or subconsciously re was structural error requiring reversal of the judgment. defendant made the same argument (the prosecutors)] going to make cannot be said to now not be derived from there is that is simply not the law. tr to recuse the prosecutors. 2. the insufficient evidence claim defendant claims the evidence was insufficient to sustain the convictions. this argument includes two principle components: first, that there was no evidence of any association or agreement between defendant and the ki[delicti] to ronald in a conspiracy to murdedefendant is mistaken. appeal, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value from which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon physically impossible or inherently improbable, the testimony of a single witness is sufficient to support a conviction.people v. elliott (2012) 53 cal.4th 535, 585 51 (elliott).) so, if the verdict is supported by substantial evidence, we must accord due deference that of the fact finder. (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206 (ochoa).) as a preliminary matter, we note corpus [delicti] is simply inapt. defendant was not charged with conspiracy. he was charged with murder. to convict a defendant of a crime, the prosecutor must prove that a crime d actually occurred, and the (people v. alvarez (2002) 27 cal.4th 1161, 1164-1165 (alvarez).) as the facts we have recited show, the occurrence of the crimes with which defendant was charged multiple murders committed by means of lying in wait is not open to question. conspiracy was merely one of the theories of liability by which the prosecution sought to establish that defendant was responsible for those crimes. there is no support in the authorities or in logic for the proposition that the corpus delicti rule may be applied to a theory of liability. convicted, by his or her untested words alone, of alvarez, supra, 27 cal.4th at p. 1169.) the two charged murders happened and once there is considered for their full value to strengthid. at p. 1171.) that is so here. insufficient evidence to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that defendant conspired to kill the thompsons. a conspiracy is an agreement to commit the crime, and the essence of claim is that there was no evidence of any association with, or agreement with, the unknown killers to commit the murders the sine qua non of conspiracy. he points out that a legal inference cannot flow from the nonexistence of a fact, and may not be based on suspicion or conjecture or guesswork. (people v. stein (1979) 94 cal.app.3d 235, 239.) 52 we do not agree there was no evidence of an agreement to murder the thompsons. certainly there was no direct with the actual killers. but a conspiracy may be proved by indirect evidence and inferences justified by the circumstances. (people v. hardeman (1966) 244 cal.app.2d 1, 41; people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th sufficient to prove a conspiracy to commparties positively or tacitly came to a mutual understanding to commit a crime. [citation.] the existence of a conspiracy may be inferred from the conduct, relationship, interests, and activities of the alleged conspirators before and during the alleged here, the circumstances fully justified the inference that defendant conspired with the shooters. while defendant tells us what evidence was absent (such as evidence of payments to the shootersmurders, meetings or talks with the shooters), he ignores the evidence that was adduced. the thompsons were killed in a carefully planned operation for which there was no robbery or other motive (ante, pp. 15-19). defendant was present in the neighborhood with binoculars and another person a few days before the murders (ante, pp. 13-14). the shooters knew where and when to find the thompsons, how to get to their house, and how best to escape the scene (ante, pp. 16-18). defendant repeatedly threatened to kill mickey thompson and hurt his family (ante, pp. 6-13) and indeed made statements to two witnesses about the cost involved in having mr. thompson killed (ante, pp. 8-9), and told others he was too smart to get caught (ante, p. 7). these facts were placed in evidence, and the jury could properly infer from them that defendant agreed with the shooters to commit the murders. ste eyewitness identifications were credible, which he claims they were not. neither of these arguments assists defendant. he says his presence in the neighborhood 53 an agreement to commit murder. in the abstract and without any other evidence, defendant might be right but there was other evidence (delineated in the preceding paragraph), and defendant ignores it. and existence of a conspiracy may be inferred from all circumstances tending to show the common intent . . . 12 timony of ronald and tonyia stevens is not substantial, credible evidence, and without it he cannot be connected to the murders. defendant recites at length various inconsistencies between the stevenses testimony at trial and their testimony at the preliminary hearing and interviews with the police. (these inconsistencies include statements about the race of the passenger in the car with defendant, how far away mr. stevens was when he saw defendant, for how long and at what angle he saw defendant, and so on.) defendant challenges the photographic and live lineup procedurepoints out that in the photos of pock marks.he says mr. stevens admitted on cross-examination that he had pointed to three different and and that detective lillienfeld posed the yeah, but the guy you saw in the wagon that 12 defendant relies on united states v. todd (8th cir. 1981) 657 f.2d 212, where the murder was reversed. the only evidence of conspiracy to murder was that all the principals (defendant, his alleged coconspirators, and the victim) were members of the same basic training company at ft. leonard wood, and defendant said he and his alleged coconspirators intended to rob the victim. the court held it was improper to convict defendant of conspiracy to murder based on an assumption that they also intended to murder the victim so he would not identify them after the robbery. (id. at p. 217 eement by circumstantial evidence, comparison between the evidence in this case, where defendant stated his intent to kill mr. thompson and discussed hiring someone to do so, and the speculation in todd. 54 day that most resembles who in this photo array nowrather than admonishing mr. stevens that the suspect might or might not be in the photo array. mr. stevens viewed a live lineup five months later, where defendant was the only person whose photo was also in the photographic lineup, and the only person with pock-marked skin. (tonyia stevens also viewed that lineup, separately, and identified defendant. she had seen defendant on a newscast (footage of four to six men walking out she saw in the car before the murders; at the time, she told her husband she was sure he would remember him too.) defendant also cites numerous cases and studies discussing the unreliability of eyewitness identifications and suggested reforms in identification procedures. and he cites the many other factors that reduce the reliability of identifications: lapse of time (13 years), limited opportunity to observe, intervening influences affecting memory (such as reenactments of the crime on television), and so on. nonetheless, mr. and ms. stevens did in fact testify that it was defendant they saw with binoculars in an old station wagon with arizona license plates parked near their home a few days before the murders. and kathy weese offered some corroboration when she testified that while she was worshe saw an older station wagon with out-of-state plates in the parking lot; it had never been there before and she never saw it again. the jury heard all this evidence, including all the inconsistencies defendwitness on eyewitness identifications, explaining all the factors supporting the unreliability of identifications made under the circumstances existing in this case. the jury also heard defendantvenses identifications. it was for them to decide whether or testimony. in his reply brief, defendant (studies not presented to the trial court). but we are bound by the law as stated by the 55 supreme court, and that court has expressly rejected claims that eyewitness testimony inconsistent and because the identification testimony was tainted by suggestive lineups and photo (elliott, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 585 suggestiveness in the lineups or photo arrays they were shown are matters affecting the witne; see also in re gustavo m. (1989) its weight are explored at length at trial, where eyewitness identification is believed by the trier of fact, that determination is binding on the reviewing court in short, we that the identifications were unreliable. in sum, though the jury could have dis testimony, for all the reasons defendant presented to it, the jury chose to believe them. their testimony constitutes substantial evidence, and it was not the only evidence connecting defendant to the crime, as we have already pointed out; there was evidence of a carefully planned and coordinated execution and escape that required research and reconnaissancerepeated statements of intent to kill mickey thompson and hurt his family, and statements about the cost of having mr. thompson killed. from all this evidence, the jury could reasonably infer an agreement by defendant with the shooters to commit the murders. finally, we note that, in his motion for a new trial, defendant presented an affidavit from the jury foreperson, saying, among other things, that he was initially actual killers, even though most of the other evidence pointed towards guilt; that the conspiracy instructikillers to commit the crime even though no evidence of a connection between the conspirators was presented; and, since the jury concluded it was reasonable to believe 56 to the killers by applying the instruction on conspiracy, which allowed us to infer that we may not consider these statements (which in any event appear merely to mistaken notion that a direct rather than circumstantial link between defendant and the actual killers must be shown). under evidence code section nce is admissible . . . concerning the mental processes by which id., subd. (a); see people v. gonzales (2012) 54 cal.4th 1the jurors statements about the mental processes by which that verdict was reached were expressly barred by . . . section 1150the trial court, we note, nevertheless . . . probably a portion of it got into what is prohibited by [section] 1150, considernonetheless, the trial court concluded that, while no direct evidence to connect [defendant], . . . the circumstantial evidence was overwhelming. we agree. 3. the delay in prosecution defendant was arrested on december 13, 2001, for murders that occurred in march 1988, and his preliminary hearing in los angeles occurred in october 2004. in january 2006, defendant filed a motion to dismiss because of the lengthy delay, and asked the court to defer ruling on the motion until completion of the trial. the trial court did so, and ultimately denied the motion. defendant contends on appeal the delay in prosecuting him was unjustified and prejudicial: what the [los angeles district attorney] could have mustered for trial soon after the we conclude the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying 57 a. the governing principles the pertinent legal principles are these. the due process clauses of the federal and california constitutions prejudicial effects of lengthy, unjustified delay between the commissis arrest and people v. cowan (2010) 50 cal.4th 401, 430 (cowan).) [t]he right of due process interest in fair adjudication by preventing unjustified delays that weaken the defense through the dimming of memories, the death or disappearance of witnesses, and the loss or destruction [citation.] [citation.] (ibid. a defendant seeking to dismiss a charge on this ground must demonstrate prejudice arising from the delay. the prosecution may offer justification for the delay, and the court considering a motion to dismiss balances the harm to the defendant against the justification for the delay. [ [citation.] (ibid.) prejudice may be shown by loss of material witnesses due to lapse of time [citation] or loss of evidence because of fading memory attributable to the delay. (cowan, supra, 50 cal.4th the federal constitutional standard for what constitutes sufficient justification for delay is unclear [citation], the law under the california constitution is at least as favorab as federal law 13 (id. at pp. 430-431.) negligent, as well as purposeful, delay in bringing charges may, when accompanied by a showing of prejudice, violate due process. this does not mean, however, that whether the delay was purposeful or negligent is irrelevant.whether the delay was negligent or purposeful is relevant 13 in people v. nelson (2008) 43 cal.4th 1242 (nelson), the court discussed the federal standard at some length. nelson the fifth amendment requires the dismissal of an indictment, even if it is brought within the statute of limitations, if the defendant delay in bringing the indictment was a deliberate device to gain an advantage over him and that it caused him actual prejudice in presenting h suggest the test might be somewhat less onerous.id. at pp. 1253-1254.) 58 to the balancing process. purposeful delay to gain an advantage is totally unjustified, and a relatively weak showing of prejudice would suffice to tip the scales towards finding a due process violation. if the delay was merely negligent, a greater showing of prejudice would be required to establish a due process violation.the justification for the delay is inv [citation.] (cowan, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 431.) we review for abs ruling on a motion to dismiss for prejudicial prearrest delay [citation], and defer to any underlying factual findings if sub14 (cowan, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 431.) b. delay, and in addition that th balancing prejudice against thus, defendant contends, because the minimal prejudice, the t t. c., posttification (pt. d., post), and conclude there was no abuse of 15 14 defendant compares this case to people v. cromer (2001) 24 cal.4th 889 and concludes we must employ de novo review. cromer was not a case of prearrest delay. in cromer, the court held that appellate courts should independently review a trial courts determination that the prosecutions failed efforts to locate an absent witness are sufficient to justify an exception to the defendants constitutionally guaranteed right of confrontation at trial.id. at p. 901.) cowan was decided years after cromer, and its statement of the standard of review on a motion to dismiss for prearrest delay could not be clearer. 15 deprearrest delay issue in the trial court, because the court refused to order daily transcripts. he does not, however, identify any evidence in the record that he did not bring to the trial 59 some of the comments suggest its belief that a legitimate reason for the delay in prosecution would be prejudice. but the court did in fact find prejudice to defendant (and to the prosecution, as well) from the delay, and a fair reading of its analysis shows an implicit, if not explicit, balancing of the prejudice against the justification. on due process grounds . . . the defense has to show some actual prejudice by the delay. [] once the defendant shows some actual prejudice, . . . the burden shifts and the court the court then said that the to me to be ample reason why this case took so long to result in an arrest of [defendant]. . . . [] . . . [] . . . [s]imply based on the evidence that i heard at this trial, there were new witnesses that came forward in 2001. it appears that . . . ron and tonyia stevens made an identification in 2001 and although they attempted to contact law enforcement before, the fact of the matter is that the identification was not made until the judge also mentioned gail moreau-the very least suggested that he was responsible for ththat when the new information the identifications and ms. moreau- filing. le reasons for the delay. and i think that, in to even address the first question [prejudice]. [] but for purposes of this record, let me go ahead and attemp have daily transcripts. 60 there is any authority for the proposition that the court has to assume that every witness that was unavailable for the trial would have presented testimony favorable to the accused. [] . . . [] . . . because of the delay would have been beneficial to the defendant. but what i can say is that the evidence that was presented at the trial by the prosecution was certainly hindered (boldface & italics added.) the court noted the case was aggressively defended, with the defense doing an . . . the problems inherent in a lot of the testimony presented by the people. [] and those problems were in large part due to a lack of recollection; a lack of physical evidence that may have existed in this case. so the potentially prejudice the defense. the defavorably . . . for [defendant]. [] however, even . . . if i make that assumption, i then get to that second question: was there a legitimate reason for the delay? whereby the answer is yes. [] so no matter how i look at it, given the legal standard that i believe applies on this case, i have made inquiry into whether or not there was prejudice. i agree the court pointed out that the court of appeal in orange county, when it ruled discovct that it took so long to actually get enough evidence to file the case. and at the behest of of that, i do not believe that there has been anything that rises to the level of due process violation here. . . . [f]rom what i can glean from the cases that have been cited, the due 61 it thus appears that the court, while not expressly balancing the prejudice to defendant against the justification for the delay, implicitly did just that: the court plainly concluded it could not fault anyone for the length of time that elapsed in the investigation before the authorities charged defendant. and the court further concluded, correctly, that it would be wrong to assume that every unavailable witness would have provided know that any of the evidence that was not presented because of the delay would have italics added.) based on these findings by the court, the balancing of prejudice against justification could have only one result. and so, the question for us is whether the trial court abused its discretion in making those findings and concluding there was no due process violation. we think not, and c. defendant asserts prejudice from the loss of material witnesses, loss of docprejudice in the order he has raised them. our conclusion is that, as the trial court found, defendant demonstrated some prejudice, sufficient to require justification by the prosecution for the delay, but the demonstrated prejudice was, on the whole, minimal. i. the arizona license plate number defendant first claims prejudice from the loss of the arizona license plate number of the car in which mr. stevens saw defendant a few days before the murders. mr. stevens made a note of the license plate number, but by the time defendant was arrested, he could no longer find it. defendant asserts the license plate number would himed he had no connection that is pure speculation. (see people v. morris (1988) 46 cal.3d 1, 38 [finding no abuse of discretion where, among other , disapproved on another point in in re sassounian (1995) 9 cal.4th 535, 543, fn. 5; people 62 v. hartman (1985) 170 cal.app.3d 572, 579 (hartman) defendant must show actual prejudice based on the facts of the case.16 ii. defenda and the stevenses memories defendant contends if the investigators had interviewed the stevenses in 1988, [defendant] would have been in a position to presof the trial, the stevenses could not pinpoint the date they saw him parked in front of their -timers and personal notes were lost, depriving him of similarly, defendant could have established his alibi by producing credit card and financial receipts, but by the time he was charged, these documents had already been destroyed in the normal course of business. defendant says these records would also have demonstrated a consistent spending pattern during the weeks prior to and after the murders. this lost evidence too is spec memories, defendant had a full opportunity to cross-examine both witnesses on this point and did so; their 16 the hartman actual prejudice based on the facts of hartman, supra, 170 cal.app.3d at p. 579.) there, the medical examiner at the original autopsy found death by natural causes. a year later, an independent pathologist concluded the death stemmed from a homicide, although the actual cause of death could not be determined, and the seafter the second autopsy . . . and without the discovery of any new or additional evidence arged with murder. by then, both the medical examiner and the supervisor who supported his finding had died, and were thus unable to explain that he had been negligeninitial autopsy, and the heart had disappeared after the second autopsy, making it impossible to resolve the medical inconsistencies among the experts at trial. the court found actual, substantial prejudice to the defendant, and the five-and a-half-year delay in id. at p. 583.) as will become apparent, this is not a comparable case, in terms of either prejudice or justification. 63 minimal. and with respect to the lost alibi evidence daytimers, personal notes, credit card receipts and so on defendant had every incentive to preserve that information. as (see cowan, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 432 [rejecting the 10 years later, he could not identify alibi witnesses or recall what he was doing during the first few weeks of september 1984; defendant was aware by at least february 1985 . . . that he was a suspect in the . . . therefore had an incentive to record any exculpatory information he had regarding his whereabouts, . . . or the identity of alibi iii. investigation improperly influenced and gation of other viable suspects, from the time of the murders until the detective retired in 1992. by the time defendant learned of this alleged interference, most of the information personnel file had been destroyed (further to the internal policy of the los angeles county employees retirement association (lacera)), and detective griggs was uncooperative. once again, defendant only speculates that the file contained relevant documents, in any event, defendant did not make this claim in his motion to the trial court, and cannot do so for the first time on appeal. (people v. accredited surety & casualty co. (2004) 132 cal.app.4th 1134, 1146 [appellant is precluded from raising a new theory for the first time in its appeal].) iv. telephone records kathy weese and joel weissler testified about threats defendant made over the defendant was charged, the telephone companies had purged records, so that the defense could not obtain telephone records for the homes and offices of defendant, mr. thompson and mr. weissler. again, we have only speculation; there is no reason to 64 assume these telephone records would have contradicted, rather than substantiated, the nelson, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 1250.) v. mercedes judgment. purged, so defendant could not impeach mr. williams with his own notes (to establish that the incident occurred in 1986, rather than shortly before the murders in 1988, and to establish that no altercation was noted). but defendant was able to produce other, undisputed evidence that the towing occurred in 1986 (a receipt from the towing company and other documentation). mr. williams was thoroughly cross-examined and impeached with the documents on the issue of when the levy occurred, so the purged notes would have been cumulative claim that those notes did not mention an altercation is complete speculation. so any prejudice from loss of the notes was minimal. vi. fee details and records kept by s for the bankruptcy estate were no longer available by the time defendant was charged. these records allegedly would have shown whether or not the meeting mr. coyne testified to, during which defendant threatened mr. coyne, actually took place and whether defendant was present. witnesses who testified about outbursts heard after calls they assumed to be between once again, defendant offers no reason to assume these records would contradict, rather than substantiatetestimony. vii. locksmith records detective jansen testified that to the best of his recollection, the damages to the notes, was created by the locksmith 65 when he opened the safe, rather than pointed out by the locksmith before he opened the safe. by the time of trial, defendant was unable to impeach detective jansen with the . . . would have noted the date of service and this, too, is only speculation both as to whether and how long any such records are kept and as to what they would have shown not an affirmative showing of prejudice. viii. ary at the preliminary hearing in 2004, miss triarsi, the only eyewitness to the killings, specific events which i ended up showing to a psychiatrist where i documented what i lillienfeld in 1997, but had located it later, her she after the preliminary hearing, but her mother told the defense she did not have it and had not seen it in years. defendant contends the loss of the diary -examine miss triarsi u17 defendant fails to identify any respect in which the diary might . at trial, miss triarsi told detective lillienfeld in 1997 that e or the other of the whereas at trial she testified she did not know the race of the gunmen. again, any prejudice from loss of the diary appears quite speculative. the race of the killers was established with the testimony of other witnesses. defendant relies on 17 record do not show any attempt in the trial court to obtain these records. 66 ross v. united states (d.c. cir. 1965) 349 f.2d 210, 213-214 (ross), where the court found a delay in prosecution prejudicial. there, the sole witness to a drug transaction was the undercover drug purchaser, who had no personal recollection of the transaction and testified based entirely on his notebook recording his drug transactions. the court found a purposeful seven-month delay between offense and arrest, a plausible claim by the defendant of inability to recall or reconstruct the events on the day of the offense, and a trial in which the entire case consisted on refreshed by his notebook. (id. at pp. 212, 215.) that is nothing like this case, where miss triarsi had an independent memory of the shooting, and others testified to hearing the same screams from the victims and to seeing the shooters as they escaped. (cf. harrison v. united states (d.c. 1987) 528 a.2d 1238, 1240-1241 [observing that precedential value of ross was questionable in view of more recent authority].) in short, again there is only speculation that the diary might have contained something with which to impeach miss triarsi ix. according to the investigative notes of detective rene laporte, eric miller, a police that the night before the murders, he heard mickey thompson say he had taken possession of $250,000 in gold. (the jury was told a valuable itema specific dollar amount, rather than $250,000 in gold.) according to counsel, federal law at the time required registration of such an acquisition with the internal revenue service, but those records were purged in 1995 and unavailable to the defense. defendant argues that if he had been prosecuted in a timely fashion, he would have had an opportunity to prove, in connection with his theory the murders occurred during a robbery, that mr. thompson purchased gold and it was unaccounted for after the murders. this lost evidence might conceivably have been relevant. but there was no basis to believe that any gold mr. thompson might have purchased had been delivered to his residence, no suggestion how the shooters would have found out about mr. thompgold purchase, and no evidence of forced entry into the thompson residence. so, while 67 the possible evidence of a gold purchase may have been relevant, the prejudice arising from its absence appears minimal. x. unavailability of witnesses defendant identifies several witnesses, dead or otherwise unavailable by the time of trial, who might have provided relevant evidence, as follows. a. unidentified people involved in the joey hunter investigation a man named joey hunter was seen by several witnesses hhiking frantically me scene and less than an hour after the murders. the original investigators followed up and arrested mr. hunter, who failed polygraph tests regarding his involvement in the thompson murders. (the joey hunter evidence was proffered by the defense (and excluded by the trial court) to establish that someone other than defendant arranged the murders (see pt. 9, post).) this contention was not raised in the trial court, and therefore cannot be raised on appeal. in any event, defendant does not specify the nature of the testimony these unidentified individuals would have given if they had been available as witnesses, instead merely asking us to assume that an investigative decision not to pursue mr. hunter as a suspect was based on something other than lack of evidence. this is unvarnished speculation, and does not show prejudice. b. yacht broker william redfield defendant, would have testified she began searching months before the murders, and was expecting a distribution of jga/whitehawk funds that would cover all her expenses. mr. redfield would also have testified to the structure of the payments for the deposit on the boat, thereby explaining the praccounted for. (defendant provides no citation to the record for this last point, but apparently is referring to testimony from karen stephens-kingdon, who testified about 68 000 from her account on march 16, 1988; ms. kingdon-check or cash. defendant pointed out that the yacht deposit consisted of checks for $11,000 and $20,000.) this testimony is again hypothetical, but assuming its substance, it would have been relevant to the defense. its absence, however, appears only marginally prejudicial. the parties stipulated to testimony from a bank employee that a letter from diane goodwin dated december 24, 1987, months before the murders, stated she was in the process of deciding which yacht she was interested in purchasing. and the point about expected distribution of jga/whitehawk funds to cover the yacht purchase has little significance, as the point of ms. stephens-jga/whitehawk investment was funded by assets belonging to defendant and ms. goodwin, not ms. goodwin alone. so overall, any prejudice was not substantial. c. according to defendant, witnesses testified the thompsons left for work together every morning. (defendant does not cite this testimony, and we have not found it, either.) ms. reeves, however, told police the thompsons rarely drove in the same car to work together, trudy thompson was often at home alone when she arrived, and mr. thompson usually had already gone to work by 6:00 a.m. ms. reeves would also have been able to testify about whether valuables were missing. we consider this testimony inconsequential. even if mr. thompson typically left for work earlier than he did on the day of the murders, there is nothing to show the killers were not lying in wait at that earlier time. nor is there anything to contradict the prosecution argument that the timing of the shooting was inconsistent with a typical residential burglary, where the perpetrators tend to choose times when the residents are is completely speculative. 69 d. tom villelli mr. villelli wmr. wehinger testified, for the first time at trial, that mr. villelli and defendant discussed the price of hit men in 1984. in his preliminary hearing testimony, mr. wehinger did not mention the discussion of the price of hit men; he simply testified that occurred two or three months before the murders, but then on cross-examination, when defendant says had occurred in 1984 and [defendant] and villelli says he was prepared to impeach mr. wehinger on his preliminary hearing testimony, the defense became aware wehinger was claiming villelli had discussed hit men with [defendant], villelli again, this is hypothetical testimony; we do not know whether mr. villelli would ha if we assume mr. villelli would have contradicted mr. wehinger, the loss of this testimony would prejudice the conversation occurred, defendant certainly could not count on impeaching mr. wehinger at trial with his bahamas alibi for christmas of 1987. so after the preliminary hearing in 2004, defendant had every incentive to interview mr. villelli, both about the date and the nature of the conversation, and apparently failed to do so. given the speculative nature of mr. villelli gregory have [mr. thompson] defendant was not unduly prejudiced by mr. villelliunavailability. 70 e. gregory as just noted, gregory keay testified to a threat defendant made at a family gathering two or three months before t again, this is nothing more than speculation, not an affirmative showing of prejudice f. charles clayton l advisor and, defendant says, . . . .mr. clayton also structured the yacht purchase and could have testified to the jga/whitehawk distributions. defendant does not tell us when mr. clayton died or why the information he had about the yacht purchase would not be available from other sources. moreover, his based on any financial planning the two may have done together would be inconsequential, in light of the evidence from dolores cordell that defendant did indeed repeatedly express his willingness to accept settlement terms, only to renege at the last minute. accordingly, any prejudice defendant suffered from the unavailability of testimony was minimal. g. anne clark ms. clark was a close friend of the thompsons. after the murders, on february 15, 1989, she called into a television show that solicited tips about the murder. sister [collene] knew about a drug deal. [mickey thompson] had asked [ms. clark] to give him one million dollars. she does not know what for. sheriff took ) detective lillienfeld interviewed ms. clark in may 2002, and the report of the interview did not mention the 71 call to the tip line. when defendant sought to interview ms. clark we fail to see any basis to conclude ms. clark had any information helpful to the defense; no prejudice was shown. h. frank gullett according to defendant, joey hunter confessed his involvement in the murders to in late april 1988, when mr. hunter was a suspect in the murders. (defendant does not cite to it, but we found in the record a search warrant affidavit that recounts a police interview with frank gullet, in which mr. gullet said that he asked mr. hunter if he was actually involved in the murders and mr. . . . . if he had been alive at the time of trial, defendant says, mr. gullet would have supported [] attempt to present third party culpability evidence was, or how it would support his attempt to present third party culpability evidence. (the trial court propparty culpability evidence (as we discuss in pt. 9, post), and defendant has not shown prejudice from the loss of mr. xi. memory loss of trial witnesses defendant cites the trial testimony of 12 witnesses who he contends specific words defendant spoke and dates threats were allegedly made. these were as follows: dale newman could not recall the exact words of the threat he overheard, and a police report was used to refresh his recollection. (defendant tried to impeach his testimony that the threat occurred in the fall of 1987 by showing him a police report stating he said it happened in july 1986, but 72 ]egardless it was not ) bill wilson could not remember to whom he spoke when he first called the police with information about the murders, and could not remember when defendant and mr. thompson became business partners. nina wilson could not remember the precise date of the dinner party at which defendant threatened mickey thompson, or why they had invited the goodwins, or whether detective lillienfeld was the first detective she spoke to about the case. karen dragutin could not remember which detective she spoke to in 1989, or details concerning television broadcasts about the murder and rewards offered, or the date or other details of the dinner at which she heard defendant threaten mickey thompson. baron wehinger and gregory keay could not recall the dates of the threats they heard, so defendant could not investigate or impeach them and could not establish his whereabouts or find witnesses to testify the conversations never occurred. dolores cordell, jeffrey coyne, and karen stephens-kingdon all said r, the materiality of which defendant does not explain; he brought in 1989 or 1990. expert entirely unsupported by the record.) penn weldon could not remember precisely when his conversation with defendant occurred, and he no longer had his appointment book. defendant also asserts that the affected memory of the incident, and that detective griggs could not recall the details of interviews that would have contradicted prosecution witnesses, [detectives] verdugo and jansen, and was unable to authenticate his notes. as to detective griggs, defendant provides no information about or citations to the record explaining these asserted contradictions, and merely complains that detective 73 griggs did not recall entering the thompson home to determine whether personal property was missing, and that detective verdugo was permitted to testify no property was missing despite the absence of his original notes on that issue. many of the memory lapses just described were inconsequential. all of them are speculative, in the sense that we are asked to assume that had memories been sharper, the testimony would have been more favorable rather than more damning to defendant. this falls far short of the affirmative showing of prejudice necessary to avoid murder charges. (nelson, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 1250.) in sum, for the reasons we have given, we cannot characterize the loss of witnesses, and the loss of evidence due to fading memory, in this case as more than minimally prejudicial to the defense. almost all of the lost evidence or testimony defendant cites demonstrates only the potential for prejudice, rather than actual prejudice, and the trial court correctly concluded that it would be improper simply to assume the cited evidence would have been favorable to defendant. d. the justification for the delay ay, certainly in the abstract, is strong. the state did not amass the necessary evidence for a successful prosecution until 2001, when the police learned that ronald and tonyia stevens had seen defendant in the neighborhood with binoculars a few days before the murders. in the end, the question whether the 13-sooner. as cowan tells us, a weak showing of prejudice would tip the scales toward a (cowan, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 431.) here, t defendant contends otherwise, saying that the prosecution had constructive knowledge of the stevenses 74 information in 1988. this is because the stevenses called the police several times, telling them they had possible information about the murders. specifically: on the day the stevenses saw the car parked outside their home, tonyia stevens called t a couple of weeks after the murders, a uniformed policeman at a roadblock stopped tonyia stevens and asked her if she had any information. she ronald stevens said he tried to report the inciden after talking to a friend, he called the duarte sdepartment, at about 9:00 p.m., and told the person who answered the phone that he thought he had some information on the thompson murder. mr. stevens was told a detective would call him, but no one did. a couple of weeks later, mr. stevens called the temple city sdepartment one or despite these efforts by the stevenses in 1988 to report their information, no investigator contacted mr. stevens about the incident until 2001. defendant contends the information citing kyles, supra, 514 u.s. at page 438. kyles is inapposite. there, the court was discussing exculpatory evidence withheld by the government, and stated the well-established proposition that, under bradythe individual prosecutor has a duty to learn of any favorable evidence known to the others acting on the governments behalf in the case, including the police.kyles, at p. 437.) here, we do not have a brady question of disclosure of exculpatory evidence. moreover, the police did not in fact obtain the information until 2001, so it can hardly be 75 we do not know how or why the stevenses messages to the police went astray, but they did. . it was an error, but we cannot necessarily characterize it as negligence. this was not a situation where the investigators received information that the stevenses saw defendant at the scene, or had the license plate number of a suspicious vehicle, and then failed to follow up. instead, unidentified police personnel apparently did not pass on telephone messages about information possibly relating to the murders. in a more perfect world, the investigators would have had the information sooner, but in fact they did not. so in the absence of a showing of prejudice considerably more significant than we have seen, the justification for the delay in prosecution that the police did not have sufficient evidence to prosecute defendant until 2001 plainly outweighs the prejudice. (see cowan, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 436 [finding no evidence of negligence; ather, at worst the . . . s department simply erred [crime] scene latent prints.) fare no better. he asserts that 1990 through 1992, 1992 through 1995, and 1996 through 1997.but he cites nothing in own argument to the trial court. and detective lillienfeld testified that sergeant yarborough of the cold case unit had the lead on the investigation after detective griggs retired. (see cowan, supra, 50 cal.4th at pp. 428, 436 [no active investigation from 1987 to 1994; court rejected during that period, as there was testimony that the supervisor of the unit was responsible for the case after the assigned detective left in 1987-guess the department defendant also claims citing that detective griggs did not focus on leads he should have followed. 76 were re-assigned to other matters due to staffing requirements. (see nelson, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. [a] court may not find negligence by second-guessing how the state 18 finally, defendant also argues that gail moreau- that defendant had in effect confessed his responsibility for the murders in 1999, when detective lillienfeld located and interviewed her; that ms. moreau-hunter (the nature of which is not specified in s brief or in the record); and that in any event ms. moreau-hunter was ese points, since ms. moreau-hunter did not case. in any event, there is no evidence of police negligence in respect of ms. moreau-, in the absence of any evidence of negligence or malfeasance, we will not second-guess the conduct of the investigation (nelson, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 1256) based on speculation that somehow the police could have elicited the information from ms. moreau-hunter earlier. the fact is, as the court of appeal in orange county pointed out, these were new developments in the case. 18 plate number for a car which, defense counsel told the trial court, was parked in the driveway of a drug dealer (seven miles from the thompson home) associated with joey hunter (who was then being investigated in connection with the murders). defendant complains that, after the stevenses told him the car in front of their house had an arizona license plate, detective lillienfeld did not try to determine the make and model of the car claim, as joey hunter had long since been abandoned as a suspect. to the extent basis to suggest that is so. (see nelson, supra, a court may not find negligence by second-guessing . . . how law enforcement agencies could have investigated a given case.parked outside the stevenses home, but could not find a vehicle that matched the best description he had (a 1973 chevrolet malibu nine-passenger station wagon). 77 e. summary definitively say that the passage of time (nelson, supra, 43 cal.4th as minimal. and we can definitively say claims the delay in . . . that there is not the slightest evidence of a deliberate delay to gain a tactical advantage. (see id. at p. 1256 investigative delay is fundamentally unlike delay undertaken by the government solely to gain tactical advantage over an accused because investigative delay is not so one-sided. a prosecutor abides by elementary standards of fair play and decency by refusing to seek indictments until he or she is completely satisfied the defendant should be prosecuted and the office of the prosecutor will be able to promptly establish guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. there is no doubt that 13 years is a long prearrest delay, but it was not a purposeful one. the bottom line is that the prosecutors concluded they did not have enough evidence to convict defendant until 2001. this is a strong justification for the prearrest delay. errors in an investigation do not always amount to negligence, and they did not here. t is not enough for a defendant to argue that if the prosecutorial agencies had made his or her case a higher priority or had done things a bit differently they would nelson, supra, 43 cal.4th at pp. 1256-1257.) cowan [t]he investigation of the . . . murders was not perfect; no investigation is. like the trial court, however, we find no evidence that law enforcement or the prosecution deliberately delayed the investigation in order to gain a tactical advantage over defendant. nor do we find evidence of negligence. rather, at worst the s department simply erred . . . . that being the case, balancing defendants weak showing of prejudice against the strong justification for the delay [citation], we find no due process violation. accordingly, the trial court did 78 not abuse its discretion when it denied defens . . . motion[] to dismiss due to cowan, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 436.) 4. the pitchess/brady issue before the trial, defendant filed several motions seeking information from , under pitchess, supra, 11 cal.3d 531 and brady, supra, 373 u.s. 83. under pitchess procedures, on a showing of good cause, a criminal defendant is entitled to material information contained in confidential personnel records of a police officer. if good cause is shown, the trial court must review the requested records in camera to determine what information, if any, should be disclosed. (people v. mooc (2001) 26 cal.4th 1216, 1226 (mooc).) under brady, the prosecution is required to disclose favorable evidence to the defense. here, the defense particularly information relating to his disability retirement, psychiatric evaluations and the like, as well as any other exculpatory or impeaching material within the meaning of brady. the defense theory was that detective griggs was incapable of conducting a fair, competent and unbiased investigation; that his deficient investigation ignored other viable leads and suspects, particularly joey hunter; that there were complaints from collene campbell about his job performance; that all this led to a stress-related early retirement, and the disability he claimed substantially affected his judgment and credibility. the defense sought personnel files from bepartment and lacera for the retired detective. we need not describe the multiple motions and arguments on the pitchess and brady on may 23, 2006, the trial court ordered the sheriepartment and lacera to produce any documents in the personnel files referring to the mickey thompson investigation for in camera review. counsel for lacera had brought and left them with the court for in camera review, with a hearing scheduled for june 7, 2006. 79 (lacera had destroyed all its files except for those relied on in granting detective ) on june 7, 2006, the court announced it had reviewed the entire file from clipped and put post-its on the portions that i feel should be disclosedpitchess/brady also on june 7, 2006, the court briefly reviewed the personnel file materials provided by the sdepartment, and observed it appeared there was nothing to be disclosed. but, to be certain, the court directed the custodian and her counsel to cull the file to eliminate material pertaining to the period before the murders, and to return with on june 16, 2006, the sdepartment brought the personnel records for the period march 16, 1988, to march 23, 1993, and the court ordered certain of the documents disclosed to the defense, staying its order until june 29, 2006, to permit the sdepartment to decide whether to seek writ review. apparently no writ was sought. the parties agree that this court should independently review the sealed transcripts of the hearings and related sealed personnel files, to ascertain whether the trial court properly exercised its discretion in identifying discoverable information. we have reviewed the sealed transcript of the in camera hearing at which the trial court described, on tsdepartment, and find no abuse of discretion. (see people v. prince (2007) 40 cal.4th 1179, 1285-1286 [trial court directed that personnel file not be copied and inserted into mooc, suprasuffices for the court to ].) we have likewise reviewed the in camera transcript and the confidential documents produced by lacera and preserved for appellate review, and again find no abuse of discretion. 80 5. karen stephens-expert testimony we have described karen stephens- in part 7.a., ante, of the facts. in a nutshell, ms. stephens-kingdon looked at thousands of financial records to determine the source and ultimate disposition of certain assets and funds, and opined, for example, that the yacht diane goodwin purchased in her own name was bought with funds that had been commingled commingled and invested end[ed] up going offshore or to purchase gold coins, cash or on appeal, defendant contends ms. stephens-inadmissible, principally because the testimony could not assist the jury in its fact finding and on relevance grounds. defendant made the same arguments, unsuccessfully, at the preliminary hearing and when he moved under penal code section 995 to set aside the information after the preliminary hearing.19 none of them has merit. an expert a subject that is sufficiently beyond common experience that the opinion of an expert would assist the trier of fact.(evid. code,  801, subd. (a); people v. mayfield (1997) 14 cal.4th 668, 766.) an expert is qualified if as sufficient skill or experience in the field so that his [or her] testimony 19 the ground she was not qualified as an expert, and therefore forfeited those objections on appeal. it is true that, in his brief reciting his objections at trial, defendant implies he objected that ms. stephens-and defendant does not identify any such objection in the record. but his argument on appeal does not address ms. stephens-issues; it is directed to the content or nature of her testimony. to the extent respondent is information must be explicitly raised again at trial but were not, the record is not so clear. about what people v. hawkins (2012) 211 cal.app.4th 194, 203-204, is not directly on point, holding only that an issue not raised in a penal code section 995 dismissal motion was not preserved for 81 would be likely to assist the jury in the search for the truth. [citation.](people v. mayfield, at p. 766.) we review a s ruling permitting expert testimony for abuse of discretion. (ibid.) defendant asserts the expert testimony was inadmissible d not assist the jury in understanding the evidence and brought incompetent hearsay before the according to defendant, ms. stephens-because the evidence code does not [] a witness to review documents not defendant based on h did not assist the jury in its fact- as we have seen, ms. stephens-kingdon examined thousands of financial records and testified to the source and disposition of certain assets and funds. she did not testify or state of mind or intent as to those transactions. she opined that assets originally purchased with commingled funds of both spouses were transferred to investments or purchases in the name of one spouse. this subject matter is sufficiently beyond common experience that the opinion of a qualified accountant and auditor would assist the trier of fact. defendant insists the expert testo support his claim, defendant cites only the testimony about the purchase of the yacht with commingled funds and contends that this testimony when asked if, as she had testified, anything, about i saw was that even though this boat was ipurchased with funds that had been commingled for so many years that this boat purchase we reject the notion that the quoted testimony was tantamount to an opinion on motive, purpose, state of mind or intent. it 82 was simply a statement, consistent with the rest of testimony, on the source and disposition of assets not on why the transaction was undertaken.20 defendant also argues the expert tthe jury, . . . or elaborate on these claims, we need not consider them. we do note, however, that the prosecutor questioned the witness with specific reference to a limited number of documents (as defendant admits) that were identified in court. and when the expert expressed opinions in reliance on specific documents, the trial courreferred to now by the witness is being offered not for the truth of what it says but just to show what the witness based her opinion on, based on, but you are not to assume that the letters state what she says they state for the further, it is well established that an expert may base an opinion on reliable hearsay. (people v. harris (2013) 57 cal.4th 8ony in the form of an opinion may be based on hearsay or facts outside the personal knowledge of ]; see evid. code,  801, subd. . . . made known to [the witness], whether or not admissible, that is of a type that reasonably may be relied upon by an expert in forming an opinion upon the subject to next, defendant argues the admission of ms. stephens-stimony violated evidence code section 1523, subdivision (d). section 1523, subdivision (a) 20 defendant asserts, erroneously, that kotla v. regents of the university of california (2004) 115 cal.app.4th 283 is analogous to this case. in that employment termination case, the trial court erred in permitting a management expert to offer opinion (id. at p. about the significance of the evidence did not assist the was in no better position than they were to evaluate the evidence concerning retaliation. absent unusual facts, it must be presumed that jurors are capable of deciding a partys motive for themselves without being told by an expert which finding on that issue the evidence supports.id. at p. 293.) as we have observed, ms. stephens-kingdon did not testify about the motive for the financial transactions on which she opined. 83 consists of numerous accounts or other writings that cannot be examined in court without great loss of time, and the evidence sought from them is only the general result of the defendant cites no authority for his claim, and it has no merit. section 1523 has nothing to do with expert testimony, and ms. stephens-kingdon did not purport to testify about the documents she relied on in forming her opinions, and there was nothing improper in that testimony. finally, defendant contends ms. stephens-[] [goodwin] financial transactions did not show a consciousness of defendant fails to identify in the record any objection made at trial on grounds of relevance. (defendant did object on this ground to ms. stephens-testimony was relevant in any event, the testimony was relevant. as the prosecutor put it at trialgoodwin were doing financially . . . transferring of assets to avoid, i think the argument is, to avoid having to pay a substantial judgment, and this witness is competent to testify to whether or not she the claim of irrelevance is meritless. because there was no error in the admission of ms. stephens-testimony, we need not cfurther contention that the error was prejudicial. 6. the atestimony nancy lucia (formerly wilkinson) was permitted to testify to a statement mickey thompson made in september or october 1987 while ms. lucia was visiting the 84 thompson home (pt. 2.l. of the recitation of facts, ante). mr. thompson came upstairs, drapes. [defendant] could have a sniper people v. guerra (2006) 37 cal.4th find none. a. the trial court concluded was not being offered for its truth, and it hostility that existed in this litigation. [ circumstantial evidence which would tend so vitriolic; this litigation was so intense and caused such animosity and hatred between the parties, that mr. thompson truly believed that because of the litigation he was -hearsay purpose in 21 of what they believe the motive was in thievidence that the litigation got so out of hand and was so intense that there was a realistic belief on the part of mr. thompson that his life was in danger. [] now, the reason i say 21 clearly be hearsay. and then the court would have to find it is [an evidence code section 1240 spontaneous] statement and that its probative value outweighs its prejudicial then, after elaborating on the admissibility of the statement as circumstantial evidence iolic nature of this value outweighs any prejudicial effect. however, i think the proper analysis would be that this is a non-hearsay statement not offered for the truth of the matter asserted. and 85 the statement to [defendant], but he is attributing a belief. and that belief has to be based on some fact or facts. [] and it appears to me that given the testimony i have heard so aware of and a participant in the goings-on between the sides. therefore, he was aware of the fact that . . . the hatred generated by the litigation was rather intense. this before the murders. [] so for those reasons, i view it as a non-hearsay statement coming in for the value that it brings or demonstrates in terms of the level of hostility the court further ruled that the probative value of the testimony far outweighed its prejudicial effect, quite frankly, we that he allegedly wants to kill mr. thompson. [] so the extent to which this is too just about every witness that has testified so far. so i do believe under [evidence code section] 352 the probative value is considerable. the prejudicial effect [is] minimal to going to simply tell the being admitted for the truth of the matter asserted, that is that [defendant] has some sniper sho there was no further discussion until after ms. lucia testified two days later. the court did not admonish the jury when ms. lucia testified, and later in the day inquired whether cafter argument about the content of the admonition, dadmonition be that 86 people were offering it solely on the issue of the state of mind, because that would have been for the truthevidence corroborating the level of animosity that existed between the parties in this he defense then b. defendant contends the court committed reversible error by admitting the we disagree. defendant argues at length that the trial court under evidence code [section] 1250, because the 22 this claim simply misstates the trial . the evidence was not offered to prove mr. thompss state of mind; the prosecutor explicitly said that we are offering it to prove another factor, e trial court refused defense to admonish the jury that the statement was being thus and when a -of-court statements expressing fear of a defendant are admissible, under section 1250, to prove the 22 evidence code section evidence of a statement of the declarant . . . is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule when: [] (1) the evidence is offered to prove the declarants state of mind . . . at that time or at any other time when it is itself an issue in the action; or [] (2) the evidence is offered to prove or explain acts or conduct of the declarant.id., subd. (a).) 87 defendant points out that a hearsay objection to an out-of-not be overruled simply by identifying a nonhearsay purpose for admitting the statement. the trial court must also find that the nonhearsay purpose is relevant to an issue in dispute.people v. armendariz (1984) 37 cal.3d 573, 585.) the trial court did exactly that here. when defense counsel suggested the defenwas anything less tha that the cross-examination of dolores cordell the previous day sought to show a [defendant] to form the intent to have the thompsons or mr. thompson taken out, certainly that intent would be somewhat vitiated were one to assume that they were on the verge of a settlement just prior to the murders. otherwise it would have no 23 and in an earlier discussion on the admissibility of the statement, the court im appreciated the level of hatred and contempt show similarly, the statement tends to corroborate joel 23 in his reply brief, defendant disavows reliance on the argument that mr. -of-people v. jablonski (2006) 37 cal.4th -of-court statements expressing fear of a defendant are jablonski a victims out-of-court statements of fear of an accused are admissible under section 1250 only when s conduct in conformity with that fear is in dispute. absent such dispute, the statemen jablonski, at p. 819.) the ld probably have 15 witnesses walk into the court . . . the level of vitriol in the li 88 testimony later in the trial that he heard defendant say, in late 1987 or early 1988, that [mr. thompson] and [his] family. ot offered for its truth. it was offered for the relevant, nonhearsay purpose of showing mr. thompson believed the litigation with defendant was so vitriolic that he might carry out his threats to kill both thompsons, which is circumstantial evidence of ds motive. and there was no abuse of 24 for the same reasons the presentation of similar evidence from many other witnesses any imony would have been harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. while defendant describes the admission of the testimony as particularly because of the reference to a sniper and because of a, several other wstatements about having mr. thompson killed. in addition, there was no argument to the jury referring to the statement about a sniper. so, even if there were error in admitting and we hold there was not it was harmless.25 24 defendant also argues the statement did not fall within the spontaneous utterance exception to the hearsay rule. (evid. code,  1240.) while the trial court briefly referred to that theory of admissibility, it was not the basis fn. 21, ante), so we need not consider the point. 25 this statement was important in that it showed thompson was in fear and that [defendant] n[] the mental processes by which [the verdict] was determinedthe verdict. (evid. code,  1150, subd. (a); ovando v. county of los angeles (2008) 159 evidence of jurors internal thought processes ordinarily is not admissible to impeach a verdict. 89 7. evidence of dthreats to third persons inadmiid., committed a crime, civil wrong, or other act when relevant to prove some fact (such as motive [or] intent . . .id., subd. (b); see people v. catlin (2001) 26 cal.4th 81, 145, 146 [section 1101 recognizes . . . that there are facts other than criminal propensity to which other-crimes evidence may be relevanthe categories listed in section 1101, subdivision (b), are examples of facts that legitimately may be proved by other-crimes evidence, but . . . the of this issue, being essentially a people v. kipp (1998) 18 cal.4th 349, 369.) of four instances of testimony from four different witnesses, claiming that the testimony in each instance was forbidden by evidence code section 1101. he also claims the testimony was inadmissible under section 352, because its probative value was substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission ( 352.) the admission of this evidence, defendant contends, him guilty of two murders because of the person he was, rather than what he actually evidence consisted of statements by defendant that the trial court correctly viewed as 90 admissions,26 and they were or state of mind, not to prove his disposition to commit murder. nor was there any error in concluding the evidence was more probative than prejudicial. the disputed evidence was as follows: while defendant and mr. thompson were negotiating their business agreement, in which (see fn. 2, ante.) the trial court disagreed, observing on the part of [defendant] to do harm to the thompsons, or mr. thompson, because of a business dispute gon: specifically with reference to the partnership agreement which formed the basis of a relevant and an admission on the part of [defendant]. and it tends to show his state of mind with respect to his business dealings with mr. thompson. [] in addition, the fact that he makes a the people as [section] 1101 evidence to prove since he made the threat to someone on that occasion, therefore, he made a threat . . . the court summarizeds mr. linkletter certainly relevant with respect to his state of mind, which if one were to believe the statements that he fully intended to rip off mr. thompson, which is similar to the claim, i guess, in the litigation that was pending at the time. [] so i do see its 26 evidence of a statement is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule when offered against the declarant in an action to which he is a party  1220.) 91 permissible purpose that does not violate [evidence code section] 1101, [subdivision] in addition, defendant objected to certain of the testimony of penn weldon and jeffrey coyne. penn weldon was a private investigator; in addition to testifying that ned his life and he wanted to get even with testified defendant wanted him to place listening devices in the home (see pt. 2.g., ante, of the facts.) jeffrey coyne was the bankruptcy trustee who was marshalling the assets of the bankruptcy estate; he testified about threats defendant made to him a few weeks before the murders, after a meeting at which mr. coyne had refused several demands defendant made relating to payments to and from the bankruptcy estate. (defendant, trembling and better lighten up or things will )27 established i motive for the defendant does not cite any specific argued that the same animosity defendant felt for mickey thompson was extended to both mr. coyne 27 in his brief, defendant [defendant] he got a bullet-prosecutor told the trial court that the bankruptcy court had approved an application by mr. coyne for a bullet-proof vest and handgun. mr. coyne did testify that the threats statements in conjunction with the deaths of mickey thompson and his wife trudy, left me in a place where i could not objectively work with this estate. i was so angry and so upset as to have no ability to continue to be fair or even in my own framework be justified in cont 92 and mr. bartinetti. the court observedcertain statements which circumstantially tend to indicate that he was going to cause ng about statements that were made to everyone, . . . statements of [defendant]. and as such, they would qualify as admissions. they tend to indicate when taken with other evidence, that he was responsible [] . . . [] . . . for and finally, lance johnson, a friend of the thompsons, testified to a threat he the court said the spart of the defendant. and it tends to show either he is, in fact, the one that is responsible for the death of mr. thompson and his wife. or because of being accused of that, he finds mrs. campbell to be the responsible party and now wants to threaten her, which is consciousness of guilt. [] . . . the prejudicial effect is minimal because this whole case has been basically statements of the defend anyand in any event the relevance of the testimony was outweighed by its prejudicial effect. we see no abuse of discretion in the trial detail, and that analysis is sound. and even if the testimony were analyzed as evidence reasonable inference to establish any fact material for the people . . . .people v. montalvo (1971) 4 cal.3d 328, 331-332.) that is the case here. in each instance, the testimony described a statement by defendant that was highly relevant to prove the extreme level of hostility defendant harbored toward mr. the testimony was not cumulative because each witness testified to different circumstances in which defendant 93 effectively expressed his extreme hatred of mr. thompson, sustained over time, either directly or toward those who allied themselves with mr. thompsonopposed defethere was nothing in the testnor was any of the cited testimony significantly more inflammatory than the rest of the evidence. in short, there was no error and, as necessarily follows, no due process violation.28 (see people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th process violation only if it makes the trial fundamentally unfair 8. character evidence mickey thompson witnesses. on appeal, he argues the trial court prejudicially erred by permitting specifically contrary to evidence code [section] only relevant evidence is admissible (evid. code,  210, 350), and the trial court people v. benavides (2005) 35 cal.4th ibid.) in a which prohibits character evidence to prove conduct on a specified occasion 28 witnesses clearly painted [defendant] as a good and honorable fellow and [defendant] as overtly stated hatred of mickey thompson, this guy was the kind of guy who was capable (see fn. 25, ante.) 94 evidence adduced by the defendant. ( 1103, subd. (a).) we preface our discussion by noting that evidence code section 1103 has no application here. no evidence was offered or admitted to prove any conduct by the victim in conformity with his character. the only issue is the relevance of the testimony to prove something other (which is irrelevant). claims of error are as follows. first, william wilson, who had worked with both mickey thompson and defendant on various sports promotions and who had both a professional and social relationship with mr. thompsons deep [mr. thompson] could do was talk about trudy; about how much he loved her; the light necklace that she wore on her neck with diamonds. mrnot irrelevant evidence of his character. it was relevant evidence supporting the inference that the shootings were planned in such a way as to force mr. thompson to watch his wife being murdered. in his opening statement, the prosecutor told the jury he would prove that allison triarsi gave testimony lending support to that theory, stating that one of the gunmegunman shot trudy thompson. the material point, as the evidence at the murder scene suggested both thompsons were targeted for kiltrudy thompson. testimony showing that mr. thompsonapparent to his colleagues was thus relevant to show the motive for murdering trudy thompson. 95 second, gregory smith, the anaheim stadium executive who stopped doing business with defendant and hired mr. thompson and another company to produce the be cooperative in mickey thompson met that criterion, defendant objected, on relevance grounds, to the (mr. thompson)] easy or difficult to deal with on a business level? mr. smith was thus permitted to testify testimony character. it was relevant evidence explaining why anaheim stadium chose to do business with mr. thompson and not with defendant a decision that angered defendant, hostility toward mr. thompson. third, hat he came to know mr. thompson as more than a client. over a defense objection on relevance grounds, mr. bartinetti after a discussion at sidebar where defense counsel objected that the prosecutor was trying to elicit good character evidence, the prosecutor said he would end his examination by asking mr. bartinetti where and when he found out about mickey led after the prosecutor pointed out that mr. bartinetti continued to represent the estate after the murders. mr. bartinetti then answered that he was getting ready to go to work and heard about the murders when he received a phone call between 8:00 and 9:00 on the morning of the murders.29 ,since the testimony had nothing to do with mr. bout the friendship was relevant 29 defendant says mr. bartinetti testified that the phone call was from collene campbell, but that testimony was stricken from the record. 96 in the context of other evidence the prosecutor later elicited against mr. thompson was so extreme that it extended to his friends and allies. (see pt. 7, ante.) of course, relevant evidence may be excluded if its probative value is substantially prejudice . . . .prejudicial facts than that [defendant] who was known for being loud, obnoxious and abusive was allegedly responsible for the brutal murders of two such beloved this is mere hyperbole. . . . section 352 if . . . or if factors. (cowan, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 475, citations omitted.) none of the evidence cited falls into that category. the final claim defendant places in his list mr. victims that was introduced, without objection, for identification purposes. on the first day of testimony, during the afternoon session beginning at 1:30, defense counsel presented her opening statement, after which the prosecution called its first witness, william wilson. just before mr. wilson testified, a photograph of the victims was marked for identification, and mr. wilson identified the victims and testified he knew them personally. defendant complains that the prosecutors left the photograph on the projector for (a clear exaggeration), and that ourt could not see the display from the bench, and defense counsel did not object until the following day. the trial one of indicated that he had eventually covered the projector. 97 but defense counsel told the court . . . trick that happened yesterday and ask that it not bhave done was to ask, it would have been quite obvious that we objected to this the court reiterated that it could not do anything unless [to turn off the projector]. . . . you do. the nature there was no error. the photograph was properly admitted for identification and thus was vant evidence of good characterhe trial court cannot correct a problem of which it is not made aware, and there was no showing of deliberate prosecutorial misconduct, prejudicial or otherwise. (see people v. harrison (2005) 35 cal.4th 208, tally nothing of the sort occurred here. 9. the exclusion of evidence claimed to be exculpatory in people v. hall (1986) 41 cal.3d 826, 829 (hall), the supreme court defendant committed the offense charged. such evidence may be excluded only when the court properly exercises its discretion under evidence code section 352 to reject evidence that creates a substantial danger of undue consumption of time or of prejudicing, 98 -party evidence . . . need only be capable of raising a evidence, however remote, must be admitted to sh[e]vidence of mere motive or opportunity to commit the crime in another person, without direct or circumstantial evidence linking the third person to the actual perpetration of the hall, supra, 41 cal.3d at p. 833; accord, people v. abilez (2007) 41 cal.4th 472, 517 (abilez) such evidence raises a reasonable doubt as to his guilt, but the evidence must consist of direct or circumstantial evidence that links the third person to the crime. it is not enough .) defendant contends the court denied him due process by excluding evidence of third party culpability found in investigative files on the thompson murders. we disagree. a. defendant proposed to show that a man named dean kennedy ordered the thompson murders, and they were committed by john young (a very tall, athletically built black man) and kit paepule (a dark-skinned, very stocky man of samoan descent). the theory was that kennedy ordered the thompson murders at the instance of a man named larry cowell, who had a motive for having the thompsons murdered. scott campbell was a drug dealer who in 1979 was convicted of manslaughter in the killing of another drug dealer who had ties to the vagos motorcycle gang. cowell, who owned an auto repair shop for pantera sports cars (a type of expensive sports car that scott campbell owned) had been a friend of the thompson and campbell families for years. in 1982, scott campbell, who was then the target of an investigation of interstate transportation of cocaine, arranged for cowell to fly him in a private plane to north dakota in connection with an anticipated cocaine sale. before the trip, he left his pantera 99 campbell and threw him out of the plane. the primary motive was robbery, but dimascio was a known vagos motorcycle gang associate, and the vagos gang had been threatening scott campbell since the 1979 killing. mickey thompson testified at larry cowell the murder of scott campbell. cowell had tried to fabricate an alibi for the murder by leaving telephone messages for scott campbell (while he was missing during the weeks after the murder); car was ready to be picked up after extensive repairs. mr. thompson testified that he ansaw that the car was in pieces and missing major parts not been repaired at all cowell was convicted, but the conviction was overturned based on a coerced confession, and mickey thompson was killed before the second trial (at which cowell was again convicted).30 the theory continues: cowell, who thus had motive, was a close friend of ed . losinski was an engineer and mason who had also known mickey thompson for years, had worked on the thompson property and would know the neighborhood. ed losinski was also a good friend of dean kennedy, whom he had met through the boat racing community; they both had shops in the same area. dean kennedy, in december 1987, ordered two other murders; he sent john young and kit paepule to kill a drug dealer named thomas wilson (and his girlfriend if she were present), and a week later hired young to kill jerome genoway (who was being investigated for drug dealing) and the woman who lived with him (if she was present). having wilson killed was that he having genoway killed was to avoid paying money he owed genoway. in taped conversations 30 operation of the car, but that occurred a 100 between kennedy and a drug-smuggling friend, kennedy said he was not worried about doing time for the wilson and genoway murders, because he had a friend who was willing to take the fall for him in return for cash. (kennedy was convicted of these murders and was in custody at the time of the thompson murders.) in addition: richard passmore, a neighbor of the thompsons, saw a maroon volvo with two athletic-looking african-american men unloading bicycles within a couple of blocks of the murder scene a day or two before the murders. larry shaleen, a maroon volvo in the past. shaleen visited kennedy just before kennedy was arrested, and noticed two brand new 10-, when kennedy was kennedy brag about knowing mickey thompson and about knowing scott campbell drawings made of the men who killed the thompsons, and his companion kit paepule habitually wore a hooded sweatshirt, as in the composite drawing of the stockier shooter. thompson shooter was john young.) finally, the defense also sought tthis evidence in pt. 3.c.x.a. & h., ante bus stop, about two and a half miles from the crime scene and shortly after the murders. two of those witnesses identified mr. hunter from a photographic lineup. (the others identified someone other than hunter, or said the person they saw was not in the photographs they were shown.) mr. hunter was arrested. he failed polygraph tests regarding his involvement in the thompson murders, and told a fellow inmate that he was involved in the murders. he also confessed his involvement to his cousin, bonnie dalton, telling her he was not worried about doing hard time, because he worked for someone who promised him that if he took the fall he would only get two 101 years and would get $50,000.31 (the defense points out that dean kennedy similarly said, as noted above, that he had a friend who was willing to take the fall for the wilson and genoway murders in return for cash.) in sum, the defense intended to show richard passmore, linda osborne, and as through the testimony of the two detectives who investigated the wilson and genoway murders kennedy and his hit men were responsible for the death of mickey and trudy thompson. and the defense also intended to show that joey hunter was their lookout. b. with presumably the two hit men . . . . . . it certainly made for interesting reading . . . . but as for the joey hunter evidence, witnesses who put joey hunter at the scene and there are statements by joey hunter which can be construed as confessions or admissions at that point, perhaps there is defense counsel then confirmed its offer of proof as stated by the court, and further ection in and of itself to dean kennedy who indicated the exact 31 unreliable. the prosecutor explained that, before hunter was interviewed by the police in him), ms. dalton asked him if he bicycle and that the killers were not black but white men spray painted black. he also said that the mafia wanted him to turn himself in, and that he would only get two years in 102 referring to john young driving a marride them with kennedy, who committed other horrific murders similar to the thompson the court of relevance, what i am willing to say at this point is there may be section] 352, the weighing and balancing, would dictate that i allow that information to come in. because it does require the testimony of two witnesses who will say that was him. it does require that the cousin will attribute the two statements to him which could tend to incriminate him. the prosecutor argued defendant could not show the hitchhiker was relevant to the murder, that it was unlikely joey hunter was the hitchhiker, joey hunter had an alibi, his inmate frank gullet was inadmissible. the tenuous nature of the evidence surrounding mr. had saying i know the the court asked defense counsel if joey hunter could be connected to the crime scene, since the defense theory was that he was a lookout, not one of the perpetrators. counsel said that two witnesses said uld have been white. also, counsel had spoken to the person who gave mr. hunter an alibi, and if that person were to testify, he would say he had no recollection whatsoever. one several broken-off acrylic fingernails was found east of the driveway where her body lay, and counsel said this was circumstantial evidence she had 103 run out of the driveway and then turned back because someone was standing on woodlyn lane, and that person would have had to be white to avoid attracting attention. i seem to think potentially might have relevance is joey hunter. but, again, that depends on a connection between joey hunter and the crime scene. and ithe court concluded that at that relevance outweighs the undue consumption of time; confusion of the issues; and the potential for prejudice. but primarily the undue consumption of time and the confusion of the issues. [] . . . some evidence to suggest that at least according to bonnie dalton that this joey hunter had admitted some responsibility for the murders. [] other than that . . . there are then two potential witnesses . . . who place joey hunter perhaps a few miles away hitchhiking with a . . . any of the witnesses that i hear at the trial refer to an individual who appears to match the description of joey hunter as a look-but at this point, i think it has marginal relevance. and the other side of that, under [evidence code section] 352, just overwhelms and outweighs the marginal relevance i think it has. c. conclusions we see no abuse of discretion in the exclusion of the proffered evidence of third party culpability. hall commit the crime in another person, without more, will not suffice to raise a reasonable ere must be direct or circumstantial evidence linking hall, supra, 41 cal.3d at p. 833.) as to the theory that dean kennedy ordered the murders, there was no link at all to recap: the only third person identified with a conceivable motive was larry cowell, who may have wanted to prevent 104 mickey thompson from testifying at his second trial. but there was no connection between cowell and kennedy, except (1) they were both friends of ed losinski, who was kennedy . but evidence even if it were not inadmissible hearsay that kennedy knew cowell does not by any stretch of the imagination create a link to the thompson murders. (according to the prosecutor, in january 1998 kennedy was specifically asked if he knew cowell, and confirmed he did not.) (that he bragged that he knew mickey thompson), there was no evidence linking kennedy himself to the thompsons, much less to their murders. in addition, both kennedy and cowell were in custody, in separate facilities in different parts of california, when the thompsons were murdered. in short, under the hall requirements, the dean kennedy evidence was plainly not relevant. (hall, supra, 41 cal.3d at p. 833; people v. edelbacher (1989) 4. . . link any third person to the as to the theory that joey hunter was the lookout, there was likewise no abuse of discmr. hunter himself had no motive to murder the thompsons; defendant showed no connection of any kind two hit men for the other contract murders; and there is no evidence joey hunter was at the crime scene. and, as respondent points out, the actual perpetrators of the thompson murders made their escape from the scene in minutes over a bike route leading to quick freeway access so even , two miles from the murder scene and an hour later, it is hard to see how he could plan for the thompson murders. so in the end, in light of the lack of any evidence linking joey hunter to the crime scene, only his own statements to his cousin (see fn. 31, ante) and to deceased inmate frank gullet (see pt. 3.c.x.h., ante) provide any kind of connection to the 105 evidence code section 352, the undue consumption of time and confusion of the issues joey hunter evidence. having failed to show any link between the dean kennedy/larry cowell evidence and joey hunter, defendant asserts that it was error to evaluate thhall. proposed evidence was not to show that a specific third party was guilty of the offense halltigators were given information about comply with hall by presenting evidence that links those other suspects to the crime. the exclusion of he says, violated his due process rights; that evidence identified as the central issue [defendant], then investigators the los angeles been questioned about the information in their isources of most of the evidence that other people committed the thompson murders . . . . we note first that the assertion that investigators would not look at evidence if it did not point to defendant, is only that: an assertion without support in the record. the police obviously did investigate joey hunter (and indeed arrested him at an early stage).32 in 1998, police interviewed kit paepule 32 t is that detective griggs did not interview joey investigator went to contact [joey hunter] 106 and john young about the thompson murders, both of whom denied involvement. (young, serving life without parole, took full responsibility for the wilson/genoway murders but adamantly denied any involvement in the thompson murders.) apparently, police also interviewed dean kennedy, who denied knowing larry cowell. the suggestion that police did not continue to pursue joey hunter after 1988, because somehow they knew hunter would not implicate defendant in the plot, is little short of ludicrous. as the trial court noted at the he even if defendant could show joey hunter was present as a look-out and the defense presented no such evidence in short, it is complete speculation to suggest that the reason defendant could not establish the requisite link between dean kennedy (or any of the other hypothetical reason to believe that, if only the police had investigated other suspects further than they did, they would have been able to connect dean kennedy or joey hunter or any of the others to the murders.33 defendant cites no legal authority for the notion that, because therefore evidence casti without regard to the rules of evidence. we line some investigator said this guy is never going to lead you to [defendant], no investigator subsequently sat down with an interview with joey hunter; not since 1988. and that is relevant. and to be precluded from that is to be precluded from having a rial court pointed out that was not the motion before the court, just not pre 33 other than not re-investigating joey hunter after 1988 was that investigators never tested fingernail scrapings taken from the thompsons (the defense later did so, with no useful results). 107 the principles established in hall for the exclusion of third party exculpatory evidence principles correctly applied by the trial court when it excluded the proffered testimony. cases such as chambers v. mississippi (1973) 410 u.s. 284 (chambers) for his due process claim does not persuade us otherwise. in chambers, the applicati[that] id. at p. 303.) there, a third person named mcdonald had signed a sworn confession and later repudiated it. (id. at pp. 288-289.) he state court excluded hearsay testimony critical to the defense: testimony that mcdonald had orally confessed the murder to three different friends (confessions that were corroborated by other evidence in the case, and that bore persuasive assurances of trustworthiness). this exclusion refusal to permit the defendant to cross-examine mcdonald because of a state rule that a party may not impeach his own witness denied accord with (id. at p. 302.) this is not a case like chambers. as the high court tells us, chambers we taccorded to the states in the establishment and implementation of their own criminal trial [citation.] chambers therefore does not stand for the proposition that the accused is denied a fair opportunity to defend himself whenever a state or federal (united states v. scheffer (1998) 523 u.s. 303, 316 (scheffer).) scheffer states evidence is not unlimited, but rather is subject to reasonable restrictions. . . . [s]tate and federal rulemakers have broad latitude under the constitution to establish rules excluding evidence from criminal trials. such rs right to present a darbitrarydisproportionate to the purposes they are designed to serve.. . . [w]e have found the exclusion of evidence to be 108 unconstitutionally arbitrary or disproportionate only where it has infringed upon a weighty interest of the accused.34 (scheffer, supra, 523 u.s. at p. 308, citations and fn. omitted; see holmes v. south carolina (2006) 547 u.s. 319, 325 (holmes) [describing xcluded important defense evidence but that did not serve any legitimate interests.) as holmes defense evidence under rules that serve no legitimate purpose or that are disproportionate to the ends that they are asserted to promote, well-established rules of evidence permit trial judges to exclude evidence if its probative value is outweighed by certain other factors such as unfair prejudice, confusion of the issues, or potential to misle(holmes, supra, 547 u.s. at p. 326.) and as holmes further tells usapplication of this principle is found in rules regulating the admission of evidence proffered by criminal defendants to show that someone else committed the crime with id. at p. 327.) that is the case here. nothing in principles governing the exclusion of third party exculpatory evidence is arbitrary or disproportionate to the purposes they are designed to serve. as our evidence, including the application of evidence code section 352, do not infringe on the 34 defendant relies at length on tinsley v. borg (9th cir. 1990) 895 f.2d 520, saying tinsley evidence amounts to a due process violation under chambers . . . .tinsley does not even cite chambers, and did not involve third party exculpatory evidence. tinsley constitutional proportions, we should consider five factors: (1) the probative value of the excluded evidence on the central issue; (2) its reliability; (3) whether it is capable of evaluation by the trier of fact; (4) whether it is the sole evidence on the issue or merely cumulative; and (5) whether it constitutes a major part of the attempted defense must then balance the importance of the evidence against the state interest in exclusion.tinsley, at p. 530.) in the context of the exclusion of third party exculpatory evidence, we analyze the issue consonant with precedents from the high court and our own supreme court. 109 people v. frye (1998) 18 cal.4th 894, 948; accord, hall, supra, 41 cal.3d at pp. 834-835.) consequently, there is no merit to the proffered evidence violated his due process right to present a defense. 10. the exclusion of hearsay epurchase or intent to purchase gold just before the murders a. the factual background and rulings during the case-in-chief, defense counsel asked detective verdugo if he had any reason to believe mickey thompson had recently made a large purchase of gold coins, but the detective knew nothing about that. later, during the defense case, defense counsel offered to present testimony that, in the weeks and months before the murders, mr. thompson talked about buying gold, and the night before the murder, eric miller heard him say that he had just taken possession of $250,000 in gold. (see pt. 7.b. of the facts, ante.) defense counsel agreed with the trial court that the defense basically mr. thompson was announcing to others his plan to acquire a large amount of court said that if the defense could show the safe in the garage was empty and had pry at deal of relevance. the court concluded it and if that testimo the next day, the prosecutor told the court that police reports showed the damage to the garage safe occurred weeks after the murders. the court agreed that, if the defense could not show that the safe had been tampered with on the day of the murders, then the necessary foundation for relevance of the proffered testimony would be missing. 110 defense counsel then stated that lee haslam and other witnesses would say that admissible under evidence code section 1250. (section 1250 is an exception to the rule . . . (including a statement of intent [or] plan . . . )of mind . . . at that time or at any other time when it is itself an issue ( 1250, subd. (a).)) to . if there were evidence there was gold in the house and there was gold taken, the court said, that could be presented, but even if defense counsel then asked to present testimony from detective laporte about mr. evidence. . . . when defense counsel sought to elicit testimony from detective laporte that mr. miller told him mr. thompson had made a large purchase of gold recently, information,the court sustained the detective laporte then testified that his notes showed he interviewed eric miller and lee haslam; his reports would have been given to the lead investigators; and he did not try to obtain any financial records. then, defense counsel about mickey thomps 111 when the court asked defense cowhich is: did mr. miller provide information to the investigators which was not cinformation about a recent purchase ohe court asked, y to not bring up the quote of the statement if i could say to officer laporte: did you receive information from eric miller that mr. thompson had just come into a very valuable is: what did you do as a result? what did you follow-truth. but ry being misled. further, hout referenso i think the way we just agreed to handle it defense counsel then elicited testimony from eric miller and detective laporte. when mr. miller was asked if he told detective laporte that mickey thompson had recall anything recent purchase, mr. miller said, as previously described (pt. 7.b. of the facts, ante), detective laporte then testified that eric miller had told him mr. thompson said he had taken possession of a valuable item of a specific dollar amount, and that he (detective laporte) did not, and was not directed to, match up the dollar amount is financial records at all. (what mr. thompson may have said to mr. miller, but to explain the conduct of officer 112 b. contentions and conclusions on appeal, defendant argues that mr. thaving received gold were statements of intent . . . to perform an act and admissible to defendant contends the trial court erred in stimony so that there was no reference to gold; this deprived him of key investigators ignored this lead in their zeal to see [defendant] prosecuted, violating his right to present a defense. we find no error by the trial court. amount of gold is not is hearsay as to which there is no applicable exception. second, the other statements defendant proffered from lee haslam and others that mr. thompson said he intended to purchase gold are statements of intent or plan. but to be admissible under evidence code section 1250, mr. purchase gold must be itself an issue in the action (id., subd. (a)), and it was not. to offered to prove that he did purchase gold that is, prove . . . ibid.) it is mind (intent to buy gold) would have been relevant had there been any evidence of a robbery, or evidence that he communicated his intent to someone involved in the murders, or evidence there was gold on the premises, but there was no such evidence. the only evidence defendant can cite is that, according to one witness, one of the escaping bicyclists was carrying a white canvas bag, and a coin dealer testified that gold coins are delivered in white canvas bags (usually with a metal seal on the top).35 35 lance johnson described a small bag, about 12 inches long and four inches wide, drawstring, so it was more 113 evidence of a gunman fleeing on a bicycle with a white canvas bag, however, is not credible evidence of a robbery, and all the evidence was to the contrary. there was no evidence valuables were taken; there was evidence of money and jewelry left at the scene of the crime; there was no evidence of forced entry into the house; the garage door was closed; and there was no evidence of pry marks on the garage safe on the day of the murders. under these circumstances, it was not an abuse of discretion to refuse to admit hearsay evidence that mr. thompson intended to buy gold. defendant insists the evidence was admissible under people v. alcalde (1944) 24 cal.2d 177, 187 (alcalde) of declarations of intent to do an act in the future. (the legislature later codified the alcalde decision in evidence code section 1250.) (see people v. majors (1998) 18 cal.4th 385, 404 (majors).) that the have been made under circumstances which naturally give verity to the utterance; it must be relevant to an issue in the case. ibid., quoting alcalde, at p. 187.) dclaim again falters on the relevance element. as majors tells us, alcalde that she was plamajors, supra, 18 cal.4th at p. 404.) applying the essential elements test, alcalde concluded that the as a natural utterance made under circumstances which could create no statement of her intent and the logical inference to be drawn therefrom, namely, that she was with the defendant that night, were relevant to the issue of the guilt of the alcalde, supra, 24 cal.2d at pp. 187-188, italics added.) in addition, in alcalde sandra johnson told police that one of the men was carrying a white canvas bag, shopping bag size. 114 that id. at p. 188; see also majors, at p. alcalde defendant claims the three essential elements in alcalde were met, but we do not agree. there is no logical inference he intended to buy gold, and consequently there is no relevance to any issue in the case. we cannot logically infer from that the gold was at the thompson residence, or that the thompson murderers knew about it, or that there was a robbery. intent to buy gold is only relevant if there were evidence of a robbery, and there was not. accordingly, there was no abuse of discretion in the trial inadmissible for its truth. as described above, the trial court permitted the defense to inquire about mickey to mr. miller, not for its truth, but in order to prove an inadequate police investigation of (which would have been traceable). statement so that it referred to a valuable item, rather than gold, and defendant cites no authority for this claim, and we know of none. the evidence was admitted for a limited purpose, and that purpose was served when defendant was permitted to elicit testimony that police did not investigate the recent purchase of a valuable item allowed the defense to make its point about inadequate investigation, while avoiding having the jury misled by the unsupportable implication there was gold on the premises. 11. the exclusion of evidence that joey hunter failed three polygraph examinations evidence code section 351.1 prohibits the admission of polygraph evidence in any polygraph examination, the opinion of a polygraph examiner, or any reference to an offer 115 to take, failure to take, or taking of a polygraph examination, shall not be admitted into evidence in any criminal proceeding, . . . unless all parties stipulate to the admission of id., subd. (a).) despite the clarity of the statutory prohibition, defendant contends the trial court should have admitted evidence that joey hunter failed three polygraph examinations, even though the prosecutor would not stipulate. the exclusion of the evidence that joey hunter failed polygraph tests, he says, prevented him from impeaching griggs, lillienfeld and the other investigators on a crucial issue whether the murders were fully when the trial court refused to admit the evidence, it pointed out that it had excluded third-party culpability evidence, and consequentlying that you are not violating [evidence code] section relevance . . . given the third-party culpability hearing that we had and the rulings that i made. [] i think you can certainly present your witnesses to testify as to what was done there was . . . shall not be admitted into evidence in any criminal proceeding . . . .st [citations.]people v. mckinnon (2011) 52 cal.4th 610, 663 (mckinnon).) the statute contains no exceptions to the rule. (ibid. exceptions, and its stricture on admission of such evidence has been uniformly enforced further, the categorical rule against the admission of polygraph evidence does not violate due process or the right to present a defense. (people v. richardson (2008) 43 cal.4th people v. wilkinson (2004) 33 cal.4th 821 . . . we . . . squarely 116 held that the categorical exclusion of the results of such examinations did not violate the federal constitutionscheffer, supra, 523 u.s. at pp. 305, 315 [a military rule making polygraph evidence inadmissible in court-martial proceedings did not unconstitutionally abridge the right of accused members of the military to present a defendant nevertheless argues that the evidence was not offered attack the credibility of the answers joey hunter gave during his polygraph d on [defendant] as the perpetr36 evidence code section 351.1, however, does not distinguish among the purposes for which the results of a polygraph test are offered. in mckinnon, the court expressly rejected a claim that polygraph evidence was properly admitted, not to endorse or attack the credibility of answers given during a polygraph examination, but to explain why [a witness], in his postpolygraph statement to police, changed his story about his involvement in the murder and implicated defendamckinnon, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 663 -of-mind exception to . . . section 351.1 for this limited ].) similarly, in people v. samuels (2005) 36 cal.4th 96, 128, evidence that the defendant cooperated with police by offering to take, and passing, a polygraph 36 defendant cites several ninth circuit cases saying that polygraph evidence is inadmissible if offered to prove the truth or falsity of the polygraph results, but united states v. bowen if the polygraph evidence is being introduced because it is relevant that a polygraph examination was given, regardless of the result, then it may be admissible; or if the evidence is being introduced as a basis for a cause of action, then it may be admissible as well.not fit in either of those categories, and in any event none of the cases defendant cites the results of a polygraph examination . . . shall not be admitted into evidence in any criminal proceeding 117 the defendant was uncooperative during the investigation. that an exception to evidence code section 351.1 should be made, where polygraph results are offered to is without merit. the trial court did not err. 12. the conspiracy instructions defendant contends ctions on uncharged conspiracy vitiated this claim of instructional error de novo, and conclude there was no error. defendant first argues that no conspiracy instructions should have been given, because the prosecutor made no prima facie showing of the existence of a conspiracy by independent evidence. we have considered and rejected that claim in part 2, ante. next, defendant argues the conspiracy instructions were incomplete and misleading. we see no merit in this claim either. the court instructed the jury on uncharged conspiracy with caljic no. 6.10.5 find defendant to be a member of a conspiracy).37 in addition, the court gave caljic 37 a conspiracy is an agreement between two or more persons with the specific intent to agree to commit the crime of murder, and with the further specific intent to commit that crime, followed by an overt act committed in this state by one or more of the parties for the purpose of accomplishing the object of the agreement. conspiracy is a crime, but is not charged as such in this case. [] in order to find a defendant to be a member of a conspiracy, in addition to proof of the unlawful agreement and specific intent, there must be proof of the commission of at least one overt act. it is not necessary to such a finding as to any particular defendant that defendant personally committed the overt act, if he was one of the conspirators when the alleged overt act was committed. overt act means any step taken or act committed by one or more of the conspirators which goes beyond mere planning or agreement to commit a crime and which step or act is done in furtherance of the accomplishment of the object of the conspiracy. overt act, the step taken or act committed need not, in and of itself, constitute the crime or even an attempt to commit the crime which is the ultimate object of the conspiracy. nor is it required that the step or act, in and of itself, 118 no. 6.12 (that proof of an express agreement is not necessary, and may be inferred from all circumstances tending to show the common intent),38 as well as caljic no. 6.11 (on joint responsibility of each member of a conspiracy for the acts of the other conspirators) and caljic no. 6.14 (that acquaintance with all coconspirators is not necessary).39 defendant argues that the trial court also should have instructed with caljic no. 6.22. that instruction says that each defendant in a conspiracy case is individually entitled to a determination whether he or she was a member of the conspiracy, and that the jury must find, beyond a reasonable doubt, that there was a conspiracy to commit the crime, that a defeconspiracy, and that one of them committed an overt act.40 defendant argues that, by including caljic no. 6.12 (that proof of an express agreement is not necessary), but 38 the formation and existence of a conspiracy may be inferred from all circumstances tending to show the common intent and may be proved in the same way as any other fact may be proved, either by direct testimony of the fact or by circumstantial evidence, or by both direct and circumstantial evidence. it is not necessary to show a meeting of the alleged conspirators or the making of an express or 39 in the trial court, defendant argued that caljic no. 6.10.5 (defining conspiracy and overt acts) was the only conspiracy instruction that should be given in an uncharged conspiracy case. 40 caljic no. 6.22 case must be considered as to each each defendant in this case is individually entitled to, and must receive, your determination whether [he] [she] was a member of the alleged conspiracy. as to each defendant you must determine whether [he] [she] was a conspirator by deciding whether [he] [she] willfully, intentionally and knowingly joined with any other or others in the alleged conspiracy. [] before you may return a guilty verdict as to any defendant of the crime of conspiracy, you must unanimously agree and find beyond a reasonable doubt, that (1) there was a conspiracy to commit the crime[s] of , and (2) a defendant willfully, intentionally and knowingly joined with any other or others in the alleged conspiracy. you must also unanimously agree and find beyond a reasonable doubt, that an overt act was committed by one of the conspirators. you are not required to unanimously agree as to who committed an overt act, or which overt act was committed, so long as each of you finds beyond a reasonable doubt, that one of the conspirators committed one of the acts alleged in the [information] [indictment] to be 119 failing also 41 defendant also asserts that caljic no. 17.00 instructing the decide separately whether each of the defendants (italics added) should have been given. defendant is mistaken.first, defendant did not request the court to instruct with caljic nos. 6.22 and 17.00 (or caljic no. 6.18).42 he instructions, the claim is waived because defendant did not request such clarification people v. jenkins (2000) 22 cal.4th 900, 1020.) second, caljic no. 6.22 by its plain terms is intended for use in a case where multiple defendants are charged with the crime of conspiracy (and caljic no. 17.00 is likewise for use in a multiple-defendant case). this case involves neither multiple defendants nor a conspiracy charge. a trial court has no sua sponte duty to give an instruction that does not apply to the case. third, there is in any event no merit to the claim that the instructions as given hed in california that the correctness of jury instructions is to be determined from the entire charge of the court, not from a consideration of parts of an instruction or from a particular people v. burgener (1986) 41 cal.3d 505, 538, disapproved on other grounds in people v. reyes (1998) 19 cal.4th 743, 753-754, 756; accord, people v. williams (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 705, 711 [concluding 41 defendant does not c 42 caljic no. vidence of the commission of an act which furthered the purpose of an alleged conspiracy is not, in itself, sufficient to prove that the person committing the act was a member of the alleged conspiracy. 120 jury instruction on evidence of uncharged conspiracy (calcrim no. 416) did not reduce the prosecu here, the jury was instructed that a conspiracy was the instruction made it quite clear that the prosecutor had to prove the agreement, the intent to agree to commit murder, and an overt act: in order to find a defendant to be a member of a conspiracy, in addition to proof of the unlawful agreement and specific intent, there must be proof of the (italics added.) the jury was also instructed reasonable doubt. the jury was instructed establish guilt may be found to have been proved beyond a reasonable doubt, each fact or circumstance on which the inference necessarily rests must be proved beyond a . 2.01.) the jury was instructed that defendant was of proving [defendant] guilty (caljic no. 2.90.) the jury was instructed that the a reasonable doubt that the defendant is the did not people v. williams, supra, 161 cal.app.4th at p. 711.) there was no error. 13. the jury instruction on eyewitness identification defendant argues the trial court violated his state and federal due process rights when it instructed the jury that it could cowe disagree. the court instructed the jury, without objection, with a modified version of caljic no. testimony has been received in this trial. in determining the weight to be given eyewitness identification testimony, you should consider the believability of the eyewitness as well as other factors which bear upon the 121 not limited to, any of the following: [] . . . [] the extent to which the witness is either certain or uncertain of the identification . . . . the instruction also listed a dozen other factors the jury should consider, including the length of time between the act and the identification, so on.43 tor uncertainty has long been used as a factor in evaluating eyewitness identifications, and its use does not violate due process. in neil v. biggers (1972) 409 u.s. 188, the court found that, under the totality of the circumstances, the show-up identification in that case was reliable even though the confrontation procedure was suggestive.id. as indicated by our cases, the factors to be considered in evaluating the likelihood of misidentification include the opportunity of the witness to view the criminal at the degree of attention, the accuracy of the witness prior description of the criminal, the level of certainty demonstrated by the witness at the confrontation, and the length of time (id. at pp. 199-200; see also manson v. brathwaite (1977) 432 u.s. 98, 117 (manson) biggers are to be applied in determining the admissibility of evidence offered by the prosecution 43 observe the act and the perpetrator of the act; [] the stress, if any, to which the witness observation, to provide a description of the perpetrator of the act; [] the extent to which the defendant either fits or does not fit the description of the perpetrator previously given by the witness; [] the cross-racial or ethnic nature of the identification; [] the to identify other perpetrators of the act; [] whether the witness was able to identify the alleged perpetrator in a photographic or physical lineup; [] the period of time between n; [] whether the witness had prior contacts with the perpetrator; [] the extent to which the witness is either certain or uncertain of the own recollection; 122 concerning a[n] . . . ; see also perry v. new hampshire (2012) ___ u.s. ___ [132 s.ct. 716, 725, fn. 5, 728] [footnoting the factors as listed in biggers and manson, and holding that the taint of improper state conduct, warrant a due process rule requiring a trial court to screen such evidence for reliability before allowing the jury to assess its further, as defendant admits, the california supreme court has approved caljic no. 2.92. (people v. johnson (1992) 3 cal.4th 1183, 1230-1231 (johnson) caljic no. 2.92 normally provides sufficient guidance on the subject of eyewitness identification johnson rejected a claim of trial court error in instructing the jury on the certainty factor. (id. at pp. 1231-1232 [the defendant contended there was no evidence to support the instruction because an expert testified, without contradiction, that correlate with its accuracy; the court concluded the trial court . . . in i].) johnson also cited the certainty factor when it due process.(id. at p. 1216.) thonstitutional reliability . . . depends on (1) whether the identification procedure was unduly suggestive and unnecessary [citing manson]; and, if so, (2) whether the identification itself was nevertheless reliable under the totality of the circumstances, taking into account such factors as the opportunity of the witness to view the criminal at the time of the crime, the s degree of attention, the accuracy of his prior description of the criminal, the level of certainty demonstrated at the confrontation, and the time between the crime and the confrontationf, and only if, the answer to the first question is yes and the answer to the second is no, is the identification constitutionally unreliable [citation.] (ibid.) in the face of this solid body of law, defendant nonetheless argues the instruction [s]ubsequent research . . . has shown the 123 certainty with which the witness makes the identification has little correlation with the the argument fails. first, defendant did not object to the instruction; indeed, caljic no. 2.92 . when an instruction is a correct statement of the law anpeople v. richardson, supra, 43 cal.4th at pp. 1022-1023 [while the court may review unobjected-to instruction that allegedly implicates defendant substantial rights, claim that instruction, correct in law, should is not cognizable, however, because defendant was obligated to request cl people v. guerra, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 1134].) second, we cannot in any event find a due process violation. defendant relies only on authorities from other jurisdictions, such as brodes v. state (2005) 279 ga. 435. there, the court held (over a dissent) that, because of studies showing no correlation between certainty and accuracy(id. at p. 440.) but cases from other jurisdictions do not assist defendant, as we are bound by the decisions of our supreme court and the high court and, as we have seen, their directions are clear. we lly adversary system that caution juries against placing undue weight on eyewitness perry v. new hampshire, supra, 132 s.ct. at p. 728.) these safeguards testimony during cross-ibid.), as well as expert testimony both of which safeguards were well employed in this case. 124 14. the flight instruction after crime (caljic no. 2.52), and requested that, if the instruction were given over the objection, it should be modified. the trial court agreed with the requested modification, crime, or after he is accused of a crime, is not sufficient in itself to establish his guilt, but is a fact which, if proved, may be considered by you in light of all other proved facts in deciding whether a defendant is guilty or not guilty. whether or not evidence of flight shows a consciousness of guilt and the significance to be attached to such a circumstance, defendant contends it was error to give the flight instruction. we disagree. a. the evidence karen dragutin testified (see pt. 2.h. of the facts, ante) to threatening statements defendant made about mickey thompson during a dinner conversation in the months preceding the murders. these included that [defendant] was going to get out of it [(the litigation mess)] is if mickey thompson died. ms. dragutin said the facts relating to the yacht are recounted in part 5, ante, of the factual summary. in short, made a deposit for the purchase of a yacht in january 1988, received approval of a bank loan for the yacht on march 9, 1988, and consummated the sale in late april or early may. on june 27, 1988, defendant took the 57-foot yacht, which was outfitted such that two people could live on it for an extended period of time, to a south carolina marina for installation of equipment, and the yacht was there for six weeks. in early august, defendant unexpectedly asked the marina manager to expedite the work; the manager did so, and defendant sailed away. in may 1991, the bank holding the mortgage on the yacht hired a boat surveyor to repossess 125 never find hi the surveyor ultimately located the yacht and defendant in guatemala. detective griggs testified that he never caused a case to be filed against defendant, never arrested him, and at no time sought to arrest him and could not find him. b. the law [penal code] [s]ection 1127c requires a trial court in any criminal proceeding to instruct as to flight where evidence of flight is relied upon as tending to show guilt.44 (people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1114, 1182 (carter).) caljic no. 2.52 is derived from section 1127c. (carter, at p. 1182.) where the evidence shows that the defendant departed the crime scene under people v. avila (2009) 46 cal.4th 680, 710 (avila) [police searched unsuccessfully for defendant in 1991 and 1992, and he was ultimately arrested more than four years after the crimes at the sufficient evidence to warrant instructing the jury to determine whether flight occurred, and, if so, what weight to accord such flight the instruction adequately conveyed the concept that if flight was found, the jury was permitted to consider alternative explanations for that flight other than defs consciousness of guilt ].) flight must be commenced . . . carter, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 1182 [where defendant 44 in any criminal trial or proceeding where evidence of flight of a defendant is relied upon as tending to show guilt, the court shall instruct the jury substantially as follows: [] the flight of a person immediately after the commission of a crime, or after he is accused of a crime that has been committed, is not sufficient in itself to establish his guilt, but is a fact which, if proved, the jury may consider in deciding his guilt or innocence. the weight to which such circumstance is entitled is a matter for the jury to determine. [] no further instruction on the subject of flight need be given. 126 possession of a vehicle belonging to the murder victim when he was arrested in arizona, the flight instruction plainly was warranted flight instruction does not create an unconstitutional permissive infs burden of proof, and is proper avila, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 710.) c. contentions and conclusions defendant first contends the flight that little evidence connected him to the crimes is unsound, and the only authority he cites is not california authority. in california, the flight instruction the evidence shows that the defendant departed the crime scene under circumstances suggesting that his movement was motivated by a consciousness of guilt (avila, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 710), and that is the only pertinent question. the evidence we have described above relating to the purchase of the yacht, its outfitting, and ling to parts unknown, along with his statements before the only way he was going to get out of it [(the litigation mess)] is if mickey thompson permits the i under circumstances suggesting that his movement was motivated by a consciousness of guilt (ibid.) next, defendant says the instruction was defective because it omitted the word in penal code section 1127c, and because defendant had not there was no defect. the statutory and accused of a crime that has been committed . . . . and, in any event, caljic no. 2.52 nor a defined temporal period within which the flight must be commenced . . . .carter, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 1182.) 127 finally, defendant contends the instruction was erroneous because the court available in los angeles should his presence be required by investigators a fact this contention has no merit either. first, defendant offers no argument or evidentiary ruling was erroneous, and so we need not consider the point. (people v. stanley (1995) 10 cal.4th 764, 793.) second, there was in any event no error in the evidentiary ruling. defendant is referring to a letter from then-defense counsel al stokke to detective griggs in october 1988, apparently offering to make defendant available in los angeles if needed. but mr. stokke had told police, just a few hours after the murders, and again at a later meeting among detective griggs, defendant and mr. stokke, that defendant would not make any statement. the trial court ruled that if the defense ould bring out mr. t would not talk to the police; otherwise the jury would be misled into inferring that defendant was cooperating with the police. defense counsel then apparently chose not to adduce the letter or any testimony about it. t45 defendant repeatedly contends the flight instruction provided the jury with an the offense.otherwise. (people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 757 mental state at the time of the offense and [does] not direct or compel the drawing of imp ; see also people v. smithey (1999) 20 cal.4th 936, 983, citing cases.) 45 doyle [v. ohio (1976) 426 u.s. 610] forbids impeachment of a defendants exculpatory trial testimony with cross-examination about his or her postarrest silence after receiving miranda warnings.people v. tate (2010) 49 cal.4th 635, 691-692.) defendant here had not been arrested when he declined to cooperate with the police. 128 in sum, it is error to instruct on flight when there is no evidence of flight. (people v. kessler (1968) 257 cal.app.2d 812, 815.) here, there was evidence of flight. flight requires (avila, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 710), and the evidence we have described easily permits that factual determination. (see abilez, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 522 cf. carter, supra, 36 cal.4th at pp. 1182-1183 [even if we were to conclude the instruction should not have been given, any error would have been harmless. the instruction did not assume that flight was established, but instead permitted the jury to ].) there was no error. 15. the prosecutorial misconduct claims defendant contends the prosecutor committed numerous acts of prosecutorial misconduct. we do not agree. the supreme court has summarized the standards under which we evaluate a claim of prosecutorial misconduct. t violates the fourteenth amendment to the federal constitution when it infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due process. conduct by a prosecutor that does not render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair is prosecutorial misconduct under state law only if it involves the use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade people v. morales (2001) 25 cal.4th 34, 44 (morales).) itude during argument. the argument may be vigorous as long as it amounts to fair comment on the evidence, which can include . . . [citation.] [citation.]people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 819.) when a prosecutorial misconduct claim focuses on comments the prose 129 question is whether there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury construed or applied any of the complained-morales, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 44.) the defendant may not complain people v. thornton (2007) 41 cal.4th 391, 454.) if the defendant objected, or if an objection would not have cured the harm, we ask whether the improper conduct was prejudicial, that is, whether it is reasonably probable a result more favorable to the defendant would have occurred if the prosecutor had refrained from the misconduct. (people v. haskett (1982) 30 cal.3d 841, 866.) prosecutorial misconduct requires reversal under federal law unless the misconduct was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. cook (2006) 39 cal.4th 566, 608.) a. ng statement as is well to bear in mind the applicable principles. the prosecutor cannot prove and does not intend to prove . . . ., cal. criminal law (4th ed. 2012) criminal trial,  621, p. 963.) ibid.) statement cannot be charged as misconduct unless the evidence referred to by the [citation.]people v. wrest (1992) 3 cal.4th 1088, 1108 (wrest).) and the judgment on appeal unless the misconduct was prejudicial or the conduct of the prosecutor so egregious as to deny the defendant a fair trial.people v. harris (1989) 47 cal.3d 1047, 1080.) 130 in this case, we see no misconduct. as was true in wrest, variance between prosecutorial statement and actual proof is minor or nonexistent. in no wrest, supra, 3 cal.4th at p. 1108.) defendant cites nine instances of alleged miscondustatement. i. the first three claims of misconduct are based on the following portion of t. the prosecutor referred to allison triarsi and her parents, phyllis and anthony triarsi, neighbors who could look down on the crime scene area, and said: levied, presumably against mickey thompson gras [sic] shot. observations. as he stood at the top of the driveway, the other gunman shot at the van. the van had several bullet holes in it. trudy thompson was either pulled from or fell out of the van. she then got down to her knees. ined indicate the following: she was crawling down the driveway. it is a very, very steep driveway. she was crawling down that driveway for her life. all of her acrylic fingernails began breaking off. she was skinning and scraping her knees. she was in a dress that day. hot several times mickey thompson ultimately suffered seven separate gunshot wounds. seven. . . . and he was shot several times in the abdomen; in the hips; in the buttocks; through the arm. but he was kept alive. and the evidence will show that at any point at 131 any time either of the gunmen could have put mickey thompson down like that, one shot they were in a position that they could see each other and mickey thompson could this planet was that of his wife being executed. mickey thompson, literally his left ear and fired a bullet that passed completely through his brain and he was killed. witnesses saw this, then watched as the gunman jumped on bicycles and began to pedal off. . . . based on that opening statement, defendant complains (1) that phyllis and anthony triarsi did not testify at trial, and ] he also asserts (2) . and he contends (3) there was was shot to incapacitate him but kept alive so he could watch trudy first, parents as anticipated eyewitnesses, along with miss triarsi. nor can we see what possible prejudice could flow from a prosecutorial decision to produce only one witness instead of three. the prosecutor said nothing in his opening statement. second, the prosecutor at no point suggested in his argument insinuation that the prosecutor said this is incorrect.46 46 defense counsel, in cross-examination of lance johnson, elicited his testimony participated in various television shows recreating the crime, and even though he did not 132 third, onsistent with the . as more fully described in part 4.a. of the facts, ante, miss triarsi testified there was a man nd making him go in she heard mickey th it appeared mickey thompson was trying to go to his ; and then the gunman near trudy shot her in the head. miss triarsi testified that she did not remember what the gunman who shot trudy did next (and, the medical examiner, dr. lisa scheinin, indicated the gunshot wound to nds inflicted on him.) fourth, as that .9 acknowledges this was an overstatement. as dr. scheinin testified, there was with someone putting a weapon close within inches behind mr. s ear and and the evidence actually adduced to be inconsequential. (see people v. dykes (2009) 46 cal.4th 731, 761-762 victim died looking at his grandmother, but there was evidence that could support the view that the witness the murders, he told the producers on camera that his understanding of how the thompson could see the killers shoot her in the head, after which they shot mr. thompson. 133 inconsequential]; cf. harris, supra, 47 cal.3d at p. 1079 appears to be finally, in his reply brief, defendant claims respondent conceded misconduct by failing to address a claim he made in his opening brief (in connection with his argument defendant asserted, without elaboration, g statement of the prosecutor (made while showing photographs of the crime scene and arguing this was a professional hit, not a robbery, and that the thompsons could see each other)ll the blood mickey thompson was losing at the top of the driveway will suggest that he was where the w defendant does not explain how this is in any way significant, and again, any inconsistency with the evidence is inconsequential. there was no misconduct. ii. the bankruptcy fraud claim in his opening statement, the prosecutor explained that, after defendant declared bankruptcy, mr. thompson was creditor he had two options. the prosecutor continued: and these are important options to understand . . . . [] . . . option 1, pay me what whatever you want to with the rest of the creditors. but pay me what you owe me and then go on about your business. . . . [] option 2, pay me bankruptcy court that you have engaged in fraud, deceit, lying on the court, and the bankruptcy court option 2. that was the objection that mickey filed with the bankruptcy court. that case was supposed to go to trial on march 18th. mickey the short answer to this claim is that the prosecutor did not say he would prove defendant committed bankruptcy fraud; he said that mr. thompson intended to offer proof to the bankruptcy court that defendant had engaged in fraud. and the prosecution presented considerable evidence of 134 improper actions during the bankruptcy. for example, and as more fully described in part 1 of the facts, ante, when jeffrey coyne was appointed bankruptcy trustee, he discovered had been sold mr. coyne found whom was mr. thompson. mr. coyne testified to his belief the activity of defendant, his wife, and the entities in the transaction was creditor. in short, while defendant was not convicted of bankruptcy fraud he was convicted of filing false loan documents, a fact never published to the jury the prosecutor did not say otherwise, and there is obviously no misconduct. iii. deputy john williams statement: went after that as a personal asset. it was ultimately seized by authorities. we will introduce you to deputy john williams who is now a public official in orange county; no longer a serving officer. but he is a serving public official, an elected official. to have to seize his car, he had legal documentation that entitled him, john williams, to seize the car, [defendant] flew into one of his famous violent rages. he flew into a rage. he turned beet red. his neck got thick. every vein on his face started sticking out. and ead . . . if he defendant cites this as misconduct, wrong. mr. williams testified just as the prosecutor said he would. but he also said his best recollection was that the incident occurred in late 1987 or early 1988, while other 135 witnesses and documentation showed a levy occurred in june or july 1986. defendant says mr. williamsince the fall of 1986, so the car could not have been seized in 1987 or 1988 to satisfy mr. (indeed, mr. williams was adamant, even when confronted with evidence that a levy occurred in and that he was there is simply no support for defendantthe opening there was no misconduct. iv. allegedly false promises of testimony next, testimony or evidence that was not presented. first, statement (see pt. i, ante) about , killing him. the prosecutor continued: gunman [sic] jumped on bicycles and began dy testified to seeing the gunmen jump that is true, but inconsequential. witnesses heard the gunfire, and just after that lance johnson saw two men on bicycles riding down the thompson driveway towards woodlyn lane. and allison triarsi heard the clicking of (wrest, supra, 3 cal.4th at p. 1108.) next, defendant this is a frivolous contention as to which defendant does not elaborate, and we do not consider it further. 136 defendant also asserts misconduct in thstatement, where the prosecutor said: he [(defendant)] would see that mickey thompson was killed before he ever got a dime of his [()] money. and how do we know that? because we got it from the absolute, most reliable source. [defendant] said so. was secutor did not claim that defendant confessed. the prosecutor presented testimony from gregory keay that heard defendant tell mr. disingenuous at best. finally, defendant asserts misconduct in ththrough this whole thing every single witness, every witness who heard anything, from the johnsons to the hackmans to the triarsis, every witness that heard anything heard the same thing from mickey thompson. . . . mickey thompson repeated over and over, defendant points out that the hackmans did not testify, and neither did the triarsi parents. again, this is inconsequential. three of the witnesses mentioned did testify, and they all said what the prosecutor said they would say. as noted above, we do not see misconduct in the mention of anticipated witnesses who are not produced, when other witnesses provide the promised testimony. there was no misconduct. v. ronald to identification in his opening statement, the prosecutor talked about ronald and tonyia stevens seeing defendant outside their home and their report of that incident to the police years d look at a series of 137 defendant contends this was misconduct, because the prosecutor knew at the time he made this statement it was false because he possessed a recording of that identification procedure, during which ron indicated he was unable to narrow his choice down to fewer than three men . . . . we cannot find misconduct on this record. mr. stevens testified that when he was right corner, and that was defendant. mr. stevens was then asked on cross-examination, . . . then played audio recordings in court of portions of the photographic identification procedure. a transcript of the audio recording (defense exhs. z-1 & aa-1) shows mr. stevens saying, typ, . . . stevens replies, [] oh, okay. [] 1, 5 or 3 would be completely s testimony and, while the transcript shows uncertainty (which is why, as defendant points out, detective lillienfeld suggested a live lineup), it apparently also shows defendant did no conceivable prejudicewhere defendant was able to confront mr. stevens and challenge his testimony as defendant did here. (see dykes, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 762.) vi. assertions of false representations defendant next makes three claims of allegedly false assertions or promises in the opening statement. ncial actions shortly before the murders, the 138 shows beyond a reasonable doubt that [defendant] was doing that on purpose. why? to hide his assets from mickey thompson; to hide those assets from the bankruptcy court; and to set in motion his escape plan when he killed mickey. [] he sold whitehawk investments. and then another invename. within days of the first sale, he sold all of his interest in those, the second one. so hitehawk whitehawk was never sold. this is another completely inconsequential point. it is true the whitehawk investment itself was (dolores cordell testified it was a real estate investment and she sought to bring returns from that investment into the bankruptcy estate; she testified she was able to bring the whitehawk asset into the estate because she showed . . . ) but in substance, the prosecutor showed what he said he would show: the whitehawk investment was purchased with commingled funds of the goodwins, but then distributions from the whitehawk investment in 1988 were made in the name of diane goodwin. the parties stipulated there was a check for $365,000 payable to diane goodwin from j.g.a. group dated may 6, 1988, containing the and karen stephens-kingdon testified that $300,000 of that s account in another bank; some $275,000 of that money was used to purchase gold coins, and another $10,000 was wired offshore. that this money was from a distribution and not a sale is unimportant. there was no misconduct. second, defendant cites as misconduct mr. s first racing eventmoney is because [defendant] was cheating him. he was [siphoning] money off the top; 139 skimming money off the top of the company; and skimming money out of the pocket of r. thompson sued him, and obtained a judgment of almost $800,000. the prosecutor said the judge found that in eight months of doing business $512,000 to be exact from mickey refusal to advance cash to put on events and his plan say in, or revenue from, the operations,and that there was an issue raised of contract perhaps not, in a technical legal sense. but when one business partner refuses to contribute his agreed 70 percent share, jeopardizing the racing event and thus forcing the other partner to put up the money (not to mention planning that mr. thompson would have no revenues from the operation of their companies), it is hard not to think of this conduct, in the colloquial sense, as stealing. . (dykes, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 762 [rejecting contention that language in opening statement describing the defendant were based upon evidence to be presented at the trial . . . broad scope of permissible argument ].) (defendants assertion idykes was wrongly requires no comment from us.) evidence in this case will show that [defendant] was never ever, ever going to pay mickey thompson defendant says the evidence showed that in the settlement, and defendant signed that settlement agreement after the thompsons were murdered. this, defcontrary, the evidence presented reasonably could be viewed just as the prosecutor said. dolores cordell testified that defendant repeatedly expressed his willingness to accept settlement terms, only to renege at the last minute. the testimony defendant 140 would not be dischargeable in the bankruptcy. defendant signed the settlement after the murders, paid by defendant. no misconduct is shown. vii. the insport agreement as the prosecutor described it, the so-athat gave the signatory the unique ability to put on motor sports races with certain drivers in certain venues. defendant was a signatory to the insport agreement, which was worth contract. judgment, mickey thompson went after the insport agreement. [defendant] fought it. defendant contends the last quoted statement was falsehoods . he tells us the evidence showed (1) the insport agreement became an asset of the bankruptcy estate and was put up for bid; (2) diane goodwin and charles clayton were the highest bidders, not mr. thompson, (3) was not true that [defendant] t part of description of the evidence is correct, but his conclusion is incorrect. the goodwin/clayton enterprise (sxi, of which defendant was president) was the highest bidder for the insport agreement, and purchased it with bankruptcy court permission. but sxi failed to make all the payments due to the bankruptcy court for the insport agreement, and the trustee began taking steps to repossess it. dolores cordell testified that in december several parties bid, including the goodwins, and mickey thompson won that bid recollection was that he paid $500,000, in december 1987. (the trustee also testified that at no point during his tenure as the bankruptcy trustee did defendant ever own the insport agreement free and clear.) 141 is not borne out by the record. there was clearly no misconduct. b. the claimed violation of a court order defendant sought to prevent the prosecutor from eliciting any testimony about bankruptcy fraud in connection with conduct during the bankruptcy proceedings. (in federal proceedings, defendant had been charged with many counts of bankruptcy fraud and filing false loan documents, but was convicted only of filing false loan documents.) thus, defendant objected to bankruptcy trustee jeffrey coyne the trial court overruled that objection, but ordered the prosecutor raudulent before karen stephens-kingdon testified about reference to bankruptcy fraud, and the prosecutor agreed there would be no mention of bankruptcy fraud. nonetheless, when questioning witnesses about the bankruptcy procerecord citations for this claim of misconduct are in an instance not cited by defendant when he asked mr. bartinetti whether mr. thompson, when he objected to [defendant]. (dobjection on grounds of hearsay and lack of foundation was sustained.) indeed, our review of the record shows the only reference by the coyne, when the prosecutor asked him how he [defendant]; his wife diane goodwin; e.s.i.; s.x.i.; chuck clayton; and the insport agreement,and 142 47 as noted above, this testimony (not cited by defendant) was specifically permitted by the court. the witnesses properly testified to events that was intended to confuse the jurors and convince them [defendant] had committed crimes has no basis whatsoever in the record. c. the claim of prosecutorial misconduct by leading witnesses defendant witnesses and asserts this was prejudicial misconduct. he cites some 100 objections over the course of 20 days of trial testimony, about three quarters of which were sustained. defendant also refers to several instances where the trial court cautioned the prosecutors about leading questions, but refused to admonish the jury that this was prosecutorial misconduct. thus: after the court sustained an objection to a leading question examination of mr. bartinetti, defense counsel asked the court to cite the prosecutor for misconduct. tbut the court the people try to pose the questions in a nonleading fashion. and if it continues, we may the court said, have been i think well taken on the leading aspect of several witnesses already. and i, at this point, just want the record to reflect that you are being asked to avoid leading please. during questioning of dolores cordell, after the court sustained an objection, the prosecutor asked for a sidebar. the court said you know, there has 47 there was another reference by mr. coyne to issues in a pleading in the was specifically elicited by defense counsel, not the prosecutor. 143 been a consistent problem with maybe your definition of leading and my definition of sustaining the objections. i denied the request for any kind of misconduct citation later, at a sidebar on several subjects during ronald testimony, the . . . .the court refused a similar defense request during . during karen stephens-testimony, the court observed that n. [] i mean i would rather hear from the witness. the witness is clearly an expert. . . . [] i know i would feel more comfortable and i think it would be more helpful if the questions were not so based on these objectiogives two examples of purportedly prejudicial leading questions on key issues in the case. one was a question to ronald stevens (who identified defendant as the man with binoculars in the car outside his house a few days before the murders). pointing to defendant, the prosecutor asked, marked but before the prosecutor asked that leading question, he had already elicited testimony from mr. stevens about in addition, the prosecutor had asked mr. mean when you said he had a ruddy complex [sic mr. someone that has like pock marks or something when they were young and as they got question was leading, but it was not misconduct. 144 , after she had testified that she was very familiar with the thompson driveway[perspective] where you from your view, i should say, was it your impression being familiar with that driveway that mickey thompson was in a position to see trudy and asked for a sidebar; no answer was given to the question (and the court did not rule on the objection). at the sidebar, the court refused to w the question as evidence and not to speculate as to what the answer might be. i think that message has been made quite loud and clear because the objections have been continuing after the sidebar, the prosecutor asked miss triarsi about the view of a person standing in the driveway where and certainly nothing prejudicial in further, the only cases defendant cites to support his misconduct claim are cases that say it is misconduct deliberately to elicit inadmissible and prejudicial testimony. that did not happen in this case. (see people v. hayes (1971) 19 cal.app.3d 459, 470 [[leading questions] to constitute prejudicial misconduct in the absence of any showing that such examination had the effect of deliberately producing inadmissible evidence or called for inadmissible and prejudicial answersquestions complained of did not produce inadmissible evidence or prejudicial answers, but evidence that could properly have been elicited by questions not objectionable in cf. people v. hinton (2006) 37 cal.4th 839, 865 s argumentative and speculative questions during cross-examination of over and above being in violation of the evidence code ].) 145 d. the claim of misconduct in closing argument defendant asserts there were six instances of prosecutorial misconduct in closing argument. again we disagree. i. the claim the prosecutor misstated the burden of proof hat the prosecutor burden of proof of a conspiracy, and as the standard for proving that [defendant] defendant made no objection during the argument, but afterward asked the court to reread the reasonable doubt instruction, contending that the we whole, was both clear and correct on the burden of proof. (see people v. dennis (1998) 17 cal.4th 468, 522 in the challenged statements, the prosecutor was explaining the theories of liability (aiding and abetting and conspiracy). in discussing aiding and abetting, the prosecutor are convinced that [defendant] is responsible in any way shape, form or fashion for the murders of mickey thompson and trudy thompson, he is liable for everything that the conspiracy, telling the jury that conspiracy, though uncharged, was important, because every member of a conspiracy is liable for the conduct of the others. that he was responsible and there was some agreement to kill mickey thompson and them. the prosecutor continued: evidence and the circumstances surrounding the totality of the evidence. if there is a conspiracy to commit murder. you can look at the totality of the circumstances. as a matter of fact, the jury instruction tells you to do exactly that. these two men, the two killers were acting in concert with one another. 146 timed, well coordinated and almost perfectly executed. the killers got away. you can infer from that, you have to infer from that the only reasonable explanation is they were working togthe same house at the same time and just happened to kill mickey and trudy thompson. agreement there. and if the totality of the circumstances suggest that michael goodwin is responsible for the killings of mickey and trudy thompson, then michael goodwin is after explaining it was not necessary to prove that defendant knew or met with the he circumstances proves that have to show that he even knew the killers. as long as you agree and are convinced that secutor explained that unanimity was not necessary on the theory of liability, saying that some jurors could decide convinced there was a conspiracy and [defendant] was have to be unanimity among you with regard to the theory of liability as long as everybody is convinced that [defendant] is responsible for the murders of mickey and trudy thompson . immediately following those us the burden. and i will tell you right now, [defense counsel] and the defense team has no burden in this case. . . . [] [t]he system of justice . . . says that the prosecution bears the entire burden of proof. and that burden is to prove the criminal case beyond a reasonable doubt. every element of it. i accept that. i . . . embrace that. the defense the prosecutor then spoke about the meaning of circumstances, do you have an abiding conviction that [defendant] is responsible in any way for the 147 long as youother that [defendant] is responsible for the deaths of mickey and trudy thompson, after the argument was completed, defense counsel asked the court to reread the burden of proof instruction, and specifically to the court disagreed, of the argument was [defendresponsible as an aider and abetter and a co-was with reference to [vicarious] liability here. and that is the essence of the prosecuti it is apparent from a review of the entire argument rather than the snippets quoted by defendant that there was no misstatement of the burden of proof. ii. claims of improper exploitation of excluded evidence exclusion of evidence of third party culpability (see pts. 9 & 11, ante) and the exclusion of evidence the killings were the result of a robbery gone bad (gold a few days before the murders) (see pt. 10, ante). defendant asserts the two prosecutors devoted much of their closing arguments to the lack of evidence that anyone other than defendant hated mr. thompson enough to kill him, and to the lack of evidence of a robbery. thus, for example, the prosecutor argued evidence you have heard only one person who hated mickey thompson so much that he wanted to end his life. and make sure that mickey thompson saw the ortant concept here as we talk about this. and that is, 148 what is reasonable and what is unreasonable? what is evidence and what is speculation? when you hear someone say, well, you know, it could have been. it could have been a robbery. there could have been a video camera there. they are asking you [defense counsel] is asking you to speculate as to what might have been. as to some evidence that defendant cites many other instances of similar arguments in the closing, and concludes that it was nothing short of this claim of misconduct is without merit. first, the claim is forfeited because defendant did not make any objection at trial. (thornton, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 454.) second, the authorities defendant cites do not support his contention that, in effect, it is misconduct for a prosecutor to argue his case based on the state of the evidence in the record. misconduct may occur if the excludes evidence that should have been admitted, and the prosecutor knowingly lies to or otherwise misleads the jury. people v. varona (1983) 143 cal.app.3d 566 (varona) demonstrates the point. in that case, the defendants, charged with rape and other crimes , tried to introduce evidence that the complaining witness had earlier pled guilty to prostitution and was on probation at the time of trial. the trial court excluded that evidence, and then the prosecutor argued to the jury that there was no evidence the woman was a prostitute id. at pp. 569-570.) the court of appeal found it was error to exclude the evidence, and misconduct for the prosecutor to argue that there was no proof that the woman was a (id. at p. 569.) the court explained: that a defendant has not brought forth evidence to corroborate an essential part of his defensive story. but we know of no case where such argument is permissible except where a defendant might reasonably be expected to produce such corroboration. here the of evidence where the defense was ready and 149 willing to produce it, but he compounded that tactic by actually arguing that the woman was not a prostitute although he had seen the official records and knew that he was arguing a falsehood. the whole argument went beyond the bounds of any acceptable conduct.id. at p. 570.) similarly, in people v. daggett (1990) 225 cal.app.3d 751 (daggett), the court erroneously excluded evidence that the child molestation victim (who himself had been charged with molesting younger children) had reported previously being molested by persons other than defendant. trosecutor argued to the jurors that if they believed [the victim] molested other children, he must have (id. at p. 757.) the erroneously excluded evidence was intended to refute that very argument, and the court advantage of the [] id. at p. 758.) this case bears no similarity to the cited cases. this is not a case where the court excluded evidence that should have been admitted. the prosecutor properly argued his case, based on the state of the evidence in the record, that this was there was no misconduct. (see people v. lawley (2002) 27 cal.4th 102, 156 [finding varona and daggett inapposite because the iii. claimed references to facts not in evidence people v. pinholster (1992) 1 cal.4th 865, 948.) defendant claims the prosecutor argued facts not in evidence when he said these things: mpson stood on the top of the driveway and watched in horror as the 150 hompson was executed on march 16th, 1988, at 6:05 in the morning, but not before he had to watch his wife, his family, suffer and die. exactly how [defendant] 48 say, well, there is no proof that mickey thompson got it. who cares who got it. all we [they] . but he had been hiding assets in her name or attempting to hide assets in her name and he this claim of misconduct, too, is without merit. defendant made no objection to any of these statements at trial, so the claim is forfeited. (thornton, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 454.) in any event, these misconduct claims have no merit. they are essentially duplicates of points we have found to be without merit in connection with similar claims . 15.a.i., pt. 15.a.vi., and pt. 15.a.vii, ante.) the only different claim of misconduct is that, after ints out that no one there is no evidence defendant said he wanted mickey thompson to watch his wife die. but there was evidence defendant specifically said, on two different occasions, that he going to hurt yon the evidence, not misconduct. (people v. ward (2005) 36 cal.4th 186, 215 (ward) 48 defendant also cites, but does not quote, other parts of the closing argument that making sure that trudy was dead and mickey was still alive 151 vigorous as long as it amounts to fair comment on the evidence, which can include reasonable inferences, or deductions to be drawn therefr iv. claimed misrepresentation of bankruptcy law 83-8784 order to make his case that defejudgment. in that part of argument which defendant does not quote the prosecutor explained that, after the yacht loan was approved, and shortly after the murders, the goodwinse went into escrow; assets defendant had been trying to hide offshore. first, no objection was made at trial, and the claim is forfeited. second, we fail to see how defendant presents no comprehensible argument or citation of authority for this point, so we do not consider it further. to the extent this is another version of claim that the prosecutor vioseparate criminal or that there should be no mention of bankruptcy fraud in connection with karen stephens-found, in part 15.b., ante, that the prosecutor fully complied with the order. v. vouching for witnesses witnesses, or referring to evidence outside the record to bolster their credibility or attack that of the defepeople v. anderson (1990) 52 cal.3d 453, 479.) thus a p to place the prestige of [his] office behind a witness by [citatinferences reasonably drawn therefrom, rather than any purported personal knowledge or 152 [citation.] (ward, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 215.) defendant contends the prosecutor vouched for the credibility of john williams when he said the following, in rebuttmr. [defense counsel] went on and on [about john williams]. and i think she said that john williams was delusional. and remember witnesses and how they testified on the stand. john williams is an elected official in orange county. a long time public servant. at the time of the repossession of the car, he was a deputy marshal in orange county. . . . [] i courtroom would argue with it, his dates were probably off by a year or so.after describing his testimou saw this man on the stand. how this went down and what [defendant] said about mickey thompson is absolutely once again, detrial, so the claim of misconduct is forfeited. in any event, were not improper vouching. s testified that he was elected as the orange s remarks ab . . . rather than any purported personal knowledge or belief, that comment cannot be characterized (ward, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 215.) [mr. williams] told you . . . with a description of his testimony and considered in context, this was not improper vouching. (see ward, supra, 153 36 cal.4th at p. 216 [there was no improper vouching where the prosecutor, referring to a nothing but the trut ; see also united states v. necoechea (9th cir. 1993) 986 f.2d 1273, 1279 [prosecutor stated, bmit to you, ladies and gentlemen, that shes not lying. s ents do not do not imply that the government is assuring ] veracity there was no misconduct here. vi. the claim of griffin error in griffin v. california (1965) 380 u.s. 609, 615 (griffin), the high court held that in griffin, error is committed whenever the prosecutor or the court does not extend to comments on the state of the evidence, or on the failure of the defense people v. medina (1995) 11 cal.4th 694, 755; people v. lewis (2001) 25 cal.4th is .) as people v. murtishaw (1981) 29 cal.3d 733, 757, tells us, applying the griffin ederal courts have stand, drew attention to his failure to do so, and hence was unc [citations.]ibid.) defendant challenges, as griffin argumentindependent witnesses three days before the murders doing surveillance right at the 154 the stevenses identification. [defendant] was never out there. he was never at that (at this point, defense counsel objected, the trial court overruled the objection, defense counsel cited griffin error, and the trial court said that would be discussed later.) t -- minutes -- th, 2006. if someone said, hey, mr. jackson, you committed a crime on that day; or you were at such and such spot on that day. i would call every single person in this courtroom and subpoena them to court to say, no, at six minutes until 11:00 on december 18, 2006, he was standing on a have called any witness they wanted to to provide an alibi for [defendant]. one of the most important days of his life was march 16th, 1988. he found out that mickey thompson and trudy thompson had been killed. if you believe the defense, he found out for the first time. [] of course the evidence suggests that he found out that his plan say, hey, that week before the murders [defendant] was with me. [] but you heard nothing from that. he after the argument, defense counsel asked the court to instruct the jury that the , that would commenting on the failure to call logical witnesses to testify . . . of the stevgriffin . . . 155 we agree with the trial court. people v. bradford (1997) 15 cal.4th 1229 (bradford) is instructive. in that case, griffin error if he or she argues to the jury that certain testimony or evidence is uncontradicted, if such contradiction or denial could be provided only by the defendant, who therefore would be rid. at p. 1339.) in bradford, the absence of evidence contradicting what was produced by the prosecution on several points, and the failure of the defense to introduce material evidence or any alibi witnesses. these comments, however, cannot fairly be interpreted as referring to evidence or testimony, nor the more particularized comments regarding . . . the absence of alibi for a particular time period, would have required defendant to take the stand.(ibid.) people v. vargas (1973) 9 cal.3d 470 (vargas) also demonstrates the point. there, the court found griffin error vargas, at p. 476), and explained: ibid.) on the other hand, the court observed, in dicta, that another statement by the prosecutor was not griffin uring the prosecutors closing argument, the prosecutor agreed that defendants did not have to tat they have some witnesses to say where they were on the 29th, on the evening of the 29th. they had to be somewhere . . . . vargas, at p. 474under the rule in [people v. bethea (1971) 18 cal.app.3d 930, 936], comments . . . regarding the lack of alibi witnesses was not griffin id. at p. 476, fn. 5.) 156 this case is no different from bradford or vargas. well, where is from its context and then construed as bradford, the prosecutor clearly referred he was elsewhere. and as in bradford, . . . the absence of alibi for a particular time period, would have required defendant to bradford, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 1339.) an attempt to shift the burden of where he was at the time. this claim has no merit. as bradford clearly exists between the permissible comment that a defendant has not produced any evidence, and on the other hand an improper statement that a defendant has a duty or (bradford, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 1340.) there was no griffin error. 16. the claim of outrageous government misconduct misconduct. this time, the claim is not based on conduct relating to attorney-client privileged documents. instead, defendant asserts, among other things, that detective lillienfeld repeatedly lied in sworn statements: in affidavits supporting the orange county search and arrest warrants and the live lineup; in the grand jury proceedings; and at the orange county according to defendant, in for detethe prosecutors would have been unable to obtain 157 defendant would have obtained a different result at trial). because it has no merit. we turn first to arrest and charge defendant. a. warrant affidavit of december 7, 2001, and other sworn testimony before the orange county grand jury and at the april 2002 orange county preliminary hearing, to the effect that a .9-millimeter smith & wesson firearm owned by defendant could have been the murder weapon.49 these statements were, according to detective lillienfeld, mistaken, and, according to defendant, lies. the facts as revealed at trial were these. in the december 2001 affidavit, detective lillienfeld averred that dwight van horn, firearms examiner at the sold him that the weapons used in the defendant had purchased a smith & wesson, model 469, in 1984, and within the rifling characteristics of the murder weapon, according to deputy dwight van horn . . . . similarly, the detective tescould have been a murder weapon. these statements were, as the detective later testified in the trial court, incorrect. 49 preliminary hearing transcript and dfn. 7, ante.) we refer to those documents only in the context of statements by counsel in testimony, to his testimony in orange county. 158 at the trial, defendant called detective lillienfeld as a defense witness, and sought to impeach him with previous false statements. ballistics memorandum, prepared shortly after the murders. the memorandum indicated not included in the universe of possible guns that could have been used as the murder weapon, while detective lillienfeld testified in orange county (and averred in his affidavit) to the the prosecutor objected, contending detective lillienfeld made a mistake and misinterpreted mr. defense counsel contended (and continues to do so on appeal) the claim of arrested for the thompson murders . . . .search warrant affidavit extends to some 54 pages.) the trial court held an evidence code section 402 hearing to determine whether as such credibility. at the hearing, detective lillienfeld testified that in department tested a smith & wesson three-digit model firearm, and the report showed . mr. van horn did not tell him that the murder weapon had six lands and grooves, and his impression from reading mr. van memorandum - detective lillienfeld did not look into any database to determine whether a smith & wesson three-digit model number produced five or six lands and grooves. the subject line of -digit model numbers, and it also included glocks, as well as weapons that could have been eliminated -type guns, machine-gun type uzis, and mack t 159 these [uzis, mack tens, etc.] with a photo line-memorand meaning dwight van horn, the ballistics expert. i can conduct ballistics exam on them agreed t [the uzis, etc.] based on a photo line-up; we can eliminate these guns [the smith & wessons, etc.] appeared that these guns were in the possible universe of guns that needed to be detective lillienfeld also if those were all possible guns. and the response i got was, yes, those are all possible guns that were used in this detective lillienfeld said that no one advised him, before his testimony to the further, he was not aware that the july 2001 test of a smith & wesson three-digit model - detective lillienfeld admitted testifying to the grand jury that the three-digit model smith & wesson registered to defendant could have been a murder weapon; that he put that information in subsequent affidavits; and that it was incorrect. he did not attempt to verify the information with mr. van horn before testifying, and he did not attempt to check databases containing information on the general rifling characteristics of a series of litigation in court . . . detective lillienfeld also testified that the july 2001 test was on a weapon registered to defendant. the detective testified at the orange county preliminary hearing in 2002, t the one at least the one gun that [he] took 160 from [defendant] that was a three-digit model smith & wesson was not the murder he did not so state in his testimony at the orange county preliminary hearing, but he was not asked that specific question. his understanding was that other three-digit the court said, i the experience the detective does, bcommitted an act of moral turpitude which would bear on his credibility based on what i b. other claims iat length, other grievances about the investigation. defendant asserts detective lillienfeld and the prosecutors used gail moreau-that defendant confessed to her in order to prosecute defendant. -hunter had not defendant asserts thne ctivities in connection with it. none of the facts campbell to direct his ed that supports this claim.) 161 he asserts without record authority that the los angeles district attorney he asserts that detectivorange county district attorney after the los angeles district attorney rejected it in c. forfeiture of the claim of outrageous government misconduct defendant forfeited his claim of investigatory misconduct by failing to make it before the trial court. says it would have been futile to court denied his other motions to dismiss for misconduct (see pt. 1, ante), and (2) after the evidence code section 402 hearing just described, the trial court refused to permit . we do not agree the claim would have been futile. the seizure, retention and review of attorney-client privileged documents, not on the investigatory misconduct defendant now asserts. moreover, defendant now makes claims of improper interference with the investigation, usurpation of power, and the like, in addition to the claims of perjury and manufactured evidence. there is no excuse for the failure to make these claims to the trial court, which repeatedly showed its willingness to entertain defense objections and motions on all manner of claims. the cases defendant cites to support his claim of futility show that futility is an appropriate basis for a failure to object to prosecutorial misconduct in extreme cases, where the misconduct is pervasive and the trial court does not act. (see, e.g., dykes, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 775 [rejecting futility argument; unlike the case in hill, supra, 17 cal.4th as did counsel in hill 162 ongoing hostility on the part of the trial court, to appropriate, well- this is obviously not such a case. further, the claims defendant makes are precisely the sort of claims that require fact finding and credibility determinations by the trial court. all the evidence defendant asserts in support of his claims was available at the time of trial. in short, defendant does not present a compelling case for excusing the forfeiture of his claims of investigatory misconduct. d. the merits defendant has forfeited his claim of outrageous government misconduct, but in any event it has no merit. we briefly address each of except for those already described, in subpart b., ante, as having no support in the record). first, there is the in connection with defendadescribed above, turpitude which would bear on his credibility . . . (see ochoa, supra, . . . not substitute our evaluation of a substantia defendant insists people v. headlee (1941) 18 cal.2d 266, 267 (appellate court may set aside a conviction where prosecution is so improbable as to be incredible). but o be improbable on its face the evidence must assert that something has occurred that it does not seem possible could have occurred unibid.; see people v. mayberry (1975) 15 cal.3d 143, 150 [statements given by a witness who has been believed by a trial court, there must exist either a physical impossibility that they are true, or their falsity must be apparent without 163 next, defendant contends detective lillienfeld and the prosecutors used s from gail moreau-hunter (that defendant confessed to her), in order to prosecute defendant. (ms. hunter testified at the preliminary hearing but not at trial to the effect that defendant told her he hired two black teenagers to carry out the murders.) defendant relies on medical records not in evidence for the proposition that ms. moreau-hunter was and demonswe will not make the leap from allegations (without evidentiary support) of severe mental illness to conclusions that testimony is nor will we assume that the prosecutors knew ms. moreau- when she testified at the preliminary hearing, as the record is devoid of any such evidence. and, of course, defendant could not have been prejudiced by the use of ms. moreau-defendant was convicted at trial without it. next, defendant makes a convoluted power,-shoppinged as a rogue officer proceeding under the political influence of a private citizenexpand[ed] his presented his case to the orange county district attorney after the los angeles district attorney rejected it in 1998. this claim suffers first, defendant cites no evidence whatever for the assertion that detective lillienfeld acted at the behest of collene campbell. second, defendant cites penal code section 830.1, and other authorities that likewise have no pertinence, to support his claim that the detective lacked authority to expand his investigation into orange countysection 830.1 provides just the opposite: it states, among other things, that a deputy ny officer . . . . (pen. code,  830.1, subd. (a)(1).) third, defendant cites no authority on -s simply 164 s favor. (indeed, the court of appeal in that case interest in the orange county district acollene campbell, noting that it had that orange county lacked any disinterested goodwin v. superior court, supra, g031285, pp. 2-3.)) in short, defendant has made no showing that consisted of anything other than disinterested activity aimed at bringing the person responsible for the thompson murders to account. the same is true of that prosecutors in both countipbell, this is nothing but hyperbole, without support in any evidence. finally, we note again , and showing preclude[s] dismissal as a sanction for prosecutorial (uribe, supra, 199 cal.app.4th at p. 861.) supports the notion that he received anything other than a fair trial. 17. cumulative error defendant contends the cumulative effect of the various errors he asserts requires reversal. because we have found no error that, either alone or in conjunction with others, prejudiced defendant, we necessarily conclude there was no cumulative error. disposition the judgment is affirmed. grimes, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. rubin, j. 