filed 8/30/13 p. v. gutierrez ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. hugo gutierrez, defendant and appellant. b211622 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba315483) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. frederick n. wapner, judge. affirmed. ______ vanessa place, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. edmund g. brown jr., attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, pamela c. hamanaka, assistant attorney general, kenneth c. byrne and eric j. kohm, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______ 2 hugo gutierrez appeals from the judgment following his convictions for multiple counts of kidnapping and forcible sex crimes. he contends the court prejudicially erred in excluding evidence of his lack of criminal record which evidence would have sixth amendment right to confrontation was violated by admission of testimony regarding the dna and sexual assault reports from persons who had not initially analyzed the data and prepared the reports. finally, he contends the movement of the victims was insufficient to support his convictions for aggravated kidnapping. s and affirmed the judgment in its entirety, but we recognized that there was a split of authority on the confrontation rights issue. the supreme court granted review but held this case pending the decision in a series of earlier cases raising similar issues. after deciding those cases, the court remanded this case to us with directions to reconsider it in light of the new authorities. having done so, we again affirm. background e.r.: counts 1-6 at approximately noon on december 18, 2006, e.r. was jogging in ernest debs park. she ran through the park to its outer perimeter and back to a circular area near the parking lot and picnic tables. on her second lap around this area, a man she had seen on her first lap sitting on a picnic table bench approached her. the man was gutierrez. he pulled out a black metal revolver and demanded her ipod. gutierrez was wearing a dark hooded sweatshirt with the hood pulled over his e.r. grabbed the gun and pushed it away from her. she gave him her ipod and her down the hillside covered with trees to a partially cemented drainage ditch largely secluded from public view. heavy foliage and trees with drooping branches covered the hillside leading to the ditch. 3 when they reached the flat area of the drainage ditch gutierrez unbuttoned his pants, took out his penis and told her to perform oral sex on him. she complied. after several minutes he stopped and she began crying. he warned her not to tell anyone or he would come after her. he appeared to take a photo of her using his camera phone. he then told her to take off her pants and shoes and, when she did not, he pulled her jogging pants down to her ankles. gutierrez got on top of her and partially penetrated her vagina with his penis. he then turned her over and attempted to penetrate her both vaginally and anally. gutierrez told her to perform oral sex on him again and she did so until he ejaculated in her mouth. she spit it out and gutierrez told her to clean off his penis. he wanted her to use her mouth but she used her t-shirt instead. she noticed that gutierrez had a scar on his right hip. while e.r. was orally copulating gutierrez she heard voices and saw people walking on a path further up the hill but her view of them was obscured by the foliage and tree branches. gutierrez told her to stay quiet. after gutierrez ejaculated, he told her to remain there until he was gone. when she was sure he had left, she climbed up the slope, went home and took a shower. later that evening a friend convinced her to report the incident to the police. officers interviewed her and then took her to county u.s.c. hospital for a sexual assault examination. there a nurse practitioner interviewed and examined her and prepared a report of her conclusions and findings. the nurse practiexamination was normal, that she had no injuries, and that the lack of injuries was nurse practitioner noted in her report that actual, vaginal and anal penetration. by the time of trial the nurse practitioner had moved out of state. julie lister, the lead nurse practitioner at county u.s.c. hospital, testified in her stead. lister stated that that e.r. reported, she would have reached the same conclusions as the nurse practitioner who conducted the sexual assault examination. 4 after the examination, the officers drove e.r. to her home where they collected the clothes she had been wearing during the assault. on january 11, 2007, officers showed e.r. a photo lineup. she selected array form she committed the crime. i recognized him the instant i saw the picture. i remember him by his skin complexion, eyes, lips, and facial hair. there is no doubt that suspect number -shirt for the presence of biological material. three large stains on the shirt tested positive for the presence of semen. the criminalist sent a cutting from the stain on the chest area of the t-shirt having the highest concentration of semen to orchid cellmark for dna analysis, together with dna reference samples from e.r. and gutierrez, obtained after his arrest. jody hynds is employed as a forensic supervisor at orchid cellmark, responsible degree in forensic genetics and has been employed at cellmark for over eight years. she had testified over 50 times regarding forensic testing of dna, and had done so on behalf of both the prosecution and the defense, as such testing can be used to match individuals to evidence as well as to exclude individuals as possible suspects. hynds did not personally perform any tests, or prepare the initial analysis and file and independently analyzed the raw data. she made her own comparisons to the reference samples and checked them against those listed in the report to make sure she comparison of all 13 locations on the dna of the sperm sample on the t-shirt with the 13 locations on the dna from gutieprobability of such a match was one in 237.5 quintillion in the black population, one in 7.634 quintillion in the caucasian population, one in 342.6 quadrillion in the southwest 5 hispanic population, one in 1.319 quintillion in the southeast hispanic population and one in 229.4 quadrillion in the asian population. hynds explained that this dna profile was exceedingly rare because a probability match of one in 6.6 trillion is generally m.m. and k.m.: counts 7-9 on january 9, 2007, at approximately noon, m.m. and k.m. went hiking through the hillsides of ernest debs park. as they returned to the flat area of the park near the parking lot, at a distance they saw gutierrez sitting at a picnic table bench wearing a hooded sweatshirt with the hood pulled over his head. as m.m. and k.m. turned around to walk back to their car they heard footsteps and someone yelling for them to stop. they turned around and saw gutierrez running after them pointing a black metal revolver. the women clasped hands and started walking backward away from gutierrez. gutierrez gestured with the gun and told them ust follow me, down the hillside covered with trees and low hanging tree branches. the women looked over the embankment and saw what appeared to be a flat area with an unfinished drainage ditch where they would be out of public view because of all the foliage. m.m. cried and pleaded with gutierrez but he kept gesturing with the gun to prod them along. the women linked arms and slowly shuffled down the slope, sometimes deliberately tripping and falling in order to stall. when they reached the flat area near the drainage ditch the women pleaded with gutierrez to let them go and offered gutierrez their purses, a laptop, and an ipod that were in the car. m.m. gave gutierrez the $30 she had in her pocket, and k.m. offered gutierrez her wedding ring. interpreted to mean that he wanted to have sex with them. gutierrez pointed at m.m., 6 could not do it because she had two children. gutierrez retorted that he did not care, that he had two strikes. m.m. told gutierrez she was sick. he said he did not believe her. k.m. falsely told him that they were hiv positive, that they had aids, that they were keep healthy. when gutierrez grabbed k.m. by the arm, m.m. fell to the ground and feigned a seizure. she curled into a fetal position and began rocking her body while breathing heavily. k.m. told gutierrez that m.m. needed her pills that were in the car and that without them she would stop breathing and die. gutierrez kept telling the women to be quiet so that the people walking on the pathway above would not hear them. k.m. kept n cue, m.m. started hyperventilating, panting and coughing, and creating even more noise. k.m. repeated that m.m. needed the pills that were in the car. gutierrez allowed k.m. to leave to retrieve the pills while m.m. lay on the ground with her eyes closed pretending to be calling and telling her to come back up the hill. she ran up the hill to the embankment where k.m. and a park ranger were waiting for her. police separately interviewed m.m. and k.m. at the park. k.m. described head, cloudy bulging eyes as if he were on drugs, and facial hair she recalled as a moustache. m.m. described sweatshirt, with vans tennis shoes, hispanic, five feet, six inches tall, with a shaved head and very large lips. while still at the park they each separately viewed binders of photographs of young hispanic men and neither identified anyone in the photos as their assailant. they later met with a police sketch artist who made a composite drawing based on their descriptions of the assailant. a few days later officers separately showed the two women a photographic lineup. 7 pulled a gun to me and my friend and forced us down the hill, threatened to kill us, and tried [to] make us do sexual favors. same face and same color lip but he has goatee. k.m. also immediately identified gutierrez as their assailant. she selected the photo of gutierrez and wrote in the comments section man in the card b, picture number 4, as the same man who held a gun to me and my friend and took us down a bank and implied to both of us that he wanted us to perform t this is the man. he has the same eyes, round face, lips, except in this photo he has a goatee, a beard; and when i faced police arrested gutierrez on january 11, 2007. when arrested he was wearing a dark blue pro club hooded sweatshirt. during booking gutierrez reported that he was 18 years old, five feet six inches tall, and weighed 210 pounds. police later searched the residence where he lived part time, located approximately 100 yards from ernest debs park, and found no ipod, gun, or black hooded sweatshirt, and although they recovered his cell phone, it did not contain a picture of e.r. gutierrez did not have a scar, only stretch marks across his pelvic area. the investigating officer estimated that the culvert, or drainage ditch, where gutierrez took all three women, was approximately 30 feet downslope from the edge of the embankment above, but he never measured the actual distance. he stated that all three identified the exact same spot in the park as the area where gutierrez took them. the officer described the hillside as covered with so much dense brush and vegetation that it was difficult to see the walking path from the drainage ditch below. 8 procedural background an information charged gutierrez with forcible oral copulation (pen. code,  288a, subd. (c)(2),1 counts 1 & 3), forcible rape ( 261, subd. (a)(2); count 2), attempted forcible sodomy ( 664, 286, subd. (c)(2); count 4), aggravated kidnapping ( 209, subd. (b)(1); counts 5, 7 & 8), and robbery ( 211; counts 6 & 9). as to the forcible oral copulation and rape counts, the information alleged the sentencing allegation that in the commission of the offenses gutierrez personally used a firearm and kidnapped the victims and that the movement increased the risk of harm to the victims beyond the harm inherent in the underlying offenses. ( 667.61, subds. (a)(d).) the information further alleged with respect to the four sexual offenses that gutierrez personally used a firearm in the commission of the crimes ( 12022.3, subd. (a)), and that as to all counts he personally used a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivision (b). the jury found gutierrez guilty of counts 1, 3, 5, 7, and 8 and of attempted forcible rape as a lesser included offense to count 2. the jury found gutierrez not guilty of attempted sodomy as charged in count 4 and not guilty of the robbery as charged in count 9. the jury could not reach a verdict on the robbery charged in count 6 involving eclared a mistrial on that count. the jury found true the kidnapping allegation but found not true all firearm use allegations. the court sentenced gutierrez to an aggregate term of 34 years in prison plus two life terms. gutierrez appeals from the judgment. discussion i. none of the victims testified at the preliminary hearing. only police officers testified as permitted by article i, section 30, subdivision (b) of the california constitution. (prop. 115, approved june 5, 1990.) the prosecutor had not interviewed k.m. since the crimes occurred, defense counsel had never interviewed her and, for some 1 further unmarked statutory references are to the penal code. 9 undisclosed reason, neither the prosecution nor the defense expected k.m. to testify at trial. nevertheless, k.m. appeared at trial. she testified that m.m. pleaded with gutierrez to leave them alone, telling him that she had two children. gutierrez retorted testimony, defense counsel requested the court to direct the investigating officer to investigating officer to testify that based on his review of this history that gutierrez did not have any strike convictions. counsel argued that this evidence was relevant to the involving m.m. and k.m. were committed by some other person who had two strikes. counsel also argued that evidence of the statement about having two strikes was prejudicial because it left the jurors with the impression that gutierrez was a violent and bad person. for this reason counsel wanted to rebut this negative inference with contrary the court commented that whether or not testimony about the absence of to by k.m. constituted character evidence he was entitled to rebut, the court concluded that the statement had not been offered for its truth but only for the effect it had on its listeners and to show the circumstances under which the crimes involving m.m. and k.m. occurred. accordingly, the parties either stipulate that gutierrez had no strike convictions or, in the alternative, propose a limiting instruction to neutralize potential prejudice by directing the jury that they could not consider the statement for its truth. defense counsel later informed the court that he intended to argue that gutierrez did not have two strikes and therefore could not have committed the crimes against m.m. and k.m. the prosecutor objected on the ground that there was no admissible evidence to show that gutierrez did not have any strike convictions, which evidence gutierrez 10 could have provided by testifying. the its effect on the persons hearing the statement. defense counsel proposed, in the alternative, a limiting instruction which the court heard a statement testified to by k[.m.] with regard to the person who attacked her ence not for its truth but only as it affected the people who heard it. as to that limited purpose and any other evidence that was received for a limited purpose, . . . [] . . . you may consider that gutierrez contends his convictions for kidnapping m.m. and k.m. in counts 7 and identification of him as the perpetrator. (citing davis v. alaska (1974) 415 u.s. 308, 317-ght to confrontation]; pennsylvania v. ritchie (1987) 480 u.s. 39, 56 [the sixth amendment decision to exclude the evidence was a valid exercise of its discretion under evidence code section 352, and even if error, the error was harmless. we need not decide who is right. even assuming error in failing to admit evidence that he did not have two strikes, we find such error was not prejudicial. here the physical characteristics with one notable exceptionhe had a goatee as well as the moustache they described. while at the park, each separately viewed binders of photographs of young men (none containing a photo of gutierrez) and did not select any photo as depicting the perpetrator. from their descriptions of their kidnapper, a police 11 sketch artist prepared a composite drawing which we have viewed and determined bears a strong resemblance to photographs of gutierrez. when the women later viewed the photo array they both separately, kidnapper, stating that they were 100 percent sure of their identification. on his arrest on the ties kidnapper was strengthened by the evidence that he used the same modus operandi as he had in his assault of e.r., where his identity as the perpetrator was established by witness identification evidence and by dna evidence. in both incidents gutierrez (1) attacked young women exercising; (2) assaulted women in the same park at approximately noon; (3) took the women to the identical location in the parkover an embankment through heavy foliage down to the partially cemented drainage ditch; and (4) used a black metal revolver to enforce compliance. from these marked similarities between the two incideunequivocal dna evidence of the sperm on her shirt showing that the sperm came from gutierrez, it is not reasonably probable that gutierrez would have achieved a more favorable result had evidence been introduced that he did not have two strikes as people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) ii. admission of forensic evidence a. sexual assault examination gutierrez contends his sixth amendment right of confrontation was violated by admission of the testimony of the lead nurse practitioner, julie lister, regarding the sexual assault examination performed, and the report prepared, by the nontestifying nurse practitioner.2 in our origi 2 the attorney general argues that gutierrez forfeited this issue by failing to object at trial. because we conclude that the evidence was admissible, we need not reach the forfeiture argument. 12 we also acknowledged a split of court of appeal authority on the issue. the california supreme court granted review in all three of the court of appeal cases we cited, and the court also granted review in this case and held it, pending the decisions in the other three cases. after the court decided those three cases, it remanded this case for reconsideration in light of those three, as well as a recent united state supreme court opinion concerning the right of confrontation. having reconsidered the matter in light of the right to confront and cross-examine people v. lopez (2012) 55 cal.4th 569, 576 (lopez-of-court statements unless the witness is unavailable to testify and the defendant had a prior opportunity for cross-examinatioibid., quoting crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36, 59.) synthesizing united state supreme court case law on the meaning of lopez when two critical components are lopezthe out-of-court statement must have been made with some degree of formality or ibid. . . an out-of-court statement is testimonial only if its primary purpose pertains in id. at p. 582.) in lopez, the court applied the first requirement to determine that a laboratory solemnity. (lopez, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 584.) neither the analyst nor his assistant court for testimibid.) the court distinguished a case in which certain . id. at p. 585.) the court likewise distinguished a case in ibid.) 13 in people v. dungo (2012) 55 cal.4th 608 (dungo), the court applied both id. at pp. 619-621.) first, the court reasoned that the repin a report by a physician who, after examining a patient, diagnoses a particular injury or ailment and determines the appropriate treatment. such observations are not testimonial id. lness of autopsy reports, including the one at issue here, is not limited to criminal investigation and prosecution; such reports serve many other equally important purposes. for example, the hether to file an action for wrongful death. and an insurance company may use an autopsy report in determining whether a particular death is covered by one of its policies. [citation.] also, terest in knowing the cause of death, particularly when (as here) the death was reported in the local media. (id. at p. investigation was not the primary id. at p. 621.) applying the criteria articulated in lopez and dungo, we conclude that the nurse it merely recorded objective facts in the same manner as the portion of the autopsy report dungo. (see dungo, supraibid.) it also lacked formality in that, although the nurse practitioner signed it, she did not certify or swear to the truth of its contents, and it did not refer to court rules providing for its admissibility. (see lopez, supra, 55 cal.4th at pp. 584-585.) second, lister testified 14 the victim for trauma, number one. secondly, to collect evidence that might be used to determine the identity of the assailant through dna identification. thirdly is to take care of the patient, to provide protection against pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases and to provide couprimary dungo, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 621.) for alsexual assault examination report. b. dna evidence jody hynds, a forensic supervisor at orchid cellmark, testified to the test results of the dna samples in this case, rather than the analyst who performed the initial analysis and prepared the report. gutierrez acknowledges that he did not object to s and report prepared by the rendered the testimony admissible at the time of trial, any objection would have been futile. in our previous opinion in this case, we radmission of the dna testimony because he conceded that the testimony was admissible under binding supreme court precedent. cases, we agalab does not work exclusively for prosecuting authorities, and she herself has testified for donetesdungo, supra, 55 cal.4th 15 so iii. aggravated kidnapping gutierrez contends there was insufficient evidence of movement that was not incidental to the intended sexual assaults to support the aggravated kidnapping convictions and finding on the sentencing enhancement under section 667.61, subdivision (d)(2) relating to the forcible oral copulation conviction. people v. johnson (1980) ce in a light most favorable to respondent and presume in support of the judgment the existence ibid.people v. rayford (1994) 9 cal.4th 1, 23.) elements of aggravated kidnapping kidnapping to commit another crime, or aggravated kidnapping, requires movement of the victim that is not incidental to the commission of the underlying crime, and which increases the risk of harm over and above that necessarily present in the crime itself. ( 209, subd. (b); people v. daniels (1969) 71 cal.2d 1119, 1139; in re earley (1975) 14 cal.3d 122, 127-128.)3 in considering whether the movement is merely incidental to the underlying . (people v. daniels, supra, 71 cal.2d at p. 1131, fn. 5.) this includes the actual distance a victim is moved. however, . . . there is no minimum number of feet a defendant must move a victim in 3 away any individual to commit robbery, rape, spousal rape, oral copulation, sodomy, . . . shall be punished by imprisonment in the state prison for life with the possibility of parole. [] (2) this subdivision shall only apply if the movement of the victim is beyond that merely incidental to the commission of, and increases the risk of harm to the victim 16 order to satisfy the first prong. (people v. daniels, supra, 71 cal.2d at p. 1128 [to define daniels, supra, analyzed the question of whether the movement was incidental to the commission of the underlying crime by considering the context of the environment in which the movement occurred. (people v. daniels, supra, 71 cal.2d at pp. 1131, fn. 5, 1140; in re crumpton (1973) 9 cal.3d 463, 466.) thus, in danielsin their own homes, forced them to move about their rooms for distances of 18 feet, 5 or people v. daniels, supra, 71 cal.2d at p. 1126.) [the supreme court] held that these brief movements were merely incidental to the commission of robbery. (id. course of a robbery a defendant does no more than move his victim around inside the premises in which he finds himwhether it be a residence, as here, or a place of business or other enclosurehis conduct generally will not be deemed to constitute the offense prong of the daniels test refers to whether the movement subjects the victim to [an] increase in risk of harm above and beyond that inherent in robbery. (in re earley, supra, 14 cal.3d at p. 131; people v. lara (1974) 12 cal.3d 903, 908, & fn. 4.) this includes consideration of such factors as the decreased likelihood of people v. lara, supra, 12 cdesperate attempts by the victim to extricate himself but also unforeseen intervention by in re earley, supra not inherent in robbery, that an auto accident might occur or that the victim might attempt that these dangers do not in fact materialize does not, of course, mean that the risk of 17 harm was not increased. (in re earley, supra, 14 cal.3d at p. 132; people v. lara, supra, people v. rayford, supra, 9 cal.4th at pp. 12-14.) movement of the victims the record does not disclose the precise distance between the area where gutierrez first abducted the women and the drainage ditch where the assault and attempted assaults occurred. the witnesses provided various estimates of the distances between the paved path to the embankment, or from the embankment down the slope to the drainage ditch, ranging from 10 to 40 feet. gutierrez contends, even accepting that the women were moved the greatest distance testified to, the distance was nevertheless insufficient to sustain the aggravated kidnapping convictions. we disagree. gutierrez moved the women at gunpoint from the public area of the paved path near the parking lot and picnic tables to the embankment and down the hillside to the secluded area of the drainage ditch out of public view. in this concealed area gutierrez environment from the open and public area of the park to a concealed area that decreased escape or rescue, increased his opportunity to commit additional crimes, and thus that the movement involved was substantial. it is immaterial whether the actual distance gutierrez moved his victims was not particularly great as the distance moved is only one people v. dominguez (2006) 39 cal.4th 1141, 1152 [no minimum distance is required to satisfy the asportation requirement for aggravated kidnapping so long as the movement is substantial].) our conclusion that the movement in this case was sufficient to sustain the people v. dominguez, supra, 39 cal.4th 1141. there the defendant moved his rape victim from the side of the road to a spot in an orchard 25 feet away and 10 to 12 feet 18 below the level of the road. the supreme court acknowledged that this distance was not great, but concluded that other facts nevertheless provided substantial evidence of ed to a location where it was unlikely any passing driver would see her. not only was the place to which she was moved substantially below the roadit was within an orchard where the trees would also have tended to obscure environment from a relatively open area alongside the road to a place significantly more secluded, substantially decreasing the possibility of detec(id. at p. 1153.) the facts of the present case are indistinguishable in principle from those in dominguez finding that the movement in this case was substantial. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. rothschild, j. we concur: mallano, p. j. chaney, j. 