filed 7/23/12 in re sanchez ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven in re bryan sanchez, on habeas corpus. b218637 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba272661) original proceeding on petition for writ of habeas corpus. michael e. pastor, judge. petition denied. donald r. tickle for petitioner. edmund g. brown, jr., and kamala d. harris, attorneys general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, pamela c. hamanaka, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey, lawrence m. daniels and michael j. wise, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 following a lengthy joint jury trial, bryan sanchez, jasmin rossier and two other codefendants were found guilty of the murder of juan monsivais and the attempted premeditated murder of manuel de la rosa in a gang-related drive-by shooting on september 6, 2003. on direct appeal this court affirmed those convictions. (see people v. flores (july 19, 2010, b211207) [nonpub].)1 during the pendency of his direct appeal sanchez filed a verified petition for writ of habeas corpus in this court, contending he was denied the effective assistance of counsel with respect to the murder and attempted premeditated murder charges because (1) his trial counsel, william l. graysen, entered into a false stipulation with the alibi defense for the evening of september 6, 2003 until after the trial had started; and (2) purportedly asserted an antagonistic defense with respect to the drive-by shooting. we issued an order to show cause.2 1 sanchez, rossier and edgar javier flores were each found guilty of second degree murder in connection with the shooting death of monsivais; rafael r. fuentes, the shooter, was found guilty of first degree murder. the jury found as to all defendants the offenses were committed to benefit a criminal street gang. sanchez and pedro aguilar were also found guilty of conspiracy to commit murder arising from a gang-related incident two days later involving marshall high school. we reversed sanchez and convictions and remanded for a new trial on that charge because the trial court had failed to instruct the jury conspiracy to commit assault with a firearm was a lesser included offense of conspiracy to commit murder as alleged in the accusatory pleading. sanchez was sentenced to an aggregate indeterminate state prison term of 35 years to life for the murder of monsivais and the attempted murder of de la rosa with the associated criminal street gang enhancements. 2 we initially issued an order to show cause on july 19, 2010, concurrently with the superior court. in our order we directed the superior court to conduct an evidentiary hearing on the material factual conflicts apparent from the declarations concerning 3 after considering the return filed by the attorney general on behalf of respondent well as the declarations filed in this court under penalty of perjury and the record in entitled to relief on his claim of ineffective assistance of counsel, but his entitlement to relief depended on the resolution of disputed issues of fact. accordingly, we directed the presiding judge of the los angeles superior court to select a judge of that court to sit as referee in this proceeding to conduct an evidentiary hearing and to make recommended when did fidel sanchez first tell william graysen his son bryan sanchez was with him in the evening of september 6, 2003? what did he say? defense, did he indicate either a willingness to testify or a refusal to testify for his son? than one occasion prior to the start of trial? if so, when and what did he say on each occasion? sanchez first indicate a willingness to testify at trial? he stipulation with the prosecutor concerning fidel reissued the order on september 27, 2010 pursuant transfer (s185503, filed sept. 22, 2010), returnable in this court, to permit the people to file a formal return to the petition before deciding whether an evidentiary hearing was necessary. 4 avenue drive-by shooting? reasonableness under prevailing professional norms with respect to his decision to enter into the stipulation concerning fidel sanchez or his decision not to move to sever his hon. ronald s. coen of the los angeles superior court was appointed referee and presided at the evidentiary hearing. nine witnesses testified over two days. neither sanchez nor graysen, his trial counsel (who had died by the time the evidentiary hearing was held), testified. the referee has submitted to this court a six-page statement of his s father and his decision not to move for a severance fell below an objective standard of in response to our invitation both sanchez and the attorney general have conclude sanchez is not entitled to habeas corpus relief. factual background 1. the trial premeditated murder is set forth at length in people v. flores, supra, b211207. we summarize the key elements. sanchez, his girlfriend rossier and rafael fuentes were members of the red shield clique of the 18th street gang, the largest hispanic criminal street gang in the 5 united states. edgar flores was a member of the grandview clique of the 18th street gang. the two cliques were known to socialize together and cooperate in joint gang activities. sanchez was considered the leader of the younger members of red shield. the principal trial witnesses regarding the september 6, 2003 drive-by shooting were norberto pacheco (also known as mousey), a member of the red shield clique, santos and david kuk, members of the grandview clique, and dorma pedro mendez, the girlfriend of eric vasquez, another 18th street gang member. the kuk brothers and mendez were inside the minivan when the shooting occurred but were not charged with the murder or attempted murder of the victims. according to their testimony, sanchez drove the minivan, which had been stolen several days earlier; rossier initially sat next to sanchez in the front passenger seat. flores, fuentes and vasquez were also inside the vehicle. the group traveled to a commercial location near silver lake boulevard where pacheco provided them with a laundry bag containing two guns and several boxes of ammunition. according to santos kuk, rossier held the bag while fuentes removed the guns. flores took the shotgun, and fuentes the rifle. fuentes passed the bullets around before loading the guns. at this point fuentes moved to the front passenger seat; flores on bellevue avenue the group saw a rival gang member who had been identified as a target by pacheco, but sanchez said not to shoot because there was a woman with a baby nearby. sanchez continued to drive in the neighborhood for several hours looking temple street gang members were seen drinking across the street. after some discussion inside the minivan, fuentes pulled out the rifle, shouted a derogatory comment and fired repeatedly out the front passenger side window. flores tried but was unable to get the drove the minivan to the northbound hollywood freeway entrance, which was only a short distance 6 away. pacheco testified that sanchez, rossier, flores and fuentes all spoke to him after the incident and acknowledged their participation in the shooting.3 none of the men who had survived the shooting was able to identify the assailants. from the stolen minivan two days after the shooting. ten of 12 shell casings recovered at the bellevue avenue crime scene were determined to have been fired from the rifle, and shell casings recovered from the front passenger seat of the minivan were also fired from the rifle. sanchez, the only defendant to testify in his or her own defense, denied being in the stolen minivan and presented an alibi defense for the night of september 6, 2003. sanchez testified he spent most of the day at the restaurant managed by his father; around 4:00 or 4:30 p.m. he went to the home of larry mendez, another employee of the restaurant, to shower and get ready to go out with rossier; he met rossier back at the restaurant around 7:00 p.m., where they ate dinner and then went to a nearby movie; he and rossier returned to the restaurant around 10:00 p.m., at which time his father and he gave rossier a ride home. sanchez and his father returned to their home around 11:00 p.m.which was approximately 30 minutes after the time of the drive-by shooting. and basic timeline of the events of september 6, 2003.4 during cross-examination the for example, about where your son was on the night of september fidel sanchez insisted he had discussed this information with graysen before the trial 3 pacheco pleaded guilty to voluntary manslaughter for his role in the shooting with a provisional sentence of 17 years subject to his agreement to testify truthfully against the remaining defendants. 4 mendez and another restaurant employee testified sanchez frequently worked at the restaurant on saturdays and would leave around 10:30 p.m. with his father, although neither could remember whether sanchez was at the restaurant on september 6, 2003. mendez also testified he lived near the restaurant and sanchez would sometimes take showers at his home. 7 had not told the police his son was with him during the time of the drive-was read (by graysen) a stipulation between graysen on behalf of his client and the attorney on december 6, 2005. further, the first time fidel sanchez spoke with mr. grays[e]n about being with bryan on the night of september 6, 2003, was on or shortly after march 1, 2008 [that is, the day after directing the written stipulation be marked as a defense exhibit, the judge instructed an alibi defense, in his rossier was in the stolen minivan during the drive-by shooting because she had gone along with her boyfriend, sanchez, to watch or engage in tagging. rossier, he insisted, was no different from mendez, who had admitted being in the van with her boyfriend during the drive-by shooting but was not charged with the crimes.5 5 was included in both our order to show cause and order directing selection and appointment of a referee, is incorrect and suggests we have confused the september 6, 2003 bellevue avenue drive-by shooting of the temple street gang members and the august 29, 2003 tagging incident and shooting of a silver lake gang member, which involved several of the same individuals, including sanchez and rossier. we are confident our reading of the record is correct. r, when it was said, who was around when it was said, whether my client [rossier] heard it, or whether anybody else heard it. . . . there is no evidence that my client [(rossier)] knew anything about this. there is no evidence that it was anything more than my client going with her boyfriend to watch the tagging, maybe to do tagging, maybe to go to this new clique. but no evidence she knew anything about this shooting being talked about by all the individuals. . . . she 8 2. pretrial motions by the trial court. sanchez did not move to sever his cas 3. the reference hearing nine witnesses testified at the evidentiary hearing. sanchez called hopson; david piper, an attorney who respondent called valerie salkin, the trial prosecutor, and larry mendez, another restaurant employee. at the outset of the hearing the parties stipulated graysen had died, which judge coen reported hampered his ability to respond to our questions since he did tions and omissions. judge coen believed mr. david piper and specifically disbelieved ms. joanne sanchez and mr. fidel [(mendez)] went back with her boyfriend [(to the red clique meeting area)] the next day after the temple shooting. she testified to that. she is with her boyfriend. the same as as we explained in our opinion on the direct appeal, the suggestion that the 18th accompanying their boyfriends plainly referred to the drive-by shooting, not the tagging incident. 9 a. judge coen found fidel sanchez informed graysen his son had worked at his restaurant on the evening of the murder and, after finishing work, had gone to the movies with at the latest [in] jperhaps as early as their first meeting in september 2005 and again in late october or early november father would repeat there was an alibi defense every time he spoke to an attorney was not credible. judge coen also found fidel sanchez indicated a willingness to testify well before the tsanchez first indicated a willingness to testify at the latest, and most likely before, prior to trial former deputy district attorney (now judge) valerie salkin was aware sanchez might present an alibi defense. however, graysen did not inform her fidel complained about the late revelation of the witness and the apparent serious discovery violation,6 graysen explained it was not a discovery violation at all because he did not have the information earlierthat is, he advised salkin that fidel sanchez had just told him sanchez was with him at the time of the drive-by shooting. salkin then said, if the witness testified that he had given the information to graysen at some point long before stipulation between graysen and salkin was a compromise to resolve the late discovery issue. 6 salkin testified she also told graysen his belated disclosure of the witness was unethical. 10 regarding what, if any, investigation or review of his files graysen conducted before b. 60 days prior to trial. a month to six weeks thereafter, hopson told graysen rossier would not join in that defense. judge coen was unable to make any findings regarding the tactical considerations evaluated by graysen in deciding not to file a motion to sever c. noting his own experience of almost 27 years as a criminal trial judge and 11 lation objective standard of reasonableness. . . . although this court did not have the benefit of efore the court shows that attorney graysen had no rational tactical purpose for his incompetent act and with respect to prejudice, judge coen concluded, based on our opinion on the ely strong. in addition to the testimony of his accomplices connecting him to the drive-by shooting, sanchez had been arrested two days after the murder in the stolen minivan used in the crime, his fingerprints were found on the vehicle and forensic tests confirmed a rifle recovered from uilt was sufficient to uphold denial of 11 severance even if sanchez and rossier presented antagonistic defenses. accordingly, 4. defense 60 days prior to trial and hopson told graysen rossier would not join in that defense a month to six weeks later (that is, approximately 15 to 30 days before trial). in advised graysen he was not joining in his defense a month or six weeks prior to trial. 5. coen did not cseptember not know about fidel swillingness to testify until on or after march 1, 2008. accordingly, the stipulation he entered with the prosecutor was accurate and was necessary to blunt her objection to the identification of the witness at such a late date. the [trial judge] had correctly analyzed the severance a severance motion on the ground of antagonistic defenses had one been made by 12 graysen.7 accordingly, graysen could not have provided ineffective assistance by failing to file the motion. discussion 1. the factual discussion and record citations are accurate and reliable. the report, including its credibility discussion, is thorough and convincing and is fully responsive to our questions. a reference hearing following issuance of an order to show cause is subject to the same rules of evidence as a criminal trial. (in re miranda (2008) 43 cal.4th 541, 574-575; in re fields (1990) 51 cal.3d 1063, 1070.) an out-of-court declaration is hearsay and, unless subject to some exception permitting it to be admitted, is properly excluded from the hearing upon timely and proper objection. (evid. code,  1200; see in re miranda, at p. 575; in re scott (2003) 29 cal.4th 783, 822-823.) indeed, in this case respondent did not even attempt to counsel, that testimony concerning statements made by graysen was hearsay. factual findings on questions 1 through 8. petition 7 unsel intended to present a defense that argument prior to trial. 13 reasonableness under prevailing professional norms and, if so, whether his deficient performance was prejudicial, matters embraced within our question 9is for us to determine. (see in re scott, supradeterminations and resolution of disputed facts are entitlpeople v. ledesma by ample, credible evidence, they are entitled to great weight; but legal conclusions and resolution of mixed law-fact questions are subject to independent review].) 2. governing legal principles a. habeas corpus fairness of the conviction and sentence; defendant thus must undertake the burden of in re avena (1996) 12 cal.4th 694, 710.) because a petition for writ of habeas corpus seeks to collaterally attack a presumptively final criminal judgment, petitioner bears a heavy burden initially to plead sufficient grounds for relief, and then later to prove by a preponderance of the evidence, facts that establish a basis for relief on habeas in re price (2011) 51 cal.4th 547, 559.) b. ineffective assistance of counsel o establish ineffective assistance of counsel under either the federal or state deficient performance was prejudicial, i.e., that a reasonable probability exists that, but (in re roberts (2003) 29 cal.4th 726, 744-745; see strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 694 [104 s.ct. 2052, 80 l.ed.2d 674]; people v. ledesma, supra, 43 cal.3d at p. 217.) with respect to the requisite showing of prejudice in a habeas 14 what the trial would have been like, had he been competently represented, so we can compare that with the trial that actually occurred and determine whether it is reasonably available evidence, its strength and the strength of the evidence the prosecution presented at trial [citation], can we conclude petitioner has shown prejudice? that is, has he shown in re hardy (2007) 41 cal.4th 977, 1025.) 3. tr a. the stipulation and the prosecutor that the first time fidel sanchez spoke with graysen about being with sanchez on the night of september 6, 2003 was on, or shortly after, march 1, 2008. he murder. that included his attorney. we stipulated to that. he never even toldmr. fidel sanchez never told mr. graysen he was part of this alibi until during the last month. you heard a stipulation mr. graysen had this case for like two years. he is just coming in and trying to create an alibi because the as established by the evidence at the reference hearing and found by judge coen, east a year prior to the commencement of the trial. moreover, fidel sanchez indicated a willingness to testify well before the trial date. there was no rational tactical reason for graysen not to timely notify the people fidel sanchez would be a defense witness. we fully agree with constituted deficient performance by trial counsel that fell below an objective standard of 15 reasonableness under prevailing professional norms. (see strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 694; people v. gamache (2010) 48 cal.4th 347, 381.)8 b. the omitted motion to sever not as straightforward. granting such a motion, although not required under the facts as discretion. because there is a reasonable probability a motion to sever would have been whether felony or misdemeanor, they must be tried jointly unless the court orders people v. coffman and marlow (2004) 34 e scandal and inequity of trials when authorized. (see people v. letner and tobin (2010) 50 cal.4th 99, 150.) nonetheless, the trial court retains discretion to order separate trials if necessary to avoid undue prejudice to one of the defendants. (ibidcodefendants, likely confusion resulting from evidence on multiple counts, conflicting defenses, or the possibility that at a separate trial a codefendant would give exonerating people v. box (2000) 23 cal.4th 1153, 1195, disapproved on another ground in people v. martinez (2010) 47 cal.4th 911, 948, fn. 10; see people v. lewis 8 ), there is no challenge to judge 16 if, among other reasons, there is an incriminating confession by one defendant that implicates a cod people v. cummings only when the conflict between the defendants alone will demonstrate to the jury that moving defendant, it is not the conflict alone that demonstrates his or her guilt, and antagonistic people v. letner and tobin, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 150.)9 defense, which would have exonerated rossier as wella conspicuous silence that surely have had. yet, as the attorney general has emphasized, rossier did not testify she was in the stolen minivan with sanchez during the bellevue avenue drive-by shooting (she did not testify at all), nor did hopson concede that fact in his argument. rather, he testified only that rossier had accompanied sanchez that evening without any prior under these circumstances denial of a motion to sever, if graysen had made one, would not have been reversible errordiscretion. (see people v. coffman and marlow, supra, denial of a motiopeople v. balderas (1985) 41 cal.3d 144, 9 will preclude the acquittal of the people v. hardy (1992) 2 cal.4th 86, 168.) 17 facts known and the showing made at the time of the motion itself].) however, the attorney general misstates the law in contending the trial court provided ineffective assistance by failing to request it. based on the information graysen moreover, a momotion for a severance, which was based on the joinder of charges involving the september 6, 2003 drive-by shooting with charges relating to august 29, 2003 and september 8, 2003, which named her codefendants but not rossier. might have been granted. have been avoided. conversely, there was no conceivable tactical benefit to sanchez in reasonableness. 4. prejudice to establish prejudice, sanchez must prove he received an unreliable or in re visciotti (1996) 14 cal.4th 325, 352; see also strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 686; in re harris (1993) 5 cal.4th 813, 833.) he has failed to carry that burden. had he timely identified fidel sanchez as a witness and successfully moved for a alibi. but we are persuaded a somewhat stronger alibi would not have had any impact on 18 outcome. (see porter v. mccollum (2009) 558 u.s. ___ [130 s.ct. 447, 455-456, 175 l.ed.2d 398] [defendant not with respect to the alibi defense itself, as the attorney general notes, there was no then went to a movie and dinner with rossier: no timecard, paycheck, ticket stubs or security videotapes, even though the restaurant had security cameras.10 in addition, fidel his son had been with him throughout the day and evening of the murder. moreover, fidel sanchez had also provided an alibi for his son for an unrelated home invasion robbery committed the day after the drive-by shooting. although fidel sanchez insisted to police his son was at home with him when the robbery occurred, sanchez subsequently venue shooting as the driver of the stolen minivan was established by three witnesses who were inside the vehicle (david kuk, santos kuk and dorma pedro mendez), as well as norbeto pacheco, who provided the weapons used in the incident. further incriminating evidence was furnished by james felix, a government informant who was a member of the hoovers clique of the 18th street gang. the kuk brothers also described the planning that preceded the crime, 10 as discussed, neither of the restaurant employees who generally confirmed saturdays was able to remember whether he had been there at all on september 6, 2003, 19 for the various codefendants at the joint trial vigorously challenged the credibility of these witnesses. the jury was cautioned that pacheco was an accomplice as a matter of law and that several other witnesses may be accomplices, whose testimony was therefore finally, the forensic evidence that was introduced at trial, although certainly not conclusive, did link sanchez to the bellevue avenue drive-by shooting. two days after the offense, on september 8, 2003, sanchez was arrested in the stolen minivan that had been used in the crimes. the murder weapon (a .22 caliber rifle) was still inside the vehicle. in addition, cell phone records established the phone sanchez had in his make calls on the evening of september 6, 2003 utilizing transmission towers in proximity to the location of the shootings. although those records do not establish who, in fact, placed the calls, the inference it was either sanchez himself or rossier is strong; -by shooting was extremely strong, and his alibi defense unconvincing even without regard to the harmful we are nevertheless convinced, based on our thorough review of the trial record, he received a fundamentally fair trial and his convictions for murder and attempted murder are reliable. 20 disposition the petition for writ of habeas corpus is denied. perluss, p. j. we concur: woods, j. zelon, j. 