filed 10/30/12 p. v. garcia and menendez ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jos garcia and steven menndez, defendants and appellants. b221672 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba318570) appeal from judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. norman j. shapiro, judge. affirmed. gail harper, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant jos garcia. rodger p. curnow, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant steven menndez kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and jonathan j. kline, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________________ 2 appellants challenge their convictions and sentences arising from their street- gang-related involvement in the drive-by shooting of danny saavedra, a 16-year-old nongang member, during his participation in a neighborhood basketball game. we affirm. background an amended information charged appellants jos garcia, then 16 years old, and steven menndez, then 14 years old, with the murder of danny saavedra. (pen. code,  187, subd. (a).)1 it alleged that garcia and menndez killed saavedra while they were active participants in a criminal street gang and that the murder was carried out for the benefit of the gang ( 190.2, subd. (a)(22); welf. & inst. code,  707, subd. (d)), that it was perpetrated by discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle with the intent to kill ( 190.2, subd. (a)(21)); that a principal personally and intentionally discharged a (e)); that the murder was committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(a)); and that menndez personally and intentionally discharged a firearm (12022.53, subds. (b)(d). the appellants each pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. they were tried as adults. inconsistencies that are not relevant to the issues raised in these appeals. the shooting in the evening on march 8, 2007, a few neighborhood teens were playing basketball in a residential area on west 82nd street in los angeles, while several older men watched nearby. a purple honda civic occupied by two bald-headed, light-skinned hispanic men drove by. one of the basketball players told the others that the men in the -had given them dirty looks. 1 all statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise identified. 3 about ten minutes later the honda returned, driving more slowly. witnesses the witnesses saw two people in the car, and identified garcia as the witness testified that the shots came from behind the driver, and that after the shooting seat. one of the teensdanny saavedra, then 16 years oldhad been shot in the head. he died from the injury a few days later. the police determined that saavedra was not a gang member. the apprehension of garcia and menndez the police responded a few minutes later. hearing a radio broadcast about the shootian area of the street villains gang. there they saw a burgundy honda civic with two occupants stopped in an alley, with its backup lights on. when pratt made eye contact with the driverwhom he later identified as garciathe car drove off, and the police followed. after the police activated their lights and siren, garcia jumped from the officers pratt and beard chased garcia, but lost sight of him. two other officers chased the passengermenndezbetween two houses, over a fence, and into an alley. after a short additional pursuit, menndez stopped and was taken into custody, about a half hour after the initial report of the shooting. later that evening garcia was stopped as he left an apartment in the area. he was taken into custody after he told the detective who stopped him that he was spending the night with a friend, whose name he said he could not remember. no gun was found. forensic evidence the honda had been stolen. of the 25 latent fingerprints and palm prints lifted from its interior, 10 were matched to specific individuals, of which three were identified 4 as belonging to menndez; none were matched to garcia. residue taken from are consistent with gunshot residue, but are not sufficient (without barium) to identify their source as gunshot residue. menndez was taken to the 77th street police station before being transferred to a juvenile facility. at the station, detective paula chavez advised menndez of his miranda rights, then asked him if he wanted to talk about what had happened. menndez said no, that he wanted an attorney. detective chavez then told sergeant vach and officer cleary to take menndez downstairs to be booked (fingerprinted, photographed, and asked some questions by the jailer), advising them that menndez had invoked his right to an attorney. that he might be subject to mood swings, from anger to sadness, and to violence.2 in order to calm menndez and to build rapport with him, vach asked him basic questions and explained the booking process. vach waited with menndez in a basement holding cell while his partner held a place in the booking line. vach asked menndez whether he was okay, and menndez said he was not. vach asked him what was wrong; menndez then said he was angry and upset, for unknown reasons, because of problems with his family at home, and because of problems dealing with an uncle who had been shot. menndez also said he was feeling bad because he had shot somebody. advised of his rights under miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 [86 s.ct. 1602, 16 l.ed.2d 694] (miranda)to which menndez responded that he had. and vach asked whether he had 2 menndez was then 14 years old, approximately 120 pounds and five feet and five inches tall, and was handcuffed. 5 requested an attorney, to which menndez said that he had, because he did not fully 3 as menndez, vach, and cleary went through the booking process, menndez said he was talking to vach about his anger and problems because he felt more comfortable with vach. he repeated a number of times his statement that he had shot someone, saying he had been in a dark-red honda with two other individuals, that they had dropped off the one with the gun just before the police had pulled up, that they had then crashed the car when the police chased them, and that they had run from the police. according to sergeant vach, during the 30 minutes in the holding tank and another 30 minutes i during the booking process, sergeant vach did not give miranda warnings to menndez, and did not advise him to stop talking because he had requested an attorney. he did ask menndez whether he wanted to talk to the detectives again, to which menndez responded that he did. vach said that he had attempted to use a pocket determining that it was unintelligible. after booking menndez, vach returned him to detective chavez, and briefed chavez on what menndez had said during the booking process. sergeant vach made no notes of his conversation with menndez. aining a summary of what vach had told her, indicated that vach had said that menndez was involved in the shooting. but the report did not say that vach had told her that menndez had said he had shot someone. about five months later, at detective chaveconversation with menndez. 3 officer vach had admittedly been told that menndez had invoked his miranda rights. 6 prosecution gang expert testimony detective john flores testified as an expert on street gangs in south los angeles, gang. in the course of structure, territory, activities, and primary rival gangs, and he identified two crimes committed by specific street villains members during recent years. he testified about street. he testified about how young gang members commit various crimes to prove themselves and show gang loyalty, and he described the way in which gang members typically commit drive-by shootings. based on his knowledge of garcia and menndez and the street villains gang, as well as his conversations with them and the observation of their tattoos and the graffiti in its territory, flores testified to his opinion that garcia and menndez were members of the street villains gang, and that the drive-by shooting of saavedra was done for the benefit of the street villains gang. appellant garcia testified that on the day of the shooting he had left school early, that he had taken a bus to meet some girls, that he had later cruised the streets on his bicycle, and that he had then received a call from menndez. garcia then went to the home of noel velasco to try to get a ride to meet menndez, who had said he was with some girls. menndez, and velasco then left in a car that menndez hadthe stolen honda civicon their way to another location from the back seat, with garcia driving and menndez in the passenger seat, garcia made a short detour past a crowd of people. a few blocks later, over his objections, garcia instruction to turn around. as the car again passed the crowd, he 7 heard three pops, which he later figured out had come from inside the car. he had seen garcia then stopped the car, got out, and began to argue with velasco, asking him threatened to shoot garcia or his family if he talked about it again. garcia told them he was going home, the three of them got back into the car, and he dropped velasco off at the end of an alley near his house. velasco walked away, adjusting something at his waist, then began running. garcia looked back, saw a police car coming, and drove off. he jumped from the car while it was still moving, before it crashed, and was later arrested. at that time he did not know that anyone had been shot. house. later, after learning that someone had been shot, he asked detective chavez for his mother, and when he was told she was on her way to the station, he broke down crying, and he told chavez what had happened that night.4 he told them that he was driving the car, and that when they rode through the crowd the second time, menndez had shot out the window, and had moved from the back seat into the front passenger seat. but that had not been the truth, he testified at trial; he had told the police that the shooter was menndez only because he was afrai5 garcia admitted that he belonged to the street villains gang, and that 18th street other defense evidence garcia presented the testimony of connie cerrillos that she had three children with velasco, 4 5 8 was pregnant with a child by a man named pedro. velasco was with the street villains of danny saavedra), velasco was shot and killed. alex alonso, a gang researcher, was called by garcia to testify concerning the social structure of gangs in the region, including the street villains and 18th street gangs. based on the facts to which garcia testified, it was his opinion that the shooting was committed for the benefit of the shooter, not for the benefit of the gang. and he opined that if velvelasco would have committed the shooting out of personal animosity rather than gang rivalry. the verdicts and sentences the jury found each of the appellants guilty of first degree murder, and found true the special circumstance allegations that the murder was a drive-by shooting ( 190.2, subd. (a)(21), that it was committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)), and that a principal in the crime personally and intentionally discharged a firearm ( 12022.53, subds. (b)(e)). the jury was unable to agree on the special circumstance allegations that either garcia or menndez had intentionally killed the victim as an active participant in a criminal street gang and that the murder was carried out to further the activities of the gang. ( 190.2, subd. (a)(22).) the jury also made no findings on the allegation that menndez had personally and intentionally used and discharged a firearm. (12022.53, subds. (b)(d).) the court declared a mistrial on the allegations as to which the jury made no findings. the court sentenced both garcia and menndez to prison for indeterminate terms of 50 years to life, consisting of 25 years to life for first degree murder, plus 25 years to life for the firearm enhancements.6 the court stayed the remaining section 12022.53 6 because menndez was 14 years old at the time of the crime, the section 190.2, subdivision (a)(21) special-circumstance finding called for an enhanced sentence of 25 9 enhancements, struck the section 186.22 enhancement, ordered various fines and assessments, and granted the appellants presentence custody credits. discussion i. batson/wheeler motion was properly denied a. batson/wheeler motion requirements during the jury selection process the prosecution exercised a peremptory challengeto dismiss a potential juror, an african-american man. counsel for garcia interrupted the jury selection to make a batson/wheeler motion, contending that the prosecution had used its peremptory challenges to systematically dismiss african-americans from the jury. menndez joined in the motion. the use of peremptory challenges to systematically exclude potential jurors of a cognizable groupsuch as raceviolates the equal protection clause of the fourteenth amendment to the united states constitution. (batson v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 79, 89 [106 s.ct. 1712, 90 l.ed.2d 69] (batsonby a jury drawn from a representative cross-section of the community under article i, section 16 of the california constitution. (people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258, 272 (wheeler), disapproved on other grounds in johnson v. california (2005) 545 u.s. 162, 168, 173 [125 s.ct. 2410, 162 l.ed.2d 129].) peremptory challenges may be used to remove potential jurors that a party believes to be unsympathetic or prejudiced without giving a reason for the challenge; however the use of the peremptory challenges is subject challenges to remove prospective jurors solely on the basis of group bias.people v. fuentes (1991) 54 cal.3d 707, 713; see code civ. proc.  231, 231.5; people v. garcia (2000) 77 cal.app.4th 1269, 1277 & fn. 5.) years to life under section 190.5, subdivision (b). as to garcia, the court exercised its discretion to set aside the section 190.5, subdivision (b) special-circumstance sentence of life without possibility of parole, and imposed the same 25 years-to-life enhanced sentence. 10 in ruling on a wheeler motion, the trial court begins with a presumption that an exercise of a peremptory challenge is constitutionally permissible. (people v. wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d at p. 278; people v. lewis and oliver (2006) 39 cal.4th 970, 1009.) in make out a prima facie johnson v. california, supra, 545 u.s. at p. 168, fn. omitted.) once the party has made out that prima facie case of discriminatory purpose --neutral explanation is tendered, the trial court must then decide . . . ibid.; people v. lewis and oliver, supra, 39 cal.4th at pp. 1008-1009.) the initial prima facie showing of discriminatory purpose is established by a discriminatory intent. (people v. davis (2009) 46 cal.4th 539, 582.) after the opposing party has proffered its explanation for its use of the peremptory challenge, the issue becomes whether the explanation is race-neutral, and whether the trial court finds it credible. (people v. lenix batson provides an opportunity to the prosecutor to give the reason for striking the juror, and it requires the judge to assess the plausibility of that reason in light of all evidence with a bearing on miller-el v. dretke (2005) 545 u.s. 231, 251-252 [125 s.ct. 2317, 162 l.ed.2d 196].) in making that determination, the trial court may consider its own observations of the process, the reasonableness or improbability of the explanation given for the use of the peremptory challenge, and whether the explanation seems to be based on accepted trial strategy. the third-step question for the trial court is one of credibility and plausibility; the ultimate burden of persuasion regarding racial motivation lies with the opponent of the strike, in our case, defendants garcia and menndez. (people v. lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th at pp. 612-613.) 11 the wheeler peremptory challenge to strike juror no.7873 from the panel of prospective jurors. juror no. 7873 had identified himself as a married electrical engineer living in gardena, with a wife who was employed as a budget analyst and no adult children.7 he said that two of his close friends are officers in the los angeles police department, and he had ake in ecause he or d visited a cousin in prison (although he conceded the search was necessary); however he had no reason to believe that the cousin had been treated unfairly with respect to his incarceration. making the wheeler motion with respect to juror no.7873, garciaack, and now a 8 thereby indicating its acceptance that the totality of the circumstances at least arguably gave rise peremptory challenges, and satisfied the first element of the three-step batson/wheeler ahead and 7 we use juror badge numbers to identify the potential jurors, although in the record they are sometimes identified by seat number. 8 had exercised nine peremptory challenges, not eight. 12 prosecutor also disputed the assertion of defense counsel that he had peremptorily notes] that the second 9 the trial court did not address the apparent conflict with respect to how many blacks had been peremptorily excused. instead, it simply said that it found the discomfort with this juror, the trial court garcia and menndez contend on appeal that their motion fulfilled the first step of the batson/wheeler requirement, constituting a prima facie showing of purposeful al of black potential jurors and dispelling the presumption that its use of peremptory challengesnot just of juror no.7873, but also of the two earlier-excused african americans, jurors no. 7699 and no. 9444was constitutionally permissible. they contend that because the prosecution proffered an explanation only for excusing juror no.7873and not jurors no. 7699 and no. 9444-two burden under the wheeler evaluation process, and therefore was necessarily fatally deficient even if the finally, they contend, the trial court erred with respect to the third step of the process, by failing to properly evaluate the prose 9 edshows that the prospective juror who had earlier occupied seat three was juror no. 7699, a female. 13 that the prosecutor was allowing race to influence his decisions to peremptorily challenge including jurors no. 7699 and no. 9444. these errors, they contend, require reversal of their convictions. wheeler/batson motion is deferential, (people v. lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 613; people v. ward (2005) 36 cal.4th 186, as the trial court makes a sincere and reasoned effort to evaluate the nondiscriminatory justifications offered, its conclusions are entitled to deference on people v. hamilton ruling on race-standard applied by california courts for review of pure issues of fact. (id. at p. 901, fn. 11.) b. evaluation of the batson/wheeler motion 1. the denial of motion with respect to juror no.7873. respect to juror no.7873, and that the evidence supports its determination that the peremptory challenge to juror no.7873 was not improperly based on racial motivations. the court assumed that the record of the voir dire might have been sufficient to satisfy the first step requirement of a prima facie showing of improper discrimination in the upon the prosecutor to explain its reasons for the disqualification, asking the prosecutor the prosecutor responded that he enforcement, believed that he had been profiled by the police for being black, and had 14 volunteered his belief that police officers are no more honest or less likely to lie than are other witnesses. once the prosecutor identified those factors as its grounds for striking the potential credibility of the prosecutor-known circumstances of the case. (people v. hamilton, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 907.) the question before the court that it would noreason . . people v. reynoso (2003) 31 cal.4th 903, 925.) the evidence is sufficient to show that the trial court fulfilled that duty. the court rest on an improper group bias, and that is sincere, legitimate, and was not exercised people v. reynoso, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. 924.)10 belief that he had been pulled over by a police officer because of his race does not justify excusing him as a juror, counsel argued, because he had conceded that the officer had 10 ar prosecutor during voir dire is self-people v. reynoso, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. 929.) 15 as the prosecutor and the trial court pointed out, however, the wheeler standard is they are credibly based on somethinganythingother than a racial motivation. a on hunches, on arbitrary disfavor, or on trivialities. a trial court therefore is entitled to accept any explanation for striking the prospective juror, as long as it does not reveal impermissible group bias, or constitute a pretext to conceal such bias. (people v. gutierrez (2002) 28 cal.4th 1083, 1122; see also people v. reynoso, supra, 31 cal.4th at pp. 917, 924 race-neutral reason given for a peremptory challenge, not on objective reasonableness of wheeler inquiry is not necid. at p. 924.) -neutral explanation for a peremptory challenge should be believed. there will seldom be much evidence bearing on that issue, and the best evidence often will be the demeanor of the attorney who exercises the challenge. as with f mind based on millerel v. cockrell (2003) 537 u.s. 322, 339.) therefore, on direct ference and will not be overturned unless clearly erroneous. (id., at p. 340.) excusing juror no.7873; it is enough that the court accepted as credible and nonpretextual the pro16 11 voir dire record, and therefore is not clearly erroneous. 2. sufficiency of response to prima facie showing the appellants argue that a comparative analysis of the grounds for the failure to discharge other white jurors demonstrates disparate treatment of black and white potential jurors, and undermines the credibility of the grounds given by the prosecutor for discharging juror no.7873. the third stage of a wheeler review must include a comparative analysis of the treatment of other prospective jurors, in which the grounds identified by the prosecutor must be also be compared with the records of other potential jurors that the prosecution did, and did not, dismiss. the credibility of a . . how reasonable, or how improbable, the explanations are; and by whether the proffered rationale has some basis in accepted miller-el v.cockrell, supraproffered reason for striking a black panelist applies just as well to an otherwise-similar nonblack who is permitted to serve, that is evidence tending to prove purposeful discrimination to be considered at batson miller-el v. dretke, supra, 345 u.s. at p. 241.; people v. lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 622.) in the trial court the defendants did not identify the statements of any other prospective jurors as indicating disparate treatment or a racial motivation in the proseresponses is requiredeven for the first time on appealif the record contains evidence sufficient to permit such comparisons, and the defendant relies on them. (people v. hamilton, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 902, fn. 12; people v. lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 607.) however, a reviewing court need only consider the portions of the voir dire 11 the trial court explained to counsel that it did not necessarily agree with the 17 record that the appellants identify as indicating disparate treatment. (people v. lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 624.) that of the two other allegedly black prospective jurors identified by their trial court motion, jurors no. 7699 and no. 9444. first, they explanation of his grounds related only to juror no.7873; the explanation therefore left unexplained the grounds for challenging jurors no. 7699 and no. 9444, and left unrebutted the prima facie showing of discrimination in the exercise of its peremptory challenges as to those prospective jurors. second, the appellants contend that comparing these three prospective jurors, whom they characterize as black, with those of some other jurors that they characterize as white, demonstrates disparate treatment in the discharge of these black jurors, and jurors. we are not persuaded. with respect to the first point, assuming (without deciding) that a prima facie disqualification of juror no.7873, as the trial court tentatively concluded, the record does not establish that a prima facie showing of racial bias discrimination arose from the that reasonconfirmed by the statements and conduct of the trial court and the partiesthe prosecution was not called upon to explain the grounds for its peremptory disqualification of those prospective jurors. moreover, we find the record insufficient to of juror no.7699 or no. 9444, as well as juror no.7873. the defendants presented their entire wheeler motion in two short sentences: black, another female black, and now a male black. there are only a few blacks in all 18 the juthat the prosecution had been improperly motivated by racial grounds in its exercise of peremptory challenges to each of these three prospective jurors, it apparently was not. apparently the disqualification of juror no.7873, the event that prompted the motionmight be sufficient to constitute a prima facie showing of discrimination. on that basis the court asked again, the disqualification of juror no.7873. the excusing juror no.7873, for his response did not mention the earlier disqualifications. the trial court, too, apparently understood the motion to relate to the disqualification of juror no.7873, not the earlier disqualifications, for the court indicated its satisfaction ibatson/wheeler motion that her reference to juror nos. 7699 and 9444 signaled her contention that their disqualification, too, was being challenged as prima facie evidence of discrimination, rather than for comparison with the dismissal of juror no.7873, she did not make that trial ceither party wants to be heard further . . . oceeded to -police, and should not justify his peremptory disqualification. but no one said that the wheeler motion also related to the discharge of juror no.7699 or no. 9444; and no one argued further argument, and the trial court confirmed its initial suggestion that the prosecutor 19 courtthat discrimination is shown by the peremptory disqualification of jurors other than juror no.7873the prosecution would then have been in a position to offer contrary any such contention deprived the trial court of the opportunity to accept or reject the are unable to conclude that the sufficient to address the issues raised by the motion. 3. comparison of juror no. 7873 with other prospective jurors r dire responses of the other prospective jurors with those of juror no.7873 does not render ruling based on a comparative analysis of juror responses only to the extent that the record contains evidence sufficient to support its proposed comparisons. (people v. hamilton, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 902 & fn. 12; people v. lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 607.)12 here, it does not. the record indicates that juror no. 7873 was black; he indicated as much during 12 juror no. 7699 was a pre-school teacher, married, with no adult children and no previous jury experience, living in el monte. her brother had been imprisoned for two years for child endangermenta circumstance that she said had upset her and her family. she believed that her brother had been treated unfairly, but did not identify the police or the courts as the culprit. when pressed, she confirmed her belief that the source of her m. and when asked challenge to excuse her from the panel of prospective jurors. juror no. 9444 was an unmarried female undergraduate communications college student. her uncle had been charged with dui; she believed that he had been treated fairly. she said that she had heard on the news about the 18th street gang, but thought that she nevertheless could be fair in evaluating the evidence. 20 -discharged jurors no. 7699 and no. 9444 as female and black, the prosecutor challenged that contention, representing understood to concede that juror no. 7699 was black; but appellants point to nothing in the record that indicates the apparent racial characteristics of juror no. 9444, and we have found nothing. in their briefs, the appellants also attempt to contrast the peremptory discharge of juror no. 7873 with thjuror nos. 8066, 9603, and 0285. but with respect to these prospective jurors, too, there is nothing in the record to illuminate their apparent race or racial characteristics. juror no. also recounted an incident in which her minor son had been driving to school with her husband when they were pulled over for not wearing seat belts. she said that the police she had been upset, but had made no formal complaint. she responded in the negative when the court asked whether she would hold that against any officer testifying in this matter. juror no. 9603 stated that her brother had been repeatedly arrested for offenses such as disorderly conduct, intoxication, theft and drugs, and a nephew had been convicted of burglary and drug charges, had been incarcerated, and had been on probation.13 syst 13 respondent suggests in its brief that the court reporter erred in identifying juror no. 9603 as the proposed juror whose cousin had been incarcerated and had served on probation. the briefs do not say why it would matter, however, and we find no reason to consider the issue. 21 juror no. 0285 said that he had a cousin who had been arrested for assault after severely injuring his roommate in a fight. the incident had occurred in new jersey; he was not at all close with the cousin, and he did not know enough about it to say whether the cousin had been fairly treated. the record relating to these prospective jurors is insufficient to show that juror no. 9444 was black, that juror nos. 8066, 9603, or 0285 were white, or the nature of the racial composition of either the jury as seated, or the venire from which it was selected. in prosecuting a wheeler members of a cognipeople v. wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d at p. 280; see people v. lenix, supra batson/wheeler motion has been made, it is helpful for the record to reflect the ultimate composition of batson/wheeler motion. (people v. morris (2003) 107 cal.app.4th 402, 408 [defendant cannot demonstrate error without identifying the apparent race of the challenged jurors, and showing that there were no race-neutral grounds for their exclusion].) prospective jurors who had and had not been peremptorily discharged could easily have support their motion with a prima facie showing of discrimination, and to ensure that the record would be sufficient to reflect that showing. (people v. hamilton, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 902, fn. 12; people v. lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th at pp. 607, 612-613.) apparent racial characteristics, there can be no assumption that the jury or the jury venire 22 had any particular racial composition, that juror no. 9444 was black, or that juror nos. 8066, 9603, or 0285 were white, as the appellants contend.14 we also conclude, however, that even if the jurors and jury panel were shown to have the apparent racial composition and characteristics that the appellants ascribe to them, those circumstances nevertheless would not be sufficient to overcome the trial s to strike prospective jurors was grounded on reasons other than racial bias. a prosecutor may legitimately use peremptory challenges to excuse potential jurors that might be believed to have negative experiences with the police, or with the criminal justice system. (see, e.g., people v. roldan (2005) 35 cal.4th 646, 703, disapproved on other grounds in people v. doolin, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 421, fn. 22 [proper to challenge juror with negative experiences with the criminal justice system]; people v. walker (1988) 47 cal.3d 605, 625-626 [negative experiences with police].) the prosecutor in this case was certainly entitled to conclude that juror no. 7873who had identified himself as a victim of a racially motivated traffic stopwas within that category, even though the incident had not turned out as badly as he had expected. and with respect to police-officer witnesses, after he had volunteered his belief that the police cannot be trusted to tell the truth. juror, whether wise or not, were grounded in legitimate trial strategy concerns rather than racial bias. on this record, we cannot swithout evidentiary support. juror no.7699 had told of her upset concerning what she believed to be the unfair incarceration of her brother. that experience, which had (like the experiences of some 14 people v. clark (1993) 5 cal.4th 950, 1033, disapproved on other grounds in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn 22.) 23 other of the prospective jurors) had involved someone other than herself, did not render the prosecutor, or the trial court, unable to distinguish her circumstance from that of juror no. 7873, particularly in light of her response that she did not believe that experience would affect her performance as a juror. so too, the fact that the prosecutor did not excuse juror nos. 8066, 9603, or 0285, did not render the court powerless to conclude that the peremptory discharge of juror no. 7873 had not been racially motivated. even if these jurors had been shown to be two important respects: each of those jurors told of incidents involving others; only juror no. 7873 had identified himself as having been a victim of law enforcement racial profiling. and only juror no. 7873 had volunteered a belief that police officers cannot be trusted to tell the truth. the supreme courts of both california and the united states have cautioned that not shared by the parties and the trial court, who have watched and listened to the ncluding attitude, people v. lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 622.) and these courts have noted additionally that the decisive issue-neutral explanation should be believedwill often turn on id. at p. 624, citing hernandez v. new york (1991) 500 u.s. 352, 365 [111 s.ct. 1859, 114 l.ed.2d 395].) ii. jailhouse statements. the united states supreme court held in miranda, supra, 384 u.s. 436, that an accused has a fifth and fourteenth amendment right to have counsel present during 24 interrogation must be preceded by advice to the accused that he has a right to remain silent and a right to the presence of an attorney. (id. at p. 479.) if the accused id. at p. 474.) ibid.; people v. gamache (2010) 48 cal.4th 347, 384-385.) once a custodial suspect invokes counsel has been made available to him, unless the accused himself initiates further edwards v. arizona (1981) 451 u.s. 477, 484-485 [101 s.ct. 1880, 68 l.ed.2d 378]; people v. clark, supra, 5 cal.4th at pp. 984-985. while menndez was in custody, awaiting booking in a basement holding area with sergeant vach, he said he was feeling bad because he had shot somebody, repeating that statement a number of times during the next half hour. it is undisputed that these incriminating statements came after menndez had been advised of his miranda rights, after he had said that he did not wish to talk about what had happened without an attorney, and after sergeant vach had initiated further conversation with him about his family and his feelings. if the police initiate or reinitiate discussions relevant to the investigation after a miranda statements by the defendant are presumed involuntary and rendered inadmissible. people v. gamache, supraburden to establish that the defendant knowingly and intelligently waived his privilege against self-incrimination. (people v. whitson (1998) 17 cal.4th 229, 248; people v. bradford comprehension may a court properly conclude that the miranda rights have been moran v. burbine (1986) 475 u.s. 412, 421 [106 s.ct. 1135, 89 l.ed.2d 410]; 25 colorado v. spring (1987) 479 u.s. 564, 573 [107 s.ct. 851, 93 l.ed.2d 954].) once volition in deciding whether or people v. bradford, supra, 14 cal.4th at p. 1033.) statements that are voluntarily made are not subject to the requirements of miranda. (people v. ray (1996) 13 cal.4th 313, 337.) menndez contends in this appeal that his incriminating custodial statements were made as a result of interrogation in violation of his miranda rights, that they were involuntary, and that their improper use at trial requires reversal of his conviction.15 the fficient to suppression motion on mirandaedwards accept people v. gamache, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 385.)16 sergeant vach testified that he did not ask menndez anything about the charges against him or events leading to his arrest, and that he had no intention to evoke 15 statements. neither garcia nor menndez contends on appeal that the trial court erred in declining to sever their cases for trial. 16 evaluations of credibility, if they are substantially supported. [citations.] however, we must independently determine from the undisputed facts, and those properly found by the were elicited from him in violation of mirandapeople v. bradford, supra, 14 cal.4th at p. 1033.) 26 questioning about the crimes of which the accused is suspected, but people v. gamache, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 387; rhode island v. innis (1980) 446 u.s. 291, 301 [100 s.ct. 1682, 64 l.ed.2d 297].) whether a particular instance amounts to an interrogation depends on the situation, including the length, place, and time of the questioning, the nature of the questions, the conduct of the police, and any other relevant circumstances. (people v. terry a suspect in custody as long as the speech would not reasonably be construed as calling people v. gamache, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 388; people v. clark, supra, 5 cal.4th at p. 985.) motion to suppress the statement. sergeant vach testified that when he received menndez for booking, he had been told only that menndez had been charged with a shooting, either attempted murder or murder, that menndez was a juvenile, and that he had been advised of his miranda rights. , you know, process to menndez, where they were going, what would happen, and how long it would take. as they walked downstairs to the jail, vach asked menndez questions about his when they reached a holding area in the jail, vach and menndez sat together to wait their turn while another officer went to arrange for the booking. 27 draw up [mennd when vach asked menndez what was wrong, menndez explained that he was angry and upset, and was angry all the time. at some point menndez changed the subject to a specific problem he was having at home with his mother, and then to a after five or ten minutes of talking about those subjects, without interruption by vach, menndez concluded by saying that he was also upset because he had shot someone. at that point vach interrupted menndez to ask whether he had spoken to the detectives about that, and to ask whether his miranda rights had been read to him and whether he had requested an attorneyto which menndez responded that he had. okay, he did not intend to have menndez talk about the charges against him or the events leading to his arrest.17 had shot someone. not all conversation between an officer and a suspect constitutes interrogation. 17 vach testified that it was essential for the safety of the accused and the officers that time during the booking es to physically harm someone else . . . -year-old man, 5 feet 10 inches tall and about 200 pounds, accompanied by another officer during all but about five -year-old skinny behind his back. 28 purpose behind our decisions in miranda and edwards: preventing government officials from using the coercive nature of confinement to extract confessions that would not be arizona v. mauro (1987) 481 u.s. 520, 529-530 people v. clark, supra, 5 cal.4th at p. 985.) if the defendant initiates a statement to police after having requested counsel, . . prohibit[s] the police from merely listening to his voluntary, volunteered statements and using them against him at the people v. bradford, supra, 14 cal.4th at p. 1033; edwards v. arizona, supra, 451 would not reasonably be construed as calling people v. clark, supra, 5 cal.4th at p. 985; see people v. mickey (1991) 54 cal.3d 612, 645, 651 [no interrogation found where defendant lost composure and made incriminating statements when police responded to his question regarding the burial of his victims].) people v. massie (1998) 19 cal.4th 550, 576.) the defendants argue that incriminatory statement involuntary and his waiver of his rights under miranda neither knowing nor intelligent. however, the only evidentiary support cited for this contention is that menndez was young, that he had little or no experience in the criminal justice system, and that sergeant vach had asked about his family a prolonged police interrogation may be coercive. (mincey v. arizona (1978) 437 u.s. 385, 398399 [98 s.ct. 2408, 57 l.ed.2d 290] [statements were not the product of free and rational choice, where seriously wounded defendant was questioned for more than three hours, was unable to think clearly, and had repeatedly stated that he did not wish to speak without a lawyer present]; spano v. new york (1959) 360 u.s. 315, 32029 324 [79 s.ct. 1202, 3 l.ed.2d 1265] [confession by young, emotionally unstable man after eight hours of interrogation during which he requested an attorney and repeatedly refused to answer questions, was involuntary]; but see people v. carrington (2009) 47 cal.4th 145, 171-176 [eight-hour interrogation about crimes not coercive of confession].) however, the interrogation (much less prolonged interrogation), and no coercion. vach did not address arrest, or anything else that could be considered an attempt to elicit a confession. this case is thus far easier than people v. clark, supra, 5 cal.4th 950. in that case, after invoking his miranda rights the accused had asked the police about the likely prison term for murder, the charge for which he had been booked; a policeman responded that he had never seen anyone serve more than seven and one-half years. the defendant confession was coerced in violation of miranda, the court found that substantial evidence han incriminating response. (people v. clark, supra, 5 cal.4th at p. 985.) there, as here, the police had not raised the subject of the crime for which the defendant was arrested; they had not suggested that a confession would result in favorable treatment; there was no at obtaining an incriminating response. (id. at pp. 985-986.) in people v. ashford (1968) 265 cal.app.2d 673, the use of evidence of an incriminating statement by the defendant to a bailiff was upheld on appeal. (id. at p. 685.) the appellants note that there it was the defendant, not the officer, who had initiated the conversation with the defendant. but who spoke first was not the issue. ibid.) asking that 30 quemiranda. (people v. ashford, supra, 265 cal.app.2d at p. 685.) coercion or overbearing conduct on the part of the police. the record fully supports the and inquiries to menndez about his family could not reasonably be construed as calling for an incriminating resphad shot someone was not made in response to improper interrogation. sergeant vach started the conversation as they went downstairs for booking; but the record contains no hint (much less ovefamily and how he was feeling, were aimed at eliciting a response about the events for which menndez had been arrested, or that such a response should reasonably have been anticipated from that conversation. (see people v. clark, supra, 5 cal.4th at p. 985 people v. bradford, supra, 14 cal.4th at custodial interrogation]; people v. neal (2003) 31 cal.4th 63, 85 [statement is not involunquestions did not raise the subject of the crime for which menndez had been arrested, they did not suggest that menndez should confess or that a confession would result in incriminating response. (people v.clark, supra, 5 cal.4th at pp. 985-986.) it is true tmiranda rights in a custodial circumstance. (people v. boyette (2002) 29 cal.4th 381, 412; j.d.b. v. north carolina (2011) ___ u.s. ___ [131 s.ct. 2394, 2406, 180 l.ed.2d 31 mirandacustody analysis]; yarborough v. alvarado may be relevant to miranda 18 the record contains assessing the evidence. is trial court from finding that his incriminating statements were voluntarily made, or that he acted knowingly and intelligently in making those statements after having earlier invoked his miranda rights. iii. the trial court did not err in admitting gang expert testimony when offered to prove a gang enhancement alleged under section 186.22, the culture and habits of criminal street gangs are appropriate subjects for expert opinion testimony. (people v. gardeley (1996) 14 cal.4th 605, 617.)19 the appellants do not -gang evidence went beyond these appropriate subjects. relying on the 2002 decision in people v. killebrew (2002) 103 cal.app.4th 644 (killebrew), the appellants contend in opine[ ] that the alleged murder was an act committed by [garcia] and menndez for the 18 in people v. boyetteconfession was voluntary. (29 cal.4th at p. 412.) in j.d.b. v. north carolina, the issue was whether the accused juvenile would consider himself to have been in custody. (131 s.ct. at p. 2406.) 19 he id., subd. (a).) the subject matter of the culture and habits of criminal street gangs . . people v. vang (2011) 52 cal.4th 1038, 1044 (vang).) 32 province of the jury. their opening brief argues that the killebrew in october 2011, howeverafter the appellants had filed their opening briefthe supreme court clarified, sharply narrowed, and to some extent disapproved the killebrew decision in people v. vang, supra, 52 cal.4th 1038. without changing the rule that a not be prohibited solely because they track the evidence too closely, or because the id. at p. 1051.) vang decision does not apply here, committed by appellants, and that they not supported by the record. the record does not support the appell 33 experience concerning the habits of street gangs, and particularly about the territory, habits, and activities of the street villains gang.20 he testified to certain common criminal practices of street villains gang members, ranging from writing graffiti to - which gangs typically conduct drive-by shootings: they are typically committed by younger members, in order to prove themselves; they are generally preplanned, involving a stolen car and an unregistered gun; their target is generally a rival gang; they are usually done with three people in the car, with the shooter in the back seat; and it is common for someone in the car to call out specific gang identifications.21 the expert also testified to certain facts based on his personal knowledge and his familiarity with garcia and menndez as individuals. he testified that garcia and menendez had told him of their street villains gang membership, as had their family members; from that, as well as from their presence in the street villains territory and their street villains tattoos, the expert 20 early in the expertof, and in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to further gang consider the gang aspect of this case as a possible motivation for the commission of the crime. motive is not an element of the crime charged and need not be shown. presence of motive may tend to show a defendant or defendants are guilty. absence of motive may tend to show a defendant or defendants are not guilty. . . then resumed without objection from the appellants. 21 about whether younger or older gang members typically commit drive-by shootings, this expert witness, says younger members of gangs sometime commit shootings, that that means that these two gentlemen did, absent other evidence. so i want the jury to 34 testified to his opinion that garcia and menendez were street villains gang members. but the appellants include none of this testimony as coming within their claim of error. the portions of the testimony that the appellants cite as error show that questions -gang expert were phrased as hypotheticals, and sought answers based on those hypothetical questions. the questions sought opinions about the motives that influence gangs and gang members to engage in criminal activities such as the offenses with which the appellants were charged. they did not call for an opinion with the expert did not opine that the crimes charged in this case were committed by them. rather, he testified that the facts, stated as hypotheticals, indicate that the shooting was in villains gang, for the benefit of both the gang and the participating individuals. even if the gang expert was talking about hypothetical defendants rather than the appellants in this case. but that is exactly the doctrine that the supreme court disapproved in vangbasis of facts given to the evidence in the case. (52 cal.4th at p. 1045, approving people v. ward (2005) 36 cal.4th 1-specific hypothetical questions to elicit expert testimony . . . that a gang member going into rival gang territorylike defendantwould people v. garcia (2007) 153 cal.app.4th 1499, 1505, 15131514 [prosecutor properly stated hypothetical facts, e allowed in the facts chosen as to the basis for hypothetical questions. (vang, supra, 52 35 cal.4th at p. 1046.) far from reflecting error, it is the close relationship between the facts in the hypothetical question and those shown by the evidencethe fact that the id. at pp. 1046, 1047.) the jury was instructed that an expereasons on which it is based. if you find that any fact has not been proved, or has been disproved, you must consider that in determining the value of the opinion. . . . in permitting [a hypothetical] question, the court does not rule, and does not necessarily find that all of the assumed facts have been proved. it only determines that those assumed facts are within the possible range of the evidence. it is for you to decide from all the evidence whether or not the facts assumed in a hypothetical question have been proved. . . 22 as in vang, the street gang expert in this case was properly permitted to express an opinion, based on hypothetical questions that tracked the evidence, that the shooting (if the secvang, supra, 52 this subject. 22 the jury was also instructed with respect to the evidence of street gang activities you to prove that defendant is a person of bad character or that he has a disposition to commit crimes. it may be considered by you only for the limited purpose of determining if it tends to show that the crime charged was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further or assist in any criminal conduct by gang members. . . . you are not 36 iv. the trial court did not err in imposing consecutive sentence enhancements of imprisonment for 25 years to life. the court sentenced menndez to imprisonment for 50 years to life: 25 years to and consecutive to that term, an additional twenty-five years pursuant to the allegation, [section] 12022.53[, subdivision](d), and that is for the principal causing death to another the court also sentenced garcia to 25 years to life for the first degree murder (exercising its discretion under section 190.5, subdivision (b) not to impose a sentence of life without the possibility of parole), and it imposed a consecutive 25-years-to-life 50 years to life.23 as it had with respect to menndez, the court stayed the section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (c) enhancements because it had imposed the enhancement of section 12022.53, subdivision (d).24 the appellants challenge the imposition of consecutive 25-years-to-life terms based on the enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (d), because the jury did not find that either of them had personally death. section 12022.53, subdivision (d), providesany other provision of law, any person who, in the commission of a [murder], personally and intentionally discharges a firearm and proximately causes . . . death, to any person other than an accomplice, shall be punished by an additional and consecutive term of 23 years to life as an aider and abettor in the murder of danny saavedr[a], plus 25 years to 24 when the verdicts were returned the court declared a mistrial on the special circumstance allegation that the murder was carried out to further the activities of a criminal street ganfinding on that allegation. and during sentencing, the court struck the section 186.22, subdivision (b) gang enhancements as it was required it to do in order to comply with subdivision (e)(2) of section 12022.53. 37 a principal in the offense personally and intentionally discharged a firearm, which ( 12022.53, subds. (d).) but it did not find menndez had personally used or discharged so. ( 12022.53, subds. (b), (c) (d).) the appellants therefore are not within the terms expressed in the subdivision (d), section 12022.53, enhancement. coming within the language of subdivision (d) of section 12022.53 is not the only way to trigger the enhancement provided by that subdivision, however. subdivision (e) of that section provides an exception to the requirements of subdivision (d): if certain additional facts have been alleged and proved, the sentence enhancement provided in exception to the personal-discharge requirement of subdivision (d) are, first, that the defendant violated subdivision (b) of section 186.22 (i.e., the offense was found to have been committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang); and second, that a principal in the offense used or discharged a firearm in committing the crime (as provided in  12022.53, subds. (b), (c), or (d)). ( 12022.53, subd. (e)(1)(a & b).) thus, subdivision (e) of section 12022.53 authorizes the imposition of the enhanced sentence of subdivision (d) on an aider and abettor against whom a criminal street gang allegation has been pled and proved. the conditions that subdivision (e) of section 12022.53 requires for the application of subdivision (d) of that section are satisfied here. the jury found that the murder was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)), and it found that a principal used or discharged a firearm in committing the crime ( 12022.53, subds. (b), (c), and (e)). the enhancement 38 provided in section 12022.53, subdivision (d), therefore applies to menndez and garcia by virtue of subdivision (e) of that section, even though the requirements of subdivision (d) alone are unsatisfied. by sentencing garcia and menndez to the consecutive 25-years-to-life mentioning subdivision (e) of section 12022.53 by name, the court left no doubt in the the factual prerequisites to the application of section 12022.53, subdivision (d), alone. it nevertheless identified the substance of subdivisions (d) and (e) together as the basis on which it relied to impose the and in imposing the enhancement on garcia, the court plainly indicated its intention to menndez.25 demonstrated also by the fact that it struck the section 186.22 enhancement with respect to both garcia and menndez, as it was required to do in order to comply with subdivision (e)(2) of section 12022.53, but would not have been required to do unless it was applying subdivision (d).26 the court thus removed any question that it intended its imposition of the consecutive 25-years-to-life enhancements to rest on the exception provided in subdivision (e) to the more rigorous section 12022.53, subdivision (d), requirements. we 25 from a sentence of life without the possibility of parole under section 190.5, subdivision (b), simply because menndez was not also subject to that special circumstance, the court indicated its unwillingness to impose on garcia (who was not even charged as the shooter) a greater sentence than that received by his co-principal menndez. 26 al street gang pursuant to chapter 11 [including section 186.22] shall not be imposed on a person in addition to an enhancement imposed pursuant to this subdivision, unless the person personally used or personally discharged a firearm in the commission of the offense [i.e., unless the 39 cia and menndez of the 25-years-to-life enhancement consecutive to the underlying sentence of 25 years to life. garcia and menndez come within the terms of that exception; the enhancement of subdivision (d) therefore applies by virtue of their status as principals in a murder for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang, in which a principal used or discharged a firearm. ( 12022.53, subds. (d) & (e)(1).) v. the trial court did not err by declining to commit menndez to the california youth authority. welfare and institutions code section 707.2, subdivision (a), provides the court with discretion to remand minors who have been tried as adults (as menndez was in this case) to the custody of the department of youth authority for evaluation and report that the amenability evaluation is not ncriminal jurisdiction shall not sentence any minor who was under the age of 16 years when he or she committed any criminal offense to the state prison unless he or she has first been remanded to the custody of the department of youth authority for evaluation the record in this case contains no indication that the trial court remanded menndez to the department of youth authority for evaluation and report pursuant to this provision, and no indication that it found the amenability evaluation to be unnecessary. menndez contends on that basis that his commitment to state prison must be set aside, and that he must be remanded for a department of youth authority evaluation and report concerning his amenability to training and treatment, or at least that he must be remanded to the trial court with directions to exercise its discretion in that regard. subdivision (b) of welfare and institutions code section 707.2 provides otherwise, 40 commitment to the department of youth authority under welfare and institutions code section 1732.6. and that section provides that a minor is ineligible for commitment to an offense [including murder] and is sentenced to incarceration for life, an indeterminate period to life, or a determinate period of years such that the maximum number of years of inst. code,  1732.6, subd. (a).) menndez was 14 at the time of his offense, and 17 at the time of his sentencing. he was sentenced to imprisonment for 50 years to life. that period, when added to his requirement that the court exercise its discretion with respect to remanding a minor to the department of youth authority for evaluation and report as to his suitability for training and treatment, and that the court report its exercise of discretion on the record, therefore does not apply to menndez. the record reflects no error. vi. the 50-years-to-life sentence imposed on menndez did not violate the federal or state proscriptions on cruel and unusual punishment. the eighth amendment to the united states constitution, applicable to the states uel and unusual ewing v. california (2003) 538 u.s. 11, 20 [123 s.ct. 1179, 155 l.ed.2d 108]; robinson v. california (1962) 370 u.s. 660, 667 [82 s.ct. 1417, 8 l.ed.2d 758].) article i, section 17 of the california constitution contains a similar restriction. under it, people v. dillon (1983) 34 cal.3d 441, 478.) apto life must be vacated for its violation of these constitutional proscriptions in light of his youth at the time of the offense, and that this court should exercise its power to modify 41 his two consecutive sentences of 25 years to life to concurrent sentences of 25 years to life. in graham, the united states supreme court held that the constitution prohibits the imposition of a sentence of life without the possibility of parole on a juvenile offender who did not commit homicide. (130 s.ct. at p. 2034.) in roper, it held that a juvenile offender cannot constitutionally be sentenced to death. (541 u.s. at pp. 574-575.) in emever, that a sentence of 50 years to life is not disproportionate to the crime of murder with a gang enhancement for a these decisions provide menndez with no support. this case is unlike graham, for here menndez was convicted of a homicide; nor did his sentence preclude the possibility of parole. it is unlike roper, for menndez was not sentenced to death. and although the dissent in em , the majority decision squarely supports the sentence imposed on menndez. it upholds a sentence of 50 years to life for the crime of murder with a gang enhancement, imposed on one who was 15 at the time of his offense, based on the use of a firearm by a participating principal. (em, supra, 171 cal.app.4th at p. 977; see also people v. demirdjian (2006) 144 cal.app.4th 10, 16 [two consecutive 25-years-to-life terms for murders with special circumstances upheld under state and federal constitutions].) only by disregarding the limitations expressed in these decisions could we reach the result menndez seeks here. (see people v. blackwell (2011) 202 cal.app.4th 144, 158 [declining to extend holding of graham to homicide offenses]; people v. guinn (1994) 28 cal.app.4th 1130, 1147 [affirming sentence of life without possibility of parole for murder with special circumstances].) menndez argues that the holdings of graham and roper f juvenile offenders, and that our analysis should be informed by the language of those and other recent cases. he attempts to equate his situation to that in people v. mendez (2010) 188 cal.app.4th 47, 62-68 (mendez), in which division two of this court found that a sentence of 84 years to life constitutes cruel and unusual punishment when imposed on one who was a juvenile 42 of 16 years old when he committed his nonhomicide offense. the court in mendez noted that after considering his presentence credits the appellant would not become eligible for parole until more than a decade after the termination of his life expectancy, and found on that basis that the sentence constituted a de facto sentence of life without possibility of parole in violation of the ban on cruel and unusual punishment. graham, suprardeveloped sense of id. at p. 2026; roper, supra, 543 u.s. at pp. 569570; see also in re barker (2007) 151 cal.app.4th 346, 376signature qualities of youth are transient; as individuals mature, the impetuousness and recklessness that may dominate in younger years can but menndez cannot equate his own circumstance to that in mendez. this case involves a homicide offense, while mendez did not. and the current life-expectancy statistics cited by menndez indicate that his eligibility for parole might come more than a decade before, not after, his own life expectancy. decisions he has cited in supplemental briefing. in miller v. alabama (2012) ___ u.s. ___ , ___ [132 s.ct. 2455, 2469, 183 l.ed.2d 407], the united states supreme court held that a sentencing scheme cannot constitutionally mandate a sentence of life in prison without possibility of parole for all juveniles found guilty of a homicide offense (though a court might be granted discretion to impose such a punishment). and in people v. caballero offender for a nonhomicide offense to a term of years with a parole eligibility date that falls outside thid43 sentencing scheme does not mandate a sentence of life in prison without the possibility of parosentence does not fall outside his natural life expectancy. it is almost certainly true that offenders in long-term confinement will be unlikely to live as long as their unincarcerated peers; and it is true that even if they were to do so, their chances of then being released on parole would remain slim. but the constitution imposes no categorical prohibition against the imposition of a life term with the possibility of parole on a juvenile who was a participant in a special circumstance murder. (people v. demirdjian, supra, 144 cal.app.4th at p. 16.) we conclude that menndez has not demonstrated that his sentence is nce or offends the fundamental in re lynch (1972) 8 cal.3d 410, 424.) his sentence of two consecutive terms of 25 years to life, while unquestionably severe, does not constitute cruel or unusual punishment prohibited by the federal or state constitutions. we adopt and repeat the well-chosen words of our colleagues in the first district with respect to by a principal armed with a gun committed in furtherance of the purposes of a criminal street gang. it has done so in recognition of the serious threats posed to the citizens of california by gang members using firearms. the penalty imposed on [the appellant] was not out of proportion to this offense and does not constitute cruel or unusual people v. gonzales (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 1, 19.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. chaney, j. we concur: rothschild, acting p. j. johnson, j. 