filed 5/1/12 p. v. kennedy ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. christopher lee kennedy, defendant and appellant. b221864 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma026253) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, larry p. fidler, judge. affirmed. john lanahan, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, pamela c. hamanaka, senior assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii and marc a. kohm, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________ 2 introduction defendant christopher lee kennedy appeals from a judgment of conviction entered after a jury found him guilty of first degree murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)) and found true the allegations that the murder was committed by means of lying in wait, and during the course of a robbery and kidnapping (id.,  190.2, subds. (a)(15), (17)). defendant was also found guilty of conspiracy to commit a crime (id.,  182, subd. (a)(1)), with the jury finding one or more of the alleged overt acts to be true. in addition, the jury found him guilty of robbery (id.,  211), kidnapping to commit a crime (id.,  209, subd. (b)(1)), and arson causing great bodily injury (id.,  451, subd. (a)). defendant admitted the truth of the two prior strike convictions (id.,  667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12). the jury deadlocked as to penalty, and the people ultimately elected not to retry the penalty phase of the trial. the trial court sentenced defendant to life without the possibility of parole for the murder and imposed a concurrent indeterminate term of 25 years to life in prison for the conspiracy. it imposed a concurrent indeterminate term of 15 years to life in prison for the kidnapping and a concurrent term of nine years for the arson causing great bodily injury, and it stayed a determinate term of three years for the robbery.1 on appeal, defendant contends the trial court erred in admitting the statements of ronald kupsch2 and admitting evidence of racist gangs. we find no error and affirm. 1 codefendant valerie martin was charged with the same crimes and tried before a separate jury. she was found guilty of first degree murder, and the special circumstance allegations were also found to be true. the jury also found as the overt act of the conspiracy that defendant participated in the killing. 2 kupsch was tried separately and his conviction was affirmed in an unpublished opinion (people v. kupsch (nov. 3, 2010, b218426) [nonpub. opn.]). 3 facts a. prosecution in february 2003, william whiteside (whiteside) was living in a mobile home jessica buchanan (buchanan). whiteside was half black and half native american, and defendant was an aspiring member of a white supremacist gang called metal mindz. he had white supremacist tattoos on his neck and leg. buchanan was a metal mindz member, and kupsch was also an aspiring member. on february 27, 2003, defendant, martin, kupsch, buchanan and bradley zoda (zoda)3 for drugs. the group discussed options to repay the debt, including stealing cars. during the discussion, kupsch, martin and zoda ingested methamphetamine. at some point, hospital parking lot. zoda agreed to help, assuming that he, defendant, and kupsch would attack whiteside with their fists. martin drove defendant, kupsch and zoda to the parking lot of antelope valley hospital, where martin and whiteside both worked. whiteside worked the 3:30 p.m. to visible a location to wait for whiteside there. martin suggested an alternate plan. martin (sean)4 trailer in lancaster. before leaving, 3 zoda was a metal mindz member. 4 sean smith was a metal mindz member or associate. we refer to him by his first name to avoid any confusion with stewart smith. 4 when whiteside arrived, all three men got into his car. they beat whiteside until whiteside opened the trunk. defendant stopped the car. kupsch got out, struck whiteside, closed the trunk, and got back in the car. defendant started driving again, but stopped when whiteside again opened the trunk. defendant and kupsch used bats to beat whiteside and then got back in the car. defendant told kupsch to call martin. kupsch did so and directed her to bring gasoline. burned dtrailer. they took off their clothes and placed them in a trash bag. after awhile, on the way to his residence, defendant called his mother and asked her to move 5 at the time of his arrest, defendant had burns on his legs and hand. after defendant was arrested, martin, kupsch, zoda and buchanan drove to boyfriend, donovan casey (casey). casey was the founder and leader of the metal martin, kupsch and casey went to multiple atms. kupsch withdrew money from 5 defendant was arrested for a parole violation. 5 a few days later, stewart smith (smith) was with kupsch and zoda when zoda put a bag in a dumpster and set it on fire. before the fire, zoda removed a pair of black should leave because whiteside would be home soon. kupsch said that he, defendant and zoda hand setting it on fire. zoda needed a new pair of shoes and began wearing the black sneakers that kupsch had been wearing on the night of the murder. on february 28, 2003, a pasmuch of the body had been burned. a partially melted aluminum bat was recovered from the floorboard. an autopsy was conducted and the immediate cause of death was determined to be smoke inhalation and burns to the body. the secondary cause of death was blunt force trauma to the head. zoda was arrested on march 10, 2003, for possession of a weapon. at the time of his house and attempted to flee but was also arrested. on march 10, 2003, police conducted an audiotaped interview of buchanan. she indicated that on february 27, 2003, she was buchanan said that she went to sleep and when she woke up, kupsch, defendant, zoda and mparked in the garage and a white pillowcase was taken out of the car. at one point, inside arms. buchanan stated that three days later, defendant and zoda went back for the white the back of his neck. the tattoo meant that kupsch had killed someone of a different race. 6 three to four days after the incident, kupsch told buchanan that he killed ing, arson, and whiteside because he never liked him, whiteside yelled at his mother, whiteside was of etails of the phone conversation kupsch had with his mother. plastic gasoline can, similar to the one zoda had reported seeing on the night of ood was found on the shoes zoda was wearing at the at trial, buchanan claimed memory loss.6 her audiotaped statement was played for the jury. buchanan claimed that she had been high on methamphetamine during the smith, who interviewed buchanan, denied giving buchanan information and opined that she was not under the influence during the interview. zoda was 14 years old in february 2003 and lived in the friendly village trailer park in lancaster. he knew kupsch, his mother, martin, and had met defendant through ends. he had known casey since he was white supremacy and considered himself a neo-nazi when he was 13. he pled guilty to murder in exchange for a reduced sentence. his testimony included the preparation for whiteside, and the disposal of the clothing. 6 at trial in 2009, she was given immunity and testified she could not remember the events of 2003. 7 casey testified in exchange for favorable treatment related to his own criminal behavior. casey founded metal mindz, a white supremacist gang, when he was 12 or swastikas. kupsch shared his racist beliefs but was not a member of metal mindz. casey testified that kupsch told him that he, zoda and defendant all participated in beating whiteside to death. casey also indicated that he was present when kupsch smith also testified in exchange for favorable treatment related to his own criminal behavior. smith knew martin, kupsch and whiteside, and had met defendant through testified that he was with zoda and kupsch when they threw the clothing into the dumpster and burned it. smith also said that kupsch told him that he beat and burned whiteside to death and that defendant was accidently burned when they lit the car on fire. michelle seevers (seevers), who had a romantic relationship with defendant, testified that defendant and kupsch were together when she last saw them on the evening of february 27, 2003. defendant had burns on his right hand and left shin, but she did not know how he got them. seevers stated that she saw kupsch about two weeks later at initiated into metal mindz. jennifer daggs (daggs), whose hkupsch showed up at her home around midnight in march 2003, with a girl named debt a few days earlier. daggs denied telling the police that kupsch said he killed his 8 b. defense on may 28, 2005, smith was handcuffed during an investigation of a traffic accident. smith used racial slurs, physically resisted the officers, and directed his gordon plotkin, m.d., testified for martin as to the effects of methamphetamine. he opined that martin was addicted to methamphetamine and explained that although methamphetamine could improve memory, it could cause hallucinations. discussion a. defendant contends that the trial court erred in admitting statements kupsch made to buchanan, casey and smith. we disagree. defendant cocrawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36 [124 s.ct. 1354, 158 l.ed.2d 177] because they were out-of-court statements implicating defendant, and he was not able to cross-examine kupsch, violating his sixth amendment confrontation clause right. however, the confrontation clause is violated only by the admission of testimonial hearsay statements. (people v. loy remarks made to friends and were not testimonial under crawford. (see, e.g., loy, supra, at pp. 66-67.) the recent case of people v. arceo (2011) 195 cal.app.4th 556 from division eight of this district is instructive. in arceoviolation of his sixth amendment confrontation rights was rejected by the court. specifically, the defendant sought to exclude three sets of statements by nontestifying codefendants that implicated the defendant in murders. the defendant claimed that the statements were inadmissible under bruton v. united states (1968) 391 u.s. 123 [88 s.ct. 1620, 20 l.ed.2d 476] and people v. aranda (1965) 63 cal.2d 518. the arceo -of-court 9 nontestimonial statements (whorton v. bockting (2007) 549 u.s. 406, 420 [167 l.ed.2d 1, 127 s.ct. 1173] . . . ; people v. gutierrez (2009) 45 cal.4th 789, 812 . . . ), including statements by codefendants. ([united states] v. figueroa-cartagena (1st cir. 2010) 612 f.3d 69, 85 . . . [bruton crawford and davischallenged statement is not testimonial, the confrontation clause has no application]; see also [united states] v. johnson (6th cir. 2009) 581 f.3d 320, 326 premised on the confrontation clause, the bruton rule, like the confrontation clause itself, does not apply to non-arceo, supra, at p. 571, footnote omitted.) in people v. cervantes (2004) 118 cal.app.4th 162, the court held that when it was not reasonably anticipated that a statement would be used at trial, the statement was crawford. (cervantes, supra, at p. 174.) clearly, when the statements were made by kupsch in the instant case, they were not made with the anticipation that they would be used at trial. thus, there was no crawford violation. defendant also submits that the statements were inadmissible because they were not reliable, in that kupsch was under the influence of methamphetamine when he made the statements concerning what he and defendant had done. evidence code section 1230 subject is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule if the declarant is unavailable as a proprietary interest, or so far subjected him to the risk of civil or criminal liability, or so far tended to render invalid a claim by him against another, or created such a risk of making him an object of hatred, ridicule, or social disgrace in the community, that a reasonable man in his position would not have made the statement unless he believed it to it is undisputed that kupsch was unavailable, and his statements were clearly against his penal interest. the statements would clearly be admissible pursuant to evidence code section 1230 if the statements were sufficiently trustworthy. while there 10 was substantial evidence that kupsch had used methamphetamine and received little sleep at the time he made the statements, there was evidence that points to the credibility of the statements. the crime was committed in a systematic manner, including seeking help in finding a remote area to kill the victim, disposing of the clothing, locating and withdrawing money from atms. in addition, the expert called by the defense acknowledged that ingesting methamphetamine could possibly improve memory. the trial court was entitled to conclude that the totality of the circumstances indicated that the statements made by kupsch, although made while under the influence of drugs, were trustworthy and admissible. even if the evidence was improperly admitted, its admission was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 [87 s.ct. 824, 17 l.ed.2d 705] [erroneous admission of statements by a non-testifying codefendant in violation of bruton v. united states, supra, 391 u.s. 123]; see also people v. duarte (2000) 24 cal.4th 603, 618-619 [evidence admitted in violation of evidence code section 1230 analyzed under harmless error standard of people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836].) in arguing prejudicial error, defendant contends that the prosecution case was built -accomplices, buchanan, casey and smith, all of whom were less than ideal witnesses. the testimony of the three non-m, and their reasonable doubt. however, there was much more than the testimony of the three non-accomplices the shoes zoda was wearing at the time of his arrest, and there was evidence connecting those shoes to kupsch. phone records confirmed the timing of the murder, a bank 11 obtained after the murder, and evidence that after the murder, kupsch hid at a motel. and robbery. numerous witnesses saw defendant with zoda and kupsch shortly before and after the murder. defendant suffered burns during the murder and admitted to buchanan that he was burned when kupsch started the fire. with a wealth of statements was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. b. admission of evidence of racist gangs defendant contends that the trial court erred in admitting evidence of racist gangs evidence under evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b), and the prejudice exceeded the probative value. we disagree. initially, defendant contends the trial court erred in allowing gang evidence under evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b), in order to show intent and motive. evidence code section 1101, subdivision (a), prohibits, with specified exceptions, . . (whether in the form of an opinion, evidence of reputation, or evidence of specific instances of his or her conduct) . . . when that a person committed a crime, civil wrong, or other act when relevant to prove some fact (such as motive, opportunity, intent, preparation, plan, knowledge, identity, absence of mistake or accident . . gang evidence is nodisposition or bad character in order to create an inference defendant committed the charged offenses. (people v. albarran (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 214, 223; accord, evid. code,  1101, subd. (a).) 12 here, the evidence was properly admitted to show that defendant and his companions committed the crimes in order to obtain money from the whiteside, in part because of their dislike of non-whites. the evidence was probative to establish motive and identity. the evidence clearly showed that the individuals involved and the witnesses shared similar racist beliefs. hence, the evidence was admissible under evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b). defendant also contends that the trial court abused its discretion in admitting the evidence, because the gang evidence was so prejudicial as to result in a violation of his federal constitution right to due process. in analyzing this contention, we start with the basic principle that only relevant evidence is admissible at trial. (evid. code,  350.) id.,  210.) the trial court has the duty to determine the relevance and thus the admissibility of evidence before it can be admitted. (id.,  as to admissibility that turns on relevance for abuse of discretion. (people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 717.) evidence code section 352 gives the trial court the discretion to exclude relevant evidence if the probative value of the evidence is substantially outweighed by the probability its admission will create a substantial danger of undue prejudice, confusing the issues or misleading the jury. (people v. desantis (1992) 2 cal.4th 1198, 1226.) we abused its discretion (people v. minifie (1996) 13 cal.4th 1055, 1070), i.e., if its decision exceeds the bounds of reason (desantis, supra, at p. 1226). pertaining to gangs and gang membership for an abuse of discretion. (people v. carter (2003) 30 cal.4th 1166, 1194; people v. waidla, supra, 22 cal.4th at p. 717.) gang evidence clearly has a potential for prejudice. (carter, supra, at p. 1194; people v. albarran, supra, 149 cal.app.4th at p. 223.) when it meets the test of relevancy, 13 however, it is admissible unless its prejudicial effect clearly outweighs its probative value. (carter, supra, at p. 1194; people v. cardenas (1982) 31 cal.3d 897, 904-905.) the trial court properly admits gang evidence when it is relevant to a material is often relevant to, and admissible regarding, the charged offense. evidence of the ritory, membership, signs, symbols, beliefs and practices, criminal enterprises, rivalries, and the likecan help prove identity, motive, modus operandi, specific intent, means of applying force or fear, or other issues pertinent to guilt of the charged crpeople v. hernandez (2004) 33 cal.4th 1040, 1049.) the case of people v. bivert exercise of its discretion in allowing the gang evidence. in bivert, evidence was admitted that the defendant told people it was important to kill undesirable white people to strengthen the white race. (id. at pp. 103, 106, 116.) as in the instant case, there was no hate crime or gang enhancement alleged. (id. at p. 101.) on appeal, the defendant contended that the evidence should have been excluded because his primary motive had been to kill child molesters and because the evidence of his racist beliefs was likely to prejudice the jury against him. the supreme court rejected his contention. even if there were other defendant to be a racist did not render it inadmissible. evidence tending to prove defendant was a eugenicist who favored the supposed purity of the white race also tended to prove his motive and intent to assault and kill individuals he deemed to be id. at p. 117.) main motive in killing whiteside was to obtain money there also was evidence that they wanted to kill him because of his race; he was half black and half native american. the racist beliefs in part explained why the individuals involved would commit such a brutal crime for a small sum of money. after the murder, kupsch got new tattoos, including a swastika, to evidence the crime. the fact that the 14 other individuals, including buchanan, king, casey and smith did not react differently when they learned of the murder, can be explained in part by their racist beliefs. the evidence was highly probative, and the trial court did not abuse its discretion in finding its probative value outweighed its prejudicial impact. (people v. bivert, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 117; people v. carter, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 1194.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. jackson, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. woods, j. 