filed 2/24/12 p. v. johnson ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. tyrone depree johnson defendant and appellant. b222848 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la057984) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. michael k. kellogg, judge. affirmed. william l. heyman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, pamela c. hamanaka, assistant attorney general, mary sanchez and michael j. wise, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________ 2 tyrone johnson appeals from his conviction for assault and battery, contending the trial court erred in denying his motions to strike the jury panel, precluding a defense witness, and failing to instruct sua sponte on self-defense. he also contends his constitutional rights were violated by several acts of prosecutorial misconduct and he received ineffective assistance of counsel. we affirm. background johnson owned fathead apparel, a company that embellished articles of clothing with silkscreen and crystal designs. fathead employed israel serrano rodriguez (serrano) and his cousin elmer amaya at its factory, where their duties included applying crystal designs to items of clothing. occasionally, serrano and amaya would make mistakes with the designs or otherwise damage articles they worked on. sometimes fathead took no action regarding damaged articles, but other times it deducted the cost of check. on several occasions, serrano and amaya would smuggle damaged articles out of the factory in order to conceal the damage and avoid having the cost of the item deducted from their pay. and told him serrano and amaya were suspected of stealing from the factory. johnson arrived with two other men at the factory, where they met a fourth man. the four separated and restrained serrano and amaya, then beat them severely, at times with a one- to two-foot-long piece of wood that eventually broke during the attack. after the attack, the perpetrators drove serrano to within a block of a fire station, where they released him. he walked to the fire station, where he was bandaged, and was then taken by ambulance to a hospital, where he received 15 stitches to close a wound on his forehead. amaya stumbled home, where he fainted. he was taken by ambulance to a hospital and underwent surgery to reset his dislocated jaw and close wounds near his eye and on the back of his head. on january 11, 2008, police discovered several bloodstains at the fathead factory. they interviewed johnson and one of the other assailants, noting that neither showed any sign of having been injured during the attack. 3 johnson was tried along with two codefendants. at trial, serrano and amaya identified johnson as one of their assailants. johnson testified in his own defense. he maintained that he separated serrano and amaya in part because he wanted to see what each would say about the other. when his back was turned, serrano hit him on the back of the neck with a piece of wood. johnson took the piece of wood from serrano and hit him with it. they fought for two or three minutes, the fight ending when serrano fell and hit his head on a table. johnson stated that during the fight he received a busted lip, a bloody nose and several scrapes. carlos richardson, one of the men who had accompanied johnson to the factory, testified that amaya attacked the men who had accompanied him to another room but was injured in turn when he hit his head first on a door hinge and then a printer. the jury found johnson guilty of two counts of assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury in violation of penal code section 245, subdivision (a)(1) and two counts of battery with serious bodily injury in violation of penal code section 243, subdivision (d). the trial court sentenced him to a total term of six years in state prison. johnson appealed. discussion johnson contends the court erroneously denied his motion to dismiss the jury panel, excluded the testimony of a defense witness, and failed to instruct the jury that the prosecution had the burden of proving lack of self-defense. he also contends several acts of misconduct by the prosecutor violated his constitutional rights. 1. motion to dismiss the venire: juror taint during voir dire, the trial court told johnson to be mindful that some of the jurors appeared to be uncomfortable that, due to the size of the courtroom, they sat only a few johnson there was nothing they could do about the close proximity and that he had done nothing wrong and need not change his personal behavior. 4 court that juror no. 21 told defendants that jurors no. 2 and no. 13 had prejudged their guilt. when the trial court examined juror no. 21 outside the presence of other members of the jury pool, she reported that in a conversation among herself, juror no. 2 and juror no. 13, juror no. 2 had speculated that of the three defendants, johnson was tand would be found guilty. juror no. 13 agreed with juror no. 2 that all three defendants were guilty. juror no. 2 also stated that one of the defense attorneys had represented her brother-in-law and had failed to achieve a favorable result. juror no. 21 reported that she last two days, many speculating about what they could say to get out of jury service. the examination of juror no. 21 continued the next day. she reported that juror no. 58 had also voiced an opinion about the merits of the case, and juror no. 62 or no. 65 may also have prejudged the evidence. when the court examined other prospective jurors individually, juror no. 2 stated that neither she nor juror no. 13 had ever expressed to anyone a belief that any of the defendants were guilty. juror no. 13 also denied engaging in any conversation or conversation with other prospective jurors about the merits of the case. neither juror no. 62 nor juror no. 65 were individually examined. for cause during voir dire. juror no. 13 became a member of the jury but was excused for cause before opening statements after she complained that the defendants made her uncomfortable. the trial court repeatedly admonished the jury regarding the presumption of innocence, and each juror indicated he or she could judge the case impartially. johnson contends the circumstances of this case give rise to a reasonable inference that the jury was tainted. the courtroom was small, several jurors were uncomfortable 5 udicing other jury panel members against the bias or prejudice against the defendant has contaminated the entire venire to such an people v. medina (1990) 51 cal.3d 870, 889.) demonstrated bias or prejudice, where interrogation and removal of the offending ibid.) on review, we defer to the trial court because it was in a position to assess the demeanor of the prospective jurors and the panel as a whole. (people v. thornton (2007) 41 cal.4th 391, 414.) none of the prospective jurors implicated during the bias hearing actually served on her ability to be fair and impartial. the trial court admonished the prospective jurors at the beginning of voir dire that they must not infer that defendants were guilty and later gave all the required instructions on the presumption of innocence and the burden of proof. all of the jurors who expressed a contrary view were excused, and there is nothing in the record to d opinions. we find no abuse of discretion. 2. motion to dismiss the venire: judicial error in voir dire, during a line of questioning regarding the presumption of innocence, were to be no facts presented in this case, i can guarantee you, all of us would not have been able to meet each other. [the prosecutor] would have a better place and something more idence but i like the 6 possibly, if you understand the presumption of innocence, only one verdict you can reach defense counsel moved to dismiss the venire on the ground that the trial court had implied to the prospective jurors that the evidence suggested defendants were guilty. the motion was denied. johnson contends the venire should have been dismissed because the trial court gave the jury the impression that the prosecutor had substantial evidence of guilt in this case. we disagree. (people v. fatone (1985) 165 cal.app.3d preclude johnson from obtaining a fair and impartial jury. true, the court did, at the outset of the hypothetical, imply that the prosecutor thought he possessed evidence of prospective juror would have taken the implication to mean that the court thought defendant guilty, especially given that the entire point of the hypothetical was that the jurors must respect the presumption of innocence. in the after the comments were made, is rejected.) 3. motion to dismiss the venire: prosecutorial misconduct example, particularly here in los angeles, where we see street justice being a huge, huge problem in here because 7 counsel. the court sustained op is again interrupted by an objection, which was sustained. the court admonished the prospective jurors that it would give them instructions and there would be no instruction on street justice. shortly thereafter, the prosecutor posed a hypothetical about someone being counsel again objected, and the objection was sustained. defense counsel moved to dismiss the venire on the ground that the prosecution denied. gang is involved in this case, and his repeated references to street justice constituted misconduct, tainted the jury pool, and deprived him of a fair trial. we disagree. the jury, and when it is reasonably probable that without such misconduct, an outcome more favorable to the defendant would have resulted. [citation.] under the federal constitution, cospecific constitutional rightsright to remain silentbut is otherwise worthy of condemnation, is not a constitutional violpeople v. rundle (2008) 43 cal.4th 76, 157, disapproved on other grounds in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 8 390, 421.) jury, the question is whether there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury construed or applied any of the complained-of remarks in an objectionable fashion. (people v. samayoa (1997) 15 cal.4th 795, 841.) johnson was 42 years old at the time of trial and the owner of a successful clothing business. nothing in the record suggests the jury believed he was the member of a street gang or that gang membership was in any way relevant to this case. nothing suggests the resulted in any sort of prejudice. 4. motion for mistrial: prosecutor misconduct on the fourth day of trial, the prosecutor spoke with another deputy district attorney outside the courthouse during lunch. although they did not discuss the instant different trial before the judge. after the discussion, the prosecutor noticed that prospective juror no. 25 was within earshot. the prosecutor asked a security guard to ask juror no. 25 if he had overheard the conversation. juror no. 25 replied that he had not. on the sixth day of trial, defense counsel elicited from amaya that he had hired a civil attorney to file a civil lawsuit against johnson. the prosecutor attempted to follow up on the line of questioning, but was cut short by a defense objection when he asked whether the civil attorney was hired to represent amaya in any criminal proceeding whether he hired him in any way even though defense on cross asked him if he was scared aboutduring which defense counsel moved for a mistrial, which was denied. on the eighth day of trial, during cross-examination of johnson, the prosecutor asked johnson if trial court sustained the objection, denied the motion for a mistrial, and admonished the 9 johnson contends these instances of prosecutorial misconduct infected the trial with such unfairness as to deprive him of due process under the fourteenth amendment. we disagree. we review a ruling denying a motion for mistrial for abuse of discretion. (people v. mclain (1988) 46 cal.3d 97, 113.) here, the prosecution committed no misconduct. nothing in the record suggests that the prosecutor discussed improper matters with another deputy district attorney, knew juror no. 25 was within earshot of the discussion, or behaved improperly once he discovered that fact. it was not misconduct to attempt to discern why a victim had hired an attorneyat worst the prosecutor was guilty of asking ence of gang evidence in the record. we do not condone the comments, but because they were isolated and fleeting, we response was sufficient to cure any possible prejudice. finally, it was undisputed that lifestyle was brief, involved a relatively insignificant matter, and was immediately curtailed. we cannot conclude that admonitions to the jury were incapable of curing any purported harm. on the contrary, the admonition regarding lack of gang involvement in the case was sufficient to prevent any appreciable harm. 5. exclusion of a defense witness on the eighth day of trial, after defendants had rested, johnson informed the trial court a recently discovered defense witness offered to testify as to the einjuries following the attack. the court observed that the evidence was untimely and cumulative, as two witnesses and johnson himself had already testified as to injuries received during the fight. the court precluded the witness. 10 johnson contends he was precluded from presenting a complete defense. we disagree. both sides in a criminal case must reveal their witnesses at least 30 days before trial. (see pen. code,  1054 et seq.) penal code section 1054.3, subdivision (a), requires that the defendant (and his or her attorney) disclose to the prosecution the witnesses at trial, together with any relevant written or recorded statements of those p(izazaga v. superior court (1991) 54 cal.3d 356, 376, fn. 11, superseded by statute on other grounds as stated in bowens v. superior court (1991) 1 cal.4th 36, 39.) in addition, penal code section 1054.7 provides in relevant part that the disclosure of unless good cause is shown why a disclosure should be denied, restricted, or deferred. if the material and information becomes known to, or comes into the possession of, a party within 30 days of trial, disclosure shall be made immediately, unless good cause is shown why a requirements] . . . , a court may make any order necessary to enforce the provisions of this chapter, including . . . prohibiting the testimony of a witness . . . . further, the court y of a witness pursuant to subdivision (b) [of  1054.5, subd. (c).) (people v. superior court (mitchell) (2010) 184 cal.app.4th 451, 459.) a trial court exceeds its jurisdiction in precluding witness testimony as a discovery sanction when it fails to exhaust other sanctions first. (ibid.) 11 the trial court properly excluded the testimony of -discovered nose was bleeding, he had a fat lip and a cut on his lip, and he suffered pain in his neck and had a swollen lip for a few days thereafter. kermit richardson, a fathead employee, had testified he suffered injuries as a result of the incident. and johnson testified to his own injuries. a trial court has discretion to limit cumulative testimony. (evid. code,  352.) we cannot conclude the trial court abused its discretion by excluding cumulative 6. self-defense instruction caljic no. 9.00 provides in pertinent part that to prove assault the prosecution nature would probably and directly result in the application of physical force on another not ask for the instruction. caljic no. 9.00 ends with the following willful application of physical force upon the person of another is not unlawful when done in lawful [self-defense] [or] [defense of others]. the people have the burden to prove that the application of physical force was not in lawful [self-defense] [defense of others]. if you have a reasonable doubt that the application of physical force was bracketed instruction. johnson did not ask for the instruction. johnson contends the court erred by failing to instruct the jury sua sponte that the prosecution had the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that he did not act in lawful self defense. the contention is meritless. 12 at trial, -defense. his defense regarding the attack on amaya was that he never touched amaya except to help him up after other fathead employees attacked him. no crime is committed by a person who commits the act charged through -defense applies where the defendant believes he or she is facing an imminent and unlawful threat of death (people v. curtis (1994) 30 cal.app.4th 1337, 1357.) people v. koontz (2002) 27 cal.4th 1041, 1085.) but a defendant cannot complain for the first time on appeal or request that the omitted language be g(people v. valdez (2004) 32 cal.4th 73, 113.) people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 733.) because johnson did not object to the instructions when they were given, he cannot do so now. the claim fails on the merits as well. the trial court gave standard jury instructions on self defense pursuant to caljic numbers 5.30, 5.31, 5.50, 5.51, 5.52, 5.53, 5.54, 5.55 and 5.56. caljic nis being assaulted to defend [himself] . . . -defense -defense theory, and further instructions would have been superfluous. any error in failing to give 13 the bracketed instructions was not prejudicial, as self-defense principles were repeatedly brough 7. ineffective assistance of counsel johnson contends his counsel provided ineffective assistance by (1) failing to interview or call witnesses, (2) failing to meet with johnson or prepare for trial, and (3) failing to object when a juror made a reference regarding johnson and his a claim that counsel was ineffective requires a showing by a preponderance of the evidence of objectively unreasonable performance by counsel and a reasonable favorable result. (in re jones (1996) 13 cal.4th 552, 561.) the defendant must overcome presumptions that counsel ibid.) to prevail on an ineffective tactical purpose for the challepeople v. majors (1998) 18 deficient before examining the prejudice suffered by the defendant . . . . if it is easier to dispose of an ineffectiveness claim on the ground of lack of sufficient prejudice, which strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 697; accord, in re fields (1990) 51 cal.3d 1063, 1079.) johnson argued at his sentencing hearing that he had several additional witnesses who would have testified as to his good character at trial but he was unable to bring the rejected the argument. witnesses. we reject the argument outright, as johnson fails to explain why he could not the trial court, even if defense counsel knew of the witnesses he would have had good 14 reason not to call them. johnson had been arrested for assault and battery in 2006, for criminal threats in 2002 and for grand theft in 1999. if the defense had called the character witnesses, the trial court explained, the prosecutor would have impeached their tention. johnson fails to explain how the record discloses lack of a rational tactical purpose trial. done any or all of the things johnson now argues he should have done. accordingly, we disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. chaney, j. we concur: rothschild, acting p. j. johnson, j. 