filed 8/6/12 p. v. igova ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. eleonora igova, defendant and appellant. b222762 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sa067128) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. elden s. fox, judge. affirmed. law office of kiana sloan-hillier, kiana sloan-hillier; joel r. isaacson for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, pamela c. hamanaka, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and stephanie a. miyoshi, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 introduction eleonora igova was convicted of second degree murder with firearm use allegations also found true. the trial court sentenced her to a term of 40 years to life in state prison. she appeals, claiming multiple instances of prosecutorial misconduct during closing argument, including improper comment on her failure to testify in violation of griffin v. california (1965) 380 u.s. 609 (griffin). we agree with igova that she has identified a number of instances of serious overreaching by the prosecutor, and we emphasize our disapproval of such questionable behavior. nevertheless, having reviewed overwhelming that we must also conclude she could not have been prejudiced as a result. accordingly, we affirm. factual and procedural summary on march 13, 2008, j.p. lipson was happy until he got a call from eleonora igova. lipson and igova were married but had separated. when he slammed down the phone, he was upset. he told his housekeeper (leticia torres) it was nora on the phone, had worked for lipson and igova for a couple of years when they lived together in la jolla and continued to work for lipson for another two or three years after igova moved out and lipson moved to another home in la jollaa big mansion with a swimming pool and view of the ocean. during the time igova lived with lipson, torres saw guns at around 1:00 p.m., cliff wright drove lipson to the peninsula hotel in beverly hills, dropped lipson off at about 3:30, duplex on durant drive in beverly hills. at around midnight that night, nick rivera and his 15-year-old daughter estelle 3 that sounded to estelle like a table dropping on the ceiling directly above her bedroom, in d both heard a but estelle was directly below the sounds. after the sound like a table dropping on the and then estelle and rivera both heard five or six more gunshots. rivera went to his daughter and told her to get on the floor and call 911. while estelle was on the phone with the 911 operator, rivera heard someone pounding on his front door and trying estelle told the operator she could hear igova walking around upstairs. the operator told her the police were outside. rivera had been watching for the police and saw an officer hunkered down behind a car gesturing for him to come outside. he went back for his daughter and the two ran out. when officer andrew myers of the beverly hills police department arrived at the ere already positioned out front so he went to the alley in back and concealed himself behind an suv. within four or five minutes of his arrival, officer myers saw igova exit the rear of the building. she opened and closed the security gate carefully, confirming the gate did not slam, and shut it quietly behind her. igova then walked away slowly in the direction where her car was parked. she walked almost touching the garage and held her purse by its handles at her side. officer myers identified himself as a police officer. igova stopped and complied with his verbal commands; she did not say anything when he ordered her to walk back toward him. additional officers joined myers, and igova was 4 handcuffed and placed in the back of a patrol car where she sat quietly, sometimes closing her eyes and appearing to be asleep. she did not appear to be upset. ). he also found a bulgarian birth certificate, a wallet containing $806 dollars and several credit cards, a motorola cell phone and a key to a lincoln. when officers in underwear, officers found a smith and wesson nine millimeter fired until it was out of ammunition or manually placed and locked in that position. a box of nine millimeter hollow point makarov ammunition was found in the nightstand of the master bedroom. those rounds could not be fired from the nine millimeter found at the apartment because the bullets were slightly larger so they would not fit into the barrel of the gun. in the master bedroom closet, police found two boxes of ammunition, including one box of winchester nine millimeter luger rounds and a box of shotgun shells. (the 100-count box of nine millimeter ammunition in the master bedroom closet contained only 83 rounds. in addition to the boxes, live rounds of nine millimeter ammunition were recovered from a checkbook found in a nightstand in the master bedroom, the top of the bed in the master bedroom, the foot of that bed and under a lamp in the master bedroom. (six rounds were found in a case in the living room.) the live rounds were the same make, model and caliber as the bullets found in the master bedroom closet. 5 igova was charged with murder in violation of penal code section 187, subdivision (a), with special firearm allegations pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) through (d).1 (all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code.) at trial, the people presented evidence of the facts summarized above, including the tratestified igova had contacted him in june 2007. when she met with gal, igova said she was separating from lipson and wanted to hire someone to locate his assets. that september, igova hired gal and said she believed lipson was worth between $50 and $70 million.2 the people presented additional evidence, including the following: igova had deleted the incoming and outgoing history on her cellular phone. however, deleting the according to these records, igova had made or received a calphone at 10:21 p.m. on march 13, 2008. then she had dialed or received calls from an international number between 10:22 and 11:47 p.m. she made no calls to 911. in 1999, igova bought the gun found in her apartment and used to kill lipson. expended nine millimeter rounds were found lodged in a box spring mattress of a bed in the same middle bedroom bedroom. the expended bullets had been fired from the recovered nine millimeter smith 1 tried for premeditated (first degree) murder. however, at her first trial, the jury found igova not guilty of first degree murder and could not reach a verdict on second degree murder so the trial court declared a mistrial. 2 thomas. 6 and wesson. a total of seven expended casings were found. casings were discovered under the table in the bedroom recovered shell casings were the same make, model and caliber as the ammunition found in the master bedroom closet and all had been ejected from the recovered smith and wesson. including blood stains on a carpet near the bed comforter, blood stains leading from the bed towards the door whedoorway, wall and floor near his body. lipson had a key to a bentley in his pocket. an apparent impression of a hand brushing against the blood did not yield an identifiable print. apparent blood spatter on the wall and door frame could have been caused by the -bedroom door. nick rivera, a composer with excellent hearing, testified that he heard no cars leaving the area. he was looking outside the windows and did not see anyone or hear anything. he described the locking gates and doors at the front and back of the security building. another neighbor (rachel kaiser) also testified to hearing the gunshots, but no cars or anyone running near her unit in that time frame. upon receiving the call of shots fired, beverly hills police officer sunday arriaga set up a containment field and saw no one leaving the area. officer tomlin arrived on the scene within one minute of receiving the call of shots fired. master bedroom. items of clothing, a wash cloth and water bottle were found in the laundry room. the wash cloth had a brown stain, but it did not test positive for blood and 7 towels, but they were not tested as they looked similar to the apparent makeup stain. another stain on the wall was negative for blood. the doorway leading to the laundry fingerprints. one print was obtained but the quality was too poor for identification. there were no prints on the handgun; there was one on the magazine but the quality was too poor for identification. there was no blood on the handgun or items of clothing recovered. dna was extracted from swabs of the gun. lipson and igova could not be excluded as contributors; another swab contained a mixture from at least four other contributors, but there was no way to say how long that dna had been present. there appeared to be no blood on the walls or flooring toward the front door, walkways or stairwell or on any door handles to exit the unit. there was no sign of lipson died of multiple gunshot wounds. of seven wounds, not one was inflicted lipson being on his hands and knees while someone stood over him and shooting. other shots were to his torso and one to his right thumb, consistent with lipson having his hands out in front of him. four bullet fragments were recovered from his body. found traces of lead, antimony and barium but no particles containing all three elements. gunshot residue contains these three elements, but all three must be found in one particle to be considered positive for gunshot residue. based on this analysis, there was no the presence or absence of gunshot residue is not an indicator of whether someone has fired a weapon. it is possible to fire a weapon and have no gunshot residue hands in the first hour. any friction can remove the particles. 8 in her defense, igova presented the testimony of irina gerber who lived next door to igova. she heard gunshots and later heard footsteps running on the grass. she did not look out the window. gerber and her mother said they screeching. based on his review of photos and documents, defense expert john jacobson criticized the police investigation for failing to treat the entire apartment as the crime scene and testing everything there, such as items in the kitchen (glasses, a bottle, a pizza box), among other cited deficiencies. in rebuttal, the firearms expert testified as to the importance of visual and microscopic inspection and firearm testing for purposes of distance determinations. in movement near her apartment and did not hear a car starting or driving away. the jury found igova guilty of second degree murder and found true the firearm allegations. the trial court sentenced her to state prison for a term of 40 years to life: 15 years to life on the murder count, plus another 25 years to life based on the section 12022.53, subdivision (b), true finding. igova appeals.3 discussion accordinseverely tainted her trial that she was denied her right to due process and a fair trial. statements (as italicized and further addressed in this discussion), after reviewing the record in its entirety and considering each instance of alleged prosecutorial misconduct in 3 after filing her appeal, igova filed a petition for writ of habeas corpus (b234455), submitting evidence in support of two of her claims of prosecutorial misconduct. the petition will be denied by separate order. 9 context, we conclude, even after aggregating these errors, igova was not prejudiced as a result. prosecutorial misconduct. . . . intemperate behavior violates the federal egregious that it infects the trial conduct by a prosecutor that does not render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair is prosecutorial misconduct under state law only a general rule a defendant may not complain on appeal of prosecutorial misconduct unless in a timely fashionand on the same groundthe defendant [requested] an assignment of misconduct and [also] requested that the jury be admonished to disregard the impropriety. [citation.] additionally, when the claim focuses upon comments made by the prosecutor before the jury, the question is whether there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury construed or applied any of the complained-of remarks in an objectionable people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1215, 1263-1264, citations and additional internal quotations omitted; people v. parson (2008) 44 cal.4th 332, 359, defendant must make a timely objection and request an admonition; only if an admonition would not have cured the harm is the claim of misconduct preserved for people v. spector (2011) 194 cal.app.4th 1335, 1403, citations omitted.) long as it amounts to fair comment on the evidence, which can include reasonable 10 inferences, or deductions to be drawn tpeople v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 819, citations and internal quotations omitted.) . . . far transcends the objective of high scores of conviction . . . a prosecutor is held to a standard higher than that imposed on other attorneys because he in rude or intemperate behavior, even in response to provocation by opposing counsel, [citation.] personal attacks on the integrity of opposing counsel constitute prosecutorial misconduct. [citations.] obligated to fight earnestly and vigorously to convict the guilty, but also to uphold the orderly administration of justice as a servant and representative of the law. hence, a as the court said in berger v. united states (1935) 295 u.s. 78, 88 [79 l.ed. 1314, inary party to a controversy, but of a sovereignty whose obligation to govern impartially is as compelling as its obligation to govern at all; and whose interest, therefore, in a criminal prosecution is not that it shall win a case, but that justice shall be done. as such, he is in a peculiar and very definite sense the servant of the law, the twofold aim of which is that guilt shall not escape or innocence suffer. he may prosecute with earnestness and vigor--indeed, he should do so. but, while he may strike hard blows, he is not at liberty to strike foul ones. it is as much his duty to refrain from improper methods calculated to produce a wrongful . people v. herring (1993) 20 cal.app.4th 1066, 1075-1076.) 11 closing argument. igova raises multiple, overlapping claims of prosecutorial misconduct in the examine her challenges in context. (people v. herring, supra, 20 cal.app.4th at p. 1074, citation omitted.) preliminarily, we note that before closing arguments in this case, the 4 provide you with an accurate representation of what they believe that evidence and testimony has establjudges of the facts. . . . if there is any conflict [between] your assessment of that the ultim moments of his life on his hands and knees begging the defendant not to kill him. he those pleas for mercy and shot him multiple times, executing him by shooting him two gun and some live rounds, loaded the magazine, returned to the middle bedroom where lipson was getting undressed and shot him in the stomach. at that point, the prosecutor continued, lipson fell to the ground, and then tried to hold the wall on the corner trying igova then shot lipson five or six more times, placed the gun in a drawer and went 4 attorneys are not witnesevidenc 12 or tried to help lipson. once police arrived, the prosecutor argued, igova got her passport, birth but her hands were not tested for gunshot residue until four hours later. she had the three components of the inside of a bullet on her handslead, barium and antimony. the finding was consistent with either firing a gun four hours earlier or washing her hands with water and not getting it all off. the prosecutor reviewed the testimony of each of the witnesses, arguing how the another neighbor. her husband is in this condition, she never once calls for any help, do it. and minutes, 50 minutes in his opening statement commit this crimeagain, argument, ladi13 continuing his argument, the probubbles and just hope that one of you guys trails off and gets lost in that red herring. you have to believe that somebody else had the motive other than the defendant to kill motive. e somebody else was able to go through two locked doors without having anybody hear them. they would have had to go through those two locked forced entry. ous person, once they were able to go through two locked doors to get into that unit, got inside the unit without j.p. lipson or the defendant knowing; that they were up an spot where she normally keeps the gun and load it there without her knowing, go into the same room at the same time j.p. lipson is taking his pants off. he then has to mistake the person shooting him for his wife. shoots j.p. lipson multiple times. and then this is the other part: leaves her as a witness. defendant in there as a witness? no. decides to leave her as a witness, decides then to 14 go back to the direction of her room, decides to put the gun in her panty drawer. once vanishes because nobody else hears them or sees them. always going to twist it just a little bit and hope that one of you guys falls for it, like the tested. she had no gsr on her. we know, first of all, they dscrapings [which were not tested] have nothing to do with the gsr. and . . . he talked about the bagging of the hands. she did have the components of gsr on her hands. the e to do it [testing for gsr four hours added.) irina gerber. she was living in this unit here [next to igova]. she hears the gunshots, and then at some point she hears running and at some point she hears a car screeching. the running to the car drivinafter the shooting. that was nick and estelle [rivera] running away. oping he can confuse one of you. all he people do you think [defense counsel] had to go through to try and find him? some guy whatever you need to know . . . . 15 . for the amount of money, sel wants him to say that this is close range, that the muzzle was close is because he wants to kind of play with the evidence a little bit because he wants to say that if the gun was close, that the shooter blood on them, and since his client defendant. returning to the point, the prosecutor statement and said, mr. halligan told you that, oh, how ridiculous it is that he was going to have sex one last time with his wife, things of that nature. an do is draw logical what j.p. was doing when his pants were just below his waist when he was shot. the . (italics added.) 16 [defense counse wine glasses, the water bottle, the pizza box. okay. . (italics added.) blood anywhere else in wanted the money, she could have just divorced him. . . . do you think if he was hiding money from her in offshore accounts that he had any intention of giving her any money? the prosecutor reviewed the law relating to murder and the firearm allegation and car and all these things he wants to throw out at you and hopefully one of you falls for it, ask yourselves, well, who else had the motive to do this? where was your client when this going to try to out? and why is it that 17 defense counsel moved for a mistr right to rema during the defense closing argument, defense counsel told the jury there were and presented a graphic depicting the scales of justice and how it was up to the prosecutor to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. he read the reasonable doubt instruction to the jury, discussed circumstantial evidence and said igova had no motive to murder lipson. ent, defense is going to try of that term. the prosecutor addressed gun shot residue and how its absence did not create 18 four hours later. all three of those are consistent with when you fire a gun[--w]hen a gun is fired, those particles are produced alone, and some of them actually form together. but it forms alone as well. (italics added.) investigation. wouldlike to havewith the pizza box and all the things of that nature. that was all released to the defense. if that really had any type of value, they could have tested it if they wanted to. once again, the red herring. if it had any type of value in the case, they could have done it. further, although defense counsel had argued igova had left to look for help, the neighbor and asked to be let in, but if she was actually looking for help, he argued, she would have sought assistance from other neighbors or called 91clark fogg, nothing was open there in the back. nothing. s on . . . but reasonable doubt just means after looking at all the evidence, evidence. . . added.) 19 he noted how defense counsel tried to argue against the accuracy of what estelle aftemisconduct including violation of griffin v. california, supra, 380 u.s. 609, supported the to find igova guilty. according to defense counsel, juror no. 3 told him the defense should have presented evidence regarding fingerprints on items in the kitchen and the blood type or dna evidence of blood in the hallway. at argument on the motion, the he said he had interviewed the juror who had provided a declaration, and that juror did not know what the prosecutor had said but rather based his declaration on what the defense attorney had told him. the trial court asked the prosecutor to explain what he meant by his comments. the prosecutor said his commentsthat has those answers is the -- testify. asked to explain his comment that defense counsel never said igova did not 20 guilt which the jury did not have. the court noted the jurors had been instructed about constituted griffin error because, considered in context, the statements did not necessarily firearm, it was found in a drawer containing her clothing, the ammunition used was found in the apartment, there was no evidence anyone else was in the apartment at the time the shots were fired, the words spoken and heard by witnesses indicated only two people feel that there was any reasonable doubt in this case sitting as a thirteenth juror as to the fact that ms. igova was in fact the shooter in this case and that the jury made that determination after reviewing the entirety of the evidence. . . we address each turn. igova first argues the prosecutor improperly attacked defense counsel, eviscerating comments that defen first, igova waived any objection to most of these comments by failing to object to them at trial, and nothing in the record suggests an admonition would not have cured 21 any error. (people v. gamache appeal under either state or federal law, a defendant must raise a contemporaneous constitute misconduct. (see people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 1002-1003 people v. medina (1995) 11 cal.4th 694, 759 [arguing experienced defense attorney people v. seaton (2001) 26 cal.4th 598, 663 [permissible to argue defense case was ludicrous, contrived, concocted and bogus]; people v. marquez (1992) 1 cal.4th 553, 575-smokescreen . . . has been lpeople v. breaux (1991) 1 cal.4th 281, 305-create some sort of confusion . . . because any confusion at all is to the benefit of the nagain, igova did not object to such comments (people v. gamache, supra, 48 cal.4th at (people v. huggins gument, this case is distinguishable from people v. turner (1983) 145 cal.app.3d 658, 674, in which the ntended to incite the 22 that igova was leaving the scene, headed out the back toward closed business when she was stopped by police because it undermined any contention she was seeking help. (people v. huggins, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 207.) according to igova, the prosecutor disparaged her defense expert and therefore tainted her trial and denied her due process, the right to a fair trial and her sixth amendment right to counsel. again, igova failed to object in this regard. (people v. gamache, supra,48 cal.4th at p. 371.) moreover, noting the defense expert (jacobson) was paid by the defense, was not a medical doctor and based his conclusions on photographs was not improper. (people v. parson, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 360, citing people v. arias paid witness may accordingly be biased and is also allowed to argue, from the evidence, we agree with igova, however, that the prosecutor went too far when he made the specific statement that jacobson would have testified smoking was good for people if paid another $5000 to do soin other words, if paid enough, he (and by implication, the defense) would present false testimony. (people v. herring, supra, 20 cal.app.4th at p. 1076, citing people v. espinoza (1992) 3 cal.4th 806, 820 [personal attacks on the integrity of opposing counsel constitute prosecutorial misconduct].) nevertheless, read in context, we do not find the jury would have understood or applied this hyperbolic comment in an improper manner. (people v. parson, supra, 44 cal.4th at pp. 360-361; people v. spector, supra, 194 cal.app.4th at p. 1403, internal quotationto the jury, the defendant must show a reasonable likelihood the jury understood or applied the complained-of comments in an improper or erroneous manner. [citations.] in cond23 numerous valid bases on which the prosecutor properly challenged the reliability of the comment. (people v. parson, supra, 44 cal.4th at pp. 360-361.) igova says the prosecutor committed griffin error by urging the jury to draw an inference of guilt from her failure to testify. griffin v. california (1965) 380 u.s. 609 (griffintake thpeople v. hovey (1988) 44 cal.3d 543, 572; see also people v. vargas (1973) 9 cal.3d 470, 475-476 [griffin error to observe that defendant failed to comments on the state of the evidence or on the failure of the defense to introduce people v. brady (2010) 50 cal.4th 547, 566, citations and internal quotations omitted.) in support of her claim of griffin error, igova first cites to the portion of the counsel] sat up her for almost 50 minutes, 50 minutes in his opening statement and never added.) defense counsel said 24 later, the know specifically what j.p. was doing when his pants were just below his waist when he was shot. the only person who (italics added.) citing to a police affidavit in support of a further search warrant (not before the 5 5 according to the documentation in support of the warrant, when she was first detained attempting to leave her residence through the back gate, igova initially told police lipson had shot an unknown woman and was still inside; a short time later, she she had taken two over-the-ndoor, igova said, she opened her door and saw a beautiful russian woman standing in the hallway. the woman said nothing as she ran out the apartment through the front door. account; in found in her purse, including notice of disconnection of her electricity, suspension of credit account privileges and credit collection notices and an irs backup withholding notice seeking payment for 2004 taxes, bearing early march 2008 dates. 25 regarding the argument defense counsel did not say his client did not commit the crime, although the prosecutor was not commenting directly on failure to testify before any testimony had been presented), as the trial court later observed, the comments improperly suggested defense counselthan the belief of the prosecutor. [citation.] inviting the jury to speculate about such people v. bell (1989) 49 cal.3d 502, 537-538, citing people v. bain (1971) 5 cal.3d 839, 848-849; people v. herring, supra, 20 cal.app.4th at p. 1075.) moreover, although the trial court indicated the remarks were improper when defense counsel later filed a motion for mistrial, when defense counsel objected (that igova have been sustained (and, had defense counsel properly requested one, a curative admonition should have been given). (people v. carter, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 1205 [once objections to prosecution statements have been sustained, the defendant bears the burden of requesting a curative admonition from the court]; and see people v. woods (2006) 146 cal.app.4th 106, 118, citing people v. hughey (1987) 194 cal.app.3d 1383, dissipated by an instruction that the statements of the attorneys are not evidence the of course, the prosecution bears the burden of proof, the defense has no obligation to present evidence (people v. woods, supra, 146 cal.app.4th at p. 113), and the 26 defendant has the consticomments regarding defense failure to deny igova committed the crime were improper and extended beyond mere criticism of a defense theory lacking in evidentiary support. (people v. huggins, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 207; see also people v. arias, supra, counsel . . . igova had pled not guilty, and on this record, we find no reason to conclude the jury people v. friend (2009) 47 cal.4th 1, 29.) griffin error. igova argument), but moved for a mistriaargument i will indicate to you. and i do note the objection. i did hear it referred to but i will indirequest an admonition. (see people v. carter, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 1205.) be compelled to testify against oneself. (u.s. const., amend. v; cal. const., art. i,  15.) in order that an accused not be penalized for his invocation of this fundamental right, the 27 people v. hardy (1992) 2 cal.4th 86, 153-154.) in other griffin, it is error for a prosecutor to state that certain evidence is uncontradicted or unrefuted when that evidence could not be contradicted or refuted by people v. carter, supra, error for the prosecution to refer to the absence of evidenibid.) commenting on the state oviolation of griffin. (people v. carter, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 1266.) we conclude the error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt in this case as the absence of any other sound or movement in the area, and the police response was almost immediate.6 yet, igova did not call 911, could be heard walking around upstairs and then left through the back, with her passport, identification and cash. as the trial court istered firearm, it was found in a drawer containing her clothing, the ammunition used was found in the apartment, there was no evidence anyone else was in the apartment at the time the shots were fired and the words spoken and heard by witnesses indicated only two people were in the apartment and that 6 -time arrival of the officers. 28 igova was the shooter.7 in addition, the trial court instructed the jury not to draw an applied the instruction. (people v. brady, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 566, fn. 9.) consequently, although we agree with igova that the prosecutor in this case committed griffin error, given the strength of the evidence against her, the indirect nature of the prosecutor had not made the comments at issue; therefore, no prejudicial error occurred. (people v. carter, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 1267, citation and internal quotations omitted; people v. hardy, supra, 2 cal.4th at p. 154; people v. brady, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 566; and see people v. vargas, supra, have considered the prejudicial effect of errors similar to those committed in the instant 8 next, igova says, the prosecutor improperly vouched for his case. in this regard, igova cites the prosec 7 to it, i think objections to defense counsel reading from the police report were overruled, but the trial court observed, assuming the statement is not going to be of 8 as for the final comment igova cites as griffin error--that she and lipson were the only two people in the apartment, igova failed to object to this statement (people v. gamache, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 371), and it was not impermissible for the prosecutor to comment on the state of the evidence. (people v. brady, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 566.) as the jury was presented with no evidence of the presence of anyone other than lipson and prejudicial error. (ibid.) 29 on it. as was no testimony that everything was closed and clark fogg testified he did not arrive until 2:40 a.m. and did not know if the diner was open. when defense counsel objected the argument assumed facts not in evidence, the trial court overruled the objection, but isays the prosecutor conveyed the clear message that the prosecutor had information the diner was not open and the untested evidence was of no forensic value. again, it was defense counsel who said in his opening statement that there would be evidence the diner was open at the time, but no such evidence was presented. it was not improper for the prosecutor to comment on the state of the evidence. (people v. brady, supra, with respect to evidence turned over to the defense, when detective john czarnocki of yellow towel seen in photographs, he testified it remained at the scene. the apartment was then returned to the owners of the apartment, the person who lived there and her when defense expert john jacobson was asked about wine glasses, the pizza box, acknowledged he did not test any of these items. again, it was not improper for the 30 prosecutor to comment on the state of the evidence.9 (people v. brady, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 566.) based on the same groundsto the defense and the defense could have tested these items if they wished and indicating igova says the prosecutor impermissibly introduced extrinsic impartial jury and to confront and cross-examine witnesses. as we have just explained, ate. further, the prosecutor may comment on the state of the evidence, the jury was instructed that arguments were not evidence and they were the judges of the facts and in any event, igova has failed to demonstrate any prejudice on this record. (people v. brady, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 566.) igova says the prosecutor misstated the evidence regarding gunshot residue. once again, igova failed to object or request a jury admonition on this ground and therefore forfeited this claim of error. (people v. gamache, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 371; people v. carter, supra, failure to object, we agree with igova that the prosecutor misstated the evidence in this respect. (people v. bell, supra, 49 cal.3d at 539.) it is true that the prosecutor may properly comment on the evidence, and (people v. farman (2002) 28 cal.4th 107, 169.) here, however, the prosecutor misstated w]hen a gun is fired, those particles are produced alone, and some of them actually form together. but it forms alone as well. she happens to have all three 9 inside was taken out by her family. defense counsel did not object or seek to correct or clarify any purported misstatements in this respect at either the first or second trial. 31 bariumbut no particles containing all three elements. gunshot residue contains these three elements, but all three must be found in one particle to be considered positive for hands. given the amount of questioning devoted to confirming the state of the gunshot residue evidence and the unequivocal testimony that igova had none on her hands, we ents when his own expert testified that a positive gunshot residue result required all three components in one disingenuousemphasizing the distinction between individual particles of lead, barium and antimony on the one hand and particles of gunshot residue which are necessarily comprised of all three on the otheralso confirms the absence of resulting prejudice. the jury was thoroughly informed of the distinction as well as the determination igova did not have gunshot residue on her hands, and the trial court repeatedly advised that they were the judges of the facts and the statements of the attorneys were not evidence. of particular significance is the fact the jury also heard considerable testimony about the fragility of gunshot residue to the extent that friction easily removes these particles; 90 were not tested until four hours later; lipson was shot from some distance; and the absence of gunshot residue did not rule out the possibility igova had shot the gun used to kill lipson. this is precisely the sort of misstatement an objection and jury admonition would have cured. (people v. carter, supra, 36 cal.4th at 1205.) in any event, given the result. (people v. friend, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 30.) 32 improperly appeal to hot in the stomach, but also received two gunshot wounds to the top of his head, consistent with lipson being on his hands and knees as he was shot. igova has shown no error. igova says the prosecutor mischaracterized the burden of proof and standard of reasonable doubt. here again, igova failed to object (and request a curative admonition) as required. (people v. carter, supra, failure to object (people v. jasmin (2008) 167 cal.app.4th 98, 116 [defense counsel agree that the prosecutor egregiously mischaracterized the definition of reasonable doubt reasonable doubt just means after ndant committed the murder. . . doing so.10 discussing the legal and factual people v. bell, supra, 49 cal.3d at p. 538, citations and internal quotations omitted.) nevertheless, the jury was properly instructed on the definition of reasonable doubt and that the jury must follow the law as stated by the court and that the arguments 10 somewhat of a misnomer to the extent that it suggests a prosecutor must act with a culpable mind. a more apt description of the transgressi(people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 823, fn. 1.) 33 anything concerning the law said by the attorneys in their arguments or at any other time will ordinarily conclude that the jury followed the latter and disregarded the former, for people v. katzenberger (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 1260, 1268, citation and further internal quotations omitted [addressing prosecutorial misconduct through improper reasonable doubt argument ].) accordingly, viewing the record as a whole, the jury was properly instructed and we find no error. (id. at pp. 1268-1269.) citing people v. hill, supra, 17 cal.4th 800, 821, igova argues defense counsel suffer the prejudice of constant prosecutorial misconduct. as stated in people v. dykes (2009) 46 cal.4th 731, 774-775, reliance upon people v. hill, supra, 17 cal.4th 800, is misplaced. unlike that case, which we have characterized as reprosecutorial misconduct that persisted throughout the trial (see people v. riel (2000) 22 cal.4th 1153, 1212 [96 cal. rptr. 2d 1, 998 p.2d 969]), the present case did not involve counsel experiencingas did counsel in hilldemeaning sarcasm, and falsehoods, or ongoing hostility on the part of the trial court, to appropriate, well-founded objections. (see people v. hill, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 821 [counsel ri34 comments before the jury suggesting [counsel] was an obstructionist [who was ] delaying cord supports the inference any objection would have been futile. (see people v. gamache, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 371, argues his failure is excused because an objection would have been futile and an one of these exceptions applies must find support for his or her claim in the record. [citation.] the ritual incantation that an exception comments, although the trial court overruled the objections, the court cautioned the jury the arguments of counsel were not evidence and that the jurors were the judges of the facts. then, when defense counsel voiced his griffin error objection and requested a mistrial, the trial court did not dismiss the objection out of hand or otherwise show hostility to the defense. to the contrary, the trial court warned the prosecutor he was on concerns, defense counsel raised no objection to most including comments igova now claims as misconduct in this appeal. after examining the entire record, we conclude igova has failed to demonstrate futility or error in this regard. (people v. gamache, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 371.) conclude either that the instance was not misconduct or that any misconduct that occurred could not have contributed to the verdict and was harmless in light of the evidence of people v. friend, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 30; people v. carter, supra, 35 people v. hardy, supra, 2 cal.4th at p. 154; people v. brady, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 566; people v. bell, supra, instances of misconduct was of such severity, considered alone or together with the other asserted instances of misconduct, that it resulted in an unfair trial in violation of people v. friend, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 30, citation omitted; people v. hardy, supra, 2 cal.4th at p. 154.) that the errors we have identified were necessarily harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. find multiple instances of serious overreaching by the prosecutor in his closing argument, crime and statements constituting griffin error; (2) overstatement of the gunshot residue evidence; (3) inappropriate disparagement of the defense expert (and by implication, defense counsel) by effectively stating the expert would commit perjury if paid enough to do so; and (4) mischaracterization of the reasonable doubt standard. although reversal is not warranted by the prosecutorial errors in this case, as the court in people v. herring, supra, be aware that by engaging in improper prejudicial rhetoric they jeopardize what might otherwise be fairly won convictions. when . . . prosecutors trample on the rights of the accused and cause the need for a new trial, the law-abiding citizen has cause for outrage. victims must then be subjected to the humiliation of testifying again. the taxpayer must bear the expense of a new trial. there is danger that the evidence may weaken with time, id. at p. 1077 [prosecutorial misconduct required reversal].) 36 disposition the judgment is affirmed. woods, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. zelon, j. 