filed 4/24/12 p. v. abrahamyan ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. harutyun abrahamyan, defendant and appellant. b223942 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga070225) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, steven k. lubell, temporary judge. (pursuant to cal. const., art. vi,  21.) affirmed. law offices of pritz & associates and danalynn pritz for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey, supervising deputy attorney general, and taylor nguyen, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 a jury convicted harutyun abrahamyan of attempted murder, shooting at an occupied motor vehicle, possession of a firearm by a felon, and firearm enhancements. the trial court sentenced abrahamyan to 20 years to life in state prison. abrahamyan appeals, arguing that there was insufficient evidence that he did not act in self-defense, that jury instructions were not supported by substantial evidence, that the prosecutor committed misconduct, that the trial court abused its discretion in admitting evidence, and that his counsel was ineffective. we affirm. background an information filed february 29, 2008 charged abrahamyan with the attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder of yuri khachikyan (count 1) and of armen sargsyan (count 2), each in violation of penal code1 sections 664 and 187, subdivision (a); shooting at an occupied motor vehicle, in violation of section 246 (count 3); and possession of a firearm by a felon, in violation of section 12021, subdivision (a)(1) (count 4). the information also alleged as to counts 1, 2, and 3 that abrahamyan personally and intentionally discharged a handgun, in violation of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b), (c), and (d). all the counts were based on events occurring on june 26, 2007. abrahamyan moved to suppress evidence pursuant to section 1538.5, and after a hearing the trial court denied the motion. during a jury trial, the court granted dismissed count 2 (attempted murder of armen sargsyan) under section 1385. on september 8, 2009, the jury convicted abrahamyan of the remaining counts of attempted murder (count 1), shooting at an occupied motor vehicle (count 3), and possession of a firearm as a felon (count 4), and found true the remaining firearm use allegations. on reduce the verdict to voluntary manslaughter. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 the trial court denied probation and sentenced abrahamyan to 20 years to life in state prison, as follows: on count 1, attempted murder, a life term enhanced by 20 years for the firearm allegation under 12022.53, subdivision (c); on count 3, shooting at an occupied motor vehicle, a concurrent term of five years, and a consecutive 20-year term for the firearm allegation under section 12022.53, subdivision (c); on count 4, possession of a firearm by a felon, a concurrent term of two years. the court stayed the sentences on the remaining firearm allegations, and imposed fines and fees. abrahamyan timely appealed. i. the evidence at trial a. prosecution case ermine khacheryan testified that between 4:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m. on june 26, 2007, she went to brand park in glendale for a picnic with her friends keyso (kristina kababchyan), vicki (viktoria muradyan), and diana (karine diana muradyan),2 in came to meet them. ermine knew yuri as a dangerous person and a police informant, but on the phone she had told him to come over and hang out, thinking it was safe at the park the two men stood by the cadillac talking for five to 10 minutes. a white infiniti driven by abrahamyan,3 abrahamyan fired five shots out the front passenger window. ermine did not see who 2 we use some of reference. we intend no disrespect. 3 time of the shooting at brand park in june 2007. a pasadena police officer testified that hanging on a wall, depressed the alarm button, and activated the alarm of a white infiniti r at first denied that he possessed the vehicle and said it was rarely driven and belonged to a relative. 4 fired the shots, but the shots came from the infiniti, about five rounds. yuri ran down the hill; there were three bullets in the cadillac. the white infiniti drove off, and yuri and his cousin jumped into their car and chased after it. after the shooting, ermine (myspace name: sikwidit) had communicated with abrahamyan on myspace, asking hang out with people like that. glendale police officer jeff newton testified that he interviewed ermine at her home on july 10, 2007 while serving a search warrant for her computer, and asked her about the myspace communication with abrahamyan. she said she was scared of retaliation for talking to the police about the shooting, and told officer newton that it was abrahamyan in the infiniti with another person she could not identify. ermine told officer newton that abrahamyan had fired around five rounds, and yuri had provoked to the infiniti, shots came from the car. ermine did not tell the police that yuri had a gun. officer newton had also spoken to ermine on the day of the shooting, and she had not told him everything (including that abrahamyan was there and fired the shots) at that time because she was afraid. in a chat between ermine and abrahamyan four days after armen sargsyan testified that he went to brand park with yuri on the afternoon of june 26, 2007. he was standing on the curb by the cadillac, talking to one of the girls, when he heard gunshots. he turned around and saw a white suv driving away. he did not see a gun, or hear anything said before the shooting. he rode off with yuri after the shooting. armen had seen yuri with a gun before that day, but had never seen him use it. victoria muryadyan (vicki) testified that she was in the car with kristina (keyso) when yuri arrived at brand park. the other two girls were outside talking to yuri when a white infiniti showed up and drove by, slowing without coming to a complete stop. she yuri walked toward the car, reached into his waist and got a black object that looked like 5 a gun. she heard four or five shots and saw a black and silver gun on the passenger side vicki ever mentioned that yuri had a gun. after the shooting, vicki (myspace name: identified abrahamyan as the shooter in a six-pack of photographs. her identification that he carries a gun. karine diana muradyan (diana) testified that she saw yuri for the first time that day at brand park. while yuri was talking to diana and another girl, the white infiniti drove by slowly and yuri walked toward it. yuri was taking something out of his the infiniti and she stayed in the car and ducked. diana could not see who was inside the infiniti; she heard cursing, but could not make out the words. this was the first time she ever had told anyone that yuri pulled something out of his waistband; she had not told the police officers because she was scared. a search warrant on july 10, 2007. he spoke to vicki about the brand park shooting. after he told her that he had seen her myspace communications, vicki told him snoopy ired shots. she identified snoopy in a photographic lineup. she had not identified snoopy as the shooter at first, because she was afraid of retaliation. officer tweedy then spoke to diana, who told him that the driver of the car did the shooting, and that vicki had told her the shooter was snoopy. glendale police officer rafael quintero testified that on july 5, 2007, he went to arrest. he and officer nikita orloff transported abrahamyan for a probation violation. 6 abrahamyan asked why his probation was violated, and officer orloff answered that he been no mention of a gun. officer orloff testified that he was present on that day and participated in the both with the word snoop on them. officer orloff also found a black toiletry bag, containing a single live 9-millimeter round with a unique circular stamp on the upper casing, the same stamp on shell casings recovered after the brand park shooting. he interviewed armen recently when he served a subpoena, and armen told him that the defense attorney kept asking him whether yuri was armed at brand park. armen said that if yuri had had a gun he would have used it, meaning that he did not have a gun at that time. officer orloff knew yuri, who had a reputation for violence in the community, had shot at people, and had gone to prison for assault with a firearm. yuri testified that he went to brand park on june 26, 2007 to see ermine (in the transcript as armine). he was talking to ermine outside the back passenger side of the cadillac when a white suv stopped for a moment. yuri approached the suv, and shots day and did not know what he was doing or what was going on. yuri could not see who 4 one of them said something and yuri turned around, and started running downhill toward the playground area. yuri testified that on june 26, 2007, he had no face, neck, or head tattoos. at the time of his testimony, -one on his head and one on his cheek. yuri explained that the forehead tattoo was his rapping moniker, and the other tattoos were just the city he was from. another tattoo, 4 yuri admitted that at the preliminary hearing, he identified abrahamyan as the driver and the person who shot at him, and he had told the police thaother person in the car. 7 yuri left the park because he was afraid that if the police caught him, either he would have violated his probation, or he would have to testify. he did not want to be in court or to testify that day. yuri did not want to talk about who did the shooting at brand park, because he feared for his life and that of his family, and three or four men had went to the police. yuri knew abrahamyan had possessed a white suv like the one at the park. yuri admitted he had been convicted of assault with a firearm and three counts of armed robbery in april 2002. in july 2007, he violated his parole by carrying two firearms and went back to jail, but he had not carried a firearm since his release in may 2008. he had been arrested twice recently, but the charges were dropped. yuri was in the habit of carrying firearms at the time of the shooting at brand park. on the day of the shooting, however, yuri did not have a gun; he had no reason to trying to plant drugs in her car. yuri and abrahamyan had multiple misunderstandings and arguments, but he was not angry enough to try to harm abrahamyan. yuri knew that but yuri was not the shooter. kristina kababchyan (keyso), the owner of the cadillac, testified that she drove it to brand park with her three friends on june 26, 2007. she had never seen yuri before and ermine was outside the car with him when a white suv showed up. the suv stopped, and words were exchangeby his side. she then heard talking and screaming, and whoever was in the white suv fired gunshots out the front passenger window; yuri ran. three shots hit her car. -up that day, at trial she 8 testified that she was forced to circle somebody by the police, and had circled his the shooter was snoops. keyso had not said anything to the police about yuri having a gun on the day of the shooting or in a laknow for sure. she had told her mother that yuri had a gun, but no one else. she was afraid of yuri and wanted nothing to do with him. armine g. testified that she was hanging out with friends on the steps of the basketball court at brand park on the day of the shooting. she heard a car rolling up and then gunshots, and told the police that the person pointing the gun was shooting at two men walking down the hill toward the playground. nobody was standing by the car at the time the shots were fired. pasadena police officer david duran testified that on may 21, 2007, he responded abrahamyan was standing on the street with two other individuals. officer duran and his partner found shell casings on the street. abrahamyan told them he was standing a hispanic male with a dark-colored bandanna over his face, sitting in the rear passenger seat, leaned halfway out the window and fired about 10 shots at him and a friend. a forensic specialist for the pasadena police department testified that he went to the scene of the pasadena shooting and recovered eight nine-millimeter shell casings. glendale police department officer tracy lowrey testified that she went to brand park on the day of the shooting in response to a call. she interviewed armine g., who said she heard three shots, looked up, and saw a male in the front passenger seat of a white vehicle pointing a gun out the window toward a playground area. two young males were headed in that direction. another witness told officer lowrey that she heard o the driver. neither witness said she saw someone outside a vehicle with a gun. 9 a forensic specialist with the glendale police department testified that two cartridge cases and a projectile were found at brand park, and both cases were stamped 9-by-19 millimeter. the casings were from an automatic weapon. 1. myspace evidence glendale police officer richard phillips testified that he examined the hard drive pertaining to the 57 pages long, included the entire series of communications in a conversation, because each reply message would contain the message to which the sender was responding. the exhibit inc glendale police officer petros kmbikyan testified that a myspace conversation in exhibit 13 on june 30, 2007 (four days after the shooting) was between snoopy ey exhibit 14 was conversations over two days, july 2 and 3, 2007, between deciple pasadena toda or else i would see you. i know some foo dat for? glendale city. he knows everything about what cracks in glendale. he called to da dat. he saw the report. it said 10 some thhear the track that bitch ass mothafucka put today? fucking bitch ass fool that answe [armenian for son of a bitch] go say. we was speechless when he saw me in person. [] . . . ms. flirt ou at brand park? n-i-k-k-k-a, l-o-l-l--t-, man. fuck. s nothing up with . we were posted up there 11 much. tell your homegirl paytsar that she-faced acting like she was my s happy you were there shooting up ghost. but you almost killed me and my sis. my sis was right in front of it, car was that? yours? you were alone huh? ghost said skinny was in it to che the exhibits were admitted into evidence after the trial court asked the defense if they had any objection, and defense trial counsel answered no. the defense moved for -granted the motion only as to the allegations under section 12022, subdivision (d), that abrahamyan discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury. b. defense evidence abrahamyan testified in his own defense. on june 26, 2007, he lived on del rey avenue in pasadena with his family. he had met yuri in 2006 and they became friends, but seven or eight months later they argued when yuri believed abrahamyan was having and then started saying that he hated abrahamyan and was going to kill him. on myspace, yuri made songs about abrahamyan saying that when he saw him, he had 12 firearm because of the threats. he knew yuri as a violent person and a police informant, who always carried a gun and bragged about shooting people. a little more than a month earlier, on may 21, 2007, someone shot at abrahamyan near his home on del rey in pasadena. he was smoking a cigarette with a friend when someone saabrahamyan fired back. the pasadena police arrived, and abrahamyan told them the shooter was a guy wearing a bandanna on his face, because he was afraid of yuri. on june 26, 2007, he drove a white infiniti to brand park to drop off a friend. he had a gun with him. abrahamyan dropped off his friend, leaving harut (skinny) sitting in the passenger seat. abrahamyan saw yuri there; he had not known yuri would be at the park. abrahamyan was near a black cadillac when he saw yuri walking toward the infiniti with a black pistol in his hand. yuri came right up to the passenger window pointing the pistol at abrahamyan, and abrahamyan fired shots to scare him away. he did not want to kill yuriaway and threw the gun into the ocean. abrahamyan said that he was bragging in his chats on myspace, because yuri had to touch, and abrahamyan could have hit him if he had wanted to. abrahamyan did not go to the glendale police, because he knew yuri worked with them. yuri had threatened on cross-examination, abrahamyan eby his friends since he was 15 years old. during the pasadena shooting, abrahamyan had about five shots, not to hit the pestop shooting. before that day, he had fired a gun with his cousin in fresno. he had lied to the police on the day of the pasadena shooting because he was terrified of yuri. he 13 had been convicted of felony vandalism in 2005, and so in 2007 on the day of the had a gun; he put the gun back in his waistband and did not tell them he had fired back. the prosecutor read the following myspace communication from exhibit 20, flies at you? now we will eat you up with my new tech 9 and the .45. pick up your ch other face-to-bullets flying at you bitchass fool? anywhere i camp, you bitchass fool live. you fools are going to get it. fucking punks fools are a joke. bring a bitch with you to meet up. trying to talk big on the phone. know all you want to get me to get locked up so you could read easy. hit the kai-that conversation. him lo he kept the gun he used at brand park in the door panel of the infiniti. as abrahamyan pulled up toward the cadillac, he took the gun out. when yuri walked up to the car with his gun right at the window, abrahamyan shot right next to him. skinny was leaning back so that he would not get hit. abrahamyan got a new gun the day after he threw the gun he used at brand park into the ocean; he was afraid of being caught with because yuri was an informant. ed home to be safe because he feared that yuri would come back and kill him. he had never shot anyone in his life. he was just trying to scare yuri away. 14 ayda nazarian testified that she was at brand park near the basketball court in the early evening of june 26, 2007, and was interviewed by the police that same day. when she heard a gunshot, she saw a man in the playground area running to his car with a black gun in his hand. the car took off and followed a white infiniti driven by abrahamyan. c. rebuttal detective arthur frank testified that from his analysis of the bullet holes, the bullets that hit the cadillac were traveling at a horizontal angle to the vehicle, not from the top shooting down as previously described, and were shot from in front of the position in brand park, she could have seen part of what she said she saw. officer quintero testified that he found a handgun in a compartment of the right rear d. jury questions and juror recusal f the parties, the trial court answered that the jury should consider the instructions as a whole, and directed the jury to the instruction stating that any words with legal meanings would be defined in the instructions. later, one of the jurors asked to examination of reading the law and the different criteria for the charges, i cannot in good asked the juror whether she was willing to abide by the oath she took to decide the case only on the evidence presented and the instructions given by the court, and she place. shortly thereafter, the jury rendered its verdict. abrahamyan filed a motion for new trial, arguing in part that the admission of some of the myspace conversations in exhibits 11 and 20 were more prejudicial than probative, and that there was insufficient evidence that abrahamyan did not act in self-defense. after argument, the trial court denied the motion. 15 discussion i. deliberate, and premeditated murder. abrahamyan argues that there was insufficient evidence that he did not act in either perfect or imperfect self-defense, contending that yuri pointed a gun at him as he walked toward the infiniti on the day of the brand park shooting. where, as in this case, the defendant asserts self-defense and has sufficiently establish beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant did not act in self-defense. (people v. rios (2000) 23 cal.4th 450, 461ual circumstance negates an element of the crime, as imperfect self-defense negates malice, the federal (people v. martinez (2003) 31 cal.4th 673, 707 (conc. & dis. opn. of kennard, j.).) nevertheless, trier of fact, not whether the evidence proves guilt beyond a reasopeople v. wright (1985) 39 cal.3d 576, 592.) our role in reviewing a sufficiency of the evidence claim is limited. (people v. smith (2005) 37 cal.4th 733, 738.) we examine the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment, and determine whether the evidence is of such solid value that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. gonzales and soliz of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the ibid.hypothesis whatever is there sufficient substantial evidence to support [the conviction]people v. hughes the judgment merely because it believes that the circumstances might also support a people v. ceja (1993) 4 cal.4th 1134, 1139.) 16 people v. lee (2003) 31 cal.4th -defense applies where the defendant believes he or she is facing an imminent and unlawful threat of death or great the threatpeople v. curtis -defense negates culpability for assaultive people v. adrian (1982) 135 cal.app.3d 335, 340.) believes he needs to defend himself from imminent death or great bodily injury is deemed to have acted without malice. [citations.] under this unreasonable self-defense theory, the crime committed is manslaughter or attempted manslaughter, not murder or attempted people v. szadziewicz (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 823, 833834.) there was conflicting evidence at trial whether yuri carried a gun at brand park and pointed it at abrahamyan while approaching the infiniti. none of the four female witnesses who were in and near the cadillac told the police that yuri had a gun, in interviews on the day of the shooting or in later interviews. sargsyan testified that he did not see yuri with a gun that day. yuri testified that although he habitually carried a firearm, on the day of the shooting he did not carry a gun, as he was just going to the park to see a female friend. abrahamyan wrote myspyuri was terrified and turned pale when he saw abrahamyan. further, nowhere in the myspace communications was there a reference to yuri having a gun at brand park. all four female witnesses who were in or near the cadillac, however, testified for the first time at trial that yuri pulled out a gun (or something that looked like a gun, or merely something) as he walked toward the infiniti. abrahamyan testified that yuri walked toward the infiniti with a gun and pointed it at abrahamyan. nazarian testified that from 17 her position near the basketball court, she saw a man running to his car with a gun in his hand. on this conflicting evidence regarding whether yuri had and displayed a gun at brand park, and whether abrahamyan therefore reasonably believed he needed to shoot to defend himself (for perfect self-defense) or actually (but unreasonably) believed he needed to defend himself (for imperfect self-defense), the jury could have concluded that abrahamyan acted in perfect or imperfect self-defense. nevertheless, the jury found abrahamyan guilty of attempted murder, apparently disbelieving the testimony that yuri had and displayed a gun. it is not our function to reassess the credibility of witnesses. (people v. thompson inconsistencies in the testimony is the exclusive province of the trier of fact. [citation.] moreover, unless the testimony is physically impossible or inherently improbable, people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181.)5 people v. romero (2008) 44 cal.4th 386, 400.) construing, as we must, the evidence in the light most favorable to the judgment, abrahamyan was guilty of attempted murder, and did not act in perfect or imperfect self-defense. ii. the trial court properly instructed the jury. abrahamyan contends that the trial court erred in giving three jury instructions that were not supported by substantial evidence. he identifies calcrim 3471 (right to self-defense: mutual combat or initial aggressor), calcrim 3472 (right to self- 5 evidence, if any, to believe. do not simply count the number of witnesses who agree or 18 defense may not be contrived), and calcrim 3474 (danger no longer exists or attacker disabled) as the offending instructions. abrahamyan admits that the record shows he did not object to the giving of these ct to the instruction below . . . people v. virgil (2011) 51 cal.4th 1210, 1260.) no objection was made in the lower court if the substantial rights of the defendant are the error result in a miscarriage of justice(people v. christopher (2006) 137 cal.app.4th 418, 426instruction which, while correctly stating a principle of law, has no application to the people v. guiton (1993) 4 cal.4th 1116, 1129.) each of the instructions challenged by abrahamyan on appeal has application to the facts of the case; thus, no miscarriage of justice resulted. a. calcrim no. 3471 combat or who is the initial aggressor has a right to self-defense only if: [] (1) he actually and in good faith tries to stop fighting; [] (2) he indicates, by word or by conduct, to his opponent, in a way that a reasonable person would understand, that he wants to stop fighting and that he has stopped fighting; [] and [] (3) he gives his opponent a chance to stop fighting. [] if a person meets these requirements, he then has a right to self-defense if the opponent continues to fight. [] a fight is mutual combat when it began or continued by mutual consent or agreement. that agreement may be expressly stated or implied and must occur before the claim to self- abrahamyan argues that there was no substantial evidence that he engaged in cted pursuant to prearrangement, mutual people v. ross (2007) 155 cal.app.4th 1033, 1036.) even assuming that there was insufficient evidence of mutual 19 combat, the error was harmless. calcrim no. 3471 applies to a person who engages in mutual combat or is the initial aggressor. the instruction is correctly given where there through his own wrongful conduct, such as initiating a physical assault . . . created circumstances unreasonable self-people v. frandsen (2011) 196 cal.app.4th 266, 273.) there was substantial evidence that abrahamyan was the initial aggressor. witnesses testified that abrahamyan drove up to the cadillac, slowed or stopped, and conversation with vicki (sweetest swalked toward the car and answered; when he caught a glimpse of a gun, he began to run. the jury could reasonably have concluded that abrahamyan was the initial aggressor and the first to brandish a gun. even if the mutual combat portion of the instruction was people v. cross instructions may not apply, depending on your findings about the facts of the case. do not assume just because i give a particular instruction that i am suggesting anything about b. calcrim no. 3472 ot have the right to self-defense if he or she provokes a fight or quarrel with the intent to create an excuse to yuri would be at the park, drove the infiniti up to the cadillac, slowed or stopped, and shouted derogatory remarks from the car; when yuri walked up and answered, abrahamyan fired at yuri. there was no error in giving this instruction. 20 c. calcrim no. 3474 use force in self-defense continues only as long as the danger exists or reasonably appears to exist. when the attacker withdraws or no longer appears capable of inflicting any injury, then the right to brahamyan continued to shoot at yuri as he fled. yuri testified that the shots continued as he ran. armine g. testified that the person pointing the gun was shooting at yuri and armen as they went down the hill to the playground, and there was nobody standing next to the vehicle when the shots were fired. there was no error in giving this instruction.6 iii. the prosecutor did not commit misconduct. abrahamyan contends that the prosecutor committed misconduct during closing argument by misstating the law of self-defense and by referring to his postarrest silence. when it infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due process. . . . [t]he question is whether there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury construed or applied any of the complained-(people v. morales (2001) 25 cal.4th 34, 44.) of prosecutorial misconduct unless in a timely fashionand on the same groundthe defendant made an assignment of misconduct and requested that the jury be admonished to disregard the people v. samayoa (1997) 15 cal.4th 795, 841.) recognizing that trial counsel did not object to any of the statements identified as prosecutorial misconduct, 6 as we find no error in the giving of the three instructions, we reject kill and the recusal of one of the jurors demonstrate that error in giving the instructions resulted in prejudice to abrahamyan. 21 counsel.7 because we conclude that there was no misconduct, we need not consider the argument that trial counsel was deficient in failing to object and that the failure prejudiced abrahamyan. one is the person who engages in initial combat or is the initial aggressor, he talks about -defense. [] i go up to you, know out, showing that: i can show -defense other fight. i - this was not an incorrect statement of the law. the prosecutor argued that an initial aggressor does not have the right to use self-defense when, with a gun, he approaches another who he knows is armed and initiates a confrontation by yelling something, unless the initial aggressor tries to stop fighting and communicates to the other that he no longer wants to fight. (see calcrim no. 3471 [initial aggressor has right to self-he actually and in good faith tries to stop fighting; 2. he indicates, by word or by conduct, to his opponent, in a way that a reasonable person would understand, that he wants to stop fighting and that he has stopped fighting; [] and [] 3. he give 7 that (1) counsel's representation was deficient in falling below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms, and (2) counsel's deficient representation subjected the [defendant] to prejudice, i.e., there is a reasonable probability that, but for counsel's failings, the result would have been more favorable to in re jones (1996) 13 cal.4th 552, 561.) 22 arrested for attempted murder, at that poihis silence, that is, on his failure to claim self-defense. his silence after being advised of his rights under miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 [86 s.ct. 1602, 16 l.ed.2d 694]. (doyle v. ohio (1976) 426 u.s. 610, 617618.) argument. [citation.] a violation of due process does npeople v. champion (2005) 134 cal.app.4th 1440, 1448.) there was testimony at trial that after abrahamyan was arrested for a probation violation and was being transported, he asked the officers why his probation was violated, and they replied that he was being booked for attempted murder. abrahamyan gun. there is no evidence that abrahamyan had received miranda warnings at this point, and there is no evidence that he invoked his right to remain silent. in addition, abrahamyan was not silent; he chose to make that abrahamyan knew the attempted murder involved a gun, and the statement that s contradicted by the evidence at trial, it at brand park. the prosecutor did not commit misconduct. 23 iv. exhibits 11 and 20. required, unless the trial court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or people v. foster (2010) 50 cal.4th 1301, 13281329.) exhibits 11 and 20 are transcriptions of myspace communications. exhibit 11 is three pages of myspace communications between abrahamyan and others referring to the earlier shooting in pasadena. exhibit 11 was admitted into evidence after the trial court asked the defense if it had any objection, and defense trial counsel answered no. later, after reviewing exhibit 11 during a recess in the defense case, defense counsel objected that a number of the prosecution responded that some pages might be relevant during cross-examination, and the court stated it would address the issue when testimony was concluded. objected on foundational grounds, arguing that the author of the message about the raise the issue after rebuttal was complete. after rebuttal, defense counsel again objected that some of the myspace conversations in exhibits 11 and 20 were not relevant to the case, such as a conversation between abrahamyan and his girlfriend, and others were repetitive. the court asked both counsel to go through the exhibits and determine what parts were relevant. after closing arguments and instructions to the jury, defense counsel detailed what parts of exhibit 11 should be excluded as irrelevant. the prosecution argued that the 24 entire document had been introduced into evidence and the jury was expecting to get all of it; redacting parts of it now would cause the jury to wonder, and would affect the integrity of the exhibit. even those conversations that the defense labeled irrelevant said nothing, and were not prejudicial. further, all the conversations were relevant to show atime. defense counsel also objected that admission exhibit 20 would mislead the jury and cause it to speculate who sent the message about the pasadena shooting (identified abrahamyan had testified about the earlier shooting and said the shooter was yuri. it did not matter who sent the message to abrahamyan; what was important was that nothing seemed to acknowledge that he knew who the sender was, and the message therefore was the pasadena shooting. keep the totale total context of the conversations. [] . . . a. exhibit 11 on appeal, abrahamyan argues that numerous sections on 17 pages of exhibit 11,8 which contain profanity, references to drinking and drug use, and a graphic sexual 8 abrahamyan identifies as improperly admitted pages 2140, 2141, 2142, 2143, 2144, 2145, 2146, the top paragraph of 2147, 2148, 2149, the top paragraph of 2150, the first paragraph of 2151, the last paragraph of 2154, the last paragraph of 2157, 2162, the last paragraph of 2181, 2186, the last paragraph of 2189, the last paragraph of 2190, and 2196. although we do not discuss in detail the pages of the exhibit to which counsel did additional 25 irrelevant and should have been excluded. at trial, however, he objected only to nine pages: 2140, 2148, 2149, most of 2150, the first two paragraphs of 2151, the last half of 2157, and 2162, 2196, and 2197. we therefore consider only those pages of exhibit 11, make a timely and specific objection to any other pages forfeits his claim on appeal. (people v. geier (2007) 41 cal.4th 555, 611.) the pages of exhibit 11 to which abrahamyan objected at trial contain messages between snoopy and a former girlfriend two days after the brand park shooting; references to parties; messages in armenian; and what abrahamyan calls irrelevant material. the last message was dated july 4, 2007. as the prosecutor pointed out, to the extent that the conversations were routine, they were after the brand park shooting that he would not leave the house. although the challenged none of the references would have surprised the jury or prejudiced abrahamyan. profanity (which permeated the testimony at trial) and a reference to being would not be new to the jury, as similar references occurred in portions of exhibits to which abrahamyan did not object, and which were read to the jury during the act in a bantering conversation would have invoked an emotional bias against him. abrahamyan was charged with attempted murder, not a sex crime. abrahamyan also argues that some of exhibit 11 was cumulative, as the printout of the myspace conversations was repetitive and contained strings of messages that included the earlier messages being responded to. his trial counsel, however, specifically 26 just repeats of thexhibit 11 had at least some relevance and were not prejudicial, it is of no importance that some messages were repeated in the myspace conversations. b. exhibit 20 abrahamyan argues that the first page of exhibit 20 contains a may 7 reference to a third and different shooting, and that allowing that portion into evidence was irrelevant and prejudicial. at trial there was no specific objection to this portion of the exhibit on those grounds, and therefore abrahamyan has forfeited that objection. in any event, the there is no indication that he was involved. we conclude that it was not an abuse of discretion to admit exhibits 11 and 20. v. there was no cumulative error. finally, abrahamyan argues that he was denied due process and a fair trial by the cumulative effect of the errors he urges on appeal. we have concluded that there was no error, and therefore there was no cumulative error. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not for publication. johnson, j. we concur: mallano, p. j. chaney, j. 