filed 3/5/12 p. v. clark ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. marque clark, defendant and appellant. b224510 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma036250) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. lisa m. chung, judge. reversed in part and affirmed in part as modified. verna wefald, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, pamela c. hamanaka, assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii and roberta l. davis, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________________ 2 marque clark appeals from a judgment entered after a jury convicted him of multiple sex crimes against a child under 14 years of age and more than 10 years younger than him.1 he contends that the trial court committed reversible error when it declined to suppress his confession (statements he made after he took a polygraph examination and was told he failed it).2 clark argues that his confession was involuntary and its admissionconfessionwas error. we disagree and affirm the judgment as modified, after correction of sentencing errors. background 1. evidence at trial the crimes on august 29, 2006, 10-year-old kirsten b. and her father went to the mall. mall, kirsten bought a ticket for the movie barnyard and went inside the theater showing that movie. her father went to his office. not long after kirsten started watching the movie, she a received a text message she could attend a birthday party happening there. kirsten exited the theater while the movie was still playing. as she left, she saw a man standing at the back of the theater. when kirsten reached the front office, she learned that the birthday party had been cancelled. she headed back to the theater. as kirsten approached the doors to the theater where barnyard was playing, she saw a man walking around. he was dressed like the man who had been standing at the back of the theater when she left. according to the investigating officer on the case, kirsten stated that the man was wearing a white shirt with some kind of logo on it and dark blue jogging pants with white stripes on them. at trial, kirsten identified the man walking around outside the theater as clark. 1 the age difference between victim and defendant is an element of some of the crimes. 2 no evidence was admitted regarding the fact that clark took a polygraph examination. 3 clark grabbed kirsten started kicking and screaming. clark took kirsten into an empty theater where the movie step up was showing. as he carried her down the aisle of the theater, she mouth. as kirsten tried to fight clark off, one of her fake fingernails fell off. clark carried kirsten through a door behind the movie screen and into a small hallway with stairs which led to a fire escape. kirsten took her cell phone out of her her into a corner and touched her chest. then clark moved kirsten away from the corner and had her lie face-down on the stairs. as kirsten lay on her stomach, clark took off her shoes, socks, pants and underwear, and pulled her shirt over her head. clark asked kirsten her name. she told lse name. he asked her what would happen if she did not stop talking: feared that clark had one. she stopped talking. kirsten found it hard to understand clark when he talked. she thought he sounded like her fourth grade teacher. according to the investigating officer, kirsten compared t was finished, he told kirsten to stand in the corner and count to 30. she did. when she phone also were gone. kirsten picked up her shoes and tried to open the door that led back to the theater where the movie step up was showing. she could not open it. she ran up the stairs and 4 the next theater, but the door would not open. she continued to run until she found a door that led out of the mall. kirsten exited the mall wearing only her shirt. a mall employee who was taking a break outside saw kirsten come through the exit. the employee noticed that kirsten was said she had been raped. the employee walked kirsten back inside the mall and into a responded to the mall. kirsten went to the hospital and had a sexual assault examination. the nurse who conducted the examination took photographs of kirsten and her injuries. kirsten had an with her vagina being opened forcibly and penetrated. she had more redness in this area complained of pain and burning when she urinated. she was uncomfortable when she sat scratches on her chest,3 and her genital and anal areas. the investigation on august 29, 2006, the same day as the attack, kirsten worked with a sketch on august 30, 2006, kirsten looked at two six-pack photographic lineups. 3 according to the investigating officer, kirsten stated that she sustained the scratches on her chest during a gymnastics practice two days before the incident. she stated that the abrasion on her back was from the attack. 5 circled a picture and stated that the man looked like the attacker. at trial, kirsten testified that the man whose picture she circled was not the attacker. on september 1, 2006, kirsten looked at a third six-pack photographic lineup. tacker. a two-mile radius of the mall. one of the residents on that list was clarlived with his father in a home located about a half-mile from the mall. clark was 31 years old at the time of the attack. on september 8, 2006, deputies steven saylor and denise mccormick went to clark answered the door. saylor asked clark if his father was home. clark said that his father was at work. clark asked the deputies if they were there to inquire about the rape at the mall. mccormick asked clark why he had brought up that incident. clark stated that on tuesdays, which were his days off from work, he would go to the movies at the mall. saylor asked clark if he went to the movies on august 29, 2006, and clark said that he did. clark explained that he went to the mall alone on that day and he saw the movie idlewild, which started at 10:10 a.m. and ended at about 12:10 p.m. after the movie, he home. clark told the deputies that he was wearing a white t-shirt and black jeans on that day when he went to the mall. saylor told clark that there was a surveillance video taken at the theater on august 29, 2006. clark stated that the deputies would be able to see him standing in front of the theater where idlewild was being shown. saylor asked clark if he went into mccormick asked clark if he had worn a mustache recently. clark stated that he 6 it appeared to saylor and mccormick that clark had a speech impediment. saylor did not believe that clark had an accent. it did not seem to saylor that clark was mentally impaired or of below-average intelligence. saylor asked clark if he would give a dna sample. clark agreed, and saylor took a swab sample. mccormick took a photograph of clark while clark was standing outside on the porch of his home. the photo of clark that mccormick took on september 8, 2006 was included in a looked at the mug book, but she did not identify clark as the attacker. she identified another man. on september 13, 2006, detective ty lauderdale and sergeant joseph acevedo august the officers took a swab sample. looked up and saw clark upstairs looking down at them. clark turned away and went into a room. shortly thereafter, clark came down the stairs carrying a backpack. he walked quickly past the officers. sergeant acevedo asked clark if he was going to work. clark answered affirmatively as he continued to walk away quickly. clark walked out the door and closed it behind him. lauderdale could see clark standing outside a window next to the door. clark was pressed against the window. it appeared to lauderdale that clark was listening to their conversation with his father. where clark worked. clark was not there. they gave the dna sample they collected 7 llance video from the movie theaters and other areas in the mall from the day of the attack. the videos were played for the jury.4 the videos are time-points throughout the morning and afternoon on august 29, 2006. clark was wearing a white shirt and dark-colored pants.5 the theater video shows clark purchasing a movie ticket at 10:17 a.m. a minute later he walked toward the theater where the movie idlewild was showing. at 12:21 p.m., he walked toward the theater where the movie barnyard was showing.6 the video shows kirsten purchasing a movie ticket at 12:28 p.m. at 12:32 p.m., she entered the theater where barnyard was showing. at 12:48 p.m., clark exited the theater where step up was playing and paced the hallway outside the theater. the camera did not capture footage of kirsten leaving the theater to go meet her father, but the video shows kirsten returning to the theater area at 1:08 p.m. then the video shows a person in a white shirt moving toward the theater where the movie step up was playing. cameras outside of stores in the mall captured footage of clark walking toward the food court area of the mall at 1:22 p.m. s home to speak with him. they made an audio recording of their conversation clark questions about his trip to the movies on august 29, 2006. clark stated that he went to the movie theater at about 10:00 a.m., and saw the movie idlewild. next he went into the theater where the movie step up was showing. there were a few people in that theater. the movie was over and the credits were rolling. he left and went into the theater where the movie talladega nights was showing. he stayed there briefly and then 4 we requested from the trial court and received all of the exhibits which were admitted into evidence at trial. we reviewed all of the exhibits. 5 6 duman depicted in the surveillance video from august 29, 2006, who was shown walking toward the theater where barnyard was showing at 12:21 p.m. 8 the case and if had seen any news or newspaper reports about the case. clark stated that man who might have been wearing running or jogging pants and a white shirt with an if he had seen a man matching that description at the theater. clark stated that when he was watching the movie idlewild, a man wearing a white t-shirt and dark-colored pants came into the theater. the man left the theater before clark did. clark agreed to accompany the officers to the crime lab for a longer interview. the interview at the crime lab in the front passenger seat and mitchell sat in the back. the conversation between the three men was audio recorded. a redacted version of that recording was played for the jury. the officers asked clark about his family, where he had gone to college, how he liked his job at burger king, what movies he had seen recently, and what hobbies he had. clark answered all of their questions. he told them that he had played quarterback on his high school football team. he also told them that he liked to write short stories and was working to get them published. the conversation also included discussion about current events. the interview at the crime lab lasted just over four hours. it was audio and video recorded. a redacted version of the audio and video recording was played for the jury. mitchell interviewed clark alone at first. at the start of the interview, he informed clark that he was not in custody; he had not been arrested or detained; and he could leave if he wanted because he was there voluntarily. he asked clark to sign a form acknowledging these facts. 9 clark initially denied that he had done anything to kirsten. he told mitchell that he had never had sexual intercourse before. later in the interview, mitchell asked clark if he felt bad about what he did, and clark answered affirmatively. mitchell asked clark what he masturbate. clark agreed that it probably would have helped him avoid the situation. mitchell suggested that clark probably wanted to apologize to kirsten. clark agreed. mitchell asked clark what he would say to her. clark stated that he would tell ow clark agreed that he did. mitchell asked clark: do you feel bad about banging your penis up against her clarofficers where they could find it. search warrant and post-arrest investigation on september 18, 2006, the same day as the interview at the crime lab, detective seized about 50 ticket stubs for movies shown at the mall, including one for the 10:05 a.m. showing of idlewild on august 29, 2006, and six newspapers with front-page phone in 10 on september 19, 2006, deputy john mayfield interviewed clark in a holding cell rights. mayfield asked clark if he understood his rights and if he wanted to talk. clark paused before he responded. he inquired about what mayfield planned to ask him. mayfield told clark that he wanted to talk to him about the items found in his bedroom questions, clark admitted that the ticket stubs and newspapers were his. he told victimovie theater and asked her if she wanted to have sex, and she agreed to have sex with him. clark stated that they walked into an empty theater, he took off her clothes, they mayfield asked clark how the victim was able to leave if clark had kept her wrong. he got nervous and deci mayfield told clark he did not believe that a 10-year-old girl would agree to have sex. clark responded that he thought kirsten was 13. she saw a report about the case. the news program broadcast a photograph of clark. kirsten told her mother that she did not think the person in the photograph looked like the person who had attacked her. nalist determined that 11 one in 2.1 million black persons, one in 55 million white persons and one in 81.9 million est. clark was excluded as a on the phone. 2. verdicts and sentence the jury found clark guilty of forcible rape (pen. code,  261, subd. (a)(2);7 count 1), forcible lewd or lascivious act upon a child under 14 years of age ( 288, subd. (b)(1); count 2), sodomy of a person under 14 years of age and at least 10 years younger than the defendant ( 286, subd. (c)(1); count 3), aggravated sexual assault of a person under 14 years of age and at least 10 years younger than the defendant ( 269, subd. (a)(1); count 4), kidnapping to commit rape ( 209, subd. (b)(1); count 5), and criminal threats ( 422; count 6). with respect to counts 1-3, the jury found true the special allegation that the kidnapping of the victim substantially increased the risk of harm to her, within the meaning of section 667.61, subdivisions (a) and (d). with respect to counts 1 and 3, the jury found true the special allegation that clark kidnapped the victim to commit the crime, within the meaning of section 667.8, subdivision (b). the trial court sentenced clark to indeterminate and determinate terms. on count 2, the court sentenced clark to 25 years to life and stayed the sentence on the kidnapping enhancement. on count 4, the court sentenced clark to a consecutive term of 15 years to life. the court stayed the indeterminate term on count 1. on count 5, the court sentenced clark to a life term to be served concurrently with the sentence on count 2. the total indeterminate term is 40 years to life. 7 further statutory references are to the penal code. 12 on count 3, the trial court sentenced clark to the high term of eight years plus a consecutive 15-year term for the kidnapping enhancement under section 667.8, subdivision (b). on count 6, the court sentenced clark to a consecutive term of eight months (one-third the mid-term). the court stayed the determinate term on count 1. the total determinate term, to be served before the indeterminate term, is 23 years and eight months. discussion voluntariness of statements clark contends that any incriminating statements he made at the crime lab were involuntary, and the trial court prejudicially erred in admitting them into evidence. he also contends that the statements he made to detective mayfield the day after his involuntary statements he made at the crime lab and should have been suppressed as well. i. proceedings below declared a doubt about his mental competence. counsel believed there was information and evaluated clark and prepared written reports in this case during 2008. all of the doctors determined that clark was competent to stand trial.8 based on the reports, the trial court ruled that clark was competent to stand trial. a. the motion on october 9, 2009, clark filed a motion to suppress the results of his polygraph examination, the statements he made at the crime lab, the evidence recovered at his residence and the statements he made to detective mayfield at the jail after his arrest. clark contended that all of this evidence was obtained in violation of miranda.9 8 we have received these reports from the trial court and reviewed them. 9 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 13 miranda rights at the beginning and the conclusion of the polygraph examination, and all statements regarding his involvement in his rights . . . detective mayfield, he asserted that, even assuming detective mayfield read him his clark filed a supplemental memorandum of points and authorities in support of his motion to suppress, in which he argued that all of his statements were involuntary and must be suppressed on that basis as well. he asserted that deputy mitchell and detective threats and believed deputy mitchell and detective quinn had used. the prosecution did not file a written opposition to the motion to suppress. b. the hearing 1. recording of the polygraph examination and interview the day before the hearing, the prosecution provided the trial court with a disc -hour polygraph examination and interview at the crime lab, and a written transcript of the statements on the disc. at the outset of the hearing, the trial court stated that it had listened to the disc in its entirety. the court 10 the recording was authenticated at the hearing and admitted into evidence. the following is a summary of pertinent information from 10 reviewed the audio and video on the disc. -polygraph examination and interview at the crime lab. 14 the recording. this recording includes the portions of the interview at the crime lab which were played for the jury. at the beginning of the interview, deputy mitchell confirmed that clark was taking the polygraph examination voluntarily. mitchell asked clark to review and sign a consent form stating that fact. mitchell explained to clark that it was okay if he felt nervous because being nervous would not cause him to fail the examination. in response to mitchconsumed any alcohol in the past 24 hours and had eaten breakfast that morning. during s job the books he read and movies he enjoyed. mitchell asked clark if he was a good person. clark answered affirmatively. mitchell also asked clark if he believed that sometimes good people make mistakes. perfect. mitchell asked clark if his him that. told mitchell that none of the other officers had asked him if he had done anything to the victim. clark of having sex with her daughter. clark stated that he would tell her she had the mitchell asked clark what should happen to a person who puts something in a ark responded that if it was a first-time offense, and the man had a clean record, the man should be punished but not too harshly. clark believed that if the man had assaulted another girl in the past, then 15 might help the first-time offender, and clark agreed. clark again denied that he had mitchell asked clark to think about why a man might have sex with a young girl in the back of a movie theater. clark indicated that the man might have had an urge, but did not know it until he acted upon it. mitchell stated that he would review the examination questions with clark before they started the polygraph test. mitchell explained to clark how a polygraph test works, would happen if he did not take the test. but mitchell suggested that if clark declined to take the test, it would probably make the detective think that clark was the person who did it. mitchell assured clark that he was mitchell asked clark if he wanted a drink of water. clark declined, and said he felt fine. mitchell confirmed that clark had had an opportunity to use the restroom lth. clark stated that he took medication for a short-term memory problem. one of the que clark told mitchell that he was embarrassed to be discussing this topic because he instead of asking about inserting objects into the 16 before the test, clark went to the restroom. mitchell remained in the interview room. after the test was completed, mitchell told clark that he knew clark was a good person. he also told clark that he failed the test, and the reason he failed the test is that girl. does that make seconcerned about is this: do you feel sorry about what you did, and is it going to happen we will not summarize here the incriminating statements that clark made to mitchell during the interview regarding his remorse for what he did, because they are set forth above in the section of the opinion discussing the evidence that the jury heard at trial. clark asked i mitchell asked if clark had ever assaulted a girl before. clark stated that this was could go back, he would leave the theater without assaulting kirsten. stated that he threw it all away. mitchell indicated that he believed clark was not telling him everythi mitchell told clark that they were going to take a break. he asked clark if he wanted a glass of water. clark said he was not thirsty. mitchell stated that the detective 17 -- hell reiterated that clark failed the test. mitchell left the interview room. explain to him how the assault occurred. clark did not tell him anything about the assault at that clark had assaulted the victim. at some point, mitchell reentered the room and stated that both he and the detective knew that clark had done it. out is this a guy that i need to worry about doing this again, or is this a guy who made a one--- -- am i going to be placed undnot -year-old day weekend. clark denied that he did that. clark said that he threw away the phone the same day the assault occurred. clark complied. ted that he had brought the phone inside his house a few times and then left it outside. he told the officers where they could find the phone outside his house. he also admitted that he had turned the phone on and off three times. clark explained that hand then threw them away. 18 2. testimony of officers mitchell to testify at the detective mayfield testified first. he interviewed clark at the lancaster jail. he did not record the interview. prior to the interview he advised clark of his miranda rights. mayfield did not read the rights. he gave them from memory. mayfield asked clark if he understood his rights and if he wanted to talk to mayfield. there was a pause wanted to talk about. mayfield explained that he wanted to talk about items found during mayfield stated that his interview with clark lasted 30 to 40 minutes. mayfield did not prepare a statement for clark to review. mayfield testified that he did not threaten clark or make him any promises during the interview. mayfield did not perceive that clark was having difficulty understanding the questions or that clark had lark did not complain about anything during the interview. home on september 18, 2006, and spoke to him about his visit to the movies and the mall surveillance footage which appeared to show him at the movie theater. the officers showed clark and his stepmother a surveillance photograph from the theater. both identified clark as the man in the photo. ioning clark promised anything, prior to the polygraph examination and interview. 19 accepted. clark sat in the front passenger seat of the unmarked car. the officers were wearing plain clothes. as discussed above, the three men talked during the drive about to write short stories. clark told the officers that he had completed the 11th grade in high deputy mitchell took clark into an interview room. interviewed clark. the officers made an audio and video recording of the entire clark locked in the interview room. when clark took a bathroom break, he went alone. he was not escorted to the restroom by an officer. miranda rights during the polygraph the decision to arrest clark at the end of the interview when clark admitted that he had lt clark that evidence recoversearch warrant after the interview. he stated that he received the results of the dna 20 11 deputy mitchell was the final witness to testify at the hearing. he administered the polygraph examination. before he began the test, he asked clark to sign a consent form.12 he observed clark read and sign the form. the consent form states that clark was not in custody at the time of the polygraph examination, the examination was voluthe bottom. mitchell stated that one of the control questions on the polygraph examination was whether clark had ever lon someone to get them to say no to those questions. and the reason being . . . is because t there were mitchell explained that, after reviewing the charts from the examination, he formed the opinion that clark was being deceptive when he responded to questions about hat clark would feel more comfortable talking to him. 11 12 we have reviewed this exhibit. 21 in the car on the way to the crime lab on september 18, 2006. the court marked the disc 13 the recording was authenticated and admitted into evidence at the car which were played for the jury. the trial court ruled on the miranda issue first. the court explained that, the fact clark submitted to a polygraph test and was told that he failed it, did not necessarily mean that he was in custody and needed to be given miranda warnings. the court found that the polygraph examination was voluntary. clark had acknowledged this verbally and in writing when he signed the consent form. the court looked at the totality of the circumstances in evaluating whether a reasonable person would have believed he was in custody. the court considered the location of the interview, the lack of indicia of arrest, the length of the interview, the ratio the officers both in transporting him and during the course of the interview appear to be respectful. there were no raised voices. i did not detect any particular distress in watchilow intelligence to the point where he could not comprehend his surroundings or what wa the court concluded that clark should have been given miranda warnings the second time he asked whether he was going to be placed under arrest, and the detective t found that a reasonable person would not have felt free to leave at that point. the court ruled 13 22 case in chief. the court next ruled on the voluntariness of the entire interview at the crime lab. or water. the record is clear on the cd that the tone was respectful, that he was offered many times the use of a bathroom, whether he was thirsty, even though at times he declined a drink of water. but that did happen at least four times during the cou s office is somehow moreover, the court explained that even if the search warrant was based on statements obtained in violation of miranda, the search warrant was not invalid because the faith violatiopurposely withheld miranda warnings until after the defendant confessed. accordingly, with was not tainted by the miranda were voluntary. moreover, evidence demonstrated that prior to the interview at the jail, mayfield advised clark of his miranda rights and clark waived those rights. the court able to waive them, and he did. there was no evidence that i heard that he was under the influence of alcohol or drugs, that there was anything about his speech or intelligence that 23 ii. legal principles introduced into evidence at trial unless the prosecution proves by a preponderance of the evidence that it was voluntary. [citations.] a confession or admission is involuntary, and thus subject to exclusion at trial, only if it is the product of coercive police activity. ultimate legal issue of voluntariness. [citation.] but any factual findings by the trial review under the deferential substantial evidence standard. [citation.] crucial element of police coercion [citation]; the length of the interrogation [citation]; its (people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 635, 659-people v. mays (2009) 174 cal.app.4th 156, 164.) it was given nor the fact the defendant was told by the test giver it revealed in his opinion the defendant was not telling the truth, inherently people v. mays, supra, 174 psychological ploy is prohibited only when, in light of all the circumstances, it is so coercive that it tends to result in a statement that is both people v. mays, supra, 174 cal.app.4th at p. 164.) re to admonish [a defendant about his miranda rights] does not render a people v. brewer (2000) 81 cal.app.4th 442, 456.) 24 where statements are voluntary and not coerced, they may be used as the basis for a search warrant even if the statements were obtained in violation of miranda. (id. at pp. 454-455.) moreover, voluntary and noncoerced statements obtained in violation of miranda will not taint subsequent statements which are obtained after proper miranda warnings are given. (oregon v. elstad (1985) 470 u.s. 298, 308-miranda people v. brewer, supra, 81 cal.app.4th at p. 454.) iii. analysis clark challenges the admission of incriminating statements he made at the crime lab based on his claim that those statements were involuntary. he has made clear in his appellate reply brief that he is not arguing that any statements were admitted at trial in violation of mirandamiranda violation occurred during the interview at the crime lab. we do not find this to be a close case on the issue of voluntariness. a review of the record makes clear that the interview at the crime lab was voluntary. clark was 31 years old at the time of the interview. he told the officers he had completed the 11th grade in high school, was the quarterback on his high school football team and had attended some college classes. he enjoyed writing short stories and reading books, such as stephen king novels. in short, the record demonstrates that he was mature and intelligent enough to consent to the interview. furthermore, his stepmother supported his decision to take the polygraph test. clark raised no disagreement when his stepmother indicated she thought it was a good idea for him to take the test. to the extent clark had a mental disability which would have had some bearing on the issue of voluntariness, it was not evident from the audio or video recording and he did not present evidence of such a disability. he told the officers that he took medication for short-term memory loss but did not present evidence that the medication, or a failure to 25 take the medication at certain intervals, would have influenced his ability to consent to the interview or to function during the interview.14 he was not forced to go. he rode there without restraints in unmarked car. at the crime lab, mitchell explained to clark that the interview and polygraph examination were voluntary. clark reviewed, initialed and signed a consent form stating that he was not in custody, the polygraph examination was voluntary and he could stop the examination at any time. inherently coercive under california law. (people v. mays, supra, 174 cal.app.4th at p. 166.) moreover, an exatest does not automatically transform a voluntary interview into an involuntary one. (ibid.) although the interview was long, lasting four hours, clark never complained about any discomfort. he told mitchell that he had slept for six hours the night before and had eaten breakfast that morning. mitchell repeatedly asked clark if he was okay, if he wanted a drink and if needed to use the restroom. mitchell also offered clark breaks. considering the totality of the circumstances, we do not find the interview to be coercive home or in a neutral setting. calm as they interviewed clark. they did not threaten him or promise him leniency. we do not implied promise that clark would not face other punishment if he had in fact assaulted kirsten. 14 clark references the fact that a doubt was declared about his competency and the criminal proceedings were suspended for a time. all of the doctors who evaluated clark in this case found him competent to stand trial. thus, the competency issue is not evidence tendin 26 psychological ploy is prohibited only when, in light of all the circumstances, it is so coercive that it tends to result in a statement that is both involuntary and unreliable. people v. mays, supra, 174 cal.app.4th at p. 164.) the interview was not admonish [a defendant about his miranda rights] does not render a statement involuntary people v. brewer, supra, 81 cal.app.4th at p. 456.) considering the totality of the circumstances, we find that the entire interview at opeople v. mays, supra, 174 cal.app.4th at p. 164.) made to detective mayfield at the jail are dependent on his claim that the incriminating statements he made at the crime lab were involuntary and coerced. because the statements at the crime lab were voluntary and not coerced, the evidence recovered at ove, voluntary and noncoerced statements may be used as the basis for a search warrant even if the statements were obtained in violation of miranda. (people v. mays, supra, 174 cal.app.4th at pp. 164-165.) moreover, voluntary and noncoerced statements obtained in violation of miranda do not taint subsequent statements which are obtained after proper miranda warnings are given. (oregon v. elstad, supra, 470 u.s. at pp. 308-311.) substantial evidence demonstrates that mayfield advised clark of his miranda rights and that clark knowingly and intelligently waived those rights. 27 sentencing issues this court sent letters to the parties asking them to file supplemental briefing addressing the legality of the sentence imposed by the trial court, including issues regarding the fines and fees imposed. i. background as set forth above, the trial court sentenced clark to indeterminate and determinate terms. the court pronounced the indeterminate terms first. on count 2 for forcible lewd or lascivious act upon a child under 14 years of age ( 288, subd. (b)(1)), the court sentenced clark to 25 years to life under section 667.61, subdivisions (a) and a term of nine years on the kidnapping enhancement under section 667.8, subdivision (a). on count 4 for aggravated sexual assault of a person under 14 years of age and at least 10 years younger than the defendant ( 269, subd. (a)(1)), the court sentenced clark to a consecutive term of 15 years to life. on count 1 for forcible rape ( 261, subd. (a)(2)), the court imposed and stayed the indeterminate term of 25 years to life under section 667.61, subdivisions (a) and (d). on count 5 for kidnapping to commit rape ( 209, subd. (b)(1), the court sentenced clark to a life term to be served concurrently with the sentence on count 2. the total indeterminate term is 40 years to life. on count 3 for sodomy of a person under 14 years of age and at least 10 years younger than the defendant ( 286, subd. (c)(1)), the trial court sentenced clark to the high term of eight years plus a consecutive 15-year term for the kidnapping enhancement under section 667.8, subdivision (b). on count 6 for criminal threats ( 422), the court sentenced clark to a consecutive term of eight months (one-third the mid-term). on count 1 for forcible rape, the court imposed and stayed the upper term of eight years for the offense plus a nine-year term for the kidnapping enhancement under section 667.8, subdivision (a). the total determinate term, to be served before the indeterminate term, is 23 years and eight months. 28 ii. issues raised by the attorney general in her opening letter brief, the attorney general pointed out four sentencing errors that must be correctejudgment proposed by the attorney general. first, the kidnapping enhancement imposed and stayed on count 2 under section 667.8, subdivision (a), must be reversed and stricken. the enhancement was not alleged shall be alleged in the accusatory pleading and either admitted by the defendant in open over, the statute does not provide for imposition of this enhancement on a conviction for forcible lewd or lascivious act upon a child under 14 years of age ( 288, subd. (b)(1)), the crime charged in count 2. ( 667.8, subd. (a).) second, the 25-years-to-life term imposed and stayed on count 1 under section 667.61, subdivisions (a) and (d), must be stricken. at the time the trial court imposed and stayed this term, it already had imposed a term of 25 years to life under section 667.61, subdivisions (a) and (d), on count 2. when clark committed these offenses on august specified in subdivision (a) or (b) shall be imposed on the defendant once for any offense or offenses commpeople v. jones (2001) 25 cal.4th 98, 107.) as the trial court stated on the record (and the attorney general 15 15 we do not disturb the remainder of the sentence the trial court imposed and stayed on count 1: the upper term of eight years for the offense plus a nine-year term for the kidnapping enhancement under section 667.8, subdivision (a). 29 third, the concurrent life term that the trial court imposed on count 5 for kidnapping to commit rape under section 209, subdivision (b)(1), must be stayed. under (b) and section 667.61. however, a person may not be punished under subdivision (b) and section 667.61 for the same act that constitutes a violation of both subdivision (b) this term, it already had imposed a term of 25 years to life under section 667.61, subdivisions (a) and (d), committed one act of kidnapping. as the attorney general notes in her opening letter and into the secluded fourth, the kidnapping enhancement imposed on count 3 under section 667.8, was the fact used to impose the sentence of 25 years to life on count 2. the same fact could not be used to enhance the sentence on count 3. the court sentenced clark to a consecutive 15-year term for the kidnapping enhancement on count 3. with these modifications, the total indeterminate term remains 40 years to life. the total determinate term is reduced from 23 years and eight months to eight years and eight months. neither the attorney general nor clark argues that remand for resentencing is required based on these issues raised by the attorney general. iii. issues raised by clark a. consecutive term on count 4 in his opening letter brief, clark raises one sentencing issue. he contends that the trial court erred in imposing the sentence on count 4 to run consecutively with the sentence on count 2. the attorney general discussed in her responding letter brief. in count 2, clark was convicted of forcible lewd or lascivious act upon a child 30 fondlina person under 14 years of age and at least 10 years younger than the defendant. ( 269, the trial court imposed consecutive terms under section 667.6, subdivision (d), for each violation of an offense specified in subdivision (e) if the crimes involve separate victistatute. ( 667.6, subd. (d).) he argues that the court erred in imposing consecutive terms because the offense in count 4, aggravated sexual assault of a person under 14 years of age and at least 10 years younger than the defendant ( 269, subd. (a)(1)), is not specified in subdivision (e). the offense in count 2, a violation of section 288, subdivision (b) (lewd or lascivious act), is one of the offenses listed in section 667.6, subdivision (e). ( 667.6, subd. (e)(5).) as clark points out, the offense in count 4, a violation of section 269 (aggravated sexual assault of a child), is not one of the offenses listed in section 667.6, subdivision (e). clark does not dispute that count 4 was based on his act of raping kirsten. ( 269, subd. (a)(1).) a violation of section 261 (rape) is one of the offenses listed in section 667.6, subdivision (e). ( 667.6, subd. (e)(3).) in people v. jimenez (2000) 80 cal.app.4th 286, 291-292, the court of appeal aggravated sexual assault of a child based on acts of sodomy ( 269, subd. (a)(3)) pursuant to section 667.6, subdivision (d), even though a violation of section 269 is not one of the offenses listed in section 667.6, subdivision (e). the appellate court explained: 667.6, subdivision (d) does not explicitly provide that it applies to violations of section 269. however, he makes too much of this omission, ignoring the fact that violation of section 286 is one of the predicate offenses of section 269; one committing a forcible sodomy offense with the prescribed age disparity violates section 269. when the jury found defendant had violated section 269 under the 31 circumstances presented here, it necessarily found he had violated section 286 and he had done so by force or fear. thus, the factual predicate necessary to apply section 667.6, id. at p. 291; see also people v. glass sex crimes listed in section 667.6. however, . . . each of the crimes listed in section 269 is also listed in section 667.6. nonetheless, the bill analysis for section 269 from the assembly committee on public safety specifically refers to the applicability of section 667.6 to section 269 crimes. [citation.] it appears, therefore, that the legislature anticipated that a defendant convicted of violating section 269 would be subject to the sentencing requirements of section 667.6, even though section 269 was not listed in the trial court did not err in imposing the sentence on count 4 to run consecutively with the sentence on count 2. when the jury found clark guilty on count 4 in violation of section 269, subdivision (a)(1), it necessarily found beyond a reasonable doubt that he had raped kirsten. rape is one of the offenses listed in section 667.6, subdivision (e). therefore, a consecutive sentence was permissible under section 667.6, subdivision (d). as the court of appeal reasoned in people v. jimenez, supra, 80 cal.app.4th at page commit multiple violent sexual offenses would be exempt from the aggravated punishment prescribed by section 667.6 merely because their victims happened to be 16 b. fines and fees we asked the parties to address any issues regarding the imposition of fines and fees in their responding letter briefs. clark raised two such issues. 16 people v. goodliffe (2009) 177 cal.app.4th 723 is misplaced. there, the court of appeal held that the trial court erred in imposing a full, consecutive term under 667.6, subdivision (c), for a violation of section 288, subdivision (b) (lewd or lascivious act), because the crime did not involve the same victim on the same occasion as required under section 667.6, subdivision (c). (id. at p. 732.) that is not the issue before us. 32 first, he contends that the trial court erred in imposing fines under section 290.3, subdivision (a), because the court did not make a finding on whether he had the ability to pay. the court applied the version of section 290.3, subdivision (a), in effect at the time offense specified in subdivision (c) of section 290 shall, in addition to any imprisonment or fine, or both, imposed for commission of the underlying offense, be punished by a fine of two hundred dollars ($200) upon the first conviction or a fine of three hundred dollars ($300) upon the second and each subsequent conviction, unless the court determines that the defendant does not have the abitrial court stated that it was imposing a total fine of $1,400 for the five convictions of sexual offenses.17 the defendant has the burden of proving inability to pay this fine. (people v. waltz (2008) 160 cal.app.4th 1364, 1371; people v. mcmahan (1992) 3 cal.app.4th 740, 749-750.) clark did not assert below that he did not have the ability to pay. he has forfeited this claim. (people v. mcmahan, supra, 3 cal.app.4th at pp. 749-750.) second, clark contends that the trial court erred in imposing the maximum restitution fine of $10,000 under section 1202.4, subdivision (b), because the court did not make a finding on whether he had the ability to pay. a trial court exercises its discretion in setting the amount of this fine. ( 1202.4, subd. (b)(1).) at the time clark in setting a felony restitution fine, the court may determine the amount of the fine as the product of two hundred dollars ($200) multiplied by the number of years of imprisonment the defendant is ordered to serve, multiplied by the number of felony counts of which the 17 the abstract of judgment and minute order from the april 20, 2010 sentencing hearing indicate that the trial court imposed a total fine of $1,700, including $300 on the criminal threats conviction (count 6). this fine is not applicable to the criminal threats conviction. (see,  290, subd. (c), 290.3, subd. (a).) we order the trial court to correct this error. 33 abov( 1202.4, subd. (d).) the defendant bears the burden of demonstrating inability to pay. (ibid.) not assert below that he did not have the ability to pay. we cannot find that the trial court abused its discretion in imposing the maximum fine under section 1202.4, subdivision (b). disposition the 25-years-to-life term imposed and stayed on count 1 under section 667.61, subdivisions (a) and (d), is stricken. the kidnapping enhancement imposed and stayed on count 2 under section 667.8, subdivision (a), is reversed and stricken. the kidnapping enhancement imposed on count 3 under section 667.8, subdivision (b), is ordered stayed. the concurrent life term imposed on count 5 is ordered stayed. the abstract of judgment and minute order from the april 20, 2010 sentencing hearing shall be corrected to reflect a total fine of $1,400 under section 290.3, subdivision (a); any reference to a $300 fine on count 6 under section 290.3, subdivision (a), shall be eliminated. as so modified, the judgment is affirmed. the clerk of the superior court is directed to prepare an amended abstract of judgment and to forward it to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published. chaney, j. we concur: mallano, p. j. johnson, j. 