 filed 3/15/12 p. v. barajas ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose angel barajas, jr., defendant and appellant. b226353 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga077751) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. laura f. priver, judge. reversed with directions. trisha newman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, chung l. mar and viet h. nguyen, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 the case and the facts defendant and appellant jose barajas, jr. was convicted of threatening his wife with violence immediately after he was released from custody for earlier domestic violence. his appeal challenges the determination that his prior conviction qualified as a serious felony under the three strikes law, that it must agree unanimously on which specific statements constitute the threat underlying each of its verdicts, and the absence of a jury instruction on the lesser included offense of attempted criminal threat. certain of his contentions will require reversal of the judgment and remand for resentencing or retrial. 1. the facts1 jose and yvonne barajas had been married for nine years, and they had an eight-year-old son. on august 27, 2009 yvonne picked jose up upon his release from the glen oak fire camp, following his incarceration in mid-2007 for violence against her in december 2006. she expected him to stay with her and their son for a day or so until he during that afternoon jose and yvonne purchased food and other items, they picked their son ucell phone to talk to other family members, yvonne purchased him a prepaid cell phone. they then went to a park, intending to meet with other relatives. she told jose when she had pickdrink because in the past when he drank he became violent. while at the park, and bphone rang. jose tried to answer it as an incoming call, but yvonne identified the distinctive ringtone for a text message and took back the phonebut not before jose had seen that the sender had a m 1 we recite the facts presented at trial in the light most favorable to the judgment, unless otherwise appropriate to consider issues of law. 3 the sender was the friend of her cousin, and that she did not know why she would be on his group-message list. jose kept pressing her, becoming increasingly angry and accusing her of lying to him. repeatedlythrew her phone, hitting her shin. yvonne was crying and was scared of being hit by jose, or of having him drive erratically. although she let the incident pass, she again became upset when at their destination their seven-year-old son got out of the car, threw a water bottle at the car, and told jose not to yell at yvonne anymore. jose had wanted to buy beer at a 7-eleven at which they had stopped before going ave toowhich they both did. both yvonne and jose returned to the house soon afterward, however, when jose told yvonne on the phone that he was unable to buy beer because he lacked identification. after exchanging apologies, yvonne reentered the home and put the child back to bed. she then went to bed, and jose stayed up to listen to music. sometime during the night jose joined yvonne in bed, at least partially at her invitation. during their ensuing conversation, jose told her that he did not care that he was breaking her ed it in jail and he liked the fights and just the later, they had sex, and yvonne slept. when yvonne awoke, jose was gone. when she reached him on the phone, he that he was sorry. (yvonne was uncertain whether he was referring to his inability to continue with their marriage, his inability to live outside of jail, or some other thing.) he chool clothes. during 4 the ensuing exchange of many phone calls, jose admitted he had been drinking, and yvonne threatened to call his parole officer. sometime in the mid-while she took a shower. that resulted in jose asking angrily why she had not answered jose told yvonne that he was coming fearing violence, yvonne left the house. at another point, however, she testified that was going to kick yvonne went to the local police department to find out whether she could have jose pick up his clothes there instead of at her house; during this process jose continued to call her on the phone (from five to eight times). on her way home to meet the police jose also threatened to kick the ass of a mutual friend from whom yvonne had borrowed $20 in order to pick jose up the previous day. yvonne was scared; she returned to the police station and spoke with a number of officers. by the time yvonne returned to her home a number of patrol cars and officers while the police entered, apparently through the rear door. during all this time, yvonne continued to receive multiple telephone calls from jose, asking her to meet him at various locations and seeking return of the money he had left her. she did not answer many of his calls, and hung up on others. in one of the calls jose asked her how she could have called the police to her homeindicating to her that he was nearby, which scared her. when yvonne eventually was able to enter her home, she found the back door still there, and almost everything seemed undisturbed. 5 during a phone conversation soon after his arrest, yvonne told jose that she knew he had kicked in the back door to enter her house while she was gone, because nothing was missing. he denied damaging the door, but when she yelled at him for breaking her o that effect. within the next two weeks yvonne moved to another home, out of fear jose would be released and would return to her home. she did not give jose her new address. between his arrest and his trialtypically about 10 times a day, but once over 150 times in one day. she had answered only some of his calls.2 during some of the calls she had answered, jose had asked for her new address, and had asked that she not appear in court to testify against him. yvonne had refused to agreed not to do so when she sought help from the witness relocation services through the yvonne also testified that on six or seven previous occasions jose had threatened violence and had struck her and their child, resulting in earlier restraining orders and arrests. 2. the case jose was charged in counts 1 and 2 of an information with making criminal threats against yvonne (pen. code,  422), and in count three with vandalism (pen. code,  594, subd (a)).3 the information also alleged as to counts 1 and 2 that during the five-year period before his offenses jose had been imprisoned for prior felony convictions, within the meaning of -(i); 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d).) 2 received evidmany of which she received; and the jury heard recorded portions of about 10 of those conversations in which jose apparently had admitted certain conduct on the days leading to his arrest, and had asked yvonne not to appear to testify at his trial. 3 all statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 6 the alleged prior convictions were for battery with serious bodily injury ( 243, subd. (d), petty theft with a prior theft conviction ( 666), and burglary (459). jose pleaded not guilty and denied the alleged prior convictions.4 after a three-day trial and one hour of deliberation, a jury convicted jose of criminal threats as alleged in counts 1and 2, and acquitted him of the vandalism charged in count 3. jose waived jury trial as to the prior conviction allegations. under section 243, subdivision (d)battery with serious bodily injurywas a serious felony constituting a strike under section 667, subdivisions (b) through (i) and section the strike (people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497), and found the allegations under sections 667 and 667.5 to be true. the trial court sentenced jose to the two-year middle term on count 1, doubled to four years for the strike; on count 2 it sentenced him to a consecutive eight-month term, doubled to 16 months for the strike; and for the enhancement under section 667, subdivision (a), it sentenced him to five years, consecutive to the sentences for counts 1 and 2. the total resulting sentence was for a state prison term of 10 years and four months (adjusted for credits, plus applicable fines and fees). jose filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion jose does not challenge the sufficiency of the evidence to support the verdicts.5 on appeal he argues that (1) the evidence was insufficient to support the determination 4 before trial, jose moved to suppress evidence ( 1538.5), and filed two successive pitchess motions seeking discovery (from two separate police departments) of records regarding false testimony and police reports. (pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531.) both pitchess motions were granted, but the resulting in camera examinations each yielded no discoverable information. the suppression motion was taken off calendar. 5 because jose did not testify, the evidence contained no denial that he had made the count 1 and count 2 threats; and some of his recorded telephone conversations apparently 7 that his prior conviction was for a serious felony, under the three strikes law; (2) the trial court erred by refusing his request for a unanimity instruction to the jury; and (3) as to the criminal threat counts, the trial court erred by failing to instruct the jury, sua sponte, on the lesser included offense of attempted criminal threat. we conclude that certain of these contentions require reversal of the judgment, and remand to the trial court for resentencing or retrial. i. the evidence presented to the trial court is insufficient to support the a serious felony under the three strikes law. under the three strikes law set forth in sections 667, subdivisions (b) through (i) and 1170.12, subdivisions (a) through (d), a prior conviction of a serious or violent felony requires the imposition of specified sentencing enhancements. in this case, the trial court found that jose had suffered a prior conviction under section 243, subdivision (d), and that the conviction was a serious felony constituting a strike under section 667, subdivisions (b) through (i) and section 1170.12, subdivisions (a) through (d). on that basis it found the allegations under sections 667 and 667.5 to be true, and imposed the enhancements required by the three strikes law.6 t 667, contained either explicit or implicit admissions that he made the statements attributed to him. did not argue to the jury that jose had not threatened yvonne as she testified. instead she argued that yvonne had not felt genuine fear resulting from his statements, and that some of his statements should not be seen as admissions of criminal conduct. the recorded telephone conversations, both provide substantial detail that supports each of the elements of the crimes charged. because jose does not challenge the sufficiency of the evidence to support the verdicts it is unnecessary for us to recount that detail here. 6 jose stipulated that he had suffered the prior conviction, but not that it constituted a strike. 8 subd. (d), 1170.12, subd. (b); see people v. reed (1995) 33 cal.app.4th 1608, 1611-1612 [language of  667, subd. (d) and 1170.12 subd. (b)(1) are essentially the same].) section 667.5, subdivision (c), defines 23 categories of felonies that constitfelonies, but it does not identify a conviction under section 243, subdivision (d), as only if a conviction under section 243, subdivision (d), is defined in section 1192.7 as a it is. of harm on hera non-accomplicerespondent concedes that her testimony is not competent to establish the truth of the prior conviction allegation. (people v. trujillo k only to the record of the conviction].) the upshot of these rules is that in order to classify that crime as a serious felony conviction under section 243 constituted a strike, the court had to determine that appellant could have been convicted of that offense only if he personally inflicted great bodily harm on someone other than an accomplice. and for that determination, the court could look only to the facts on which the prior conviction was based. it could not look to that the conviction actually rested on evidence beyond what was required for the convictionin this case, evidence that the injury had been personally inflicted by jose, and its victim had been a non-accomplice. but those records were sufficient only to establish the conviction for battery with great bodily injury ( 243, subd. (d)); they contained nothing to show that jose had personally 9 inflicted bodily injury on a non-accomplice victim, as would be required to establish that division (c)(8). the people v. rodriguez (1998) 17 cal.4th 253, 261 [conviction for that great bodily injury was personally inflicted by the defendant].) respondent concedes that for these reasons the record contains no support for the constituted a strike, and that finding must be reversed. the matter will be remanded for retrial on the prior conviction allegation. (people v. barragan (2004) 32 cal.4th 236, 241 [strike allegation may be retried after reversal of finding for insufficient evidence].) ii. the trial court did not err in not instructing the jury on its duty to agree unanimously on the specific acts constituting the offense. in order to convict a defendant, the jury must agree unanimously that the defendant is guilty of specific acts constituting the charged crime. (people v. russo (2001) 25 cal.4th 1124, 1132.) thus when a defendant is charged with one criminal act, ither must instruct the jury on this unanimity requirement, or the prosecution must elect which of the possible criminal acts shown by the evidence constitute the basis for the charges, and it must inform the jury of that election. (people v. melhado (1998) 60 cal.app.4th 1529, 1534; people v. russo, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 1132; people v. jones (1990) 51 cal.3d 294, 321.) the purpose behind this rule is to the defendant without a unanimous jury determination of his or her guilt of any one of the multiple alleged criminal acts. (people v. deletto (1983) 147 cal.app.3d 458, 472. the risk that the jury might fail to unanimously agree on the criminal acts on which the conviction rests is not universally present in every instance in which there is evidence showing multiple criminal acts, however. where it is clear from the recordthat there is no substantial likelihood of juror 10 disagreement about which particular acts support the verdicts, no unanimity instruction is required. (people v. jones, supra, 51 cal.3d at pp. 321-322.) jose requested that the trial court instruct the jury on its obligation to unanimously agree on the specific acts that form the basis for its verdicts in this case. the trial court held that its decision with respect to the unanimity instruction would rest on how the which one of which could form the basis, then i would agree the defense is entitled to the which it relied to establish each of the charged threats, the trial court refused the request for a unanimity instruction.7 on the general principles concerning the circumstances under which a defendant is entitled to a unanimity instruction of the sort requested by jose, the parties agree. they disagree, however, on whether the specific acts that were being relied upon to support the criminal threat charges against jose in this case were in fact clearly identified for the jury. we conclude that if the record shows that the prosecutor clearly communicated to the jury the specific discrete acts relied upon to support the criminal threat charges, and that there is no reasonable possibility that the jury might disagree as to the particular acts for which jose was convicted, the trial refusal to instruct the jury on its unanimity obligation was not error. (people v. jones, supra, 51 cal.3d at pp. 321-directly inform the jurors of his election and of their concomitant duties, it was error for 7 although the trial court did not instruct the jury that it must unanimously agree on the specific acts that form the basis for its verdicts on each count, it did give the standard us. this means that to return a verdict, all of you 11 the judge to refuse a unanimity instruction in the first instance and to disregard his sua people v. melhado, supra, 60 cal.app.4th at p. 1536.) jose argues on appeal that the evidence of multiple threats created the possibility that jurors might disagree about the particular acts constituting the criminal threats with which he was charged. he argues that the specific acts constituting the charged threats were not clearly identified for the jury, and that the jurors were not told of their duty to reach unanimous agreement with respect to those acts. he argues that his count 1 and count 2 convictions for the criminal threats therefore must be reversed, because the error in failing to instruct the jury on its unanimity obligation was not harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. melhado, supra, 60 cal.app.4th at p. 1536, relying on chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24.)8 we conclude that the evidence left no room for doubt about the specific acts on august 27th on which the count 1charge was based. although the evidence arguably could be interpreted to show that jose made more than one actionable threat on august 28th, giving rise to a theoretical possibility that jurors could have disagreed about which particular statements constituted the threat charged in count 2, we conclude that the record in this case reveals no realistic or reasonable likelihood that the jurors were less than unanimous in their agreement on which particular statements constituted the threat charged in count 2. on the record in this case, the unanimity instruction requested by jose therefore was unnecessary, and its absence was of no practical consequence. 8 the chapman v. california conviction except upon proof beyond a reasonable doubt [citation], an instruction to the jury which has the effect of reversing or lightening the burden of proof constitutes an [citation.] an error in instruction which significantly misstates the requirement that [cita (people v. deletto, supra, 147 cal.app.3d at p. 472.) 12 a. the trial court did not err by failing to give a unanimity instruction as to the crime charged in count 1. proof that jose was guilty of the crimes charged in counts 1and 2 each required proof of the following elements: jose willfully threatened to unlawfully kill or cause great bodily injury to yvonne; he intended that his threat would be understood as a threat; under the circumstances it was made, the threat was so unequivocal, unconditional, immediate and specific as to communicate to yvonne a serious intention and immediate prospect that the threat would be carried out; the threat caused yvonne reasonably to be in sustained fear for her safety; and the fear was reasonable under the circumstances. ( 422; calcrim 1300; people v. toledo (2001) 26 cal.4th 221, 227-228.) count 1 charged that jose had threatened yvonne on august 27, 2009; count 2 charged that he had threatened yvonne on august 28, 2009. the proof required to establish those charges played to the jury. yvonne testified that on august 27th jose had become upset and angry at the park, when she received a text message from a male he did not know. as they walked to hat jose yelled at her two or three times, in a harsh tone of the car and drove, and he threw her phone so that it hit her shin. that episode made to being afraid her phone had been broken when he threw it). the prosecutor argued to the jury that the episode at the park constituted the threat on which the count 1 charge after reciting the elements required to establish a criminal threat, the prosecutor identified the evidence she believed satisfied those elements with respect to count 1 13 about the text message and he is demanding to know who it is and she is telling him . . . and jose sa9 instruction was required as to the count 1 charge, because there can be no certainty that in convicting him on count 1 the jurors unanimously agreed he was guilty of the same threat. we do not agree that the evidence that jose might have repeated his threat to break multiple times as he and yvonne walked from the park to her car shows that he made two or three separate criminal threats. jose repetition of his threat to a single episode, based on a single circumstance, threatening a single bodily injury, and people v. diedrich (1982) 31 cal.3d 263, 282 opeople v. lopez (2005) 129 cal.app.4th 1508, 1533; people v. dominick (1986) 182 cal.app.3d 1174, 1208 [when prosecution relies on multiple acts in a continuous course of conduct as single crime, no unanimity instruction is required].) or three separate crimes, the unanimity instruction was not required with respect to count 1. the jury could not have found that one of those statements constituted a criminal threat, while his contemporaneous repetitions of exactly the same threat in exactly the 9 conversations with yvonne from jail (not transcribed in the record on appeal), in which defendant could have denied [the threat at the park to break her jaw] but did not and the specific threat he is admitting to is the aug 14 between the . . . incidepeople v. deletto, supra, 147 cal.app.3d at p. 467.)10 which arguably could have constituted a criminal threat under section 422. neither the prosecution nor the defense statements at that time amounted to more than a single criminal threat. the prosecutor clearly identified the august 27th incident at the park as the sole basis for the count 1 charge, precluding any reasonable possibility that any juror or jurors might have based their count 1 verdict determinations on any other conduct. the unaand was unambiguously the threat charged in count 1. (see people v. mcintyre (1981) 115 cal.app.3d 899, 910-911.) b. the lack of an instruction on unanimity for count 2 was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. the record in this case also shows that the jury could not have had any reasonable doubt about which specific acts constituted the threat for which it found jose guilty in count 2. count 2 of the information charged that jose made a criminal threat of violence against yvonne on august 28th. yvonne on august 28th could be interpreted as constituting a number of threats that could be found to fulfill the requirements of section 422. the evidence was that jose had 10 in people v. delettofailure to instruct the jury as to its duty to agree unanimously on the same specific basis upon which to conclude that one [charged crime] had been committed while another (147 cal.app.3d at pp. 466-467.) 15 yvonne had missed a number of his calls, and again that afternoon as she proceeded home after her police-station visit. such an interpretation of the evidence could be found to constitute more than one criminal threat on that date, giving rise to a theoretical possibility that different jurors might have based their agreement count 2 on different specific acts. the evidence was that on august 28th jose was gone from the house when yvonne awoke, and that he became angry on the telephone, asking her why she did not answer and who else was at the house after she had missed some of his telephone calls that morningwhile she was showering, she said. she recalled that after her shower and yvonne testified that she was not sure whether she felt fear as a result of that that episode provided ample evidence to support all of the elements required to 2 charge. immediate feelings of fear resulting from the threats that morning[her] without having to meet him alone. but her conduct during the rest of the day was less equivocal. after talking to jose on the telephone as she drove home from the police station, she returned to the police station out of fear that jose would be at her home when she arrived; only then did she return to her home to meet the police. and she then stayed 11 11 the jury in this case to her avowed love for jose and desire to preserve their nine-year marriage for her own sake and that of their son, balanced against the threats and violence she had endured during those years. nevertheless, that is not the only possible interpretation. a jury could also have harbored some doubt about whand sustained fearessential elements of the crimes with which he was charged. 16 uring that afternoon jose continued to tell her that if she did not meet him at a local bakery or other locations these events could be seen as part of the same threats that began that morning after her shower; but it could also be interpreted as a separate threat or series of threats, arising after (or perhaps as a result of) her visit to the police station. thus it would be at least theoretically possible for some jurors to have based their agreement to the count 2 verdict that morning, and for other jurors to have based their agreement to the count 2 verdict on threats made to kick her ass after she left the police station that afternoon. however, the possibility that the jurors were less than unanimous in their agreement that jose was guilty of the crime charged in count 2 for his threat on the morning of august 28th is no more than theoretical. told the jury that the evidence would be that on the evening of his release, august 27th, jose threatened t that was the only specific threat mentioned in the opening statements on behalf of both parties. after the jury had heard all the evidence, the prosecutor made clear in her argument that the jurors must consider the elements of the crimes separately for counts 1 and 2we have two counts charged. one on one day, one on the other day. august 27th fulfilled all the elements of a criminal threat required for a conviction on . lets move on to august 28th. august 28 conduct, the prosecutor argued that yvonne had panicked when jose was gone when she woke up because she thought he might be out drinking, and she had learned during her marriage to him that she argued that jose accused yvonne of cheating after she had missed some of his phone calls, threatening to kick her ass. and when the police declined clothes to him at the police station, the prosecutor argued that 17 afraid because of the threat he had made to kick her ass that morning (along with the earlier threats and his history of domestic violence). again, the prosecutor specifically and unambiguously identified the threats jose had made that morning, and the fear it engendered all that afternoon, as the basis for the count 2 charge. on august 28th, 2009. did the defendant willfully threaten to unlawfully kill or unlawfully cause great bodily injury to yvonne barajas . . . over the phone after that the prosecutor argued that the threat jose had made that morning after shower was clear, immediate, unconditional, and specific: jury with respect to events that occurred the afternoon of august 28th was directed entirely toward how the evidence showed that yvonne felt genuine fear stemming from the threat jose had made earlier that morning, and from his history of domestic violence. the threat that jose made on the morning of august 28th , she argued, fulfilled the elements required to prove the criminal threat charged in count 2, just as the threat on august 27th had satisfied the elements of the count 1 any other threatening statements jose might have made on august 28th. if any doubt had remained in bout the specific events constituting the count 1 and count 2 charges, any such doubt would have been dispelled by the argument of . after arguing that yvonne did not display genuine or sustained fear after the threat at the park on august 27th, counsel unequivocally identified the count 2 charge as relating missed his phone calls on the morning of identified a single threat on each day, and did not mention any evidence of other statements on august 28th 18 that could have been interpreted as separate threats. closed her argument by admonishing the jury that in order to determine whether all the elements of each of the charged offenses have been proved, [y]ou have to decide them separately, take a look at the one on thursday 8-27. look at the one on 8-28. thus both the prosecution and the defense identified the count 1 threat as being on august 27th, and the count 2 threat as being on august 28th. both identified the basis for the or the count 2 charge as the threat the morning of august 28th to kick was there when he returned home for his clothes. neither argument mentioned or hinted at any other conduct on august 28th that could be found to constitute one of the charged threats. these arguments of both the prosecutor and defense counsel, focusing entirely on the threat made the morning of august 28th as the basis for the count 2 charge to the exclusion of any evidence that might be interpreted as a separate threat made later that day, dispel any reasonable possibility that the jury could have been less than unanimous about the specific conduct on which it based its count two verdict. no juror could reasonably have understood that he or she was being called upon to find that any statements jose made later in the afternoon of august 28th constituted the crime for which he was charged in count 2. (people v. jones, suprapotential determination that defendant committed two of three possible criminal acts does in light of our conclusion that no ambiguity remained about the conduct for which jose was being charged in count 2, the trial court was not required to instruct the jury on its obligation to agree unanimously on that conduct. (people v. jones, supra, 51 cal.3d at pp. 321-322; people v. melhado, supra, 60 cal.app.4th at p. 1536.) for this reason we 2 conviction on this ground. 19 iii. included offense of attempted criminal threat was not harmless error. section 664 provides that including the crime of making a criminal threatprovided in that section. (people v. toledo, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 230.) jose contends in this appeal that the trial court erred prejudicially by failing, sua sponte, to instruct the jury on the lesser included offense of attempted criminal threat with respect to counts 1 and 2 the trial court must instruct on any lesser included offense supported by evidence in the record, when a jury could find that the defendant is guilty of the lesser, but not the greater, crime. (people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 154warrants, the rule ensures that the jury will be exposed to the full range of verdict options . . . . in this context, the rule prevents either party, whether by design or inadvertence, from forcing an all-or-nothing choice between conviction of the stated offense on the one people v. birks (1998) 19 cal.4th 108, 119.) in people v. toledo, supra, 26 cal.4th 221, the defendant had been charged with making a criminal threat against his spouse ( 422), as well as with two assaults against her with deadly weapons ( 245). at his trial the jury was instructed on the offense of criminal threat, and on the lesser included offense of attempted criminal threat. he was found not guilty of the criminal threat and one of the assault charges, but guilty of the attempted criminal threat and the other assault charge. the supreme court affirmed the exists. (people v. toledo, supra, 26 cal.4th at pp. 229-235.) in affirming that verdict, the court discussed circumstances that might justify an . . . acting with the requisite intent, makes a sufficient threat that is received and understood by the threatened person, but, for whatever reason, the threat does not actually cause the threatened person to be in sustained fear for his or her safety even though, under the circumstances, that person reasonably could have been placed in such 20 fear, the defendant properly may be found to have committed the offense of attempted (id. defendant, has prevented the defendant from perpetrating the completed offense of ibid.intent to commit the crime, and direct but ineffectual act done toward its commi].) the evidence presented to the jury in this case was overwhelming and unequivocal sfied all the elements of section 422: he had made the threats with which he was charged; he had done so with the specific intent that his threats would be understood by yvonne as threats of great bodily injury; and the threats and the circumstances under which they were made were such as to convey to yvonne a gravity . . . her histoher conduct in seeking police intervention, admissions, apologies, and failures to deny his threats in his jailhouse telephone conversations with her.12 nevertheless, we are constrained by the decision in people v. toledo to find that if threats against yvonne constituted only attempted criminal threats. it might have concluded, for exampleconsistent with the example given by the supreme courtthat sustained fear for her safety, her actual fear did not in fact rise to that level, or that it was not sustained. a jury could have concluded from the evidence that despite his criminal intent in yvonne the fear that he intended, and that would have been a reasonable result of his threats. 12 jury, in which yvonne expressed fear of future violence based on the conduct that had led to his arrest. jose responded in some instances, for example, that on august 27th and fucked up oka 21 under people v. toledo, supra, 26 cal.4th 221, these findings would have justified a conclusion that jose was guilty of an attempted criminal threat, but not an actual criminal threat as to either or both of the criminal threat charges. instructions on a lesser included offense are required whenever evidence that the defendant is guilty only of the people v. moye (2009 47 cal.4th 537, 553.) from which a jury composed of ribid.; people v. breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 162.) we therefore must conclude that the trial court erred in failing to instruct the jury on the lesser included offense of attempted criminal threat. (people v. toledo, supra, 26 cal.4th 221.) on the evidence in this case we are unable to find that this error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubtoints, equivocal about whether resulted in sustained fear. although she testified that his threat, she did not call the police; she got into the car with him; she invited him into her home, and into her bed that night; and she called him on his phone the next morning. moreover, she testified that after the thre she continued to converse with him frequently on the phone. and even after jose was rearrested and returned to jail on august 28th, although she moved her residence, yvonne provided him with her new telephone number; she continued to prepay his phone card, to converse with him on the phone (despite her knowledge that those calls were not permitted); she visited him in jail (using her maiden name in order to gain entry despite the rules against visits by domestic violence victims); and she continued to receive calls from him, even during his trial. this evidence does nothing to show that jose lacked the criminal intent when he threatened yvonne with violence, nor does it in any way mitigate or excuse his conduct. did not in 22 fact induce understandably, in their arguments to the jury both the prosecution and the defense therefore focused substantial attention on the question caused yvonne sustained fear. the prosecutor argued that they did. ask the jury to find that jose had not threatened yvonne with serious injury, or that his threats were not credible, or even that it would not have been reasonable for her to have genuine fear under the circumstances. instead she attempted to sow doubt about whether the threats actually did result in sustained fear on she argued that although h really think he was the jury was well justified in disregarding the seeming inconsistencies in , despite its occasional equivocation about her fear of violence. the jury undoubtedly found these inconsistencies understandable in light of her history as a victim of domestic violence, her professed continuing love for jose and desire to rebuild their marriage, and her obvious discomfort in her role as prosecution witness against him. when it convicted jose of counts 1 and 2, the jury must have excused these inconsistencies. but no matter that the jury was justified in finding jose guilty of counts 1 and 2 as charged, it nevertheless is possible that if they been given the opportunity to find jose guilty of the lesser included offense, one or more jurors could reasonably have found that in, or less than sustained. on this record, we therefore are compelled to reverse the judgment. we cannot find that the error in failing to instruct the jury on the lesser included offense was harmless. 23 although the count 1and count 2 convictions must be reversed for this error, a retrial of the charges against jose is required only if the prosecution seeks again to offense must be reversed, but a lesser included offense could be affirmed, we give the prosecutor the option of retrying the greater offense or accepting a reduction to the lesser offense. (people v. kelly (1992) 1 cal.4th 495, 528.) disposition the judgment is reversed with directions that, unless the people bring defendant to trial on count 1, count 2, or both of them within 60 days after the filing of the remittitur in the trial court, the trial court shall proceed as though the remittitur modifies the judgment on the count 1 and the count 2 verdicts to reflect convictions for attempted criminal threat. tconstituted a strike is reversed and remanded for retrial on the prior conviction allegation. the trial court shall retry or resentence defendant consistent with these directions, and shall (if appropriate) prepare a new abstract of judgment reflecting the changes made and forward a copy to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published. chaney, j. we concur: mallano, p. j. rothschild, j. 