filed 3/19/12 p. v. johnson ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. herbert johnson, defendant and appellant. b226355 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sa072751) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, harold cherness, judge. affirmed as modified. johanna r. pirko, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, pamela c. hamanaka, assistant attorney general, mary sanchez and john yang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________ 2 defendant and appellant, herbert johnson, appeals the judgment entered following his conviction for burglary, forgery and attempting to file a false or forged instrument, with prior serious felony conviction and prior prison term findings (pen. code,  459, 470, 115, 667, subd. (b)-(i), 667.5).1 he was sentenced to state prison for a term of seven years. the judgment is affirmed as modified. background viewed in accordance with the usual rule of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established the following. 1. prosecution evidence. a. the purported sale of the house on 21st place. kevin mccauley is a housing developer who rehabilitates and sells older homes through his company, sandalwood properties. one of the properties he rehabilitated was a 7,000 square foot, five-bedroom house located on 21st place in santa monica. in the spring of 2008, mccauley listed this house for sale at $4,995,000. as of november 2009, the house remained unsold. place house to prospective buyers two or three times a week. the house was unoccupied and had been filled with staged furnishings. the utilities, including electricity, water and gas, remained turned on with sandalwood properties paying the utility bills. leonard dasilva, who had been a real estate agent for ten years, also showed the house. dasilva first met defendant johnson during an open house at 21st place. johnson was accompanied by a young man whom he introduced as his nephew. johnson asked about the neighborhood, general property values, and the particular value of this house. he appeared to be genuinely interested. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 3 johnson subsequently called dasilva and said he wanted to buy the house. johnson said he would not be using an agent, but would represent himself. dasilva said he needed a 3 percent deposit and a real estate contract in order to begin the sales process. johnson seemed to agree to the real estate contract, but he mentioned using something some a trade acceptance was not an acceptable method of purchasing the house, johnson insisted it was. they had several more phone conversations. johnson was supposed to email dasilva a real estate contract, but said he was having difficulty transmitting it and dasilva never received one. on the afternoon of october 30, 2009,2 johnson and his son, jahherb, went to the notary office of paul oliveras. johnson presented a document for notarization which appeared to be a quitclaim deed for the house on 21st place, purporting to transfer identifications and fingerprints, and oliveras notarized the document. on the afternoon of november 3, the notarized quitclaim deed was recorded at the los angeles county also on november 3, johnson called dasilva and said his nephew would be d a check for the house. that night, handed him an envelope and quickly left. when dasilva opened it, he found a document which looked something like a check and purported to pay sandalwood properties the nearly $5 million asking price for the house. however, the document was obviously not a real check because there was no bank name or any bank routing numbers, and it contained several misspellings. dasilva knew within seconds the document was a worthless piece of paper. 2 all further calendar references are to the year 2009 unless otherwise specified. 4 johnson called dasilva several times to ask if he had given the check to the insisted the document was a valid check and that he had now tendered the full price for the house. he asserted this was a valid way to purchase real estate and that all dasilva had to do was deposit the check in a bank or give it to the owners. they eventually reached an impasse because johnson was either unwilling or unable to understand what dasilva was telling him. on november 6, leslie mccauley discovered a copy of the purported quitclaim deed posted on the front door of the house where she and her husband lived. the quitclaim deed looked o b. the burglary at 21st place. on november 6, the gardener arrived to work on the 21st place house. he noticed wn and when he tried to get into the backyard he found the gate had been locked. then he saw a stranger inside the house, so he called kevin mccauley, who told him the house had not been sold and asked him to investigate. when the gardener knocked, a you when officers arrived, the young man was still inside the house and he was iver. the officers searched the house and found some real, i.e., non-staged items: a desktop and a laptop computer, a flat screen television, and a duffel bag containing an ipod and a playstation gaming ternet webpage. when an officer minimized the webpage, he saw a folder on the desktop screen; opening the folder, he discovered a quitclaim deed for the 21st place house. leslie mccauley arrived at the house while the police were still there. she discovered her keys no longer opened the front door and that there were several items inside the house that did not belong there. one item was a set of keys police had found on a night stand in an upstairs bedroom; the bed appeared to have been slept in. one of 5 the keys opened the front door and the other opened a newly installed padlock on the group of people approaching the front door of the house on november 5. oliver testified that on november gathering, the house the following day. either johnson or jahherb gave oliver the house key so he could get in. when oliver arrived the next day, he brought with him a desktop computer, a a laptop computer at the house, which could access the internet, oliver brought the desktop computer because he wanted to watch movies. he used the laptop to chat with friends on the internet via facebook and myspace. oliver described being at the house that day and encountering the gardener. up until the moment the police arrived and arrested him, oliver had no idea there was anything wrong. he testified that, other than staying at the house, he had not had any other dealing with the house; he had not visited any notary or real estate agent. johnson went to the police station to find out why oliver had been arrested. he gave officer richard verbeck copies of the quitclaim deed and the check he had given dasilva. verbeck spoke with johnson for a while and then arrested him. upon searching him, verbeck found copies of the two new keys. kevin mccauley testified it had cost $680 to change the locks after oliver was discovered inside the house on 21st properties, was paying for all the utilities at the house while it was on the market. as of 2010, official title to the house was still in the name of jahherb johnson. 6 2. defense case. dr. ronette goodwin-matthews, a psychologist, examined johnson for the ed he had incurred a severe head injury in a 1979 car accident, after which he was in a coma for five days, hospitalized for two months, and had to relearn how to speak, move his limbs, and feed himself. upon discharge from the hospital, johnson still had cognitive impairments, including difficulties with problem solving, judgment and reasoning. regarding the charges johnson was currently facing, goodwin-matthews reviewed the preliminary hearing transcript and a probation report, and spoke with staff at goodwin-diagno-matthews also testified johnson made similar bizarre statements when she interviewed him, and that he particularly focused on being able to use a trade acceptance to purchase property. goodwin-matthews testified johnson had been diagnosed at twin towers as . . fixed an anti-psychotic medication. other records showed johnson had previously been hospitalized at patton state hospital after having once been declared incompetent to stand trial. goodwin-matthews did psychological testing on johnson. she opined he was not malingering and that he scored in the impaired range on executive functioning tests, indicating problems with his memory as well as his ability to learn from past experiences and process new information. 7 in their interviews, however, johnson was adamant there was nothing wrong with s competent, there was nothing wrong with him, that i needed to understand the trade acceptance and that this assessment was pointless because every -matthews also response. his response [was] more people should not pay taxes. every national american just kind of went off i based on all the information she had reviewed and on her psychological testing, goodwin-matthews opined johnson was suffering from both a delusional disorder and a . . organic brain syndrome.physical disorder leading to a decrease in mental functioning as a result of brain damage. . -matthews ase real estate with a trade acceptance was such a delusion. johnson at all here back in 1989, that also involved a quitclaim deed that did not appear to be true? does that . . . piece of information affect your diagnosis of him today? goodwin- johnson, even -financial transactions were the result of his brain injury. 8 contentions 1. there was insufficient evidence to sustain the conviction for burglary. 2. there was insufficient evidence to sustain the conviction for forgery. 3. the trial court misinstructed the jury on the elements of attempting to file a false or forged instrument. 4. the trial court erred by refusing to instruct the jury on a claim-of-right defense. 5. there was prosecutorial misconduct. 7. there was cumulative error. 8. the trial court erred by refusing to dismiss a three strikes prior. 9. the trial court erred by imposing a 15 percent limitation on presentence custody credit. discussion 1. there was sufficient evidence to sustain the burglary conviction. johnson contends there was insufficient evidence to sustain his conviction for burglary. he argues the prosecution failed to prove either of the two theories on which the commission of burglary had been predicated: that johnson entered 21st place with place with the intent to take possession of the house by false pretenses. we conclude there was sufficient evidence to sustain both theories. a. legal principles. unlawful entryaccompanied by the 459.) one may be liable for burglary upon entry with the requisite intent to commit a felony or a theft (whether felony or misdemeanor), regardless of whether the felony or theft committed is different from that contemplated at the time of entry, or whether any felony or theft actually is people v. montoya (1994) 7 cal.4th 1027, 1041-1042, fn. omitted.) that entry with the proscribed intent, and . . . such an entry 9 of whether . . . any felony or theft people v. allen (1999) 21 cal.4th 846, 863, fn. 18.) from the circumstances of the charged offense existence of the specific intent charged at the time of entering a building is necessary to constitute burglary in order to sustain a conviction, this element is rarely susceptible of direct proof and must usually be inferred from all of the facts and circumstances people v. holt (1997) 15 cal.4th 619, 669.) may not be disturbed on ap people v. cain (1995) 10 cal.4th 1, 47.) not involve removing property from the building. (see people v. mason (1960) 54 cal.2d 164 [entry with intent to commit felonious assault]; people v. martinez (2002) 95 soap, shampoo and water]; people v. rehmeyer (1993) 19 cal.app.4th 1758, [entry with intent to commit indecent exposure]; people v. salemme (1992) 2 cal.app.4th 775 people v. nance (1972) 25 cal.app.3d 925 [entry with intent to activate electric switch so exterior gas pump could be accessed].) which invades a possessory [interest] people v. davis (1998) 18 cal.4th cluding the b. evidence showing johnson intended to commit any crime upon entry. johnson contends there was no evidence he intended to commit any crime whatsoever when he entered the house: that, at the time appellant entered the house, he genuinely believed that he had purchased 10 misconduct was driven by million virgin islands account with which he could purchase a $5 prosecution failed to satisfy its burden [to] prove beyond a reasonable doubt that, at the time appellant entered the house, he intended state-of-mind evidence. although dr. goodwin-legitimacy of his purported real estate transaction was an honestly held delusion, the jury obviously disbelieved her testimony. c. evidence of intent to commit petty theft. johnson also contends there was insufficient evidence to prove either of the specific burglary theories presented by the prosecution. we disagree with this claim as well. the basis for a burglary conviction. (see people v. martinez, supra, 95 cal.app.4th at pp. 584people v. dingle (1985) 174 cal.app.3d 21, 29 [intent to make unauthorized long-distance telephone calls].) as martinez qualify as property. unfortunately for martinez, california has drastically modified the common law definitions of property under the theft statutes. under current california law, the item of property need only have some intrinsic value, however slight. . . . [] . . . [i]t is clear that the taking of any item of personal property of even slight intrinsic value can constitute larceny in california. [] applying these principles to the present case, we are satisfied that intending to use the soap, shampoo and hot water of the homeowner constituted an intent to commit a larceny under the circumstances of this case. each of the items to be taken and consumed would have some, albeit slight, intrinsic value. that is all that is required for the item to be a proper subject of larceny in people v. martinez, supra, 95 cal.app.4th at pp. 585-586.) 11 however, citing in re leanna w. (2004) 120 cal.app.4th 735, johnson argues at the time he entered the house, or that he actually used the utilities once inside the house. as . . . explained in in re leanna w., this absence of evidence is fatal to a leanna w. is misplaced. in that case, leanna threw a going-away party for herself3 was gone and she did not have permission to use the house. leanna invited to the party 30 or 40 people who consumed alcohol, stole cash and property from the house, and incurred a direct tv bill for watching a boxing match and adult movies. the juvenile court concluded it could not sustain a grand theft allegation because of insufficient evidence as to what leanna herself had done during the party. the court of appeal then concluded the same reasoning should have prevented the juvenile court from making true findings on the burglary and vandalism allegations, explaining: intent to commit a theft or felony at the time of entry into the home. critical to this rationale, however, is a conclusion that leanna actually took or consumed the alcohol. but the trial court expressly found that it could not tell what leanna did while she was in the home. the fact that leanna was present when the liquor was used does not show that she actually consumed it, much less that she had the specific intent to take it when she entered the house. the mere possibility that leanna consumed the alcohol raises nothing more than a suspicion, which does not form a sufficient basis for an inference of fact. however, as in the case of the alcohol consumption discussed above, the record 3 leanna had recently run away from her juvenile placement and her grandmother bought her a one-way bus tick 12 grandmother testified that she and her husband left the kitchen light on continuously in their absence, and that other lights in the home were left on timers to come on at different times throughout the night. therefore, there was no evidence that it was necessary for anyone to turn on any lights at any time throughout the evening. moreover, the lack of id. at p. 741-742.) leanna w. is inapposite because it involved a one-time only event, a period of a few hours during which it was unknown what acts the juvenile herself had committed. and, given the very nature of the event, there was clearly not going to be an ongoing occupation of the house. here, on the other hand, the fact johnson had the locks changed showed he did intend to commit an ongoing occupation of the property, which presumably included his intention of taking up residence there. as such, the fair inference is that johnson entered evidence oliver had actually used electricity during the day he spent at the house, and a fair presumption he probably used water as well. when the front show that [he] changed the locks before entering the house, rather than at some point after entry, so as to support the theory that he impossible to change the front door lock without entering the house. (see people v. garcia (2004) 121 cal.app.4th 271, 280 [entry for burglary occurs if any part of any event, the locks were certainwas soon enough to permit the inference he entered with intent to take possession of the house and use its facilities. (see people v. kwok the defendant commits, or gives some indication of intending to commit, theft or a felony in a building shortly after entering it, no great inferential leap is necessary to conclude 13 johnson also appellant rather than another member of his family changed the front door lock. the only evidence was that the lock was changed and that either appellant or jahherb gave oliver a front door key. while it could be speculated that appellant ordered the locks changed, because there is no johnson was the person in charge of the operation here: he was the one who contacted the real estate agent, purported to buy the house with a $5 million check, purported to quitclaim the house to his son, and asked oliver to occupy the house and keep an eye on it while johnson was gone. the evidence certainly gave rise to the legitimate inference johnson either changed the locks himself or directed that it be done. the theory he intended to commit petty theft. d. evidence of intent to commit theft of real property by false pretenses. . who shall knowingly and designedly, by any false or fraudulent representation or pretense, defrauds any other person of . . . real . . . property . . ] section 484, subdivision (a) defines the crime of theft of real property by false pretense. proof of this crime requires that the prosecution establish: (1) the defendant made a false pretense or representation; (2) he did so with intent to defraud the owner of the property; and (3) the owner was in people v. sanders (1998) 67 cal.app.4th 1403, 1411.) purported attempt, at the time he entered the house, to continue to deceive the mccauleys into believing the $5 insufficient because everyone knew his representations about the check were false, citing people v. alba (1941) 46 caaccomplished by means of false representations . . . may not be consummated when the convicted of having consummated the crime of theft by false pretenses; rather, he was convicted of burglary for having entered with the intent of committing 14 . . will support a (people v. parson (2008) 44 cal.4th 332, 354.) moreover, an unsuccessful attempt to commit the target offense is extremely e.g., people v. rehmeyer, supra, 19 cal.app.4th at pp. 1765-sustain burglary conviction based on entry with intent to commit indecent exposure].) as a result, there was no need to prove anyone had actually been deceived by attempted grand theft by false pretenses it is not ictim be deceived by the falsity of the people v. camodeca (1959) 52 cal.2d 142, 146-147, italics added; see also people v. fujita (1974) 43 cal.app.3d 454, 467 [if defendants made false representation, with intent to defraureliance on the false representation to sustain conviction for attempted theft by false pretenses].)4 4 as required by statute. even assuming argonly means he could not have been convicted for a completed theft by false pretenses. in people v. rehmeyer, supra, indecent exposure is a felony only if it takes place in an inhabited dwelling house or structure . . . , the crime does not obtain felony status until after the act of exposure has taken place inside an inhabited dwelling structure. therefore, rehmeyer reasons, he could not have had the requisite felonious intent for burglary when he entered the residences of brenda c. and christina s., and his burglary convictions for those incidents rehmeyer knew the intricacies of section 314 that made the act of exposure inside an inhabited dwelling structure a felony rather than a misdemeanor is irrelevant to an ibid.) 15 conviction on both of the theories put forth by the jury instructions. 2. there was insufficient evidence to sustain the conviction for forgery. johnson contends his conviction on count 3 for forgery must be reversed for ain a bank name or routing numbers, and which was marred by misspellings . . . was so obviously defective to constitute the crime of forgery, the forged instrument must be one which, if genuine, must be legally capable of working the intended fraud or injury. [citation.] the rule was clarified in people v. munroe [(1893) 100 cal. 664], which held that while an instrument which is clearly void on its face is not the subject of forgery, the mere fact that an instrument is legally unenforceable is not a defense to a prosecution for forgery so long as upon its face it may have the effect to defraud one who acts upon it as genuine. [citations.] [] . . . [] the purpose of the statute against forgery is to protect society against the fabrication, falsification and the uttering of instruments which might be acted upon as being genuine. the law should protect, in this respect, the members of the community who may be ignorant or gullible as well as those who are cautious and aware of the legal requirements of a genuine instrument. an instrument is not the subject matter of forgery only where it is so defective on its face that, as a matter of law, it is not people v. jones (1962) 210 cal.app.2d 805, 808-809.) the absence of a bank name and a bank number, resembled a check, was certainly not 16 although the document is printed on the sort of paper stock generally used for writing checks, and although there is some very official-looking printing on the back,5 the front side of the document is immediately suspicious. there is no bank name anywhere and there are no bank account or routing numbers along the bottom. although the payment amount as set forth in numerals correctly says $4,995,000, the spelled-out sicunderneath the payment amount, the document sic we agree with johnson this purported check was so defective on its face that no one would have believed it was genuine. the forgery conviction must be reversed. 3. jury instructions on count 2. johnson contends his conviction on count 2 for attempting to file a false or forged instrument ( 115) must be reversed because of instructional error. this claim is meritless. a. the contested instruction. section 115, subdivision offers any false or forged instrument to be filed, registered, or recorded in any public office within this state, which instrument, if genuine, might be filed, registered, or 5 the back and blocked- 17 room: he defendant is charged in count 2 with offering a false document for filing or recording, having a false document filed or recorded in violation of penal code section 115. office in california; office in california; act, he knew that the document was false; during oral instruction of the jury, the trial court said: 2 with offering a false document for filing or recording, having a false document filed or recorded, in violation of penal code section 115. recording in a public office in california. . . . and also the defendant caused a false document to be filed or recorded in a public office in california. . . . (italics added.) 18 b. legal principles. instructions exists in every trial, and verdicts are not undermined by the mere fact the trial to the extent a discrepancy exists between the written and oral versions of jury because the jury was given the correctly worded instructions in written form and . . . because on appeal we give precedence to the written instructions, we find no reversible people v. mills (2010) 48 cal.4th 158, 200-201, fn. omitted.) likelihood that the jury misunderstood and misapplied the instruction. [citations.] court, not from a consideration of parts of an instruction or from a particular people v. smithey (1999) 20 cal.4th 936, 963-964.) an appellate court will examine the jury instructions as a whole, along with the conveyed the correct legal principles. (see people v. kelly (1992) 1 cal.4th 495, 524-527 [although trial court erroneously instructed jury it was legally possible to rape a dead body, it was not reasonably likely jury misunderstood correct law regarding felony murder and rape special circumstances given remaining instargument]; see also people v. visciotti (1992) 2 cal.4th 1, 58-59 [improper intent instructions were harmless error where closing arguments made jury aware specific intent to kill was element of attempted murder].) c. discussion. johnson argues the written instruction was deficient, because it failed to connect 2 offense, the court needed to as to both theories separately instruct the jury that appellant was not guilty unless 19 he knew the deed was false, and the document was one that, if genuine, could legally be ide the jury a complete instruction. rather, as to this theory, the court told [the] jury it had to find only that appellant offered the quitclaim deed for filing, whether or not he knew the document was from the deficient written instruction by suggesting that the jury would have to find both that appellant offered a false document for filing and that he caused another to offer a we conclude, however, that although the oral instruction contained an ambiguity, there was nothing wrong with the written instruction, especially in light of the the italicized portion of the oral instruction, ante, did seem to require a finding johnson had both offered the document for filing and caused the document to be filed, but the written instruction made it clear these were disjunctive, not conjunctive, elements. , we agree with theory. this cannot be a reasonable reading of the instruction. [] because of the way first element (as well as a the elements designated as numbers 2 and 3 apply equally to either alternate theories [sic]. otherwise, having the designation of a nu which implied there would be for the first alternative theory would not make sense. in other words, because there was a numbering system to signal the jurors to proceed to number alternate theories, there could be no confusion that would lead the jury to excise the second and the third elements when determining the 20 argument, which correctly showed the jury how to work its way through the elements of this offense.6 we conclude the jury was properly instructed with regard to the section 115 charge. 4. claim of right defense instruction. johnson contends all his convictions must be reversed because the trial court refused to instruct the jury on a claim of right defense. this claim is meritless. a. background. defense counsel asked the trial court to give a claim-of-right instruction (calcrim no. 1863) because the cr johnson though johnson did not testify, there was other evidence in the record showing he ul. [] we have all of the conduct that the various witnesses have testified to about him being very out in the open about what was going on here. [] we have statements from mr. johnson to mr. [dasilva] repeatedly saying that he was intending to use the trade acceptance to purchase this property. []. . . [] the evidence certainly supports . . . a strong inference that mr. johnson went out and filed the quitclaim deed on the house completely out in the open, gave his thumb icense information. [] and there is certainly substantial 6 1, 2, and 3. 2 and 3 are the same. but you have to decide 1 or 1, and you all have to he prosecutor and 2 and 3. this is the only instruction, as i said earlier, that you all have to agree. you all have to pick either the top one or the bottom one, but all of you have to agree on which no. 1 it is and then agree on no. 2 and no. 3 21 there was also discussion about a possible mistake-of-fact instruction, with defense counsel arguing this would be more applicable to the section 115 charge for filing the quitclaim deed, whereas the claim-of-right instruction would directly address . . has been provided with substantial evidence that they could determine that mr. johnson believed that he had actually lawfully purchased the property. and if that were the case, then that is a mistake as to a fact that affected the prosecutor complained there had been no direct evidence of what johnson claim of right and mistake of fact [instructions] are cumulative. the mental health defense to intent or mental state [in calcrim no.] 3428 is directly on point with the the trial court ruled calcrim 3428, the instruction for mental defect or disorder, would be given rather than either a claim of right instruction or a mistake of fact instruction. b. legal principles. aim-of-mistakenly held, that he has a right or claim to property he takes from another negates the felonious intent necessary for conviction of theft or robbery. at common law, a claim of right was recognized as a defense to larceny because it was deemed to negate the animus furandi, or intent to steal, of that offense. (see 4 blackstone, commentaries 230 people v. tufunga een the rule in this state and generally throughout the country that a bona fide belief, even though mistakenly held, that one has a right or claim to the property negates felonious intent. [citations.] a belief that the property taken belongs to the taker . . . is sufficient to preclude felonious intent. felonious intent exists only if the actor intends to take the (id. at p. 943.) 22 but in the usual claim-of-right cases there is some facially legitimate reason for claim-of-right cases cited by johnson. (see people v. marsh (1962) 58 cal.2d 732, 737 [trial court improperly extheir electrical apparatus was based on information from doctors and scientists]; people v. russell (2006) 144 cal.app.4th 1415, 1429-1431 [trial court improperly denied claim-of-right instruction where defendant testified he believed motorcycle had been abandoned, -furtive conduct].) -of-right defense is that he never intended to commit any crime, i.e., not theft, forgery or filing a false document, because at all times he was acting under the delusion he had legitimately purchased the house at 21st . . was that his had a $10 million virgin islands bank account, which he could use to goodwin-matthews opined that result of his 1979 traumatic brain injury. she concluded that appellant genuinely based on calcrim no. 3428, the trial court instructed the jury: defect or disorder. you may consider this evidence only for the limited purpose of deciding whether, at the time of the charged crime, the defendant acted or failed to act with the intent or mental state required for that crime. [] the people have the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant acted or failed to act with the required intent or mental state, specifically if the people have not met this burden, you must find the defendant not guilty on count 1, burglary, the intent is the intent to commit a theft; on count 2, false document, the defendant must have known that the 23 document was false or he knew that the document was false; count 3, forgery, there has to a claim-of-right instruction under calcrim no. 1863 would have told the jury, the intent required for the crime of (theft/ [or] robbery). [] the defendant obtained property under a claim of right if (he/she) believed in good faith that (he/she) had a right to the specific property or a specific amount of money, and (he/she) openly took it. [] in deciding whether the defendant believed that (he/she) had a right to the property and whether (he/she) held that belief in good faith, consider all the facts known to (him/her) at the time (he/she) obtained the property, along with all the other evidence in the case. the defendant may hold a belief in good faith even if the belief is mistaken or unreasonable. but if the defendant was aware of facts that made that belief completely c. discussion. johnson contends that giving only the mental defect instruction deprived him of a fair trial. we disagree. goodwin-appellant had a good faith belief in the legality of his actions, and that he was completely 3428 did not tell the jury what to do with the powerful testimony of these non-expert evidence that the defendant may -expert evidence tended to show johnson truly believed he had access to a $10 million account in the virgin islands, and was entitled to use a trade acceptance to access that money, the evidence would have helped to show johnson was delusional and we do not see why the jury would have ignored it. 24 johnson also complains calcrim no. . . . unlike calcrim no. 1863, calcrim no. 3428 is phrased permissively, permitting but not unambiguously but this ignores the context of the disputed language: right after noting the jury has received mental defect or disorder evidence, the instruction points out the prosecution offense, and that the jury was obligated to acquit if the prosecution did not meet this burden. g argument focused the jury on what everyone agreed was the only contested issue: was or was not johnson delusional. this case and really the big question for you all is what was going on in mr. ronette goodwin-matthews . . . [] this is so important because this starts to give an explanation, it starts to put all this very bizarre behavior into some kind of a box where crime, someone who has an illness, acting in response to some very truly and honestly sic] mr. dr. goodwin-matthews is talking about h million. . . . [] but we also recognize that there are people that really do believe things that are just fundamentally rue. and in response, the prosecutor told the jury the evidence showed johnson was a perfectly sane man who claimed to have a very peculiar and self-interested view of 25 the prosecutor attacked goodwin- tell you how it affected his -tax organizations have similar peculiar explanations for not paying their taxes or engaging in behavior which is similar to mr. rely on that check as true and intend to defraud them? yes. and did he intend to take title and possession of the house? yes. [] did he know that it was fraudulent? look at behavior speaks to you, not the statements made to the doctor, not her testimony about . . ony from their witnesses and see if you find that testimony of mental illness or if you see that as a -ill. . . . . says they- purported good faith belief he had legitimately moved into the house, but it appears a claim-of-right instruction would first, the record suggests johnson was passing off his son, jahherb, as his nephew, oliver, which would constitute furtive behavior by johnson. second, the claim-of-right instruction would have containethat made that belief completely unreasonable, you may conclude that the belief was not 26 facts because dasilva rto get around this language, the defense would have had to rely on goodwin-assertion johnson could not process this information because of his mental disorder, which goes right back to calcrim no. 3428. hence, even assuming the claim-of-right defense applied here, in the particular circumstances of this case the instruction would have been merely cumulative. as instructed, the jury had to decide if johnson had been operating under the mistaken, but sincerely held, delusion he had legally purchased the house at 21st place. 5. prosecutorial misconduct. johnson contends there was prosecutorial misconduct during the cross examination of the defense expert witness and during closing argument. these claims are meritless. a. legal principles. commits misconduct, and such actions require reversal under the federal constitution when they infect the trial wit state law, a prosecutor who uses deceptive or reprehensible methods commits misconduct even when those actions do not result in a fundamentally unfair people v. salcido (2008) 44 cal.4th 93, 152.) people v. welch based on remarks to the jury, the defendant must show a reasonable likelihood the jury understood or applied the complained-of comments in an improper or erroneous manner. [27 people v. frye (1998) 18 cal.4th 894, 970, disapproved on another ground in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22.) b. background. had been ordered to examine johnson before trial when defense counsel declared a doubt e was facing the prison sentence if convicted . . . and however, many anti-government or anti-tax organizations have similar peculiar explanation[s] for not paying their taxes or engaging in behavior which is similar to mr. johnson. [] the defendant stated his attorney could obtain information from a banker, call a banker as an expert witness and show that such instruments are available and thus use such testimony to be found not guilty. mr. johnson in response to my questioning admitted that he was willing to entertain the possibility of [a] . . . not guilty by reason of insanity defense but he was not of the opinion that he would qualify for legal johnson other than this seemingly peculiar explanation of the alleged crime is able to perform quite normally in day-to-day functioning. he is aware of his legal predicament, he is aware of the facts and even if one disagrees with the the possible punishment, role psych. report at 2-3) 28 dr. not introduced into evidence at trial, nor did he testify. c. cross examination of expert. (1) background. while cross-examining dr. goodwin-matthews, the prosecutor referred to which also involved a false quitclaim deed. when the trial court sustained a defense objection on the ground goodwin-copy to read. goodwin-estion johnson had shared with her some of the same peculiar ideas about money and negotiable dr. sharma continued saying many antigovernment or anti-tax organizations have similar, peculiar explanations for not paying their taxes or engaging in behavior which is similar to mr. and the following colloquy occurred: protesters? the taxes in the u.s. are illegal or illegitimate? . . large groups of people that hold that belief? statement in terms of making my diagnosis with him. it was over sessions, my testing, medical records, my interaction with him. delusional? because delusional beliefs are non- 29 the prosecutor then said: your opinion. . . . [] trade acceptance, a bill of exchange for the amount of a specific purchase drawn on and accepted by the buyer for payment at a specified time. [] does it change your opinion that trade acceptance is actually a valid form of some transactions? transaction. howeve then, after goodwin-matthews said she never spoke to johnson about possible legal defenses, there was this exchange: met with him for over 18 hours? correct? sharma about his possible defenses, but he never talked to you about it? found not guilty, like he told dr. sharma? anner with me, no. johnson told me that he was competent. he says others are that trade acceptance is correct; is that right? . 30 (2) discussion. johnson contends this cross examination of dr. goodwin-matthews constituted misconduct because the prosecutor was relying on hearsay in dr. report. but this is commonly accepted practice. -examined regarding the subject to which his testimony relates, the matter on which he bases his opinion, and the reasons for his opinion. (evid. code,  721, subd. (a).) therefore, a party seeking to attack the credibility of the expert may bring to the attention of the jury material relevant to the issue on which the expert has offered an opinion of which the expert was unaware or which he did not people v. bell (1989) 49 cal.3d 502, 532; see people v. tallman (1945) 27 -examination of an expert witness in all matters tending to test his credibility so that the jury may determine the in people v. montiel cross examination of the defense psychiatric expert . . . the prosecutor improperly introduced, for their truth, the unfavorable details of [former] testimony by another id. at p. 923.) rejecting the complaint, montiel courts have traditionally given both parties wide latitude in the cross-examination of experts in order to test their credibility. [citations.] thus, a broader range of evidence may be properly used on cross-examination to test and diminish the weight to be given the expert opinion than is admissible on direct examination to fortify the opinion. it is common practice to challenge an expert by inquiring in good faith about relevant information, including hearsay, which he may have overlooked or ignoredid. at pp. 923-924, italics added.) johnson argues it was misconduct for the prosecutor to even ask goodwin-different matter thaalleged crimes. but johnson is ignoring the fact goodwin-matthews herself 31 goodwin-ld have been important to have . . . reviewed johnson also argues the prosecutor committed misconduct by using hearsay prosecutor turned to dr. affirmatively represent peculiar beliefs are shared by groups of people who do not believe taxes are legal. . . . o indication that dr. this argument misses the point. there was no need for the prosecutor to surreptitiously smuggle in tax protester testimony it is a matter of common knowledge that many people in this country espouse outlandish theories calling into question fundamental aspects of our governmental system.7 in the 7 for instance, on february 23, 2012, the los angeles times ran an article hwork of beliefs, including that the u.s. is essentially under martial law, that some u.s. constitutional amendments are invalid, and that dollars have been illegitimate since the are not subject to local, state or federal laws, and some refuse to recognize the authority www.la.times. com/news/nationworld/nation/la-na-terror-cop-killers-20120224,0,5474022.story>(as of march 1, 2012.)) the federal courts, in particular, have had experience with such groups. iefs that have no legal support think of tax protesters who insist that wages are not income, that taxes are voluntary, or that only foreigners must pay taxes; or think of homeowners who contend that because their property can be traced to a land grant sunited states v. james (7th cir. 2003) 328 f.3d 953, 955.) for an especially florid example, see united states v. landers (10th cir. 2009) 564 f.3d 1217, 1219, discussing an anti-government tract called cracking the code -government scheme that utilizes commercial law to harass and terrorize its targets. . . . according to the theory, [a person] has a split personality: a real person and a fictional 32 second place, the defense expert herself testified she was aware johnson had espoused $10 the virgin islands account in order to purchase real estate. all the prosecutor was doing was challenging goodwin-suggesting a plausible alternative explanation: johnson was not delusional, but rather he was either a committed political extremist who was putting his ideology into action, or he was a cynical scam artist manipulating that extremist ideology for personal gain, or maybe he was a little of both. for instance, the prosecutor told the jury johnson was session of it because he new house that you have to have somebody sit at your house so that you maintain that dr. ical ideology made it legitimate for the prosecutor to ask goodwin-matthews if she had considered this same connection. interestingly, goodwin-matthews testified she was sufficiently intrigued by 8 off the gold standard in 1933 and pledged its citizens as collateral for its national debt. proponents of the theory believe that the government only has power over the strawman filing a ucc financing statement. this allows the real person to acquire an interest in the fictional person that tr 8 goodwin-mat johnson was so fixed in his belief even with me. i asked minimal regarding the trade acceptance because i needed to get through the testing. but he was so fixed in his beliefs . . . that this was something that needed to occur i al 33 the -matthews made the tax protester connection, she might not have been so easily convinced johnson was delusional. johnson also complains the prosecutor improperly asked goodwin-matthews about johnson having discussed mental defenses with dr. sharma, the prosecutor was not legitimately testing dr. goodwin- prosecutor asked if johnson had told goodwin-matthews he would not be found guilty if his we cannot see the impropriety of this; it was a fair question in light of goodwin-arguably misguided conclusion johnson was delusional rather than merely a political crank or a scam artist. d. closing argument. r continued her misconduct by turning to dr. -interest. by doing so, the prosecutor again committed misconduct by referring to facts not in evidence . . . johnson argues the following closing argument by the prosecutor constituted and came across this quote from tgreat fervor preposterous things that just happen to coincide with their self-dr. port did they talk about tax protesters, but dr. goodwin-matthews asked the defendant about taxes. [] and this tax protester situation are people who honestly 34 chargis was talking about dr. however, many antigovernment or anti-tax organizations have similar peculiar explanations for not paying their taxes or engaging in behavior which is similar to mr. after defense goodwin-matthews, although before, she looked at a report from a dr. sharma that [the prosecutor] provided to her. [] even that showed that dr. sharma had noted that mr. johnson had . . . very unusual rosecutor was replying to beliefs were. the prosecutor was entitled to counter this argument by suggesting er complex of extremist political ideology. we conclude there was no prosecutorial misconduct. 6. inquiry into juror bias. johnson contends his convictions must be reversed because the trial court failed to permit an adequate inquiry into the potential bias of one of the jurors. this claim is meritless. a. background. . . thinks that in a brain injury as 12 was one of the jurors who responded affirmatively and the following colloquy occurred: 35 [siclogic injury would lead to aberrant behavior. injury that has led to an aberrant behavior. this. would you be willing to listen to evidence as to whether or not there is such an injury? defense counsel then askwith yourself, a loved one, friend or family, whatever, that it would be difficult for you? [] this is really sort of a gut thing. if anyone has any concerns about that, this is the . . had suicidal behaviors due to mental health problems. e counsel]: thank you for sharing that. [] in your role as a potential juror in this case . . . were those experiences so difficult for you that you feel it would be difficult for you to serve as a fair and impartial juror and possibly hear evidence? juror no. 12: i laid it forth in the interest of full disclosure but i would obviously subsequently, a jury was sworn in, which included juror no. 12. the following day, while the parties were conducting the voir dire of alternate jurors, juror no. 12 asked 36 defense counsel asked the alternates a similar question about personal experiences with mental illness.9 because it slipped my mind. it seemed important to the way you are selecting the jury. [] i had identity theft. it was very small. someone opened a wireless account in my name, never paid it, dinged my credit score. it was something i was never able to press charges for. i wanted to let you know that. [] secondly, maybe it was the way you were asking the questions about mental illness. i did mention yesterday i had two siblings who had suicidal behavior. i guarantee you, i believe in due process, that it was the following colloquy then occurred: the question is, the judge can tell you, the prosecutor can tell you what your role is is [sic] to hear the evidence, to be impartial, but there are situations where, because of our knowing what you know about yourself right now, do you think that hearing evidence in a case where evidence about mental health could very likely be heard is gonna be difficult for you to the point where it could impair your ability to be a fair and impartial juror in this case? 9 their own personal life who have [sic] an experience with mental illness, someone who was close to them, a family member, a loved one, that affected them to a substantial . mental health. whatever that experience you had was, do you think it would be difficult for you to be a juror in a case where you were hearing evidence about mental health and 37 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . into it. question him. he court: okay. after juror no. 12 returned to his seat, the following colloquy occurred: we have a situation where someone went home overnight . . questioning of the prospective alternate jurors continued. once two alternates were sworn, there was a further discussion about juror no. 12: that juror no. 12 raised. at this point we know that this juror has taken it upon himself to tell us about his concerns about his ability to be a fair and impartial juror in this case. defense is asking the court to either remove him or to do a further inquiry into what the motivations were to cause him to come out and approach us. i am concerned about my the federal constitution. this juror has taken it upon himself, after going home and thinking about it, to specifically come out and address these issues with us. 38 today he thought that he should bring up these issues. he went on to say that they would not affect him. he is a had this come up in further [siche is also reiterated here he just wanted full disclosure. he also said that i guess it would be something the defense would be concerned about, the identity theft, but then the people could be concerned about the fact that he said the mental health issues. himself that he has concerns. not issues i just raised today but extensive questioning yesterday, about the crime victims. honestly, from hearing him speak, my greater concerns are about the mental health issues. he has told us again he has siblings who have had mental health issues. this is not a new issue. he has gone home and slept overnight and decided and impartial way? taken upon himself to raise this issue. b. legal principles. al jury. [citations.] an impartial jury is one in which no member has been improperly influenced [citations] 39 in re hamilton (1999) 20 cal.4tof prejudice [arising from juror misconduct] is rebutted, and the verdict will not be disturbed, if the entire record in the particular case, including the nature of the misconduct or other event, and the surrounding circumstances, indicates there is no reasonable probability of prejudice, i.e., no substantial likelihood that one or more jurors were actually biased against the defendant. [citation.] [] the standard is a pragmatic -to-day realities oid. at p. 296.) a juror dies or becomes ill, or upon other good cause shown to the court is found to be unable to perform his or her duty . . . the court may order the juror to be discharged and in failior should be discharged for good cause under section 1089 if supported by substantial evidence. people v. farnam (2002) 28 cal.4th 107, 141.) in favorably assessing the ial, the trial court has people v. zapien (1993) 4 cal.4th 929, 994.) c. discussion. johnson asserts the trial court erred by refusing to allow further questioning of juror no. not change the fact that he, having had the night to contemplate his jury service, felt compelled to approach the court and counsel with renewed reservations about his 12 was prohibited because he had already been 40 12 evidence. rather, the record indicates only that the juror realized overnight he had forgotten to mention the crime victim information and then, while waiting to mention it on the following day, he again heard defense counsel inquire about personal experiences with mental health issues. ances, where the juror, no less than three times, gave the same careful answer when asked whether he could be impartial, the trial court could have reasonably determined that any further questioning on the matter would not disclose any helpful new details. whether to investigate the possibility of juror bias, incompetence, or misconductlike the ultimate decision to retain or discharge a jurorrests within the sound discretion of the trial court. [citation.] the court does not abuse its discretion simply because it fails people v. virgil (2011) 51 cal.4th 1210, 1284; see people v. rogers (2009) 46 cal.4th 1136, the trial court did not abuse its discretion with regard to investigating juror no. 7. there was no cumulative error. johnson contends the cumulative prejudicial effect of the various trial errors he has raised on appeal requires the reversal of his conviction. however, we have found at most only a few insignificant errors that were clearfundamentally unfair. (see people v. jenkins contends the cumulative prejudicial effect of the various errors he has raised on appeal requires reversal of the guilt and penalty judgments. we have rejected his assignments of error, with limited exceptions in which we found the error to be nonprejudicial. 41 his trial was not fundamentally unfair, even if we consider the cumulative impact of the few errors that occurred.) 8. trial court properly refused to dismiss three strikes prior. at sentencing, the trial court imposed a three-year term on the burglary conviction, which it doubled to six years for the three strikes prior, and then added a one-year prior prison term enhancement for a total term of seven years. johnson contends the trial court abused its discretion by refusing to dismiss, under the authority of people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497, his prior serious felony conviction for three strikes purposes. this claim is meritless. people v. williams (1998) 17 cal.4th 148], we considered the scope of review applicable to abuse-of-discretion claims of this sort. we described the factors that a trial court should consider when exercising its section 1385 discretion in a three strikes case, and we stated that a reviewing court should consider those same factors. [citation.] must consider whether, in light of the nature and circumstances of his present felonies and prior serious and/or violent felony convictions, and the particulars of his background, character, and prospects, the defendant may be pirit, in whole or in part . . . abuse of discretion. this standard is deferential. [citations.] but it is not empty. although variously phrased in falls outside the bounds of reasonpeople v. garcia (1999) 20 cal.4th 490, 503.) conviction, appellant has not once been convicted of a violent offense. in addition, the offenses of which he was convicted in this case did not involve violence. [] moreover, as trial counsel pointed out during the hearing on the romero of mental illness was well documented throughout the trial. despite this, a review of 42 t was unaware of its discretion to dismiss the three strikes prior. the strike at issue was a 1990 conviction for rape. according to the probation report, johnson has compiled a lengthy and near-continuous history of criminal behavior both before and after his rape conviction. this history includes adult convictions for the following crimes: receiving stolen property (1982); driving with a suspended or revoked license (1987); carrying a firearm in a vehicle (1987); driving with a suspended or revoked license (1989); filing a false or forged instrument, perjury and forgery (1989); theft (1992); forgery and grand theft (1993); possession of narcotics (1996); petty theft with a prior (1999). during this time there were several trips to prison, as well as assorted parole and probation violations. years, the trial court certainly had a sufficient basis for concluding he did not fall outside the spirit of the three strikes law. (see people v. strong (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 328, 338 of, or affirmed the refusal to dismiss, a strike of those defendants with a long and people v. gaston (1999) 74 cal.app.4th 310, 321 nal history, the fact his current crimes (like most of that history) were non-the trial court should have relied on this factor to dismiss the prior. in sum, we conclude the trial court did not abuse its discretion when it denied romero people v. carmony (2004) 33 cal.4th 367, 377.) 43 8. trial court erred by imposing a 15 percent limitation on presentence custody credits. johnson contends the trial court erred during sentencing by imposing the 15 percent limitation on presentence custody credits that is supposed to apply to the commission of violent felonies. as the attorney general properly concedes, this claim has merit. l court agreed with this assertion, and awarded only 40 days of actual custody. the attorney general concedes there was no basis for imposing the 15 percent limitation. being sentenced for a strike is not listed in section 2933.1 as a basis for imposing the 15 percent limitation, which applies to defendants convicted of certain violent felonies which are listed in section 667.5, subdivision which could have qualified would have been the burglary ( 667.5, subd. (c)(21)) if it had been committed in an inhabited dwelling house at a time when someone was present. (see  460, subd. (a).) that not being the case, the limitation was inapplicable. the attorney general agrconduct credit, for total presentence custody credit of 397 days. we will order the abstract of judgment amended to correct this error. 9. abstract of judgment must be corrected. we note the abstract of judgment contains a clerical error because it reflects imposition of a two-year concurrent term on the count 2 conviction for attempting to file a false or forged instrument, when the trial court actually imposed an eight-month concurrent term. accordingly, we will order the trial court to correct the abstract of judgment. (see people v. mitchell (2001) 26 cal.4th 181, 185 [it is proper and important to correct errors and omissions in abstracts of judgment].) 44 disposition affirmed as modified. the forgery conviction (count 3) is vacated, the presentence custody credits are to be recalculated as discussed herein, and the abstract of judgment is to be corrected as discussed herein. in all other respects the judgment is affirmed. the trial court is directed to prepare and forward to the department of corrections and rehabilitation an amended abstract of judgment. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: croskey, j. aldrich, j. 