filed 7/3/12 p. v. griffin ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. damon keith griffin, defendant and appellant. b226746 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma041196) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. rand s. rubin, judge. affirmed as modified. lise m. breakey, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, stacy s. schwartz and tannaz kouhpainezhad, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________________________ 2 in this appeal, we affirm the conviction and sentence for assault with a deadly weapon, but modify the judgment by striking the conviction for assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury and by striking the great bodily injury enhancement as to the mayhem conviction. procedural background appellant damon keith griffin was charged with three felony offenses: mayhem (pen. code, 203;1 count 1), assault with a deadly weapon ( 245, subd. (a)(1); count 2), and assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury ( 245, subd. (a)(1); count 3). as to counts 2 and 3, the information alleged that appellant personally inflicted great bodily injury within the meaning of section12022.7, subdivision (a). it was further alleged that appellant had suffered three prior serious or violent felony convictions within the meaning of sections 667 subdivisions (b)-(i) and 1170.12, subdivisions (a)-(d), and two prior serious felony convictions ( 667, subd. (a)(1)). appellant was tried twice by jury. in the first trial, the jury was unable to reach a verdict as to any of the three counts, and the trial court declared a mistrial. in the retrial, the second jury convicted appellant of all three counts as charged. the sentence convictions to be true but struck a juvenile conviction. the trial court sentenced appellant on count 2 to 25 years to life plus three years pursuant to section 12022.7, subdivision (a) and plus 10 years pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1). the court stayed the sentence on counts 1 and 3 pursuant to section 654. the sentence for count 1 included a three-year enhancement pursuant to section 12022.7(a). the trial court also ordered a restitution fine of $10,000 under section 1202.4, subdivision (b), and stayed a parole revocation fine of $10,000 under section 1202.45. 1 all further references are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 3 facts clifford leon lived in and was the manager of an alcohol recovery home in lancaster. three other occupants lived in the home with leon, including ernestine wright (ernestine). ernestine is the mother of appellant. leon testified that he had no relationship with ernestine. he also sthad always been in a wheelchair but would sometimes stand up. when he did, he did not have a very strong gait or a very strong walk. his medical condition also limited mobility in his neck, hips, and lumbar region. on july 26, 2007, leon arrived home at approximately 5:00 p.m., went up to his nd saw appellant and his mother with a bottle of alcohol, making a lot of noise. the rules of the home forbade drugs and alcohol. leon calmly stated that they needed to stop drinking and that appellant needed to leave. ernestine then became belligerent and engaged in a two-minute argument with leon. ernestine had often screamed in the home before. the argument was not violent or physical. during the argument, appellant went out of sight without saying anything. suddenly, leon felt something wet and looked towards his stomach. he saw a lot of blood and a two-pronged barbecue fork sticking out of him, pushing out his liver, and out his abdomen. leon then looked over his right shoulder, saw appellant standing that ernestine was definitely in front of him prior to the stabbing. he was certain it was appellant who had stabbed him from behind. leon ran out the side door of the home, clutching his internal organs. he was minute and a half later, leon lost consciousness. he woke up in a helicopter and was transported to a hospital. 4 approximately a half-hour later, sergeant paul pfrehm and deputy ruben acosta of assault with a deadly weapon. they entered to check for additional victims and did not find appellant, ernestine, or any other individuals in the residence. ernestine has remained missing. sergeant pfrehm and deputy acosta also did not find any blood in or around the residence. the only blood found was across the street where leon had been lying. they did not find a barbecue fork in the residence, and their report did not refer to any alcohol bottles. pfrehm testified at trial that they had been looking for a knife. they had never received a description of the stabbing instrument as a barbecue fork. he wears an abdominal binder to help him get around. the hospital also had to repair d large intestines. the doctors grafted skin from his leg in order to cover the hole they needed to cut in his stomach. since leaving the hospital, leon has had digestive problems and trouble eating and using the restroom. he has also been in and out of the hospital two to three times a month due to pain. he regularly takes pain medication. he has not returned to the alcohol recovery home out of fear of being harmed by appellant. on january 16, 2008, detective jeffrey knittel questioned leon about the incident. he showed leon a six-pack lineup, consisting of six individual photos. leon maintained that appellant was the individual who had stabbed him. knittel did not attempt to locate the barbecue fork because it did not seem feasible that it would still be at the residence. discussion a. exclusion of third party culpability evidence appellant contends that the trial court abused its discretion when it excluded that investigators had been unable to find ernestine despite their best efforts to do so. the defense maintained that such proofcombined with the fact that ernestine had been 5 present in the home, arguing with leoncould lead the jury to conclude that she was the one who had stabbed him. the trial court excluded the evidence under evidence code section 352 because it did not directly link ernestine to the stabbing and thus presented a potential danger and prejudice in confusing and misleading the jury. section 352 unless we find that the court abused its discretion. (people v. robinson discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that resulted in a people v. geier (2007) 41 cal.4th 555, 585.) under evidence code section 352, evidence of third party culpability must be capable of raising third party to the actual perpetration of the crime. (people v. hall (1986) 41 cal.3d 826, 833 (hall); people v. samaniego (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 1148, 1175.) mere evidence of motive or opportunity is not enough. (hall, at p. 832.) the probative value of the evidence must also outweigh the probability of any undue delay, prejudice, or confusion that might result from its presentation. (id. at p. 834.) for example, in hall, the court held that the trial court abused its discretion when it excluded evidence that connected a specific third party to the facts concerning the actual commission of the crime. (id. at p. 833.) the third party knew intimate details about the murder that the defendant had never mentioned; while the defendant was right-handed, forensic evidence suggested that the perpetrator, like the third party, was left-handed; and footprints of the same type of ibid.) furthermore, in people v. geier, supra, 41 cal.4th 555, the court upheld the exclusion of evidence blaming a third party who was documented to be in a hospital 160 miles away from the scene of the murder. (id. at p. 582.) while the evidence was not sufficient to point the third party towards the commission of the crime, the court further noted that the evidence ibid.) 6 in the present case, evidence that ernestine fled the scene and that investigators have not been able to find her does not directly or circumstantially suggest that she was the one who did the stabbing. in hall, the evidence did connect the third party to the murder. in addition to illustrating that the third party hahome, the evidence suggested that the perpetrator and the third party were both left-handed and that the third party had knowledge about the murder that the defendant did not. here, although the fact that investigators simply cannot locate ernestine may indeed establish that she is scared or guilty of something, it does not show that she was the stabber. if anything, it suggests that she does not want to testify against her son or, as the trial court noted, that she is afraid of being perceived as an accessory to the assault. it could be that she is missing because she is dead. ultimately, the specific reason why confuse and mislead the jury away from the case at hand rather than exculpate appellant in any way. we thus cannot say that the trial court acted beyond its discretion when it denied defens even if the trial court had abused its discretion by excluding evidence of rbecue fork had entered through his back, that appellant had been the only person standing behind him, and that he was absolutely certain appellant was the sole perpetrator. appellant did not testify or refute these statements in any way. sergeant pfrehm had testified that when he arrived at the scene, no one was there. introducing evidence that ernestine was still not around was the one who had stabbed leon. there is no prejudicial error. b. lack of flight instruction as to ernestine ernestine as the individual who stabbed leon. during jury deliberations, the jury first asked, 7 reqon the fork; however, the jury later rescinded this request. the jury asked no other questions. accordingly, appellant maintains that the trial court erred when it refused to provide the jury with a modified third party flight instruction as to ernestine. appellant further contends that his failure to request the instruction from the trial court does not affect his right to assert such error on appeal. we disagree. a defendant who fails to request a modification to a jury instruction in the trial court forfeits the right to protest those errors on appeal. (people v. samaniego, supra, 172 cal.app.4th at p. 1163). even if appellant had preserved his claim by objecting earlier, we nonetheless do not see how appellant, as the perpetrator. certainly jury deliberations may indicate that a different jury verdict is plausible (people v. cardenas (1982) 31 cal.3d 897, 907 [where 12 hours of jury deliberation illustrated the closeness of the case]). however, to demonstrate that the jury would have changed its mind but for an error made by the trial court, jury questions and deliberations must expressly indicate that the jury had discussed a different verdict. (see people v. pearch (1991) 229 cal.app.3d 1282, 1295). a considerable amount of evidence must also exist to support the alternative verdict. (ibid.) here, neither the evidence nor the jury manifested any express consideration of consider ernestine as the perpetrator, its requests would have indicated so. however, the jury did not allude to or make any mention of ernestine at all. as such, we cannot see how the jury would have changed its mind or benefitted from a third party flight instruction. we have already established that there was no prejudicial error in excluding trial court committed any further prejudicial error in refusing to provide the jury with a third party flight instruction. 8 c. modification of the judgment the attorney general concedes that (1) appellant cannot be convicted both of assault with a deadly weapon (count 2) and assault by means like to produce great bodily injury (count 3). (see in re mosley (1970) 1 cal.3d 913, 919, fn. 5.) the attorney s contention is correct that the trial court erred in imposing and staying a three-year sentence for great bodily injury, enhancing the sentence pursuant to section 12022.7 as to count 1 (mayhem). the information did not allege such an enhancement, nor did the jury find such an enhancement allegation to be true. accordingly, the court will modify the judgment as to count 3 by striking that count and as to count 1 by striking the great bodily injury enhancement. disposition the judgment is modified to strgreat bodily injury enhancement as to count 1. otherwise, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. boren, p.j. we concur: doi todd, j. chavez, j. 