filed 6/26/12 p. v. vigouroux ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. erik louis vigouroux, defendant and appellant. b227666 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la061862) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. joseph a. brandolino, judge. affirmed. kavinoky law firm and mark a. mcbride for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle, supervising deputy attorney general, and tannaz kouhpainezhad, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 defendant erik louis vigouroux appeals from the judgment entered following successive jury trials in which he was convicted of two counts of carjacking and one count of resisting an executive officer. defendant contends the trial court erred by denying his motion for a judgment of acquittal of the carjacking charges and violated his confrontation rights by admitting particular evidence. we affirm. background the chan executive officer during fingerprinting, acquitted him of assault with a semiautomatic firearm, and could not reach a verdict on the remaining charges. the court declared a mistrial and defendant was retried for two counts each of carjacking and second degree we set forth a summary of the evidence at the retrial, but not the original trial. about 3:00 a.m. on april 6, 2009, licensed car repossession agent julio garcia and repossess a car registered to carol liglet. because of the position of the car on the lot, the presence of other vehicles nearby, the shape and width of the driveway, and insufficient maneuvering room, it took garcia and flores about 45 minutes to hook liglrepossessing a car registered to carol liglet. the women denied knowing her. to exit, garcia had to back his tow truck down the steep, narrow, curved driveway garcia returned to his tow truck. garcia saw defendant standing in the driveway with one hand in his pocket and a set of keys in his other hand. defendant walked past garcia and the tow truck without saying anything. garcia believed defendant was going to give 3 oing man? this is door for about 90 seconds, with flores pulling the door open and defendant pulling it closed. then flores stopped talking to defendant and backed holding his hands in the air at shoulder height. were repossessing the car and asked what defendant was doing. defendant had one hand in his pocket and one hand on the steering wheel. he said nothing about getting his property out of the car. he mumbled something, started the car, put it in reverse and started driving. garcia feared that defendant was either going to run over him and flores or drive off with the car, so he sprayed defendant in the face with mace. it seemingly had tow truck. defendant then drove forward and garcia again sprayed defendant with mace. garcia never recovered. flores looked scared. garcia asked him what had happened. flores told garcia that he saw that defendant had a gun. garcia phoned 911 and told the dispatcher that as the police arrested defendant on april 20, 2009, and searched his house, where they seized two shotguns, a rifle, a 10-millimeter semiautomatic handgun and airsoft rifle, some toy guns, and a camera. the prosecution introduced a single photograph the police with the 10-millimeter semiautomatic handgun police had seized, a revolver, and a black semiautomatic handgun. the police did not find the latter two guns. on cross-photograph was taken in may of 2007. 4 defendant told lange and another detective that after one of his housemates watched them for about 45 minutes as they moved the car down to the street. when they disconnected the car from the tow truck, defendant walked down to the street and got into it. as he tried to close the m, and they struggled over the door. defendant denied that he had a gun with him. defendant started the car, one of the men warned him they were going to use pepper spray on him, and the man sprayed him. defendant then drove off in the car. he said he was doing liglet a favor. defendant defendant testified that he was awakened by a housemate who told him there were pening. defendant looked out a went outside. defendant denied knowing that the men with the tow truck were really care about the car itself, but he had left his backpack and wallet in it and wanted to get them out before the men took the car away. the men unhooked the car and left it unattended 20 or 30 feet up the street. defendant walked past the tow truck and men to s backpack sitting on the passenger seat. he caught on an embankment and would not close. defendant leaned over and grabbed his property. one of the men then yelleexplain, and the man sprayed him in the face with pepper spray, which caused him pull him out of the car. he considered his options, put the key in the ignition, and drove 5 away. he did not back up and hit the tow truck. there was no struggle over the door, and he did not have a gun on him. he parked the car 300 to 400 yards away from the house. defendant and his business partner testified that they ran an outdoor recreation he had taken photographs of defendant at firing ranges holding guns owned by other people. second trial, the jury convicted him of two counts of carjacking and acquitted him of two counts of robbery and two counts of grand theft as a lesser included offense. with respect to each carjacking count, the jury found that an allegation that defendant personally used a firearm was not true. the trial court granted defendant probation. discussion 1. denial of penal code section 1118.1 motion -in-chief, defendant moved for a judgment of acquittal of the robbery and carjacking counts pertaining to flores on the ground that flores did not testify. the court denied the motion. the next day, defendant renewed his motion and sought dismissal of the firearm enhancement allegations attached to all of the carjacking and robbery counts. the court denied the motion. on appeal, defendant contends the trial court erred by denying his motion for acquittal, apparently with respect to the carjacking of both flores and garcia. he argues there was insufficient evidence of force or fear. the trial court could not possibly have made an erroneous ruling on a nonexistent motion for acquittal with respect to the carjacking of garcia, and a court has no sua sponte duty to consider the sufficiency of the people v. smith (1998) 64 cal.app.4th 1458, 1469 (smith).) accordingly, we consider only the ruling on the motion with respect to flores. when reviewing a claim the trial court erred by denying a motion for acquittal under penal code section 1118.1, we apply the same standard as when evaluating the sufficiency of evidence to support a conviction, except that we consider only the evidence 6 in the record at the time the motion was made. (people v. augborne (2002) 104 cal.app.4th 362, 371; smith, supra, 64 cal.app.4th at p. 1464.) we review that evidence in the light most favorable to the judgment to decide whether substantial evidence supports the conviction, so that a reasonable jury could find guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. ceja (1993) 4 cal.4th 1134, 1138.) carjacking is the felonious taking by means of force or fear of a motor vehicle in immediate presence, against his or her will, with the intent to temporarily or permanently deprive the possessor of the vehicle. (pen. code,  215, subd. (a).) fear, for purposes of robbery or carjacking, may be inferred from the surrounding circumstances. (people v. holt (1997) 15 cal.4th 619, 690.) it may be shown by evidence of conduct, words, or circumstances reasonably calculated to produce fear. (people v. brew (1991) 2 cal.app.4th 99, 104.) the defendant need not assault or verbally threaten the victim or use or display a weapon. (ibid.) the element of force exists people v. burns (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 1251, 1257.) substantial evidencsaw flores struggling to prevent defendant from closing the car door, which demonstrated overcome that talking and began to back away from the car with his hands in the air supported a reasonable inference that defendant somehow instilled fear in flores, perhaps by telling flores he had a gun or pretending to have a gun by holding his hand in his pocket, as departure with the car, flores said that defendant had a gun. defendant attempts to exclude farguing that it was inadmissible. he is wrong, as addressed in the next section. 7 -use enhancement allegation undermines the sufficiency of the evidence to support the carjacking conviction. of course, the jury had not made that finding at the time the court sufficiency of the ev(people v. lopez (1982) 131 cal.app.3d 565, 571; people v. santamaria (1994) 8 cal.4th 903, 911; pen. code,  954.) product of compromise, mistake, or leniency, of which a defendant is not permitted to take further advantage. (santamaria, at p. 911; people v. pahl (1991) 226 cal.app.3d 1651, 1657.) here, the finding is not even inconsistent, as the jury could have concluded defendant did not actually have a gun, but either convinced flores he did or used force to accomplish the carjacking. 2. confrontation violations citing crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36 [124 s.ct. 1354], defendant residence, and the photograph of defendant with guns violated his confrontation rights. crawford held that with respect to the admission of testimonial hearsay evidence, such as police interrogations or testimony from grand jury proceedings, a preliminary hearing, or a former trial, the confrontation clause demands both unavailability of the witness and a prior opportunity for cross-examination. (crawford v. washington, supra, 541 u.s. at p. 68.) otherwise, such testimonial hearsay is inadmissible. the confrontation clause does not apply to non-hearsay evidence or to hearsay evidence that is not testimonial in nature. testimonial hearsay evidence is that in which a . . for the purpose of establishing davis v. washington (2006) 547 u.s. 813, 824 [126 s. ct. 2266] (davis). 8 testimony in a sense that a person who makes a casual remark to an acquaintance does davis, at p. 824.) a. 911 recording at the outset of the second trial, the prosecutor informed the court and defense garcia as a witness, he informed the court he would be playing the 911 recording. a plstatement. finally, defense counsel argued there was an error in the transcript, in that repoing the vehicle n of the 911 recording in which garcia told the dispatcher that defendant had a gun. by failing to object at trial to the reference to use of a gun in the 911 recording, defendant forfeited all claims regarding the admission of this evidence, including his confrontation objection. (people v. williams (2008) 43 cal.4th 584, 626; people v. stevens (2007) 41 cal.4th 182, 198199.) even if defendant had preserved his confrontation claim, we would find it to lack merit (davis, supra, 547 u.s. at pp. 822, 827, 831 [statements made in 911 call not testimonial]) and, even if its admission were error, we would necessarily find it to have on the firearm enhancement allegations (people v. geier (2007) 41 cal.4th 555, 608; delaware v. van arsdall (1986) 475 u.s. 673, 684 [106 s.ct. 1431]). 9 b. without objectionkevin told you tobjected on the ground of hearsay. the court overruled the objection. defendant failed to object both times garcia testified that flores said he saw different statement by flores, defendant did not inform the trial court his objection was based on a purported violation of his confrontation rights. defendant thus forfeited the claim he raises on appeal. even if defendant had preserved his confrontation claim, and even if we were to ror enhancement allegations. c. far as the record reveals, based upon his own observations, not any statement by other officers. it does not fall within the scope of the confrontation clause. in addition, seizure of guns on the grounds it was irrelevant, was improper propensity evidence, and should be excluded under evidence code section 352, he again asserted no confrontation objection, and thus forfeited any appellate claim on that basis. finally, the juthe guns was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. 10 d. photograph of defendant with guns defendant apparently also contends that the admission of the photograph found on photograph could possibly be deemed testimonial. it was taken almost two years before the commission of the charged offenses and could not possibly have been created for the purpose of establishing or proving anything in this case. even if defendant could somehow establish that the photograph fell within the scope of the confrontation clause, he forfeited his confrontation claim by failing to raise it in the trial court. he asserted only relevance and evidence code section 352 objections regarding the photograph. and even if defendant had preserved a meritorious allegations reveals that the admission of the photograph was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published mallano, p. j. we concur: rothschild, j. chaney, j. 