filed 8/27/12 p. v. jones ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. andrew jones, defendant and appellant. b227030 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba313609) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. michael e. pastor, judge. affirmed. sharon fleming, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven e. mercer and tita nguyen, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 defendant andrew jones appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial in which he was convicted of second degree murder and mayhem, with findings he used a dangerous and deadly weapon. defendant contends the trial court committed several instructional errors and erred by ordering him to submit to a clinical interview by the background in the early morning hours of december 4, 2006, rodney wyatt was killed in a parking lot across flower street from staples center. (undesignated dates pertain to december 4, 2006.) the deputy medical examiner testified that wyatt was six feet tall and weighed just 138 pounds. he suffered more than 30 wounds to his head and neck, cuts to his neck that were consistent with a broken bottle being thrust into his neck. there was also a shallow including the partial severing of the ear and the circular cuts to the neckhad a back to front trajectory, suggesting they were probably not sustained in a face-to-face confrontation. wyatt also sustained blunt force head trauma consistent with someone stomping on the right side of his head, forcing the left side of his head against the pavement. he had multiple head fractures, including the bridge of his nose, his jaw, and hard palate. two teeth were broken off and he had swallowed one of them. blood had pooled in his left lung, indicating that he had been lying on his lefcompressed. the deputy medical examiner testified wyatt died from blunt and sharp force trauma to his head an neck, but she opined that the blunt force injuries were more likely the cause of his death. wyatt had no defensive wounds and no wounds on his torso. delmer totten lived in a loft on flower street two buildings down from the 3 totten the night of the charged crimes, and likins parked her nissan xterra in the same parking lot, next to a green toyota 4runner. likins testified that she and garstka arrived around midnight. a little after 1:00 a.m., totten went outside to empty his trash and ing on his side on a flattened cardboard box. wyatt was dirty, unkempt, and had no shoes or blankets. he appeared to be emaciated, confused, and tired. totten was concerned and asked wyatt how he was and where his shoes were. wyatt did not remember and requested a battery and piece of copper wire. totten went back to his loft, gathered a pair of shoes, a blanket, a small package of nutter butter cookies, and a book of matches, then returned to the parking lot and handed these items to wyatt, who was still lying on his side. wyatt placed them on the ground in front of him. defendant walked up and stood about two feet from totten and three feet from wyatt. defendant repeatedly yelled that a woman had taken $40,000 and two ounces of cocaine from him. he was extremely agitated and aggressive and his speech was slightly slurred. totten thought defendant appeared to be intoxicated and homeless. totten asked defendant to calm down and keep his voice down. wyatt asked defendant to go away and leave them alone. defendant responded by yelling angrily and aggressively at wyatt, and what appeared to be rock cocaine from his pockets and put them on the hood of one of the cars. totten feared there would be a physical confrontation. totten told defendant to calm down, but defendant largely ignored him and continued threatening wyatt. after about 10 to 13 minutes, a security guard from a neighboring building walked into the lot, and totten felt it was safe to leave. garstka and likins testified that totten was visibly upset when he returned to the loft. he told them an irate man threw money and drugs on the hood of a car and was screaming about someone owing him money. g2:00 a.m. ten to 30 minutes before they left, they heard loud talking or screaming and a loud bang like someone hitting a car with a fist. likins told a detective that she heard two men arguing loudly, then a bang. 4 as garstka and likins reached the parking lot, they saw defendant pacing between between the two vehicles. defendant repeatedly swept his hand along the passenger side -side window likins saw wyatt lying on his back between her car and the 4runner, covered with so much blood the car and speaking. he seemed frustrated. as garstka drove away, he and likins saw defendant great force. likins phoned 911 as they drove away and reported observing a fight, but she and garstka testified at trial that wyatt was lying on the ground motionless the entire time they were observing him. likins also told the 911 dispatcher that defendant appeared to be crazed or high on crack. a defense investigator who spoke to likins in july of 2010 testified that likens said defendant appeared to be under the influence of drugs and seemed as if he were trying to figure out where he was and if she and garstka were real. garstka told the same investigator that defendant seemed not to know what was going on and was looking at them as if trying to figure out if they were there. los angeles police department officers alberto vasquez and antonio ramirez w defendant walking toward them and the 4runner in a normal fashion. the officers called out to defendant and identified themselves as police officers. defendant made eye contact with them, 5 turned around, and walked, then ran, toward the alley. the officers saw wyatt lying on the ground next to the 4runner, covered in blood. they chased defendant down the alley, across pico, through a parking lot, and down a second alley. defendant ran fast and never stumbled or fell. vasquez saw defendant extract something from his right pocket and toss it to the left as he ran. defendant hid behind a dumpster in the second alley. vasquez was the first officer to reach the dumpster. he aimed his gun at defendant and commanded him to stand up, turn around, and put his hands in the air. defendant seemed calm, but did not comply. five other officers arrived and surrounded the dumpster. defendant continued to defy them. officer joseph marx testified that . after marx asked officers vasquez, marx, and kathleen owens-shaw testified that defendant did not appear to be under the influence, his speech was not slurred, he was not staggering or talking to himself, and he was quiet and cooperative after surrendering. officer donald ce of drugs not slurred, he was not staggering, mumbling, talking to himself, or acting irrationally, and he was calm and cooperative. casper did not perform any sobriety or drug tests on defendant and testified he did not recall whether he smelled alcohol on defendant. dollar bills and a cocaine pipe that appeared to contain cocaine residue. defendant had a scraped knee and his left hand was bleeding from cuts on the fingers, a cut between the thumb and first finger, and a wound on his palm from which the skin was missing. his hands, arms, shoes, socks, and clothing were covered in blood. the officers summoned with the paramedics. 6 nigger ought to be dead. i gave him two minutes before driving him to the police station. he was quiet and calm the entire time. at the police station, marx, casper, and detective douglas pierce took 30 to 40 digital photographs of defendant wearing, then removing, his bloody clothing. these photographs were introduced at instructions and was neither talking to himself nor falling down. vasquez and ramirez found a bloody, unopened package of nutter butter cookies in the alley where vasquez saw defendant discard something. detectives pierce and john thacker arrived at the parking lot after wyatt had been transported to a hospital. thacker and pierce found a trail of bloody footprints leading from the 4runner, across the parking lot, and down the alley. they also found broken bottles and glass shards near some bloody clothing. sometime after 6:00 a.m., likins and garstka observed blood and what appeared drove the car back to the parking lot for the police to examine. pierce saw smeared blood and blood spatter on the car and removed a piece of skin from it. a partial profile of dna developed from the skin was consistent with wyatt. a photographic array. very intoxicated. he kept yelling at me and then would yell at the homeless man whom i just gave a pair of sneakers, green blanket, and pack of nu the parties stipulated that dr. j. frazier examined defendant at the jail dispensary about 11:40 a.m. in the presence of thacker and pierce, and defendant stated that he used cocaine and alcohol, including 12 ounces of beer, the previous night. thacker testified 7 pierce testified that his observations of, and interactions with defendant did not indicate intoxication. defendant was cooperative, followed directions, and did not have and pierce discussed whether to ask the dispensary physician to take a sample of although he was aware that one officer had said defendant might have been under the influence. thacker testified that he decided not to do so because he believed that thought processes were not impaired by alcohol or drugs. in particular, thacker cited ficers arrive on the scene; his swift and sure-footed flight from the officers; his acts of discarding the cookies, hiding behind a dumpster, and refusing to surrender until surrounded by numerous officers; and his conduct after he was detained and at the police station. thacker concluded that some clear-ail dispensary that he had consumed only 12 ounces of alcohol in the form of beer and very little cocaine the previous night. defendant testified that he had been to a psychiatric hospital four or five times since he moved to california 10 or 11 months before the charged offenses. he had stopped taking his prescribed psychiatric medicines. he was homeless and used crack cocaine and alcohol. in the days leading up the crimes he had been consuming a lot of both and had not slept for at least a day, perhaps more. he consumed additional crack cocaine and alcohol on the day of the crimes, including a pint of vodka, beer, and fortified wine. voices in his head disparaged and chided him, but they did not tell him to kill. he bought food and fortified wine and walked to a parking lot across from staples center, where he sat down to rest. 8 wyatt walked into the same parking lot. defendant agreed that wyatt looked tired, thin, frail, and weak. they initially got along. defendant shared some crack cocaine and wine with wyatt and offered him food. wyatt asked defendant for money, was aggressive and looked spaced out and crazy. he picked up the bottle of wine and asked defendant for some more crack cocaine. defendant said he did not have any more. wyatt repeatedly called defendant a liar and demanded cocaine. wyatt grasped the neck of the wine bottle with both hands. defendant stood up. wyatt drew the bottle back as if hand away and wyatt swung the bottle at defendant. defendant was afraid, but not angry. he grabbed at the bottle and it hit his shoulder. defendant and wyatt fought, then piece of glass and using it to hit wyatt once. defendant was defending himself and did not think about what he was doing. he did not remember stomping on wyatt and did not remember seeing any of the witnesses in the parking lot. the next thing defendant remembered was someone shining a light and yelling. he looked down and saw wyatt lying in a pool of blood, became scared and paranoid, and ran. he was not trying to evade or hide from the police. defendant felt very bad about killing wyatt. he did not mean to do so and did not remember what he had done, but he denied stealing the nutter butter cookies. security guard juan cuillar testified that about 2:00 a.m. he heard and saw two african-american men arguing in the parking lot. one man, whom cuillar identified as wyatt, was standing and yelling at a calm man seated on the ground, whom cuillar identified as defendant. wyatt said that defendant had scratched his car. cuillar thought that defendant appeared to be homeless, but not intoxicated. wyatt did not appear to be homeless. defendant told cuillar that everything was fine, so cuillar left and went inside one of the nearby buildings. cuillar did not see anyone else in the parking lot. 9 the defense that wyatt had cocaine and metabolites of cocaine in his blood, indicating consumption of cocaine between two hours to 30 minutes before his death. he also had a trace amount of alcohol in his blood. the toxicologist thought wyatt would have been under the influence of cocaine, which is a stimulant. the jury convicted defendant of second degree murder and mayhem and found he used a deadly and dangerous weapon in the commission of each offense. the jury acquitted him of robbery and petty theft. the court sentenced defendant to prison for 16 years to life for the murder and weapon enhancement and stayed the sentence on the mayhem conviction pursuant to penal code section 654. (undesignated statutory references are to the penal code.) discussion 1. order for compelled interview with prosecution mental health expert prosecution with discovery regarding its anticipated mental state defense, including medical records for defendant and two letters to defense counsel from psychologist dr. behavior at the time of the incident was consistent with that of a person who acted without thinking, i.e., acted without deliberating, acted without considering the consequences of his actions, acted without planning. furthermore, at times during the in response, the prosecutor sought an order compelling defendant to submit to a clinical interview by a prosecution-retained psychiatrist, dr. kory knapke, under authority of section 1054.3, subdivision (b). defendant vigorously opposed the 10 against self-incrimination and his rights to due process, counsel, and a fair trial. defense kalechsteand that counsel would provide the prosecutor with the unredacted report before kalechstein testified, if she decided to call him as a witness. counsel further represented consistent with someone suffering a blackout; that such a blackout could have been s, can induce a blackout or amnesia. defense counsel also suggested she could render section 1054.3, subdivision (b), inapplicable by having kalechstein testify only about the suffered a blackout. the trial court considered the motion over the course of several pretrial hearings, and initially ruled that the motion was premature because defendant had not then placed his mental state in issue. the court reconsidered its ruling during jury selection after noting that defense counsel had raised mental state issues such as intoxication and unconsciousness during voir dire. after hearing additional argument on the issue, during which defense counsel suggested that she could limit her direct examination of kalechstein to hypothetical questions, the court concluded that defendant had not only placed his mental state in counsel suggested in an attempt to avoid application of section 1054.3, subdivision (b). the court further found until one particular point before the prosecution is allowed to even begin this whole 11 submit to an unrestricted clinical interview, without any psychological or psychiatric testing, by knapke whenever knapke could obtain access to defendant, but knapke would be prohibited from disclosing anything pertaining to the interview to the prosecutor, defense counsel, the court or anyone else until the court determined that testimony. the court denierecord the interview or conduct it in the presence of defense counsel. several days later, defense counsel again asked the court to require knapke to tape record the interview. counsel argueinterview of [defendant] regarding the facts, underlying facts of this case which will result in possible impeachment evidence and will be used by the prosecutor to impeach my client should he testify or to impeach my expert. [] . . . [] . . . we should have an again refused to require knapke to record the interview or allow defense counsel to be present, but ruled that knapke was free to do either or both. about a week later, knapke notified the court that defendant had declined to meet with him unless defense counsel were present and the interview was taped. knapke did not want to conduct the interview in the predefense counsel informed the court that she had decided not to call kalechstein, agreed the court instruct the jury that defendant had refused to be interviewed by the subdivision (b) because the clinical interview ordered by the court did not bear a testimony; (2) the order violated his privilege against self-incrimination and his rights to 12 due process, counsel, and a fair trial; and (3) the court abused its discretion by refusing to require either the presence of defense counsel or the tape recording of the interview. section 1054.3, subdivision (b)(1) provides specifically addressed by an existing provision of law, whenever a defendant in a criminal action or a minor in a juvenile proceeding brought pursuant to a petition alleging the juvenile to be within section 602 of the welfare and institutions code places in issue his or her mental state at any phase of the criminal action or juvenile proceeding through the proposed testimony of any mental health expert, upon timely request by the prosecution, the court may order that the defendant or juvenile submit to examination by a prosecution-retained mental health expert. [] (a) the prosecution shall bear the cost of juvenile court proceeding. [] (b) the prosecuting attorney shall submit a list of tests proposed to be administered by the prosecution expert to the defendant in a criminal action or a minor in a juvenile proceeding. at the request of the defendant in a criminal action or a minor in a juvenile proceeding, a hearing shall be held to consider any objections raised to the proposed tests before any test is administered. before ordering that the defendant submit to the examination, the trial court must make a threshold determination that the proposed tests bear some reasonable relation to the mental state placed in issue by the defendant in a criminal action or a minor in a juvenile proceeding. techniques such as a clinical interv a. application of statue at the time the trial court ordered defendant to submit to a clinical interview with knapke, defendant had made it clear that his defense would revolve around a theory that he lacked the requisite mental states for the charged offenses due to voluntary intoxication and mental illness. he had expressly informed the court and the prosecutor that he would introduce the testimony of kalechstein, a psychologist, in support of the mental state defens . . mental state . . . 13 through the proposed with defendant or simply his expertise, without reference to anything he learned through court -retained mental health s upon the kalechstein had interviewed and evaluated defendant, and defendant intended to rely hout thinking and mental illness and voluntary intoxication, a clinical interview was reasonably related to the mental state defendant planned to place in issue. defendapeople v. gonzales (2011) 51 cal.4th 894 (gonzales) is unavailing for two reasons. in gonzales, the supreme court of battered woman syndrome in general, without presenting experts who had examined defendant, the prosecution would have had no ground for requesting an examination by its experts. but since the defense did present expert testimony based on interviews with defendant, the court properly found that fairness required giving the prosecution the gonzales, at pp. 928929.) gonzales addressed the propriety of an examination under authority of people v. danis (1973) 31 cal.app.3d 782 and evidence code section 730, not section 1054.3, subdivision (b), which was gonzales, at pp. 925927.) the application of section 1054.3, subdivision (b) is not limited to defendants who have placed their mental state in issue through the proposed testimony of a mental 14 health expert who examined or interviewed defendant. and unlike the situation posited in gonzales b. constitutional protections issue waives the fifth amendment privilege against self-incrimination, and the sixth of maldonado v. superior court (2012) 53 cal.4th 1112, 11161117 (maldonado), quoting people v. carpenter f self-incriminating materials or information, but only precludes the use of such evidence in a maldonado, at p. ation by the questions or making statements to the expert in the course of the ordered examination, him at trial, and only to the extent that he had not waived his privilege by tendering his mental state. given the course of events in this case, there was no violation of the fifth amendment. as previously noted, by placing his mental state in issue, defendant waived his ary to permit a proper maldonado, supra, 53 cal.4th at pp. 11161117.) in addition, the order o made clear, such is notified in advance of examination appointments and their purpose, and has the 15 maldonado, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 1142.) similarly, by placing his mental state in issue, defendant waived any due process right to object to examination by a prosecution expert. (gonzales, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 929 & fn. 18.) c. tape recording and presence of counsel neither section 1054.3 nor any other authority required that a recording be made the interview was necessarily based upon an assumption that the statements he would make to knapke give at trial. defendant thus could obviate the need for a recording simply by testifying truthfully and making truthful statements to knapke, thereby avoiding any inconsistent statements. counsel failed to explain how statements by defendant to knapke could be used to impeach kalechstein. the experts might well have reached different conclusions defendant failed to show why or how a recording would be necessary or even helpful in rebutting an opinion by knapke that was unfavorable to the defense. there is a substantial risk that if counsel were present, she would prevent defendant from answering questions she considered damaging to the defense or otherwise rate her client, her intervention would undermine the entire purpose the compelled interview, yet serve no valid purpose because defendant waived his fifth amendment privilege against self-incrimination, his sixth amendment right to counsel, and any due process maldonado, supra, 53 cal.4th at pp. 11161117.) accordingly, the trial court did not act arbitrarily, 16 capriciously, or in a patently absurd manner by permitting, but not mandating, a recording 2. refusal to instruct on heat of passion the trial court instructed the jury on first degree murder, second degree murder, voluntary manslaughter on an unreasonable self-defense theory, involuntary manslaughter based on unconsciousness resulting from voluntary intoxication, intoxication as negating a required mental state or specific intent, self-defense, and defense against a forcible and atrocious crime. defendant requested instruction upon heat of passion, but agreed with the trial court that it was inapplicable. just before the court instructed the jury, defendant asked ts presented, testified to by the witnesses including [defendant], show that he reacted to the provocation by the victim. the provocation being the victim going into his pocket or reaching for his pocket and heat of passion, noting that it was instructing on self-defense and unreasonable self-sufficient to justify heat of passion or provocation as a separate theory . . . defendant contends this was error and violated due process. murder is negated, and the offense is reduced to voluntary manslaughter(people v. carasi (2008) 44 cal.4th 1263, 1306 (carasi).) heat of passion has both objective and subjective components. (people v. moye (2009) 47 cal.4th 537, 549 (moye).) to satisfy the objective component, the claimed provocation must be sufficient to cause an ordinary person of average disposition to act rashly or without due deliberation and reflection, from passion rather than from judgment. (moye, at p. 550; carasiprovocation . . . must be caused by the victim [citation], or be 17 (moye, at pp. 549550.) a defendant may ns own standard of conduct and justify or excuse himself because in fact his passions were aroused. . . people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 12151216, quoting people v. steele (2002) 27 cal.4th 1230, 1252to satisfy the subjective element of this form of voluntary manslaughter, moye, at p. 550.) a trial court must give a requested instruction only if it is supported by substantial evidence, that is, evidence sufficient to deserve jury consideration. (people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 39.) the court must instruct upon all theories of a lesser included offense that find substantial support in the evidence. (people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 162 (breverman).) the effect of an error in refusing to instruct on a lesser included offense is analyzed pursuant to people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836. (moye, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 541.) here there was no evidence that defendant was subjectively under the influence of a strong passion aroused by a provocation when he killed wyatt. defendant testified that when wyatt attempted to reach in his pocket and swung a bottle at him, he was afraid but not angry. defendant remembered swinging a bottle and striking wyatt once with a pieces of glass, but did not remember anything after that. the defense theory was that defendant was not conscious of his behavior from that moment forward. a blank memory is not equivalent to acting under the influence of a strong passion, and defendant does not explain how one can act under the influence of anything if unconscious. testimony thus did not provide substantial evidence that he was actually under the influe nor did the testimony of any other witness provide substantial evidence supporting testimony supported an inference that defendant, not wyatt, was the aggressor and source of any provocation. likins and 18 apparently unconscious, on the ground for at least as long as likins and garstka observed told the police that defendant was intoxicated, crazy, under the influence of drugs, or profoundly confused, but not that he was acting under the influence of strong emotion. finally, the statements by defendant to which likins and several police officers testified fail to show that defendant was subjectively under the influence of a strong passion aroused by a provocation when he killed wyatt. the statements tended to show do not demonstrate the subjective element of heat of passion. instruction upon heat of passion, he is wrong. although heat of passion may be based -wrought or enthusiastic emothan revengebreverman, suprainstruction upon self-defense or unreasonable self-defense does not by itself support the subjective element of heat of passion. (moye, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 555.) for example, breverman there was affirmative evidence that the defendant panicked in the face of an attack on his car and home by a mob of angry men and had come out shooting, and continued shooting, even after the group had tstatement, defendant suggested that he acted in one continuous, chaotic response to the moye, at p. 555.) here, there was no comparable testimony because defendant testified he blacked out after once swinging a -defense and unreasonable self-id. at p. 554.) necessarily speculati 19 nothing. a killer might inflict numerous, even gruesome, wounds without acting under the reason of the accused was obscured or disturbed by passion to such an extent as would cause the ordinarily reasonable person of average disposition to act rashly and without deliberation and reflection, and from such passion rather than from (people v. barton (1995) 12 cal.4th 186, 201), heat of passion is not conscious of what he was doing, the record did not support an inference that n was obscured or disturbed by passion. substantial evidence of the subjective element of heat of passion. accordingly, the trial court did not err by refusing to instruct upon heat of passion. in any event, the absence of the instruction could not possibly have contributed to the verdict, and was thus harmless even under the more stringent standard of chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 [87 s.ct. 824], because the record does not support a finding on heat of passion and, in light of the evidence, there is thus no reasonable possibility that the absence of the instruction contributed to the verdict. (people v. ochoa (1998) 19 cal.4th 353, 479.) as previously noted, the record was devoid of evidence that defendant subjectively harbored a strong passion and acted rashly or impulsively while under its influence. according to defendant hinot anger him. thereafter, he was unconscious, which effectively precluded him from testifying he was acting under the influence of strong passion. if the jury rejected as nonetheless left with no evidence that defendant subjectively acted under the influence of a strong passion. it is thus simply not reasonably possible that the refusal to instruct on heat of passion contributed to the verdict, especially in light of to 20 that defendant threatened other witnesses and treated wyatt kindly by sharing his drugs and alcohol with wyatt and undisputed evidence that there was a time lapse between the attack with broken glass and the stomping that was at least as long as the time it took for garstka and likins to . 3. failure to instruct sua sponte on garcia theory of voluntary manslaughter relying upon a case decided after his trial and which has since been granted review (people v. bryant (2011) 198 cal.app.4th 134 (review granted nov. 16, 2011, s196365) (bryant)), defendant contends that the trial court had a duty to instruct sua sponte on voluntary manslaughter based upon the theory addressed in people v. garcia (2008) 162 cal.app.4th 18 (garcia). even in the absence of a request, a trial court must instruct on general principles of law that are commonly or closely and openly connected to the facts before the court and people v. hovarter (2008) 44 cal.4th 983, 1021.) in garcia, the victim and garcia, who was holding a shotgun, were involved in a confrontation. the victim lunged at garcia. garcia feared the victim would take the shotgun, so he swung the butt of the gun at the victim to make him back off, but struck the victim in the face. this caused the victim to fall and hit his head on the sidewalk, people v. garcia, supra, 162 cal.app.4th at pp. 23, 25.) garcia was charged with second degree murder, and the trial court instructed the jury on voluntary manslaughter based upon heat of passion and unreasonable self-defense as a lesser included offense. a jury convicted garcia of voluntary manslaughter. 21 on appeal, garcia contended that the trial court erred by refusing to instruct on involuntary manslaughter on the theory id. at p. 26.) the court in garcia thus addressed whether an unintentional killing without implied malice during commission of an inherently dangerous felony (aggravated assault) could support an instruction for involuntary manslaughter where the merger doctrine applied to preclude application of the second degree felony-murder rule. (id. at pp. 2829.) the court ultimately rejectkilling during the commission of an inherently dangerous felony, even if unintentional, is at least id. at p. 31.) neither garcia nor any other citable authority establishes the theory of voluntary manslaughter upon which defendant argues the trial court was required to instruct sua sponte. well established principles limit voluntary manslaughter to an unlawful killing upon sudden quarrel or heat of passion or in an actual, but unreasonable, belief in the need to defend against imminent death or great bodily injury. ( 192, subd. (a); in re christian s. (1994) 7 cal.4th 768, 783.) the trial court in garcia so instructed, the jury convicted garcia of voluntary manslaughter, apparently based upon one of the two recognized theories, and the appellate court did not purport to add a new category of offense constituting voluntary manslaughter. it instead made the statement upon which defendant relies in the course of itinvoluntary manslaughter. thus, the statement upon which defendant relies was dictum. bryant, supra, 198 cal.app.4th 134, upon which defendant relied, was decided the year accordingly, even if the theory articulated in garcia is ultimately recognized as a valid third basis for voluntary manslaughter, it cannot be said that at the requimpose upon the instant trial court so formidable a duty as to conceive and concoct an 22 cenot people v. flannel (1979) 25 cal.3d 668, 683.) in addition, even if the theory articulated in garcia is ultimately recognized as a valid third basis for voluntary manslaughter, the evidence in this case would not warrant such an instruction because garcia considered an unintentional killing without malice. ( 188.) consequences of which are dangerous to human life, and the act is deliberately performed with knowledge of the danger to, and with conscious disregard for, human lifepeople v. cook (2006) 39 cal.4th 566, 596.) here, the evidence showed that defendant apparently unconscious in a pool of blood. defendant then returned and stomped on wyunconsciousness claim, which would lead to a verdict of involuntary manslaughter, there was no evidence from which a rational jury could have concluded that defendant stomped would have had no sua sponte duty to instruct the jury on voluntary manslaughter pursuant to the dictum in garcia. 4. refusal of instruction regarding failure to collect and preserve blood sample during his trial, defendant filed a motion to dismiss the charges due to the failure arizona v. youngblood (1988) 488 u.s. 51 [109 s.ct. 333] (youngblood) and california v. trombetta (1984) 467 u.s. 479 [104 s.ct. 2528] (trombetta), which essentially require law enforcement agencies to preserve t was apparent before the evidence trombetta, at p. 489.) the 23 trial court denied the motion because it found no bad faith on the part of the police the state has allowed to be destroyed or lost any evidence whose content or quality are in issue, you may infer that the true farefused to so instruct, stating that there was no bad faith and defendant had extensively cross-credibility. i think that due process. youngblood and trombetta involved claims that due process was violated because the police failed to preserve evidence that had already been collected. in this case, . . there might be cases in which the failure to collect or obtain evidence would justify sanctions against the prosecution at trial, [the supreme court has] continued to recognize that, as a general matter, due process does not require the police to collect particular (people v. frye (1998) 18 cal.4th 894, 943, disapproved on another ground in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22.) california cases have uniformly rejected due process claims based upon a failure to collect evidence. (frye, at p. 943 [no duty to collect additional bloodstains and other items at crime scene]; people v. daniels (1991) 52 cal.3d 815, 855 [no duty to perform gunshot residue test on witness]; people v. farmer footprints]; people v. hogan (1982) 31 cal.3d 815, 851 [no duty to collect scrapings people v. cooper (1991) 53 cal.3d 771, 836; people v. velasco (2011) 194 cal.app.4th 1258, 1263 (velasco) [no duty to confiscate clothing from prison inmate defendant]; people v. callen (1987) 194 cal.app.3d 558, 561 [no duty to determine identity of anonymous caller-informant]; people v. ventura (1985) 174 cal.app.3d 784, 794795 (ventura) [no duty to administer 24 intoxication tests to suspect arrested in fatal shooting]; people v. bradley (1984) 159 cal.app.3d 399, 405406 [no duty to collect bloodstains].) in velasco, the court noted the fundamental distinction between a failure to preit is axiomatic that the le reliance is youngblood, supra, (velasco, supra, 194 cal.app.4th at p. 1263.) defendant relies upon miller v. vasquez (9th cir. 1989) 868 f.2d 1116, which extended trombetta and youngblood by holding that due process is violated by a bad faith failure to collect evidence. miller is not binding on this court (people v. crittenden (1994) 9 cal.4th 83, 120, fn. 3), and contradicts the long line of california authorities cited herein. yet if we were to conclude that due process includes a duty to collect evidence, ail because all that he can say about his blood sample is that it could have been tested and the results may have helped establish his mental state defense. he thus would have been required to show that the police acted in bad faith by failing to have his blood drawn (youngblood, 488 u.s. at pp. 5758; people v. depriest (2007) 42 cal.4th 1, 42). was lost or youngblood, supra, 488 u.s. at p. 57, fn. *.) the trial court repeatedly found that the officers had not acted in bad faith, and its finding is reviewed under the substantial evidence standard. (velasco, supra, 194 cal.app.4th at p. 1262.) thacker testified at length about why he decided not to ask that medical personnel draw a sample 25 statement to the doctor at the jail dispensary that he had consumed only 12 ounces of alcohol in the form of beer and very little cocaine the previous night and information reaction when he saw the first officers on the scene, running swiftly from the officers without stumbling, discarding the cookies, hiding, and failing to surrender until a large number of offices surrounded him, which led thacker to conclude that defendant was neither physically nor mentally impaired by alcohol or drugs. in addition, pierce, with that his own observations of, and interactions with defendant did not indicate that defendant was under the influence. pierce noted that defendant was cooperative, be drawn. all of the police officers who participated in or witnessed the chase testified that defendant ran swiftly and never stumbled or fell. officers vasquez, shaw, and marx testified that defendant did not seem to be under the influence. although casper testified that defendant might have been under the influence, he also testified that defendant was not acting irrationally, slurring his speech, or falling. marx testified that once someone mentioned a taser, defendant surrendered and was thereafter cooperative. marx and casper further testified that when they took photographs of defendant at the police finding that the police did not act in bad faith, and simultaneously established that time. as stated in ventura, suprahave foreseen we further note that defendant introduced evidence of his intoxication through his 26 cross-examination of thacker and pierce about the failure to ry was well aware of the reason defendant was unable to introduce blood test results in support of his unconsciousness defense. for an instruction regarding the failure to collect evidence because the police did not violate due process. (people v. farnam (2002) 28 cal.4th 107, 167.) 5. flight instruction modified version of caljic no. 2.52, as the flight of a person immediately after the commission of a crime, or after he is accused of a crime, is not sufficient in itself to establish his guilt, but is a fact which, if proved, may be considered by you in the light of all other proved facts in deciding whether a defendant is guilty or not guilty. whether or not evidence of flight shows a consciousness of guilt, and the significance to be attached to such a circumstance, are matters for your determination. defendant contends that instructing on flight was error violating due process because it permitted an unjustified inference about his mental state at the time of the california supreme court has repeatedly rejected similar claims. a flight instruction is proper and required where the evidence shows that defendant departed the crime scene under circumstances suggesting his movement was motivated by a consciousness of guilt. ( 1127c; people v. bradford (1997) 14 cal.4th 1005, 1055.) fact fled, i.e., departed the scene to avoid arrest, only that a jury could find the defendant fled and permissibly infer a consciousness of guilt fpeople v. bonilla (2007) 41 cal.4th 313, 328.) the california supreme court has repeatedly upheld the use of caljic no. 2.52 against a variety of challenges, including arguments that it creates an unconstitutional 27 permissive inferenpeople v. mendoza (2000) 24 cal.4th 130, 179181; people v. jackson (1996) 13 cal.4th 1164, 12231224) mental state during the commission of the charged offenses (people v. jurado (2006) 38 cal.4th 72, 125; jackson, at p. 1224). the instruction did not assume that flight was established, but instead permitted the jury to make that factual determination and to decide what weight to accord it.(people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1114, 11821183; people v. abilez (2007) 41 cal.4th 472, 522.) another instruction (caljic no. 17.31) directed the jury to disregard any instruction applying to facts that it determined did not exist. accordingly, if the jury down an alley, across a street, and down another alley did not constitute flight immediately after the commission of a crime, it would simply disregard caljic no. 2.52 and would not infer consciousness of guilt. the final sentence of the instruction consciousness of guilt. and if the jury found flight, the instruction provided defendant some protection by informing the jury it could not infer guilt from flight alone. accordingly, we conclude the trial court did not err by instructing upon flight. 6. cumulative error defendant contends that the cumulative prejudicial effect of the various individual errors he has raised on appeal requires reversal of the judgment. his cumulative error claim has no greater merit than his individual assertions of error, which we have rejected. 28 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. mallano, p. j. we concur: chaney, j. johnson, j. 