filed 3/20/12 p. v. barrientos ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. francisco barrientos, defendant and appellant. b227574 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na085320) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, jesse i. rodriguez, judge. affirmed as modified. ellise r. nicholson, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and baine p. kerr, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury convicted defendant francisco barrientos of one count of second degree robbery (pen. code,  211)1 with personal use of a firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (b)). he was sentenced to an aggregate term of 15 years in state prison. he appeals from the judgment of conviction. we modify the judgment to award one additional day of custody credit and otherwise affirm. background on april 11, 2010, just after midnight, henry santiago was walking from work to his car parked in an alley in long beach. as he spoke to his brother on his whom he later identified as defendant, hurrying toward him carrying a black pistol. defendant approached santiago, and held the pistol about three feet from his face. the pistol was a semiautomatic and looked identical to a black 9 millimeter baretta defendant demanded everything santiago had. santiago gave him $500 in cash, a chain, watch, cell phone, and a bag containing a shoe box, cigar box, and business cards. defendant backed up, keeping the gun trained on santiago. he got into the passenger side of a gray mustang with red racing stripes, which turned out of the alley and headed toward the 710 freeway. santiago told some security guards what had happened, and they called the police. after hearing a radio broadcast of the incident, long beach police officer nicholas kent saw a vehicle matching the description gray or silver mustang with red trim on the 710 freeway. he followed the vehicle, and saw an object resembling a white bag come out of the vehicle, though he could not tell from which window. 1 all further section references are to the penal code. 3 three more police vehicles joined the pursuit. the mustang accelerated and a chase ensued, at the end of which the mustang went out of control, struck the rear of another vehicle, and came to a stop on the shoulder. defendant was seated in the front passenger seat and was arrested. in the car, officer kent found the bag containing the shoe box and cigar box taken from santiago. another officer necklace. no weapon was found in the vehicle, and a search of the area where officer kent saw the object come from the car located nothing. santiago was taken to the scene, and he identified defendant as the robber. discussion pinpoint instruction defendant contends that the trial court erred in denying his request for a pinpoint jury instruction informing the jury, in substance, that a bb gun or pellet gun is not a firearm, because it uses the force of air pressure, gas pressure, or spring action to expel a projectile. based on this purported error, he contends that the firearm use finding must be vacated. we disagree. t has a right to an instruction that pinpoints the theory of the offered by the defendant if it incorrectly states the law, is argumentative, duplicative, or potentially confusing [citation], or if it is not supported by people v. burney (2009) 47 cal.4th 203, 246.) here, the trial court denied the requested instruction, concluding that handgun or any device designed to be used as a weapon from which is expelled 4 through a barrel a projectile by the force of any explosion or other form of 12001, subd. (b) (2011 which is expelled through a barrel, a projectile by the force of any explosion or oth in light of caljic no. 17.19, the trial court properly refused the defense pinpoint instruction because it was duplicative, in that the definition of the term firearm given to the jury necessarily excluded any device other than one that expelled a projectile by the force of explosion or other form of combustion. moreover, there was no substantial evidence that the object used by defendant was face, thereby implicitly threatening his life if he refused to turn over his property. real gun. although on cross- and re-cross examination santiago testified that the weapon could have been a bb gun or pellet gun and that he did not know if it was negate any possibility that the object might have been a bb gun or pellet gun was not substantial evidence that the object was a bb gun or pellet gun. the testimony raised, at most, only a speculative suggestion that the weapon was other than a firearm. the tria caljic no. 2.06 defendant contends that the trial court erred in instructing the jury pursuant to caljic no. 2.06 regarding suppression of evidence. that instruction informed the jury: 5 himself in any manner, such as by destroying or concealing evidence, this attempt may be considered by you as a circumstance tending to show a consciousness of guilt. however, this conduct is not sufficient by itself to prove guilt, and its weight here, as he pursued the mustang after the robbery, officer kent saw an object resembling a white bag come from the vehicle. when the defendant and the vehicle were later searched, the pistol defendant used in the robbery could not be found. from this evidence, the jury could reasonably infer that defendant had tossed the firearm from the vehicle in order to conceal it. that no weapon was found in the area where officer kent saw the object tossed from the vehicle did not defeat the propriety of the instruction. it was simply a factor the jury could consider in determining whether defendant did in fact discard his weapon. indeed, from the fact that no weapon was found, the jury could infer that by tossing the weapon out of the vehicle while traveling on a freeway pursued by a police officer, defendant was successful in concealing evidence against him. there was no error. (see people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 1140 [evidence that defendant tossed knife used in murder out of moving car supported giving caljic no. 2.06].) presentence credit defendant contends that he is entitled to one additional day of presentence conduct credit. respondent concedes the point, and we agree. defendant had 157 days of actual custody, and was entitled to 15 percent conduct credit under section 2933.1, a total of 23 days as opposed to the 22 days he was awarded. we order the judgment modified to reflect 23 days of good time/work time credit. 6 restitution mustang in which defendant was a passenger struck a vehicle in which misotele gapelu and vaea daisy gapelu were occupants. defendant was initially charged with felony evading (veh. code,  2800.2, subd. (a)), but that count was not presented to the jury, and was dismissed under section 1385 after trial. over juries suffered by the gapelus, in the sum of $2,003.92 to misotele and $100 to vaea. defendant contends that the trial court erred in awarding such restitution. we disagree. because defendant was sentenced to state prison, section 1202.4 limits permipeople v. lai (2006) 138 cal.app.4th 1227, 1249; see people v. woods scope of victim restit here, defendant was convicted of the robbery of sandoval. but the criminal property. rather, the robbery continued until defendant reached a place of temporary safety with the property taken (people v. anderson (2011) 51 cal.4th 989, 994), and the robbery was thus ongoing when the mustang in which defendant losses were caused by the criminal conduct (the continuing robbery) of which defendant was 1202.4, subd. (f).) therefore, the trial court did not err in ordering restitution. defendant contends that the driver of the mustang, not he, was the person 7 restitution. however, substantial evidence supports the finding that the gapelus reasonably be inferred that the driver of the mustang was aiding and abetting property. thus, it was as a result of the robbery of which defendant was convicted that the gapeluses suffered their losses. in other words, the pursuit and the accident would not have occurred but for the robbery. we find no error in the award of restitution. disposition the judgment is modified to award defendant 23 days of good time/work time credit. the clerk of the superior court is directed to prepare an amended abstract of judgment and forward a copy to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports willhite, acting p. j. we concur: manella, j. suzukawa, j. 