filed 7/3/12 p. v. berry ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. charles berry, defendant and appellant. b227545 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya076772) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. james r. brandlin, judge. affirmed. melanie k. dorian, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, xiomara costello, supervising deputy attorney general, and richard s. moskowitz, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 defendant charles berry appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial in which he was convicted of dissuading a witness with gang enhancement and use of force findings. defendant contends that insufficient evidence supports the gang enhancement finding and the trial court committed evidentiary error in relation to the background in 2006, arron saraki moved with his mother and siblings to 97th street near normandie avenue. at some point, saraki joined a 10-person neighborhood gang called banks (also known as c-mack, sometimes spelled c-belonged to the dubs gang. the parties stipulated that the dubs gang constituted a criminal street gang within the scope of penal code section 186.22 (undesignated statutory references are to the penal code), and that defendant was a member of the dubs gang. the dubs gang did not get along with any of the other gangs in the area, including the hoover crips gang, although several dubs gang members joined the hoover crips gang. in 2007, saraksoon after, country was killed. saraki told his mother what he had seen, and she took concerned that he woudetective richard biddle. thereafter, members of the dubs gang and other gangs began direction, he went down the street to get a person from a neighboring apartment building. james hearn, a member of the dubs gang, and raymond russell, a five-nine hoover gang member who was a friend of banks and defendant, confronted saraki and told him no snitches were allowed on the grounds. saraki understood this as a reference to him providing information in the case against banks. saraki was angry and wanted to get a 3 boyfriend, a veteran hoover gang member, accompanied saraki back to the site of the confrontation and directed saraki to fight one of them to put an end to the harassment. saraki fought hearn. around 3:00 p.m. on may 13, 2009, saraki walked from his home to normandie, and then south along normandie. as he walked past an alley, defendant approached him -mack. saraki told defendant he was not, and that he did not know what defendant was talking about. defendant pulled a gun from his waistband and pointed it at saraki from a distance of eight or night feet. saraki slowly backed away from defendant, but they continued to talk. defendant then put the gun and his backpack down on the ground. saraki said he did not want to fight and began to walk away. defendant punched saraki in the jaw, and saraki fell to the ground. defendant then hit saraki four or five times and kicked him twice. two older men crossed the street and stood over saraki. saraki lost consciousness. person regarding the attack on saraki. (a recording of the 911 call was played at consciousness and reluctant to provide information, but said he was attacked by four male black juveniles. the paramedics transported saraki to a hospital, where he was treated for his injuries, which included a bruised and swollen face, a profusely bleeding arm, and a gash and knot on the back of his head. 2009, she saw defendant walking to school and asked him why he attacked and pulled a gun on her son. defendant responded that he just showed saraki a gun but did not point the gun at saraki. defendant stated that he had beaten saraki because banks had called him from jail and asked him to assure that saraki would not testify against banks. mccrosky sent saraki to live with relatives who lived far away. 4 biddle interviewed saraki on may 18, 2009. saraki told biddle that after he told defendant he was not snitching, defendant said that banks had told defendant that saraki was snitching. on july 16, 2009, biddle drove saraki told biddle in the car that he was afraid to testify and concerned for his safety as a result not tell the truth becausintimidated saraki. apologized for what happened to saraki, and told mccrosky to advise saraki not to testify in this case. prosecution gang expert detective mark marbach was familiar with the dubs gang. he testified that graffiti written by defendant in 2006 contained the name of the gang, a reference to 97th street (the territory claimed by the gang), defenda marbach testified that it is important to gang members to earn respect within their gang by participating in gang activities. intimidation of the community is an important gang activity because witnesses who fear the gang will not cooperate with the police or testify, and this allows the gang to get away with its crimes. intimidation of witnesses is aten and may be shot. the worst thing a gang member can do is be a snitch against another gang member, even against a member of a rival gang. marbach opined that the attack on saraki benefited the dubs gang because saraki was going to testify against a dubs gang the jury convicted defendant of dissuading a witness with findings that he used force or a threat of force or violence in the commission of the offense and that the offense was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal 5 street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in criminal conduct by gang members. the jury found not true an allegation that defendant personally used a firearm in the commission of the offense and it acquitted him of assault with a firearm. the court sentenced defendant to prison for seven years to life. discussion 1. defendant contends that the trial court abused its discretion by (1) allowing (2) sustaining an objection to a question defense counsel asked marbach. a trial court has wide discretion to admit or exclude expert testimony. (people v. valdez discretion. (people v. mayfield (1997) 14 cal.4th 668, 766.) ond common experience that the opinion would likely assist the trier of fact. (evid. code,  police officers are permitted to provide expert testimony regarding gangs. (people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 196; people v. olguin (1994) 31 cal.app.4th 1355, 13701371.) the gang expert may testify to an opinion based upon facts shown by the evidence that are restated in a hypothetical question asking the expert to assume the truth of those facts. (people v. gonzalez (2006) 38 cal.4th 932, 946.) but an expert may not specific intent or particular knowledge. (people v. garcia (2007) 153 cal.app.4th 1499, 1513; in re frank s. (2006) 141 cal.app.4th 1192, 11971199 (frank s.); people v. killebrew (2002) 103 cal.app.4th 644, 658 (killebrew), disapproved on another ground in people v. vang (2011) 52 cal.4th 1038, 1049 (vang).) a. o 6 must use a hypotheticaprosecutor replied that she never uses hypothetical questions, but if the court wanted her to do so, she would. the court overruled the objection, but cautioned the prosecutor to elicit the basis intimidation allows a gang to operate in the area. and in this particular case, the victim was supposed to, or did in fact testify in another trial involving a fellow gang member. response was factually flawed, in that saraki had not testified at the time of the charged victim in this case was a witness, and was testifying in anothera different trial against a capital crime in the gang world, to testify against one of your fellow gang members. cooperating with the police, coming to court and actually testifying. [] so inbecause of that, it wasyou know, the defendant in this case here was going to try and stop him from testifying. in order to do that, he was going to have to confront the victim. [] and in this case, he assaulted the victim and threatesnitching. and that he better not come to court. [] and again, as i, you knowhe assaulted him in the course of doing this. and you know, my understanding is that the in that trial because he was afraid based the court overruled his objection. whether defendaprosecutor should have asked marbach to render an opinion based upon a hypothetical question tracking the evidence in the case. (vang, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 1049.) the trial court 7 killebrew, supra, 102 cal.app.4th at page 658, and frank s., supra, 141 cal.app.4th at pages 11971199the crime benefited the dubs, which permissibly addressed the effect of the crime, not committed the offense of dissuading a witness and that he acted with the intent to stop had no personal knowledge whether [defendant] assaulted [saraki] and, if so, how or why; he was not at the scene. the jury was as competent as the expert to weigh the evidence and determine what the facts were, including whether [defendant] committed the assault. so [the expert] could not testify (vang, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 1048.) reasonably probable that a result more favorable to the appealing party would have been people v. prieto (2003) 30 cal.4th 226, 247, quoting people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) here, had the court sustained could have utilized a hypothetical question that traopinion about whether the offense described in the hypothetical question would have been question would have put the same information before the jury. -to gangs of witnesses to gang crimes not cooperating with the police or testifying intended to dissuade saraki from testifying against banks and engaged in the dissuasion 8 for the benefit of the dubs street gang and with the intent to promote, further, or assist criminal conduct by the members of the dubs gang. defendant has thus failed to demonstrate a reasonable probability that he would have obtained a more favorable result in the absence of the error. it is unclear whether defendant also contends the error violated due process. he admission of evidence, even if erroneous under state law, results in a due process violation only if it makes the trial fundamentally unfair.people v. partida (2005) 37 intent to dissuade saraki intent to benefit his gang and promote, further, or assist criminal conduct by his gang. trial fundamentally unfair. b. sustaining objection on cross-examination of marbach on cross-examination, defendant repeatedly attempted to have marbach testify that nt to benefit their gang. he began by was because mr. saraki was going to testify against his friend? hypothetically, i mean, could that be a basis of the afor his fellow gang mreason he was doing it and his intent was solely because the person is testifying against opinion, when 9 members. he is committing this assault because a fellow gang member is being testified defendant continued in the same vein, asking repeatedly whether it was possible friendship was inseparable from their common gang membership. eventually, the trial e seem to be going round and round hypothetical facts as you describe them, which asks the witness to assume to be true that the motivation for the defendant is because of close friendship as opposed to the fact that defendant changed his approach and began asking marbach about whether the intent of the perpetrator mattered if his acts created a benefit for the gang. marbach for the purpose of friendshipth that or not. gang is enhanced, that does not come within 186.2 (sic) of an enhancement, the gang objection that the question called for a legal conclusion. do earlier when marb the trial court did not err. the question asked whether an act motivated by friendship would satisfy one of the elements of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1). the question sought a legal conclusion, which is not a proper subject for expert opinion. (downer v. bramet (1984) 152 cal.app.3d 837, 841.) 10 any due process claim defendant intended to assert on appeal is meritless. proper application of the rules of evidence does right to present a defense. (people v. thornton (2007) 41 cal.4th 391, 443.) 2. sufficiency of evidence defendant contends that the evidence was insufficient to support a finding that o dissuade [saraki] from testifying against c-mack, for the benefit upon a theory he argued at trial: his friendship with banks, not their common gang membership, motivated his conduct. to resolve this issue, we review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment to decide whether substantial evidence supports the conviction, so that a reasonable jury could find guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. ceja (1993) 4 cal.4th 1134, 1138.) where substantial evidence supports the verdict, we must affirm, even though the evidence would also reasonably support acquittal. (people v. towler (1982) 31 cal.3d 105, 118.) section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1) provides a sentence enhancement for anyone with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang mem . people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 60.) ny we concluded was improper. the parties stipulated that defendant of witnesses explained how a gang benefits by preventing a witness to a gang crime from cooperating with the police or testifying. the prior incident in which dubs gang member james hearn and hoover gang member raymond russell harassed saraki for being a 11 snitch indisource of concern to members of both the dubs gang and at least one other local gang. inten-mack implied that defendant was at least partially motivated by his common gang membership with banks. collectively, this evibenefit of the dubs street gang and with the intent to promote, further, or assist criminal ively ask this court to reweigh the evidence, which is not a permissible approach to a sufficiency of evidence claim. that theory was before the jury, which rejected it, perhaps hip. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. mallano, p. j. we concur: rothschild, j. johnson, j. 