filed 2/28/12 p. v. pettaway ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. earl pettaway, defendant and appellant. b227725 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na065581) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county. tomson t. ong, judge. affirmed. robert booher, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, pamela c. hamanaka, assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and allison h. chung, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________ 2 earl pettaway appeals from the order revoking his probation because he pleaded no contest to possessing a small amount of marijuana. we reject his contentions that the trial court abused its discretion when revoking his probation and that a second restitution fine was improperly imposed, and affirm the order. facts and procedural history in march of 2006 earl pettaway pleaded guilty to a felony count of inflicting bodily injury on his former live-in girlfriend. (pen. code,  273.5, subd. (a).) pettaway confronted his former girlfriend in an alley and, after hitting her several times and throwing her against a brick wall, left her with a broken jaw and numerous cuts and bruises.1 pettaway also pleaded guilty to allegations that he personally inflicted great bodily injury as part of a domestic dispute (pen. code,  12022.7, subd. (e)), and that he had a previous misdemeanor conviction for battery against a former spouse (pen. code,  243, subd. (e)(1)).2 a 10-year sentence was imposed, but as part of a plea bargain accepted by judge tomson t. ong, pettaway was placed on probation for 5 years and ordered to make restitution to his victim in the amount of $17,596.13. a restitution fine of $200 was also imposed. ( all laws and court orders and to seek a job or go to school. in december 2009, pettaway was arrested for misdemeanor possession of marijuana. in april 2010, he pleaded no contest to that charge and was ordered to this, it triggered a probation revocation hearing before judge ong. probation officer said that she learned of the drug charge during a records check, and that not only had 1 from that proceeding. 2 all further undesignated section references are to the penal code. 3 pettaway not told her of the arrest, he denied having any new arrests during his probation office visits from december 2009 through march 2010. she noted that between the time of the march 2006 restitution order and april 2010 a period of 48 months pettaway had made only 35 minimum payments of $100 toward satisfying his victim restitution order of $17,596.13. in addition, she reported, pettaway had made no payments toward his $200 restitution fine or other court fees, leaving an unpaid balance of $20,198.74 on his combined total obligation of $24,148.74. the reports also stated that pettaway had mes worked for cash, which was accountable to paying off his restitution fines. the probation officer reported that pettaway sometimes failed to show up for his visits with her. pettaway explained that he missed his april 2010 meeting because of confusion about his graduation date from a trade school he attended to learn medical billing skills. he was expected to graduate from that school in april 2010. she believed pettaway could still benefit from probation, and recommended that pettaway serve 30 days in county jail. she also recommended imposing drug counseling and drug testing requirements, along with reminders about meeting his probation obligations. the probation officer testified somewhat differently at the september 9, 2010, revocation hearing. when askenot in compliance when it came to paying back his victim or seeking employment. when defense counsel asked whether she knew pettaway had been attending the medical billing when defense counsel asked the probation officer what her recommendation was, [] i have not seen a probation officer since the time that we have had this budget crisis 4 that did not recommend reinstatement of probation, that includes robbery on probation or the person commits another roberry and that incenses me, so i make my own defense counsel then asked the probation officer whether she considered the differed had pettaway been charged with robbery. the probation officer said she had considered the nature of the crime, and that if pettaway had committed robbery instead, she would have recommended a prison term. when defense counsel asked why, the court again interjected, asking the probation of pettaway testified that he had paid $4,150 in victim restitution. while on probation, he tried to find work but failed because he was a convict with no education. he instead went to medical billing school to better prepare himself to find work. he got g school, he was trying to take care of his grandmother and two kids, and was able to support them with county general relief money, so the county is supporting your kids and your grandmother is supporting your taxpayers are taking care of your the prosecutor asked pettaway whether he bought a pair of diamond earrings while on probation. pettaway said he had the earrings long before then. the court asked 5 o speak. pettaway said he had trouble sleeping after his grandmother and two uncles died and that he smoked marijuana to help him sleep. when he was arrested on the drug charge, he had less than $5 worth of marijuana. the trial court said it believed pettaway, but that he was going to prison because of the underlying conviction for inflicting serious injuries to his former girlfriend, not for the marijuana use. the marijuana conviction simply triggered the sentence pettaway agreed to in case he violated the terms of his probation: smoke marijuana for a whole month and have believe that mr. pettaway is rehabilitated. he chooses a life of crime, unlawful conduct instead of leading a law-abiding life. that being the case, probation is revoked and to prison to complete his 10-year sentence. on appeal, pettaway contends that judge ong abused his discretion because he department. he also contends that the trial court improperly imposed a second restitution fine under section 1202.4, subdivision (b). discussion 1. the probation revocation order was not an abuse of discretion a trial court may revoke probation if the interests of justice so require and if the court has reason to believe that the probationer has violated any of the conditions of his probation. ( 1203.2, subd. (a); people v. urke (2011) 197 cal.app.4th 766, 772.) the substantial evidence burden of proof applies at probation revocation hearings, and we revurke, at pp. 772-773.) the trial court has broad discretion and we give great deference to its s power to revoke probation is akin to its power to grant it, and we will not reverse an order revoking 6 probation unless the defendant shows abusive or arbitrary action. (id. at p. 773.) we will reverse such an order in only an extreme case, and the defendant bears the burden of demonstrating an abuse of discretion. (ibid.) recommendation to keep him on probation with new conditions because of any evidence-based disagreement with that recommendation. instead, pettaway contends, the comments showed a generalized rejection of any recommendations from probation officers because the court believed the probation department routinely recommended probation out of budgetary concerns, regardless of how serious an offense had been committed while on probation. as a result, pettaway argues, the trial court did not properly exercise its discretion.3 reflect poorly on the integrity of the criminal justice system in two ways. first, someone learning of the comment might believe it was true and conclude that without regard to public safety, the probation department was recommending that probationers who commit even violent or serious crimes remain on probation solely out of budgetary concerns.4 second, that someone hearing a trial judge express such an opinion might conclude that a member of the bench had let his previous disagreements with probation endations spill over into a personal opinion that caused him to predetermine his evaluation of future recommendations. we also observe that, to the extent the trial court was basing its sentencing decision on his dissatisfaction with probation reports in other cases, the trial court was improperly considering matters outside the record in this case. 3 probation report meant it had not read the report at all. we disagree. the report was signed by judge ong next to a statement that he had read and considered the report, and we interpret his comment to mean that he had done so. 4 officers had routinely recommended a reinstatement of probation for probationers who committed robbery while on probation. 7 our role as circumscribed by the standard of review. although the probation oreport is designed to assist the court (cal. rules of court, rule 4.411(d)), the court is free people v. downey (2000) 82 cal.app.4th 899, 910.) if a probationer violated the terms and conditions of his probation, the trial court does not abuse its discretion by revoking probation. (people v. hawkins (1975) 44 cal.app.3d 958, 968.) there is no dispute that pettaway violated the terms and conditions of his probation because he was convicted of possessing marijuana. although the small amount he possessed for solely personal use might well cause reasonable minds to differ as to discretion. this is especially including his failure to make all office visits, his concealment of and lies about his new drug arrest, and his apparent lack of diligence in pursuing either work or an education. accordingly, we 5 2. a new restitution fine was not imposed when pettaway was first sentenced and placed on probation in the underlying cohabitant battery case, the court imposed a $200 restitution fine under section 1202.4, subdivision (b). at the probation revocation hearing, the trial court said pettaway was to revocation hearing includes that fine, along with the notabstract of judgment includes one such fine. pettaway contends that the trial court erroneously imposed a second fine under section 1202.4, which should be stricken. we disagree. instead, the trial court was simply making sure that the fine originally ordered 5 respondent contends we should deem the issue waived because pettaway did not people v. downey, supra, 82 cal.app.4th at p. 910.) given the nature of the trial comments, we choose to determine the issue on its merits. 8 continued to remain in effect. (people v. cropsey (2010) 184 cal.app.4th 961, 965; people v. chambers (1998) 65 cal.app.4th 819, 821-823.) there is no duplicate fine. disposition obation is affirmed. rubin, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. flier, j. 