 filed 12/7/12 p. v. pena ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. michael pena et al., defendants and appellants. b227124 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka085239) appeal from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, george genesta, judge. affirmed. joanna mckim, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant michael pena. donna l. harris, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant richard eugene renteria. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and blythe j. leszkay, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 appellants michael pena and richard eugene renteria appeal from the judgments entered following their convictions by juries on count 1 first degree murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a))1 and on two counts of willful, deliberate, and premeditated attempted murder (counts 2 & 3) with findings as to all counts appellants personally, and a principal, used a firearm (former  12022.53, subds. (b) & (e)(1)), intentionally discharged a firearm (former  12022.53, subds. (c) & (e)(1)), intentionally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury and death (former  12022.53, subds. (d) & (e)(1)), and committed the offenses for the benefit of a criminal street gang (former pen. code,  186.22, subd. (b)(4)). the court sentenced pena to prison for 115 years to life, and sentenced renteria to prison for 100 years to life. we affirm the judgments. factual summary 1. . a. .2 viewed in accordance with the usual rules on appeal (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established that prior to august 29, 2008, the flores gang (flores) shot pena in the leg. as a result, he used a prosthetic leg. pena was a member of the blackwood puente gang (blackwood) and the two gangs were rivals. los member shot a blackwood member, blackwood would be expected to retaliate by member who had been shot would participate to reestablish himself in blackwood. ey. on august 29, 2008, lena ojinaga was at her apartment at 3647 durfee in el monte. according to ojinaga, flores was the predominant gang in el monte. about 1 unless otherwise indicated, subsequent statutory references are to the penal code. 2 appellants were jointly tried except they had separate juries. 3 ojinaojinaga. about 20 minutes, then left. boyfriend, arrived. delgado was a flores member whose moniker was cougar. after delgado arrived, he kept company with jackie vargas (the decedent) and mario ortiz. probably about 10:00 p.m., and perhaps an hour after delgado arrived, tricia nishijima, an acquaintance of ojinaga, arrived to pick up maldonado. nishijima had met members. nishijima was a close friend of renteria and knew pena. -ed to blackwood members the directives of shot-callers. that appellants had been there and would return after they left hollywood. nishijima was concerned about renteria returning because several flores members were there. pena had told nishijima that he had been shot by flores members. nishijima and maldonado left together in a car about ten minutes after nishijima arrived. maldonado told police that while nishijima was in the car, she spoke to someone 3 maldonado expressed anger at nishijima for making that call. about 30 to 45 minutes after nishijima and maldonado left, vargas, delgado, and ortiz left in a honda. ortiz testified vargas was driving. the three traveled a short 3 on december 4, 2008, nishijima was arrested. she was charged with appellants 4 richard biddle testified ortiz told biddle that about 11:30 p.m., a vehicle, which ortiz howas shot in the chest and mortally wounded. delgado denied any of the three had a gun. nishijima testified that hours after the shooting, maldonado called her and angrily told desiree castaneda testified she lived at 4110 durfee in el monte. shortly after 11:00 p.m. that night, she heard at least five gunshots very near her home. she later looked out her front door and saw a honda and white truck driving side by side. the honda stopped in the street but the truck continued and eventually parked. castaneda da police recovered from the intersection of durfee and kerrwood two nine-millimeter casings that had been fired from the same gufloorboard a spent bullet consistent with a nine-millimeter bullet. one bullet caused a nt with a .45-caliber bullet. edward garcia testified he used to be an 18th street gang member. he had known appellants for years. garcia talked with nishijima about her involvement on the night leading to the shooting of snoopy. garcia testified nishijima told him that after she he left the apartment, she called people and spoke to pena. 5 appellants were outside and appellants and garcia conversed. renteria brought up the that [pena] got his get- memory with a detectivconcerning statements made by each appellant.4 garcia testified he told police that pena said he had leaned against the car and enteria, another person], and renteria drove to sacramento but later returned. on december 4, 2008, police searched a residence relating to pena, i.e., his ouse. police found in the garage a gun safe containing guns. police also found ammunition in a backyard shed, including a nine-millimeter bullet and two .45-caliber bullets. b. . ojinaga testified that, the morning after the shooting, she called pena to find out how his hollywood trip had gone. pena said they had had fun and had returned perhaps around 2:00 or 3:00 about the shooting first and tol 4 after refreshing his memory, garcia testified as follows concerning what was said d thing, or just got that get-back for that motherfucker -- got his get- specifically remembered pena mentioned snoopy to garcia. pena said snoopy was from flores. 6 (sic on november 12, 2008, pena initially indicated to detectives that he could prove he was in hollywood during the shooting based on photographs from his cell phone. been erased when he changed carriers. pena also told detectives he did not learn that pena denied to detectives that he knew who had told him this information. on june 14, . . i did not have a [expletive] cellphone that night. c. . nishijima testified when she spoke to renteria before the vargas murder, she asked renteria by phone if he was going to return to renteria to return since other gang members, especially from flores, would be there and anything could have happened to him. renteria asked if they were inside or outside, and after detectives called and spoke with nishijima the first time, she told renteria they had called. renteria told nishijima to change her number and not talk with them. nishijima asked what happened. renteria told nishijima the following. renteria was activity and committing shootings. nishijima also testified that when renteria told her 7 garcia testified he and renteria were in a motel room when renteria received a venge. nishijima testified that a few days or weeks before her december 2008, arrest, nishijima had seen renteria with a .45-caliber gun. detectives interviewed renteria following his arrest. he initially denied to detectives that a couple of days after the shooting he went with nishijima to sacramento. he later told detectives that he went at that time to see his newborn sister. nishijima testified that on january 11, 2009, nishijima was on a jail bus with ruben flores (ruben), a blackwood member. ruben told nishijima the following. ruben and renteria were on a jail bus and the two talked about whether nishijima was going to take the stand. renteria told ruben to tell nishijima not to take the stand; if she and that nishijima knew what she had to do. nishijima also testified renteria sent letters to nishijima while she was in jail. them to nishijima. one letter stated, nishijima understood this to mean she needed to clean up statements she had made, she was not to testify, and she was not to talk to people, especially not to law enforcement personnel. sica postscript said, nishijima understood that to mean she should not become a snitch. -- you kno8 2. defense evidence. in defense, barbecue on the night vargas was killed. issues renteria claims the trial court (1) erroneously admitted into evidence his statements that detectives obtained in violation of miranda5 and (2) erroneously denied his pitchess6 motion. pena claims (1) the trial court erroneously admitted into evidence the trial court erroneously permitted garcia to refresh his recoll(4) there was insufficient evidence of premeditation and deliberation as to count 1. discussion 1. occurred. a. pertinent facts. at 12:43 p.m. on december 4, 2009, detective biddle and los angeles county transcript reflects as follows. during the beginning of the interview, the following thank you. [] [biddle]: sleeping? [] [hall]: you okay? right? [] [renteria]: 8 years old in april. after further exchanges (reflected on page 2 of the transcript7), the following and your last name is renteria? [] [hall]: and they call you 5 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 [16 l.ed.2d 694] (miranda). 6 pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531 (pitchess). 7 references in parentheses to page numbers are to the pagination reflected in the interview transcript. 9 [] [biddle]: are you awake? so they call you [] [hall]: is it [] [renteria]: the detectives later (on page 3) advised renteria of his miranda rights, then think this renteria indicated he stopped going to high school in the ninth grade, but he could read okay. still later (at page 20), hall, who had written a report, asked renteria if he wanted hall to read it to renteria or if renteria wanted to read it. renteria replied he did not hall could read it. hall then read (at pages 20 and 21) a report hall wrote pertaining to later (at pages 23 and 24) the detectives told renteria that garcia told detectives that garcia had heard renteria make statements in the presence of pena. renteria told detectives that garcia was fabricating. after hall indicated he would not tell anyone what renteria told detectives, renteria said, (italics added.) later during the interview (at page 32), the following occurred: around every time we ask you a question. [] [renteria]: -- my ____sic; italics added.) still later (at page 42), a colloquy ensued between hall . . .sic; on july 12, 2010, prior to trial, renteria suggested statements he made during the interview should be excluded under miranda. on july 14, 2010, the court indicated it had read the transcript and tentatively had found adequate the miranda advisement. after the court asked renteria if he wished to 10 the court concluded the advisement was made and renteria understood it. expressly ask if renteria understood his rights and was willing to talk to biddle. the court found the miranda advisement was adequate, renteria impliedly waived his miranda rights, the first two of the three previously italicized statements were ambiguous miranda rights, and the third statement was an n to suppress his statements. there is no dispute any challenged statements by renteria admitted into evidence italicized statement that the trial court concluded was an invocation. b. analysis. renteria claims the trial court erroneously denied his suppression motion because he did not make a knowing and intelligent waiver of his miranda rights and each of the three previously italicized statements was an invocation of his miranda rights. we conclude otherwise. in people v. riva (2003) 112 cal.app.4th 981 (riva), the appellate court stated, decisions of the united states supreme court have held an express waiver is not miranda] waiver is intended. [fn. omitted.] the question is not whether the proper form was used but whether the defendant voluntarily, knowingly and intelligently waived his fifth and sixth amendment rights as delineated in miranda. [fn. omitted.] this question is answered id. at pp. 988-989.) there is no dispute detectives properly advised renteria of his miranda rights and he understood them. renteria does not dispute he impliedly waived his rights once he 11 miranda rights may be found when a suspect answers questions after acknowledging he understands his constitutional rights. miranda rights and impliedly waived them at that time. (cf. people v. whitson (1998) 17 cal.4th 229, 245-250; riva, supra, 112 cal.app.4th at p. 989.) knowing, and intelligent, and whether he later invoked his miranda rights as he now urges. as the pertinent facts demonstrate, renteria challenged the waiver on the sole ground the detectives did not obtain from him an express waiver. renteria therefore waived the issue of whether his implied waiver of his miranda rights was voluntary, knowing, and intelligent. (cf. people v. michaels (2002) 28 cal.4th 486, 511-512.) even if the issue was not waived, the inquiry as to whether a miranda waiver was voluntary, knowing, and intelligent has two components. first, the waiver must be voluntary in the sense it was the product of a free and deliberate choice rather than a full awareness of both the nature of the right being abandoned and the consequences of may a court properly conclude that the miranda rights have people v. smith (2007) 40 cal.4th 483, 501-the defendant chose to speak with police after he was informed of his rights, understood the information he was given and was not tricked or coerced into surrendering those riva, supra, 112 cal.app.4th at p. 989.) renteria argues the trial court did not consider the totality of the circumstances because it did not consider the circumstances that renteria was not alert when he was 12 taken to the interview room, the detectives asked questions about whether renteria was asleep, renteria was 18 years old at the time of the interview, he had dropped out of school in the ninth grade, and he opted for hall to read the previously mentioned police report. renteria cites the interview transcript as evidence of these circumstances. however, the trial court read the transcript and therefore considered any such circumstances. there was substantial evidence renteria understood the miranda advisements he was given and was not tricked or coerced into surrendering his miranda rights. miranda rights was valid. (riva, supra, 112 cal.app.4th at pp. 988-989.) finally, any invocation of miranda rights after a defendant has waived them must be unambiguous and unequivocal. (people v. nelson (2012) 53 cal.4th 367, 376-378.) -- invocations.8 the trial court suppressed any statements renteria made after he made the . . . . .i.e., a statement the trial court concluded was an invocation of his miranda rights. no miranda violation occurred. 2. a. pertinent facts. on april 8, 2010, renteria filed a pretrial discovery motion pursuant to pitchess, supra, 11 cal.3d 531. the motion sought an order requiring, inter alia, the los angeles duval committed for a gang purpose, and other opinions, testimony or police reports about gang 8 erroneously transcribed, he made no motion to correct the record or have this court order the superior court to issue a settled statement about the alleged error. (see cal. rules of court, rules 8.155(c), 8.340(c).) we presume the record is correct. (people v. roberts (2010) 184 cal.app.4th 1149, 1170, fn. 11.) 13 members that were untruthful concerning the relationship of [blackwood] gangs with one another [sic] or other gangs, . . . any biased or dishonest statements made in his police reports or his testimony in court concerning suspected gang members and their reported activities of [wrongdoing], and any other evidence of misconduct amounting to moral the motion also sought, inter alia, the names and addresses of all persons who had filed such complaints, might be witnesses, or had been interviewed by lasd, and sought sole supporting declaration was that of , henry bastien. vargas was shot and killed while driving on durfee with delgado and ortiz. the three were mblackwood members, killed vargas because flores and blackwood were rivals that had been feuding for at least 15 years, and, in august 2007, a flores member had seriously wounded pe-standing feud and as revenge for the assault on pena.9 ense position that the two gangs were not longstanding enemies during the past 15 years. they do not share a common border and the territory of the situs of the crime, durfee ave in el monte, was not under dispute or 9 stified. we note that at the preliminary hearing, appellants stipulated for purposes of that hearing that duval was an expert in criminal street gangs and that blackwood was such a gang for purposes of former section 186.22. at that hearing, duval testified as follows. duval had been a gang investigator for at least 15 and one-half years, and flores and blackwood had been enemies for at least that long. the gangs did not share a common border and their territories were at least a couple of miles apart. if blackwood members entered el monte, shot at flores members driving in a car, and killed one, the killing would have been committed for the benefit of blackwood. durfee was in el monte and territory claimed by flores. flores was the only gang that claimed the area around 4110 durfee. 14 coveted territory by blackwood. also, there was not a continuing war among the two case that the crime was committed by the defendants for a obtain impeachment evidence that duval would provide false information, reports, and testimony pertaining to gang-related issues. would hope to show through expert testimony that that rivalry did not exist and further that that opinion is without historical foundation and is a product of [an] adversarial motion. the court also concluded all renteria had done was to indicate, without support, his pitchess motion without prejudice to bastien submitting a supplemental declaration based on any future additional information he might learn. the record contains no such supplemental declaration. b. analysis. in warrick v. superior court (2005) 35 cal.4th 1011 (warrick), our supreme court observed that, to initiate discovery under a pitchess motion, the defendant must file a motion supported by affidavits showing good cause for the discovery. to show good misconduct that is plausible when read in light of th(id. at p. 1025.) warrick held a plausible scenario of officer misconduct is one that might or could have occurred. such a scenario is plausible because it presents an assertion of specific police misconduct that is both internally consistent and supports the defense 15 proposed to the charges. (id. at p. pitchess motion for abuse of discretion. (people v. mooc (2001) 26 cal.4th 1216, 1228.) motion did not provide a police report, witness arrest, or any other time alleged misconduct was his gang expert testimony at an unidentified proceeding because of a long-standing feud and as revenge for the assault upon pena. however, the in fact, duval testified at the preliminary hearing that the two gangs did not share a common border and the durfee crime site was not in disputed gang territory. bastien said the same thing in his declaration, a fact suggesting he obtained this information from duval and conceded enemies during the past 15 years (a representation expressly disputing the length of time, but not the fact, thwould show through expert testimony at trial that the two gangs were not longstanding enemies during the past 15 years provided no support for the pretrial motion. renteria failed to demonstrate good cause for the discovery or a specific factual plausible scenario of misconduct by duval. the trial court did not abuse its discretion by denying pitchess motion. 3. dence against pena. appellants were jointly tried except they had separate juries. during direct examination, garcia testified without objection as follows. one day in about september only five persons 16 about the murder when renteria brought up the issue of the war between flores and that he got his get-back -- that [pena] got his get- should not be permitted to refresh his recollection and change his testimony) testified that duri. . . above quoted statements in violation of the bruton/aranda10 constitutional rights to confrontation, due process, and a fair trial. we conclude otherwise. pena waived any bruton/aranda testimony on that ground. (people v. hill (1992) 3 cal.4th 959, 994-995.) similarly, pena waived any confrontation clause, due process, or fair trial issue by failing to object on those grounds. (cf. people v. alvarez (1996) 14 cal.4th 155, 186; people v. benson (1990) 52 cal.3d 754, 786-787, fn. 7.) even if pena did not waive those issues, the bruton/aranda rule is that the confession which also facially incriminates and is inadmissible hearsay as to a defendant vioat their joint jury trial. (people v. fletcher (1996) 13 cal.4th 451, 455-456; aranda, supra, 63 cal.2d at pp. 528-531; bruton, supra, 391 u.s. at pp. 124-128, fn. 3, 129-136.) however, for the three reasons below, the rule is inapplicable and the trial court did not first, appellants were jointly tried but had separate juries. thus, any statement by the nontestifying codefendant renteria was not admitted into evidence against renteria 10 people v. aranda (1965) 63 cal.2d 518 (aranda); bruton v. united states (1968) 391 u.s. 123 [20 l.ed.2d 476] (bruton). 17 occurred. second, the admission into evidence of nontestimonial statements does not violate the bruton/aranda process. (people v. arceo (2011) 195 cal.app.4th 556, 571-575 (arceo).)11 pena concedes . . d courts have held that under crawford [v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36 [158 l.ed.2d 177]], the confrontation in the present case, pena has failed to demonstrate rentestatements were made to a law enforcement officer. pena does not suggest any of the five persons in the area when renteria made the statements were law enforcement people v. cage (2007) 40 cal.4th 965, 984; people v. griffin (2004) 33 cal.4th 536, 579, fn. 19; people v. garcia (2008) 168 cal.app.4th 261, 291.) third, renteria made the challenged statements during a conversation between garcia and appellants; therefore, there was substantial evidence pena heard and understood the statements. the statements incriminated pena. a reasonable person in the time if they were false, and pena failed to do so. that failure constituted an adoptive admission by pena of the see people v. riel (2000) 22 cal.4th 1153, 1189.) since adoptive admissions are exceptions to the hearsay rule (evid. code,  1221), renteri12 11 to the extent united states v. mussare (3rd cir., 2005) 405 f.3d 161, suggests bruton applies to nontestimonial statements, federal appellate court cases are not binding on this court. (people v. figueroa (1992) 2 cal.app.4th 1584, 1587.) 12 ineffective assistance of co 18 4. the trial court properly permitted garcia to refresh his recollection. a. pertinent facts. as indicated, during direct examination during his july 2010, testimony, garcia testified without objection that one day in about september 2008, he conversed with brought up the issue of war between flores and blackwood, and, during the conversation, -back -- that [pena] got his get- later, the prosecutor asked garcia if renteria said anything more. garcia replied asked garcia if pena said anything else, and garcia replied no and that he did not recall. garcia testified renteria told garcia that snoopy was th garcia also testified his conversation with appellants occurred about three weeks years prior to trial, garcia told detectives what garcia had heard appellants discussing. er . . . remember exactly what days . . . at sidebar, appellants argued garcia was untrustworthy13 and appellants objected or date so amendment rights. appellants argued garcia was not having memory problems but was fabricating. pena added a fourteenth amendment objection. 13 appellants urged garcia had led a gang lifestyle, was involved with the mexican mafia, provided information to police to save his life, and was implicated in a federal death penalty case. 19 the prosecutor indicated he wished to examine garcia regarding his prior statements. the court concluded the record was insufficient to permit the court to rule on therefore, the cou later, garcia testified before the jury as follows. garcia spoke to detectives in tectives than it was at time of trial. appellants, the court permitted garcia to read the report to himself to refresh his recollection. after garcia read the report, the prosecutor asked if reading it brought accurate. garcia then testified as indicated in footnote 4, ante. b. analysis. pena claims the trial court erred by permitting garcia to refresh his recollection to refresh his recollection concerning the conversation because garcia remembered it and the only thing garcia did not remember was the date of the conversation. although appellants objected to garcia refreshing his recollection, they did not do so on the ground he had only indicated he could not remconversation. appellants objected on the ground garcia was a completely untrustworthy conversation. appellants waived the issue raised by their present claim. (cf. people v. holt (1997) 15 cal.4th 619, 666-667; evid. code,  353, subd. (a).) moreover, even if the issue was not waived, may refer to hearsay to refresh his recollection; however, before doing so the witness people v. lee (1990) 219 cal.app.3d 829, 840 (lee20 abuse of discretion. (people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 717.) we accept the concession. more than garcia had testified either had said. garcia testified it had been almost two years since he had talked with detectives. but not the days on which those statements were made. however, garcia subsequently testified his memory as to those statements was better when he spoke to detectives in september 2008, than it was at time of the 2010 trial, and that if garcia looked at a copy t he was trying to testify. based on that testimony, the trial court reasonably could have inferred garcia was testifying that, because of the passage of time and to the extent he needed help to remember, garcia could not remember his statements. the trial court properly permitted garcia to refresh his recollection. (cf. lee, supra, 219 cal.app.3d at p. 840; people v. gardner (1957) 147 cal.app.2d 530, 538-539.) 5. of premeditation and deliberation as to the offenses. pena presents related claims as to the present offenses that there was insufficient identification evidence he was a perpetrator, and insufficient evidence of premeditation and deliberation.14 we disagree. to summarize, there was substantial evidence as 14 elibera means arrived at as a result of careful thought and weighing of means considered beforehand. (people v. perez (1992) 2 cal.4th 1117, 1123 (perez).) premeditation and deliberation do not require an extended period of time, merely an opportunity people v. cook intentional killing is premeditated and deliberate if it occurred as the result of preexisting thought and reflepeople v. stitely true test is not the duration of time as much as it is the extent of the reflection. thoughts may follow each other with great rapidity and cold, calculated judgment may be arrived 21 follows. prior to the vargas murder, flores members shot pena, a blackwood member. as a result, pena used a prosthetic leg. a blackwood member would retaliate by entering flores territory to shoot a flores member. appellants were expected to return there. nishijima, who associated with blackwood, called appellants and told them flores members had been present. shortly after the flores members, including vargas, left, the crimes occurred in flores territory. according to garcia, pena said pena leaned against the honda and shot. vargas, a defenseless flores member, was shot and fatally wounded in the chest, a vital body part, durinoccupants to identify themselves, a fact providing evidence the shooting was gang-related. perez, supra, 2 cal.4th at p. 1127.) premeditation and deliberation can thus occur in rapid succession. (people v. bloyd (1987) 43 cal.3d 333, 348.) people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15, sets forth three categories of evidence, i.e., evidence of planning activity, prior relationship, and manner of killing, relevant to whether a defendant harbored premeditation. (people v. hovarter (2008) 44 cal.4th 983, 1019.) the act of obtaining a weapon is evidence of planning consistent with a finding of premeditation and deliberation. (people v. koontz (2002) 27 cal.4th 1041, 1081-1082.) the method of killing alone can sometimes support a conclusion a murder was premeditated and deliberated. (people v. memro (1995) 11 cal.4th 786, 863-864.) an execution-style shooting at close range with no bruises or lacerations on the victim that show a struggle may establish premeditation and deliberation. (people v. hawkins (1995) 10 cal.4th 920, 957 (hawkinsperson may show sufficient deliberation. (people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 332-333.) firing at vital body parts can show preconceived deliberation. (ibid; people v. thomas (1992) 2 cal.4th 489, 517-518.) other factors which may be considered include the nature of the wounds suffered, the fact the attack was unprovoked, the fact the deceased was unarmed, the fact the defendant hid evidence, and the fact the defendant failed to secure medical attention for the victim. (people v. clark (1967) 252 cal.app.2d 524, 529-530; people v. lewis (1963) 217 cal.app.2d 246, 259.) 22 a few days after the crimes, pena made incriminating statements to the effect he had acted in revenge for having been shot in the leg. pena told ojinaga details about the shooting. he also provided conflicting statements as to whether, using a cellphone, he could prove he was in hollywood at the time of the shooting, i.e., conflicts evidencing consciousness of guilt. there was sufficient evidence pena was a perpetrator of the murder of vargas and sufficient evidence the offenses were willful, deliberate, and premeditated. disposition the judgments are affirmed. not to be published in the official reports kitching, j. we concur: croskey, acting p. j. aldrich, j. 