filed 3/5/12 p. v. bush ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. james stacy bush, defendant and appellant. b227828 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sa070972) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, katherine mader, judge. affirmed. steven schorr, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, pamela c. hamanaka and lance e. winters, senior assistant attorneys general, paul m. roadarmel and baine p. kerr, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 i. introduction following a jury trial, appellant was convicted of first degree murder (pen. code,1  187, subd. (a)) and the jury found he used a deadly weapon in the commission of the crime ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)). five prior prison terms, within the meaning of section 667.5, were found true by the trial court. appellant was sentenced to a 5-year determinate term plus a consecutive indeterminate term of 25 years to life. appellant contends reversal of the judgment is necessary because the trial court erred by: admitting the testimony of a former codefendant (crystal harmon); admitting his motion for a new trial. the contentions lack merit and the judgment is affirmed. ii. facts the victim, sean parmley, was from santa rosa. he moved to the los angeles area in 2007 and eventually began dating lesley conway. subsequently, his son (michael miller) moved in with parmley and began dating crystal harmon. although miller had an intimate relationship with harmon, he did not consider her to be his girlfriend. miller believed harmon understood he did not want a serious relationship. during christmas week in 2007, parmley and miller took a trip to santa rosa. sometime after christmas, but before their return on december 29, miller sent harmon a text message indicating he was ending their relationship and going to return to the los angeles area with his former girlfriendchristine campbell. this made harmon very angry. parmley also returned with another woman (mistry lujan) but he and conway complex for parmley and miller to arrive. because she was very small, harmon was able 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 to slip through bent rails in the parking gate and gain entry to the parking lot. after the electricity to his apartment. at around 2 or 2:30 p.m., while still at the bar, harmon sent miller a text message indicating she wanted to see marijuana they brought back from santa rosa because she could examine the marijuana. she went to the apartment and was provided with marijuana. while in the apartment, she told parmley that he should remain indoors because there harmon returned apartment and became increasingly angry about them not being returned to her. she spoke to cherri costill and deadra wolicky about the issue. attempting to assist harmon, costill and wolicky that harmon did not have any clothes at the apartment but that she was free to return to the apartment and look for missing items. sometime after 5:00 p.m., harmon was seen at a table with costill, alicia ibarra, madrigal, wolicky and appellant. harmon was angry and ranting about miller returning roup had a in a cooler under a table. 4 apartment. sometime after 8:00 p.m., conway went outside the bar and observed harmon, madrigal, costill, ibarra and appellant leaving. conway asked where the group was ibarra stayed behind. the plan was to steal during the walk, appellant obtained a knife from harmon. the three reached the parmley answered the doswinging motion to repeatedly stab parmley. miller woke up to the sound of campbell and lujan screaming. he ran toward the door and was knocked down to the ground by an unknown person. miller fought with madrigal in the hallway. madrigal eventually left whereupon miller observed parmley on the ground in the hallway. miller and lujan called 911. just before 9:00 p.m., costill, ibarra, and harmon returned to the barassisting the inside of the bar, conway grabbed a rag for the cut. as harmon walked by, she was smiling and made reference to the fact that parmley had been stabbed. the bar telling her to ret . . . returned, several police officers were present but the women who were previously with madrigal had taken him to the hospital. there was a substantial amount of blood in the bathroom. 5 the polithe bar, they discovered blood and a bloody rag in the bathroom. after the stabbing, crystal white received a telephone call from appellant asking her to pick him up at the intersection of venice and washington because he was injured. and attempted to take a knife away from another person. appellant indicated he needed to go to a hospital but the hospital was required to be out of the immediate area. when he reached the hospital he used a false name and social security number. appellant told hospital personnel that he cut himself with a kitchen knife. after leaving madrigal at the hospital, ibarra and harmon proceeded to the home spoke to appellant on her cellular te-ing bitch police and told harmon they should both speak to officers. ibarra used the restroom and, when she returned, harmon was gone. the following day, after receiving an anonymous tip, police officers checked a anonymous tip was from white who had been told of the whereabouts of the knife from costill. parmley did not survive the attack. the causes of death were blood loss and a collapsed lung. iii. discussion admitted crystal harmon was a codefendant in this case. she was charged with murder of parmley, burglary and robbery. during the prosecution case, pursuant to a plea 6 agreement, harmon pled guilty to being an accessory after the fact ( 32). the plea agreement provided: (1) in exchange for the plea, harmon would be granted probation and be given credit for time already served as long as she testified truthfully at be made by the trial court. eyewitness account of appellant stabbing parmley, and events following the murder. harmon was sentenced after the evidence was presented. durhearing, the trial court indicated it had a strong suspicion harmon was untruthful on a number of issues but it did not believe, beyond a reasonable doubt, that harmon testified falsely. thus, harmon was granted probation pursuant to the plea agreement. call harmon as a witness is without merit. section 1099 allows a prosecutor to make an application to the trial court to discharge a defendant from criminal charges in order to ingrained in our criminal justice system than the practice of the government calling a witness who is an accessory to the crime for which the defendant is charged and having that witness testify under a plea bargain that promises him a reduced sentence . . . (people v. jenkins the discretion of the trial court . . . (people v. frahm (1930) 107 cal.app. 253, 263.) thus, we conduct a review of the record to determine whether the trial court acted arbitrarily or capriciously such that an abuse of discretion is established. (see people v. jordan (1986) 42 cal.3d 308, 316.) as explained below, we find no abuse of discretion. centers around his belief that her testimony was unreliable due to: (1) the favorable plea bargain she received; and (2) the inconsistencies that existed among her accounts of the events to the police, at the preliminary hearing, and at trial. however, the existence of a people v. jenkins, supra, 7 testimony are commonplace in criminal trials. under these circumstances, the jury is properly instructed, as it was in this case, that inconsistencies may be considered in assessing the weight and credibility of the testimony. neither a favorable plea agreement its discretion in allowing the testimony pursuant to section 1099. b. the plea agreement was properly admitted appellant contends the plea agreement suggested the trial court vouched for the argument regarding the [citation.] . . . agreement affecting the witness is required to ensure that the jury has a complete picture people v. fauber (1992) 2 faubercredibility determination or potentially misleading to the jury should, on timely and id. at p. 823.) in fauber, the prosecutor and a witness entered into a plea agreement requiring a particular sentence if the witness pled guilty to a certain offense and testified truthfully at [the witneid. at pp. 821-822, fn. 4.) although our supreme court ultimately found there was no possibility the admission of this evidence prejudiced the defense, it did ex . . . arguably carried some slight potential for jury confusion, in that it did not explicitly state what is implicit within it: that the 8 need for such determination would arise, if at all, in connection with [id. at p. 823.) here, the applicable provision did was relevant only to sentencing and would not occur until that time. the jury was . . . with respect to this . . . credibility is when the trial is over, [the court] decide[s] whether or not [the court] believe[s] for purposes of punishment that this added.) testimony. moreover, the trial court instructed the jury, both when harmon testified, and credibility. there is nothing in the record to demonstrate the jury was ever made aware of the trial court -seldom be able to allude the keen pe e plea agreement was inadmissible as improper judicial vouching lacks merit. moreover, we find, as our supreme court did in fauber, that the admission of the plea agreement did not prejudice the defense. in light of the instructions given, the jury could agreement relieved it of the duty to decide whether her testimony was credible. (id. at p. 823.) 9 c. the non-statutory motion to dismiss er counsel revealed to the prosecutor that harmon had indicated she: (1) knew bush and madrigal location of the marijuana. the prosecutor and the trial court expressed concern over this hange about whether the when court resumed, there was no discussion of withdrawing htranscript. in sum, he maintained the magistrate who held appellant to answer following the events preceding the murder had changed, counsel appeared to take the position that unreliable.2 the court denied the motion. 2 the parties do not dispute that following. appellant was initially charged in case nary hearing was conducted in which harmon testified. appellant was held to answer for the offenses but the case was dismissed and refiled by the prosecution. in the second filing, harmon was added as a defendant. a second preliminary hearing was conducted, f what harmon said in her testimony, not for the truth of what she said. (see evid. code,  452, 10 latching on to trial coudenying the motion. he maintains the magistrate incorrectly held him to answer his claim lacks merit. erroa substantial right at the preliminary hearing renders a defendant's commitment illegal and entitles him to a dismissal of the information on timely motion. [citations.] deprivation of a substantial right is properly addressed by a section 995 motion when the an error that is not known or visible at the hearing itself . . . may be callattention through a nonstatutory motion to (people v. duncan (2000) 78 cal.app.4th 765, 772.) attempt to make a nonstatutory motion to dismiss. although counsel articulated an she was about to offer at trial, said inconsistency did not demonstrate appellant was deprived of a substantial right at the preliminary hearing. indeed, appellant cites no authority for the proposition that a nonstatutory motion to dismiss should be granted simply because a witness who testified at a preliminary hearing is due to testify at trial and make one or more statements that are inconsistent with his or her preliminary hearing testimony. his motion to dismiss was properly denied. d. the motion for new trial appellant argues the errors he asserts on appeal required the trial court to grant his motion for a new trial. however, of the errors raised on appeal, the only error articulated subd. (d); people v. moore (1997) 59 cal.app.4th 168, 178; people v. murray (1978) 77 cal.app.3d 305, 307.) 11 appellant has forfeited his claims that the new trial motion should have been granted on grounds that were omitted from the motion made in the trial court. (see people v. marks (2003) 31 cal.4th 197, 229.) in any event, we have rejected the claims on appeal. for those same reasons, they did not warrant a new trial. (see people v. coffman & marlow (2004) 34 cal.4th 1, 127.) appellant has failed to demonstrate the trial court abused its discretion in denying his motion for new trial. iv. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports kumar, j.* we concur: turner, p. j. kriegler, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 