filed 5/21/12 p. v. mcclelland ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. corey mcclelland et al., defendants and appellants. b228643 (los angeles county super. ct. nos. ba364703 and ba364926) appeals from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, judith l. champagne, judge. affirmed as modified. sarah a. stockwell, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant corey mcclelland. thomas owen, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant brandin m. wilson. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii, and kathy s. pomerantz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________ 2 corey mcclelland and brandin m. wilson appeal from the judgments entered after their convictions by a jury of second degree robbery with true findings on related firearm-use enhancements. we modify the judgments to strike certain fines imposed by the trial court and to correct factual and procedural background on the afternoon of november 7, 2009 eduardo ramirez was playing blackjack at the hollywood park casino. as his winnings increased, ramirez noticed several people watching him, including two african-american men, one wearing a white shirt and a heavier one wearing a black shirt and a heavy gold chain. ramirez switched tables and noticed the men continued to watch him. around 4:15 p.m., he cashed out his chips and left with more than $3,000 in winnings. while waiting for his car, ramirez noticed the heavier of the two men had followed him to the valet parking area. after retrieving his car, ramirez drove from the casino to join his wife, who had been shopping for a birthday gift at a nearby store. they completed their shopping and drove to a party in a residential area near 52nd street and budlong avenue in south los angeles, parking several blocks from the home hosting the party. as they walked toward the party, an african-american man (wearing what ramirez testified was a black shirt) passed ramirez, jumped onto the ledge of the neighboring yard and pointed a chrome, wilson, demanded ranother african-american man grabbed ramirez from behind and began searching his man from the casino. ramirez had his wife give mcclelland about $300 from her purse, but wilson and five. ramirez pulled his winnings from his pocket at the count of four. mcclelland thumbed through the bills and then ran down the street with wilson. ramirez and his wife ran to the party and called the police. 3 surveillance video from the casino showed wilson and mcclelland watching ramirez play blackjack. they followed him to the second table and then loitered near the cashier while ramirez cashed in his chips. mcclelland, wearing a black shirt and a gold chain, followed ramirez to the valet; wilson, wearing a white shirt, headed to the parking the century boulevard exit. police were able to trace the license plate of the sedan to wilson. officers showed ramirez a six-identified wilson as the person holding the gun during the robbery. wilson was arrested the following day as he attempted to leave the parking lot under his apartment building. the car was searched, and police found a loaded, chrome p-380 semiautomatic handgun in the console between the front seats, as well as four cell phones, one of which belonged to ramirez. according to police, wilson consented to the search of his apartment where police found a blue steel nine-millimeter handgun, another cell phone and more than $5,000 in cash. a few days later, viewing a second six-pack, ramirez identified mcclelland as the heavier robber. mcclelland was arrested the following day wearing the same black shirt and gold chain shown in the casino surveillance video, although no money, guns or wilson and mcclelland were charged in an information with one count of second degree robbery (pen. code,  211).1 the information further alleged a principal had been armed with a handgun during the commission of the offense ( 12022, subd. (a)(1)). as to wilson alone, it was alleged he had personally used a handgun during the commission of the offense ( 12022.53, subd. (b)). wilson and mcclelland were tried together. neither man testified at trial. wilson presented two alibi witnesses, one of whom was his girlfriend: those witnesses testified 1 statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 4 they were with wilson at various times between 4:30 p.m. and 8 p.m. on the evening of the robbery.2 the jury convicted both wilson and mcclelland of second degree robbery and found the related firearm-use allegations true. mcclelland was sentenced to three years in state prisonthe low term of two years for robbery, plus one year for the handgun enhancement under section 120221, subdivision (a)(1). wilson was sentenced to 15 years in state prisonthe upper term of five years for robbery, plus 10 years for the handgun enhancement pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (b). both were ordered to pay a total of $1,660 in restitution to ramirez, plus various court fines. contentions own behalf wilson filed a supplemental brief accusing both his trial and appellate counsel of ineffective assistance in violation of his sixth amendment right to counsel. mcclelland claims the court erred by one day in calculating his custody credits, which the people concede, and failed to make any findings as to whether he was able to pay a $10 crime prevention fee under section 1202.5 and other, related fines and assessments. he further contends there was insufficient evidence to support his robbery conviction. discussion 1. premature to establish ineffective assistance of counsel, wilson must demonstrate that reasonabrepresentation subjected the petitioner to prejudice, i.e., there is a reasonable probability 2 tified he picked her up from the restaurant where she worked from high school, was in the car with wilson. wilson dropped his girlfriend at their apartment around 6 p.m. and then left with his friend. the friend testified he was with wilson until approximately 8 p.m. 5 petitioin re neely (1993) 6 cal.4th 901, 908; accord, strickland v. washington (1984) 466 wilson first claims his counsel was ineffective because he failed to impeach a filed on the incident. however, the court conducted a hearing under evidence code section 402 on the admissibility of those statements and ruled the statements were irrelevant.3 wilson also contends his counsel was ineffective because he failed to move to apartment as the fruit of an illegal search. the police lacked a warrant, and wilson claims his consent to the search of his apartment was forced. tactical decision to wit[an ineffectiveness] claim on direct appeal, the record must affirmatively disclose the lack people v. ray (1996) 13 cabe raised in a petition for habeas corpus. (people v. jones (2003) 29 cal.4th 1229, 1263 ject to this line of questioning, this ineffective assistance of counsel claim would be more people v. mendoza tello (1997) 15 cal.4th 264, 266-267 [a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel relating t 3 at the evidentiary hearing, the officer testified he was responding to the ramirez robbery when he saw two african-american males, one wearing a white shirt and one wearing a black shirt, running along budlong avenue between 51st and 52nd streets. when he gave chase, one of the men threw what the officer believed to be a chrome gun over a fence. the officer lost sight of the men and was unable to find the gun when he searched the area. six days later, a neighborhood resident discovered a blue steel handgun introduce the evidence as exculpatory. the court excluded the evidence as irrelevant and misleading. 6 descriptions of the suspects.4 ramirez, the heavier man (mcclelland) was wearing a white shirt and the gunman (wilson) was surveillance video, in which wilson and mcclelland were readily identifiable counsel attempted to highlight these contradictions, but his efforts were unlikely to convince the jury in light of the highly incriminating video. there was no ineffective assistance on this point. finally, wilson contends his appellate attorney was ineffective for failing to identify any meritorious issues on appeal. with the exception of the issue raised by mcclelland concerning imposed, which appears to apply equally to wilson, we have examined the entire record counsel. (see smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 277-284 [120 s.ct. 746, 145 l.ed.2d 756]; people v. kelly (2006) 40 cal.4th 106, 118-119; people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, 441.) 2. required crime prevention fine mcclelland claims the matter should be remanded as to the section 1202.5, subdivision (a), crime prevention fine for a determination of his ability to pay. the people agree the matter should be remanded to allow the court to determine mccto pay the crime prevention fine and contend the trial court must also impose $26 in related fines that were inadvertently omitted. 4 about the robbery; but, as ramirez testified, his wife had returned to her native brazil some months before trial and was unavailable. 7 there is no doubt it was error for the trial court to fail to inquire into the y the crime prevention fine or to impose the additional fines associated with a finding of ability to pay. in people v. castellanos (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 1524 (castellanos), our colleagues in division five of this court pointed out that the $10 fine under section 1202.5 is subject to seven different penalties and surcharges totaling $30.5 although castellanos observed that the mandatory nature of the various penalties allows their omission to be corrected for the first time on appeal, it did not do so because, in imposing a section 1202.5 fine, trial courts must consider the castellanos, at pp. 1530-1532.) the amount at issue here, however, including the crime prevention fine and associated surcharges, for both defendants total $72. this negligible amount does not warrant the inevitable expenditure of public funds required by remand to the trial court. in the interests of judicial economy, and in light of the statutory presumption a defendant sentenced to state prison lacks the ability to contribute to the expense of appointed counsel ( 987.8, subd. (g)(2)(b)), we strike the orders directing defendants to pay the $10 crime prevention fines under section 1202.5, subdivision (a). 5 the additional fees include $10 for a state penalty assessment ( 1464, subd. (a)(1)), $2 for a 20 percent state surcharge ( 1465.7), $5 for a state courthouse construction penalty (gov. code,  70372, although that sum has been reduced to $2 by los angeles county), $7 for an additional penalty (gov. code,  76000, subd. (a)(1)), $2 for an additional penalty if authorized by the county board of supervisors for emergency medical services (gov. code,  76000.5, subd. (a)(1)), $1 for an additional penaltstate-only penalty to finance department of justice forensic laboratories (gov. code,  76104.7). (see castellanos, supra, 175 cal.app.4th at pp. 1528-1530.) 8 3. substantial evidence su record to determine whether any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime or special circumstances beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the record must disclose substantial evidence to support the verdicti.e., evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] in applying this test, we review the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution and presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably have deduced from the flicts and even testimony [that] is subject to justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends. [citation.] we resolve neither credibility o people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357.) mcclelland contends the lack of physical evidence tying him to the robbery ilty. notwithstanding the absence of physical evidence, the evidence of guilt in this case was overwhelming. the casino surveillance video clearly depicts both mcclelland and wilson following ramirez from the gaming tables to the cashier to the parking lot and out to the street. even if ramirez wrongly recalled which defendant was wearing the white or black shirt, his identification of testimony with the video. 9 disposition the judgments are modified to strike the crime prevention fines of $10 imposed pursuant to penal code section 1202.5, subdivision (a). in addition, the presentence custody credit awarded to mcclelland is modified to add one day to reflect the correct credit of 329 actual days and 49 conduct days, for a total of 378 days. as modified, the judgments are affirmed. the abstracts of judgment are ordered corrected to reflect these modifications. the superior court is directed to prepare corrected abstracts of judgment and to forward them to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. perluss, p. j. we concur: zelon, j. jackson, j. 