filed 4/25/12 p. v. jacobs ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. demar taylor jacobs, defendant and appellant. b228646 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka089801) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. carol williams elswick, judge. affirmed. ava r. stralla, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey, and blythe j. leszkay, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______________________ 2 2010, charging defendant and appellant demar taylor jacobs with one count of corporal injury to a spouse/cohabitasubdivision (a), and one count of criminal threats in violation of penal code section 422. it was alleged that defendant had two prior no-probation convictions within the meaning of penal code section 1203, subdivision (e)(4). it was further alleged that defendant had served two prior prison terms within the meaning of penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b). the trial court bifurcated the prior conviction allegations. the jury found defendant guilty of count one and not guilty of count two. defendant admitted the truth of the two prior conviction and prison term allegations. he was sentenced to a total of six years in state prison. the trial court ordered a 10-year period for defendant to stay away from the victim, subject to any family law order regarding visitation of their minor children. defendant timely appealed. he argues that the trial court abused its discretion by admitting four instances of prior bad acts of domestic violence pursuant to evidence code section 1109.1 he further contends that section 1109 is unconstitutional on its face. we affirm. factual and procedural background viewed in accordance with the usual rules of appellate review (people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 11), defendant and deborah gutierrez (gutierrez) began dating in around july 2005 or 2006. he moved into her apartment within two or three months. they had a child in july 2009, and another child in july 2010. 1. charged offense february 25, 2010 on february 25, 2010, when she was about four months pregnant, gutierrez returned from shopping to find her car, which defendant had been driving, in the 1 all further statutory references are to the evidence code unless otherwise indicated. 3 driveway. she walked into the home carrying her baby in a baby carrier and went into her bedroom. defendant was lying on the living room sofa. from the bed. he looked through her text messages and saw some between her and another man. he got angry and they argued. gutierrez wanted her cell phone back. defendant grabbed her arm, and, either she tripped or defendant pushed her, onto the bed. text messages. he left in the car she had been driving with her purse, keys, phone, and money. gutierrez got her baby, went across the street to the police station, and reported defendant. she was crying and hysterical and afraid that defendant was going to harm her. gutierrez told the police that she walked into the house quietly so as not to disturb defendant. he punched a hole in the door when he opened it. gutierrez had set the neck more than once. a police officer saw contusions in those areas. she told defendant to stop hitting as defendant saying that he was going to end all of their lives together. gutierrez told the police that she was afraid that defendant would carry out his threats and harm or kill her and their son. she was particularly fearful because this was the first time that defendant had threatened their son. gutierrez further informed the police that she had a protective order against defendant, but she had not been enforcing it because she had taken him back. the police 4 officer asked if she wanted an emergency protective order for her and her son, and she paramedics checked and treated gutierrez, and she declined their offer to go to the hospital. a police officer took photographs of a bump on her forehead, swelling above and to the right of her right eyebrow, and redness on her ear. gutierrez pointed out, and the officer saw, a hole in the bedroom door and bedding that had been disturbed during the attack. the officer took photographs of the house. the officer asked gutierrez to place the baby carrier in the place she had put it when she walked into the bedroom. she did, and the officer took pictures. throughout her trial testimony, gutierrez repeatedly denied physical abuse by defendant or failed to remember any such abuse or minimized his behavior. she explained that he was the father of her children, and she still wanted to be with him. she did not want him to go to jail. the trial court permitted the prosecution to treat her as an adverse witness. on february 28, 2010, about three days after the charged incident, defendant drove up to the house and yelled at gutierrez to come outside. she said that she was going to call the police, and defendant drove away. she was scared and reported the incident. officers canvassed the area and arrested defendant a couple of blocks away. 2. prior offense august 27, 2006 pomona police officer daniel gomez testified that on august 27, 2006, gutierrez reported an incident involving defendant after they had been living together for about two months. she was crying. gutierrez said that she and defendant had argued, and it turned physical. defendant pulled her hair. when she broke free, defendant pushed her down. while holding her on the bed, defendant covered her face with a pillow for about a minute. gutierrez said that it was painful and that she had difficulty breathing. as he held the 5 gutierrez told officer gomez that there had been prior incidents that she did not report, but this time she was afraid that he would carry out his threat. defendant had fled t to take her car. took photographs. failed to remember what she had told the police. 3. prior offense june 7, 2007 on june 7, 2007, defendant was not living with gutierrez, but would come and go from her place. her brother, dicarlo, was staying with her temporarily. gutierrez and defendant had been arguing that day in telephone conversations and text messages. she did not remember telling the police officer that defendant had said, knew that his comment meant that he was going to have her killed. she did not gutierrez parked in her parking spot and saw defendant there. they argued and physically fought. she was not sure if she told the police that defendant had asked why the seat of her car was so far back and accused her of being with another man. she did not remember telling the police that she did not answer, and that defendant grabbed her by the throat and forced her to the ground. she did not recall yelling at defendant to get remember defendant letting her get up and wanting to see her cell phone. gutierrez had left her cell phone at home with dicarlo. defendant went to dicarlo. defendant fought with dicarlo to try to get the phone. gutierrez tried to as gutierrez was trying to pull defendant off of her brother, defendant bit her go of her thumb. she did not recall telling the police that defendant then bit her arm. 6 gutierrez did not remember telling the police that defendant went into her and made a hole. she did not recall standing in her bedroom doorway and defendant pushing her. neck, as well as the damage to her bedroom wall. defendant was arrested and went to jail over this incident. a restraining order was issued on july 23, 2007, which is set to expire on july 23, 2012. gutierrez was again evasive in her trial testimony about this incident. she admitted whatever she told the police officer was the truth. 4. prior offense september 13, 2009 gutierrez testified that she made a false complaint against defendant in september 2009. she reported that defendant had hit her. she told the police that defendant had assaulted her in the past. she did not remember telling the police that she had a restraining order against him. gutierrez had been having problems with defendant and asked him to leave the apartment. defendant was upset. gutierrez testified that she lied when she reported that defendant had grabbed her around the throat and choked her. she lied when she said that she struggled to get away, and the baby started crying. she lied when she said defendant let go when the baby cried. gutierrez testified that she lied when she said that defendant went into their bthreatened to blow his own brains out. she lied when she said that she tried to calm him down. while she and defendant did in fact argue and the baby did begin crying, defendant took her keys and left. she was not sure but reported that he also took some of her mail. 7 she reported the incident about two to three days after it had occurred. the police testified that the injuries were from a fight she had with a woman with whom defendant was cheating. she described that fight as pulling hair, scratching, and rolling around in the street. 5. prior offense september 16, 2009 a couple of days after gutierrez reported that defendant had choked her, she was sitting in front of her apartment with her neighbor, erika johnson (johnson). (defendant showed up and asked to see his son. gutierrez refused. defendant cursed at the two -fuckerpedro. after defendant got up from the ground, he pulled a knife from his pocket and pointed it at pedro. defendant was angry after the fight and, as he was leaving, he told gutierrez, the police saw gutierrez, she was shaking and appeared frightened. either gutierrez or a friend called the police. gutierrez did not recall telling the police that she had a restraining order against defendant. discussion i. the evidence of the prior offenses was properly admitted defendant claims that the trial court abused its discretion when it admitted the four prior domestic violence offenses. although defendant admits that the offenses qualified as prior domestic violence offenses under section 1109, he claims that they should have been excluded under section 352. a. standard of review and applicable law in which the defendant is accused of an offense involving domestic violence, evidence of 8 made inadmissible by substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the evidence of past domestic violence inadmissible only if the court determines that its people v. johnson assessing whether [the(people v. jones (2011) 51 cal.4th 346, 373.) people v. johnson, supra, 185 cal.app.4th at pp. 531character to the charged domestic violence crime, and which was committed against the victim of the charged crime or other similarly situated statute reflects the legislative judgment that in domestic violence cases, as in sex crimes, indeed, proponents of the bill that became section 1109 argued for admissibility of such this pattern suggests a psychological dynamic not necessarily involved in other types of (people v. johnson, supra, at p. 532, fn. omitted.) violence because on-going violence and abuse is the norm in domestic violence cases. not only is there a great likelihood that any one battering episode is part of a larger scheme of dominance and control, that scheme usually escalates in frequency and severity. without the propensity inference, the escalating nature of domestic violence is people v. johnson, supra, 185 cal.app.4th at p. 532, fn. 8.) 9 b. analysis the trial court did not abuse its discretion in determining that the probative value prejudicial impact.2 (people v. johnson, supra, 185 cal.app.4th at p. 531.) the prior offenses were markedly similar to the charged offense, favoring admissibility. (id. at pp. 531533.) admissibility was further supported by corroborating evidence of the prior id. at p. 533.) each of the prior offenses was supported by either photographic evidence or an additional witness. and, misconduct had resulted in convictionultimately proved beyond a reasonable doubt to the courtreduced the likelihood that defendant could have produced evidence to rebut id. at p. 533.) the jury here knew that defendant had gone to jail after the june 2007 offense, so it would not have been inclined to punish him for the prior offense in this case. therefore, any unfairness in requiring defendant to mount a itimate ibid.; see also people v. jennings, supra, 81 cal.app.4th at p. 1315 [the knowledge that the defendant had already been punished for his prior ociated with the between the prior incidents and the present offense favors admissibility. (people v. falsetta (1999) 21 cal.4th 903, 917.) the prior offenses occurred between august 2006 and september 2009; the charged offense occurred in february 2010. our conclusion is particularly compelling given the fact that gutierrez recanted 2 notably, the trial court expressly weighed any prejudice against probative value, and we believe that the record reflects that the trial court understood and fulfilled its responsibilities under section 352. (people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 213; people v. jennings (2000) 81 cal.app.4th 1301, 1315.) 10 remember almost everything. her testimony made the evidence of the prior offenses in urging us to reverse, defendant argues that the prosecutor spent an inordinate amount of time on the prior incidents. even if the prior offense evidence consumed a sizable amount of time, that factor did not make the evidence inadmissible. in fact, it appears that the primary reason for the amount of time spent on the prior offenses was the questions, added lengthy nonresponsive statements to her answers, denied prior statements, failed to recall much at all, and was generally uncooperative. the trial court ultimately declared her to be an adverse witness. the nature of her testimony required repeated admonitions and lengthy follow-up questions. the result was that her testimony consumed far more time than if she had been cooperative and direct. because gutierrez was the victim and primary witness for the charged offenses as well as the prior offenses, and there were four prior offenses, it is not surprising under these circumstances that the propensity evidence ended up taking so much time.3 furthermore, at the time the trial court ruled that the evidence of the prior offenses was admissible, it could not have known how much time would be consumed by the supporting evidence. admission of the prior offenses evidence was determined before gutierrez testified at trial. it follows that the trial court acted within its discretion when it admitted evidence of the prior offenses pursuant to sections 1109 and 352. (people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 723 rendered change fails. (people v. snow (2003) 30 cal.4th 43, 90 [application of section 352 did 3 brief. 11 c. harmless error even if the trial court had erred in admitting the challenged evidence, that hypothetical error does not compel reversal as it is not reasonably probable that the result at trial would have been different without the prior offense evidence. (people v. harris (1998) 60 cal.app.4th 727, 741.) the evidence presented against defendant was strong. immediately after the attack, gutierrez ran down the block to the police station. she was hysterical and crying when she arrived. she told the police officer that defendant had punched a hole in the and neck several times. when the police officer went to her home, the physical state of the house, particularly the hole in the bedroom door and disheveled bed, supported she had a bump on her forehead, swelling above her eye, and redness on her ear. at trial, gutierrez recanted her prior statementchange of heart was apparently motivated by her desire to get back together with defendant and keep him out of jail. and, we cannot ignore the fact that the jury found defendant not guilty of the criminal threats count. had the propensity evidence been unduly prejudicial, the jury likely would have found defendant guilty of both counts. ii. section 1109 is constitutional on its face defendant challenges the constitutionality of section 1109 on its face. as defendant recognizes, his facial constitutional attack of the statute has been rejected. (see, e.g., people v. johnson, supra, 185 cal.app.4th at p. 529.) defendant offers no new argument or reason to find differently here. consequently, we likewise reject this argument. 12 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. _____________________, j. ashmann-gerst we concur: _____________________, p. j. boren _____________________, j. chavez 