filed 5/22/12 p. v. cole ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. ronnie lee cole, defendant and appellant. b228216 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa065186) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, martin r. gladstein, temporary judge. (pursuant to cal. const., art. vi,  21.) affirmed. elizabeth garfinkle, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, linda c. johnson, and theresa a. patterson, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________ 2 ronnie lee cole appeals from the judgment entered following his conviction by a jury for selling cocaine base. cole contends the trial court erred by admitting unduly prejudicial evidence he had previously sold rock cocaine; failing to instruct the jury copurchasers may not be found guilty of selling a controlled substance and on accomplice liability; and preventing him from referring to the rampart police corruption scandal during closing argument.1 we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. the information in an information filed september 24, 2009 cole was charged with the sale of a controlled substance (cocaine base) in violation of health and safety code section 11352, subdivision (a).2 the information specially alleged cole had served eight prior prison terms within the meaning of penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b), and had suffered four prior drug-related convictions within the meaning of health and safety code section 11370.2, subdivision (a). in addition, it was specially alleged cole had suffered a prior code,  667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)). 1 pursuant to people v. mooc (2001) 26 cal.4th 1216, cole has requested we examine the transcript of the in camera hearing conducted by the trial court and the documents it reviewed after the court determined cole had demonstrated good cause to pertaining to allegations of dishonesty. (see evid. code,  1043, 1045; pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531.) we have reviewed the sealed record of the proceedings, which adequately describes the documents the court reviewed, and conclude the trial court satisfied the minimum requirements in determining whether there was discoverable information; no abuse of discretion occurred. (mooc, at p. 1229.) 2 person who transports, imports into this state, sells, furnishes, administers, or gives away, or offers to transport, import into this state, sell, furnish, administer, or give away, or 3 2. uncharged acts of misconduct were admissible on the first day of trial cole moved to bifurcate trial of the special allegations regarding his prior convictions and requested, in the event he testified, any mention of his prior convictions be sanitized to exclude reference to drug-related activity because of the potential for prejudice (people v. beagle (1972) 6 cal.3d 441). advising the court they 1101, subdivision (b), to prove a fact other than disposition to commit the charged undercover officer and either mr. cole initiates a contact or the officer initiates the contact and is asked about . . . drugs, the exchange between the money and the drugs has identical or very much similconvictions of he had prior convictions similar to count 1 here, that that can somehow bootstrap the peopl than probative, especiall 3. summary of the evidence presented at trial a. los angeles police officer rene barga testified he was working undercover with a team of officers engaged in making street-level drug arrests near sepulveda boulevard and parthenia street on august 7, 2009. as cole rode by on his bicycle, barga asked him 4 rying to look for a 10 myself. . . . . . . identified as baudilio miranda. as they approached columbus street, barga told cole he after barga gave cole a recorded $20 bill, he asked cole to leave his bicycle as collateral. cole agreed, walked a few feet away, whistled to miranda, who was nearby on from a distance of three to five feet, barga observed cole give miranda the $20 bill. barga did not see whether cole gave him any additional money. miranda rode away. miranda returned 20 minutes later, slowing down to hand cole a small plastic package containing an off-white, rock-like substance.3 . . then arrested about 20 feet away. officers found two glass pipes in his shoes, but did not find the piece he had chipped off. los angeles police officer robert jamarillo, who was part of the undercover narcotics team, testified he observed an exchange between miranda and lorenzo sanchez after miranda had obtained the money from cole and left to get the rock cocaine. officers recovered one $10 bill, eighteen $20 bills, including the recorded $20 bill, and other denominations totaling $1,204 from sanchez.4 b. evidence of uncharged acts of misconduct the people introduced evidence of three prior acts of misconduct by cole. first, los angeles police officer hector diaz testified he was working undercover on october 29, 2005 when he saw cole in a parking lot on sepulveda boulevard near parthenia street. after diaz observed cole engage in a hand-to-hand transaction, diaz 3 test results showed the substance contained cocaine base. 4 miranda and lorenzo sanchez were also arrested. they were not tried with cole. 5 y and left his bicycle as collateral. cole returned a few minutes later and handed diaz what was later determined los angeles police officer andres alegria testified he was driving an undercover vehicle near sepulveda boulevard and parthenia street on april 22, 1986 when cole motioned him to pull over his car. cole approached the car window and asked alegria if get the narcotic or thalegria gave cole $25, and cole gave him a piece of rock cocaine. los angeles police detective rocky sherwood testified he was driving an undercover car near sepulveda and parthenia on january 11, 1991 when he made eye contact with cole, who was standing on the sidewalk. cole affirmatively nodded his -verbal communication that . . down. after directing sherwood to pull over, cole approached the car window and asked all the men returned to the car. cole got in the passenger side, while one man stood at the passenger window and the third man stood behind the car. the man standing at the window opened his hand, displaying two white rocks that resembled rock cocaine; 6 c. cole did not testify or present any other evidence in his defense. in closing argument defense counsel panybody that day. he was looking for a supplier of his own. and fortunately, or acquit a criminal defendant if it finds the evidence susceptible of two reasonable the fact that he had two coke pipes; one in each shoe. and he was simply out there to get some drugs to supply his addiction, which is causing him a lot of trouble throughout his and was used to pay for the piece he had chipped off. defense counsel also challenged the sufficiency of the evidence on other elements of the charged offense and questioned whether there was sufficient chain of custody established between the time officer barga took the rock cocaine from cole and the lab technician removed it from an envelope at the police lab. counsel attempted to raise the rampart division/crash unit police scandal in which officers had testified falsely and fabricated evidence, but the pr 4. the jury instructions the jury was instructed, to find cole guilty of violating section health and safety code section 11352, subdivision (a), the people had to prove beyond a reasonable doubt (1) cole knew of its presence; (3) substance; (4) the controlled substance was cocaine base; and (5) the controlled substance was in a useable amount. with respect to the evidence of the uncharged acts of misconduct, the jury was are not required to, consider that evidence for the limited purpose of deciding whether or not the defendant had a plan or scheme to commit the offense alleged in this case. in 7 evaluating this evidence, consider the similarity, or lack of similarity between the uncharged offense and the charged offense. do not consider this evidence for any other purpose. do not conclude from this evidence that the defendant had a bad character or is 5. the jury found cole guilty of selling cocaine base. in a bifurcated bench trial the court found true the prior conviction allegations. the court sentenced cole to an aggregate state prison term of 17 years, consisting of the upper term of five years for selling cocaine base, plus two three-year enhancements pursuant to health and safety code section 11370.2, subdivision (a), plus six years for the prior prison term enhancements pursuant to penal code section 667.5, subdivision (a). the court granted people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497, 529-530) and struck the two remaining health and safety code section 11370.2, subdivision (a), allegations. discussion 1. prior drug sales a. general principles governing evidence of uncharged misconduct predisposition or propensity to engage in a particular type of behavior) as a basis for an inference that he or she acted in conformity with that character on a particular occasion: evidence code section 1101, subdivision (a),5 uncharged miscond(people v. ewoldt (1994) 7 cal.4th 380, 393 (ewoldt 5 section and in sections 1102, 1103, 1108, antrait of his or her character (whether in the form of an opinion, evidence of reputation, or evidence of specific instances of his or her conduct) is inadmissible when offered to prove his or her conduct on a s 8 (people v. falsetta (1999) 21 cal.4th 903, 913.) evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b),6 clarifies, however, that this rule ewoldt, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 393; see falsetta, supra, subject to far-vid. code,  uncharged crimes is admissible to prove, among other things, the identity of the perpetrator of the charged crimes, the existence of a common design or plan, or the intent with which the perpetrator acted in the commission of the charged crimes [citation] . . . only if the charged and uncharged crimes are sufficiently similar to support a rational people v. carter (2005) 36 evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b) recognizes, that a defendant previously committed a similar crime can be circumstantial evidence tending to prove his identity, intent, and motive in the present crime. like other circumstantial evidence, admissibility depends on the materiality of the fact sought to be proved, the tendency of the prior crime to prove the material fact, and the existence vel non people v. roldan (2005) 35 cal.4th 646, 705, disapproved on another ground by people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390; see also people v. walker (2006) 139 cal.app.4th 782, 796.)7 6 evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b), prohibits the admission of evidence that a person committed a crime, civil wrong, or other act when relevant to prove some fact (such as motive, opportunity, intent, preparation, plan, knowledge, identity, absence of mistake or accident, or whether a defendant in a prosecution for an unlawful sexual act or attempted unlawful sexual act did not reasonably and in good faith believe that the victim consented) other than his or 7 the least degree of similarity between the uncharged act and the charged offense is required to prove intent. (ewoldt, supra, 9 in addition to its relevance to an issue other than predisposition or propensity, to be admissible under evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b), the probative value of outweighed by the probability that its admission would create a serious danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading people v. kipp (1998) 18 cal.4th 349, 371; accord, people v. carter, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 1149.) a trial reviewed for an abuse of discretion. (kipp, determination of this issue, being essentially a determination of relevance, is reviewed for carter, at p. 1149.) b. establish a common design or plan and was not more prejudicial than probative misconduct has been introduced (people v. thompson (1980) 27 cal.3d 303, 316), cole argues the court erred by generally reviewing similarity on the issue of intent while common plan or design. (see also ewoldt, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 404 [admission of prior similarity is required in order to prove the existence of a common design or plan. . . . [i]n establishing a common design or plan, evidence of uncharged misconduct must features that the various acts are naturally to be explained as caused by a general plan of . . [] to establish the existence of a common design or plan, the common features must indicate the existence of a plan rather than a series of similar spontaneous acts, but the plan thus revealed need not be id. at pp. 402-403.) the greatest degree of similarity between the prior act and the charged offense is required when the evidence is offered to prove identity. (see id. characteristics of the crimes must be so unusual and distinctive as to be like a 10 had been instructed the evidence was admitted to establish intent, it was nevertheless error to allow it for that purpose because health and safety code section 1152 is a general intent crime (people v. daniels (1975) 14 cal.3d 857, 861), and such evidence is admissible only if intent comprises an element of the charged offense. (ewoldt, at p. 394, fn. 2.) as the ewoldt design or plan as opposed to the use of such evidence to prove intent . . . ewoldt, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 394, fn. 2.) prosecution for shoplifting in which it was conceded or assumed that the defendant left of theft might be admitted to demonstrate that he or she did not inadvertently neglect to pay for the merchandise, but rather harbored the intent to steal it. [] evidence of a common design or plan is admissible to establish that the defendant committed the act alleged. unlike evidence used to prove intent, where the act is conceded or assumed, ibid.) in the instant case the court and counsel were imprecise in discussing the basis for admitting the uncharged misconduct evidence, obscuring this subtle distinction. the prosecutor initially argued the evidence should be admittissue here as to . . sold nor facilitated the sale of the rock cocaine.8 the fact the jury was instructed without 8 in his opening statement defense counsel continued his mistaken reference to listen to his testimony. the officers essentially twisted the facts around to drag him into 11 objection that the evidence was admitted for the purpose of deciding whether cole had a plan or scheme to commit the offense reinforces the conclusion the court and counsel all understood the appropriate purpose for which the evidence was offered. offense[] to support the inference that both the uncharged misconduct and the charged ewoldt, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 403.) common to the three uncharged acts and the instant offense, cole was at the intersection of sepulveda boulevard and to sell or furnish rock cocaine and obtaining the rock cocaine from a third party in of uncharged acts used to prove identity, the plan need not be unusual or distinctive; it need only exist to support the inference that the ibid.; see alcala v. superior court (2008) 43 cahigher degree of similarity required for the use of other-crimes evidence to establish differences between or a finally, the trial court did not abuse its broad discretion in determining the prejudice which exclusion of evidence under evidence code section 352 is designed to avoid is not the prejudice or damage to a defense that naturally flows from relevant, highly probative being a transporter or seller of rock cocaine. he could not sell any rock cocaine, ladies and gentlemen, because he had none on him. he was looking to get rock cocaine himself to supply his addiction. . . . and the intent issue is something that i can ask you to focus on in this case. . . 12 evidence code section 352 applies to evidence which uniquely tends to evoke an emotional bias against the defendant as an individual and which has very little effect on people v. karis (1988) 46 cal.3d 612, 638.) here, the prejudice to cole resulted not from some policy concern or danger that the evidence could be misconstrued or might evoke an emotional bias against cole unrelated to the issues; to the contrary, the prejudice resulted from its persuasiveness. c. any error in admitting the evidence was harmless misconduct, the error was harmless under people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, the standard of review governing the erroneous admission of evidence. (see people v. malone (1988) 47 cal.3d 1, 22; people v. lopez (2011) 198 cal.app.4th 698.) nd gave it to miranda, who then engaged in a hand-to-hand transaction with sanchez at another location. miranda returned with the rock cocaine and gave it to cole, who then gave it to barga. cole argues this evidence did not necessarily mean he sold or intended to sell drugs. he contends no physical evidence supports the testimony he received a piece of the rock cocaine in exchange for his help because the chip was not recovered and argues it would not invariably be evidence of a sale in any event. cole interprets the elements of the offense too narrowly. health and safety code section 11352 is violated not just by the sale of a controlled substance but by furnishing, 11016 [furnish has same meaning as provided in bus. & prof. code  4048.5; that section repealed and provisions now found at bus. & prof. code  4026]; cf. people v. cornejo (197sale of officer with sample of heroin].) whether or not compensated with his own chip, overwhelming evidence established cole supplied barga with rock cocaine. 13 2. there was no instructional error a. law generally in a criminal case the trial court must instruct on the general principles of law relevant to the issues raised by the evidence and necessary for the case. (people v. martinez (2010) 47 cal.4th 911, 953; people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 154.) this obligation includes the duty to give instructions on any affirmative defense for which the record contains substantial evidence. (people v. salas (2006) 37 cal.4th 967, 982; see people v. watson was required to instruct the second jury on the defense of entrapment if, but only if, in re christian s. (1994) 7 cal.4th 768, 783 only if there is substantial evidence to support the defense reasonable jury could find it pepeople v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1200.) the trial court need not give instructions based solely on conjecture and speculation, but may not assess the credibility of the evidence in making the determination whether an instruction should be given. (ibid.) we review de novo a claim the trial court failed to give a required instruction. (people v. manriquez particular instruction in any particular case entails the resolution of a mixed question of people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 733.) b. the trial court did not have a duty to instruct the jury a copurchaser cannot be found guilty of selling drugs relying on people v. edwards (1985) 39 cal.3d 107, 117 (edwards) cole contends the trial court should have instructed the jury he could not be convicted of controlled substance. in edwards the on heroin the two of them had purchased together using joint funds and then consumed together. in reversing the convictions for furnishing a controlled substance and felony 14 murder because rial court erred in failing to instruct the jury that defendant was not upreme equal partners. where one of the copurchasers takes a more active role in instigating, financing, arranging or carrying-furthermore, one who acts as a go-between or agent of either the buyer or seller clearly id. at pp. 110, fn. 5; see also people v. cattaneo (1990) 217 cal.app.3d 1577, 1584; people v. mayfield (1964) 225 cal.app.2d 263, 266-267.) cocaine (a contention not supported by any evidence at trial), the instant case does not present the rare circumstance warranting a copurchaser instruction. cole clearly took a more active role in carrying out the drug transaction: cole found garro, gave him the money while standing several feet away from barga and was given the rock cocaine to then distribute to barga. also unlike edwards, barga and cole did not consume, nor was there any plan to consume, the drugs together. (see edwards, supra, 39 cal.3d at p. 114 . . [defendant and decedent] were equal partners in the decision to make the purchase and in (id. at p. 114, fn. 5), no copurchaser instruction was required.9 9 quoting people v. breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th 142, cole contends the trial court had a sua sponte duty to give a copurchaser instruction because his closing argument put the court on notice he was relying on that defense. (id. or if there is substantial evidence supportive of such a defense and the defense is not breverman court, however, was distinguishing between the obligation to instruct on defenses and lesser included offenses and explaining the trial court had no such duty if the defense, . . . was entitled to instruction on a defense merely because he or she relies on it even if not 15 c. the trial court was not required to instruct the jury on aiding and abetting liability badly misconstruing the breadth of health and safety code section 11352, subdivision (a), which, as discussed, prohibits not only selling a controlled substance but also furnishing it or even giving it away, cole contends he could only be found guilty of cocaine to officer barga, not that he was the perpetrator of the crime. based on that s failure to instruct on the specific intent required for accomplice liability was prejudicial error. (see people v. mccoy (2001) 25 h knowledge of the criminal purpose of the perpetrator and with an intent or purpose of either committing, or of encouraging of role as a middleman in selling or furnishing the rock cocaine to officer barga. because the people did not rely on a theory of accomplice liability, the court had no obligation to instruct on it. (see bench note to calcrim no. 401 (2012 ed.) p. 170 [court has a sua people v. beeman (1984) 35 cal.3d 547, 560-561]; see people v. sassounian (1986) 182 cal.app.3d 361, 404 [no sua sponte instruction on aiding and supported by substantial evidence. (see people v. memro (1995) 11 cal.4th 786, 868 in re christian s., supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 783.) 16 3. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in preventing cole from raising the rampart police corruption scandal during closing argument people v. rodgrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 1184.) counsel should generally be allowed wide latitude in closing argument (people v. farmer (1989) 47 cal.3d 888, 922, disapproved on another ground in people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 724, fn. 6) and may refer to evidence and judicially noticed facts, matters of common knowledge, and illustrations from experience, history or literature, but may not focus on the particular facts of unrelated cases. (ibid.) the trial court has broad discretion to control the scope of closing argument. (rodrigues, at p. 1184.) cole contends the trial court abused its discretion in prohibiting defense counsel from raising the rampart police corruption scandal during closing argument, insisting the proof of the chain of custody for the rock cocaine he allegedly furnished to officer barga. cole argues the testimony only established officer barga took the rock cocaine from him, it was booked it into evidence by someone under an identification number, and then a lab technician later removed an envelope from the police lab bearing the same identification number; it did not establish how the rock cocaine got from barga to the evidence envelope opened by the lab technician or who may have touched the evidence in the interim.10 reference to it. arguments based on the facts of a different case offered out of context may mislead the jury. (see people v. marshall (1996) 13 cal.4th 799, 854.) counsel 10 the record does not establish barga did not book the cocaine into evidence. barga 17 people v. london (1988) 206 cal.app.3d 896, 909; people v. mendoza (1974) 37 cal.app.3d 717, 725.) moreover, defense counsel was permitted to argue his essential point, stating, people v. marshall, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 855 [no argument on chain of custody was not that officer barga lied about booking the rock cocaine into evidence (presumably using the rampart scandal to illustrate that police officers may lie), but that no one testified who had booked it into evidence; that is, the custody] to the satisfaction you need beyond a marshall, at p. 855.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. perluss, p. j. we concur: woods, j. zelon, j. 