filed 4/27/12 p. v. stewart ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. larry stewart, defendant and appellant. b228946 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba282606) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, david wesley, judge. affirmed. john steinberg, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr. and david a. voet, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________________ 2 introduction larry stewart appeals from a judgment following his convictions for murder, robbery, burglary, and unlawful vehicle taking. he contends the trial court erred by declining to give certain requested jury instructions and by denying his motion under california v. trombetta (1984) 467 u.s. 479 (trombetta). in addition, he contends the court erred in sentencing him. finding no error, we affirm. statement of the case a jury found appellant guilty of the murder of sang yun kim (pen. code,  187, subd.(a); count 1),1 second-degree robbery ( 211; count 2), second-degree commercial burglary ( 459; count 3), and unlawful vehicle taking (veh. code,  10851; count 4 [lesser included offense]). the jury found true that appellant committed the murder while engaged in the commission of a robbery and/or a burglary, and that appellant inflicted great bodily injury upon kim during the commission of the robbery. the jury also found true that appellant had suffered three prior serious felony convictions ( 667, subd. (a)(1)), that he had four prior -(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)), and that he had served a prior prison term ( 667.5, subd. (b)). after the trial court declared two mistrials during the penalty phase, the prosecution declined to further pursue the death penalty. the trial court sentenced appellant to state prison for a term of life without parole on count 1, and a consecutive term of 25 years to life on count 4. the sentences for counts 2 and 3 family and was assessed various fees and fines. appellant timely appealed. 1 all further statutory citations are to the penal code, unless otherwise stated. 3 statement of the facts a. the murder of the victim for the last time during the evening of april 23, 2005. at around midnight, she called her husband at the store, but he did not answer his telephone. dave kim, the around $5,000. ezequiel vasquez, who was 15 years old in 2005, testified that he was familiar with the victim. on april 24, 2005, at about 11:30 a.m., vasquez went to told his father and sister to call the police. los angeles police officer jilberto rendon testified that he responded to a body in the back of the store. no one was inside the store when the officers called for additional police units to set up a crime scene. dr. lisa scheinin performed the autopsy. she determined that kim died from strangulation. scheinin also opined that kim suffered multiple blunt force injuries to the head and face, which made him vulnerable to being strangled. kim also had chemical burns on the front of his body, which were probably inflicted while kim was still alive. 4 b. the police investigation los angeles police detective dennis fanning testified that he was the investigative detective in the case. detective fanning and another detective photographed, collected, and preserved the physical evidence at the crime scene. area, and there were drag marks on the ground. detectwallet was empty. dave kim testified that when he did a walk-through of the lot. the next day, he did another walk-through by himself. he noticed that a security camera, a stereo, and some liquor bottles and cigarette cartons were missing. later identified as belonging to regina patterson, was found inside the van. with the assistance of a local resident, detective fanning located patterson, and interviewed her at the police station. detective fanning and another detective then ran into appellant when they went to get something to eat at a local restaurant. detective fanning testified he identified himself and tried to detain appellant. appellant tried to escape, but was eventually arrested and transported to the police station. he was wearing a bloody pair of blue pants, which was booked into evidence. on april 26, 2005, at about 11:40 a.m., the police conducted a search of lived with his girlfriend, gean bernardez, the police found crates containing items 5 cigarettes, lighters, batteries, and snack items. the police also found stereo equipment, a television monitor, and a security camera. a set of keys was found insiand a pair of tennis shoes. inside the shoes, the police discovered some bloody money. on cross-examination, detective fanning testified he observed no bleach stains on appellan the liquor bottles were fingerprinted and photographed at the scene. rafael on some of the bottles. dave kim identified the security camera, the television, the store merchandise -- including liquor, cigarettes and food -- and the set of keys as belonging to his father. the set of keys, the crates and liquor bottles, and the van mily. los angeles police department criminalist and serologist angela zdanowski testified she collected physical evidence for the investigation. among (2) blood samples fr los angeles police department criminalist linda french testified that she though it could also have been from a mixed race individual with -american. los angeles police department criminalist susan rinehart conducted dna testing on the blood samples. she determined the blood on the money, pants, and shoes 6 further testified that appellant could be a source of minor dna traces found on the pants and a two dollar bill found in the camper. los angeles police department criminalist ronald raquel testified that he determined that a sticky lift print found at the crime scene could have been made by the right tennis shoe found in c. witness statements angeles.2 bernandez recalled telling a police detective that two or three weeks before the murder, she heard appswazey, talking about robbing kim.3 bernardez further testified that on april 24, 2005, she was in the camper when appellant came home around 5:00 a.m. appellant loaded five milk crates filled with liquor, cigarettes, a camera, and other items into the camper. bernardez 2 bernandez testified at the preliminary hearing on march 26, 2006, but passed away prior to trial. the prosecution had made a recording of her prior testimony, and this recording was played for the jury. 3 swazey did not testify at trial, and the prosecution did not introduce any statements or prior testimony of swazey. detective fanning testified the police had arrested swazey after receiving information that swazey had assisted appellant in removing items from the liquor store and had received some money from appellant after the murder. swazey was eventually released based on a lack of when the police first located swazey, he was wearing a dark-colored t-shirt that had white bleach stains on it. criminalist rinehart also testified that swazey could not be excluded as a source of minor traces of dna found in the blood on the pants found in the camper. she further testified that swazey could be excluded as a source of minor dna traces on the two dollar bill found in the camper. 7 told the police that appellant said he killed kim. she also told the police that she saw appellant counting at least $5,000 in cash in front of her. jennifer mishelle dominguez, also known as iris, testified she knew murder. she also admitted that she had been convicted of burglary, and that kim had kicked her out of his store once, for stealing a case of beer. a few days before could rob him. dominguez refused. on the night of april 23, 2005, dominguez gambled with appellant and la her by pulling out a large wad of money, some of which dominguez noticed was after they stopped gambling, appellant took dominguez aside, pulled out a ring of keys, and asked dominguez if she wanted to make some money. emp dominguez testified she called 911from a telephone booth nearby, and arrive, but no police unit came to the store. 8 later that night, dominguez ran into a friend, omar arvizu. arvizu told her that when he was at the liquor store, he e back of the store. dominguez spoke to the police. she identified appellant from a six-pack of photographs, and wrote a statement summarizing her conversation with appellant g out police. on cross-who was outside the store $20, so he would not tell anyone that she had gone into to the police. arvizu testified he told the police that at around 11:00 p.m. on april 23, patterson testified that on april 24, 2005, at about 4:00 or 5:00 a.m., she was trying to make money as a prostitute. appellant walked up to patterson and inside. patterson rpants. when he pulled off one pair of pants, patterson noticed there was a lot of blood on the second pair of pants. when patterson asked appellant if he had 9 d. defense case appellant did not testify, and the defense presented no witnesses during the guilt phase. discussion appellant raises four issues on appeal. he contends (1) the trial court erred in declining to instruct the jury on third party culpability, (2) the court erred in declining to instruct the jury on the mental state of an aider and abettor to murder, (3) the court erred in denying his motion under trombetta, supra, 467 u.s. 479, and (4) the court erred in imposing a consecutive sentence on the conviction for unlawful vehicle taking. we address each contention in turn. 1. third party culpability appellant contends the trial court should have given the third party culpability jury instruction requested by trial counsel, because there was substantial evidence that someone other than appellant killed kim. the trial court denied could conclude that somebody [other than appeafter reviewing the record, we conclude there was no prejudicial error. (people v. posey (2004) 32 cal.4th 193, 218 [claim of instructional error subject to independent review].) a trial court has a duty to instruct on all general principles of law that are understanding of the case. a court may, however, refuse an instruction offered by the defendant if it is not supported by substantial evidence. (people v. hovarter (2008) 44 cal.4th 983, 1021.) in the case of a third party culpability instruction, a 10 circumstantially to the actual perpetration of the crime. in assessing an offer of proof relating to such evidence, the court must decide whether the evidence could people v. bradford (1997) 15 cal.4th 1229, 1325.) evidence bearing on nothing more than a third people v. robinson (2005) 37 cal.4th 592, 625; people v. hall (1986) 41 cal.3d 826, 833.) here, counsel contends the following evidence raised reasonable doubt as to that she walked through the crime scene before the police arrived and paid she could not exclude swazey as a source of minor dna traces found in the blood on the pants found in the camper; and -disagree. each piece of evidence, standing alone or in combination, does not raise a reasonable doubt that appellant did not kill kim. swazey may have talked with appellant about robbing kim, but there was no evidence that he actually robbed or participated in the robbery. there was no evidence that swazey had the motive or could not exclude swazey or appellant as the source of the minor dna traces found in the blood on the pants did not create a reasonable inference that swazey was the probable source. in addition, rinehart excluded swazey as a possible source of dna found on one of the bills seized from the camper. similarly, the proffered 11 evidence did not show that dominguez had a motive to kill kim, and there was no physical evidence linking dominguez to the murder. in any event, any error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. first, the third party culpability instruction was duplicative of the jury instructions given on reasonable doubt. (people v. hartsch (2010) 49 cal.4th 472, 504 [third party culpability instructions add little to the standard instruction on reasonable doubt: omission is not prejudicial because the reasonable doubt instructions give defendants ample opportunity to impress upon the jury that evidence of another defense counsel argued during closing that persons other than appellant, such as dominguez and nern, killed the victim. finally, the evidence that appellant killed kim was overwhelming. he admitted as much to bernardez, dominguez, and patterson: he told bernardez he killed kim; he told dominguez if kim was not dead, he soon would be; and he told showed the blood belonged to kim. finally, a substantial quantity of items from was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. 2. aider and abettor instruction next, appellant contends the court should have instructed the jury on the mental state required to convict someone as an aider and abettor to murder because 12 he did not commit the actual killing of kim. for the reasons stated above, there was insufficient evidence to support the giving of such an instruction. there was no evidence from which a reasonable person could conclude that someone other than appellant killed kim. 3. trombetta motion appellant contends his trombetta motion should have been granted because certain items -- the crates, liquor bottles, and van belonging to kim -- that were in trombetta, the united states supreme court held that law enforcement agencies have a duty under the federal due process clause to preserve evidence (trombetta, supra, 467 u.s. at p. 488; accord, people v. beeler (1995) 9 cal.4th an exculpatory value that was apparent before the evidence was destroyed, and be of such a nature that the defendant would be unable to obtain comparable evidence trombetta, supra, at p. 489; people v. beeler, supra, at p. 976.) when evidence is only potentially useful, the failure to preserve such evidence does not constitute a violation of due process unless the defendant proves bad faith on the part of the police. (arizona v. youngblood (1988) 488 u.s. 51, 57; people v. roybal (1998) 19 cal.4th 481, 510.) here, appellant argued the crates contained possibly exculpatory evidence lly indicated to the investigation officers that the blood of the victim [was] transferred to his pants from the cases used to transport the trombetta motion, detective fanning, detective tommy thompson, and forensic print specialist medina all testified that they did not recall seeing any blood on the crates. detective fanning also testified 13 that the liquor bottles were all fingerprinted and photographed before being on this record, the trial court did not err in denying the trombetta motion, as there was no evidence the crates contained anything of exculpatory value and no evidence of bad faith on the part of the officers. 4. sentencing on count 4 finally, appellant contends that section 654 prohibited the trial court from disagree. section 654 prohibits multiple punishments where both offenses arose from the same act or course of conduct. (neal v. state of california (1960) 55 cal.2d 11, 18; people v. hall (2000) 83 cal.app.4th 1084, 1088.) however, section 654 does not prohibit punishment for different offenses where separate and distinct acts can be established as the basis for each conviction. (people v. stoltz (1961) 196 cal.app.2d 258, 264.) in stoltz, supra, 196 cal.app.2d at page 264, the appellate court affirmed a whereby murder was accomplished had ceased before the theft was committed. and the jury could have found that even the design to commit theft arose after the ibid.) the court noted that the jury could find that defendant had after defendant had clubbed the decedent to death. (id. at p. 263.) similarly, in after killing him inside the store. indeed, the prosecution argued that the court 14 on this record, we conclude the trial court did not err in imposing a consecutive sentence on count 4. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. manella, j. we concur: willhite, acting p. j. suzukawa, j. 