filed 1/15/13 p. v. mark ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. raymond andrew mark, defendant and appellant. b228442 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba357265) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, charlaine f. olmedo, judge. affirmed. dant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and michael j. wise, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant, raymond andrew mark, appeals the judgment entered following his conviction for grand theft and displaying a false license plate (2 counts) (pen. code,  487; vehicle. code  4463).1 he was sentenced to probation for three years. the judgment is affirmed. background viewed in accordance with the usual rule of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established the following. 1. prosecution evidence. michael uyehara was a hazardous materials specialist with the county of los angeles. on july 12, 2008, he went to a parking lot at 9545 wentworth street in the city of sunland and observed a trailer with a broken hitch. the trailer contained 620 gallons of fuel. there were scrape marks in the street from the broken hitch leading to a fuel dispensing site in the sunland city yard. angela sherick-bright worked for the city of los angeles as the acting assistant general manager for fleet maintenance. city employees were given access cards allowing them to obtain fuel from city yards. these cards were correlated to an assigned vehicle and to the gas tank capacity of each type of vehicle. city records showed that on july 12, 2008, between 3:20 a.m. and 4:27 a.m., diesel and unleaded fuel had been taken from the sunland city yard. three different city-issued access cards had been used to operate the fuel pumps. adam garcia worked for independent studio services at 9545 wentworth street in sunland. arriving at work on july 12, 2008, he noticed scrape marks on the ground and depositing the trailer. two men could be seen in the video. during closing argument the prosecutor asserted defendant mark was one of the two men. the prosecutor also 1 all further references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 3 argued, however, that mark could still be guilty as an aider and abettor even if he had not been present the night the fuel was stolen. gevork sukunyan, the owner of express gears, a company that transports automobiles, had done work for mark in the past. at some point, mark offered to sell sukunyan fuel at a 25 percent discount. sukunyan testified he purchased discount fuel from mark over a period of two or three months, paying both in cash and by check. as instructed, the checks were sometimes made out to the medusa salon and sometimes uel, but sukunyan was the only one who wrote the checks. sukunyan pled guilty to receiving stolen property. andy aguayo was a detective with the commercial crimes division of the los angeles police department. on april 29, 2009, he conducted a surveillance operation against mark. he saw mark arrive in a white mustang at 12th street between hill and on the dashboard so that it covered the vehicle identification number plate. over the . . meaning laurel jump worked as a management analyst for the los angeles bureau of street services. she testified mark worked for the city as a truck operator. he was not authorized to have an official city of los angeles vehicle placard. placing this placard on the dashboard exempted his vehicle from certain parking restrictions. as a truck operator, mark would not normally have been issued a key to the sunland yard allowing access to the fuel pumps when the yard was closed. mark told detective lorenzo barbosa of the commercial crimes division that he owned the madusa salon. barbosa located a black truck belonging to mark. this truck license plate registration sticker did not belong to the truck, but to another vehicle which was owned by someone else. 4 when barbosa exnumerous 55-gallon plastic barrels containing small amounts of gasoline or diesel fuel. plastic barrel and five hoses; the hoses smelled of fuel and had been altered for use as siphoning tools. 2. defense evidence. john fagan supervised concrete and asphalt crews for the city of los angeles. mark had formerly worked for him on a crew that ground down the cracks in concrete sidewalks. fagan had known him for 12 years. fagan testified he had never witnessed jobs was to make the city vehicle placards for employees and supervisors. fagan was familiar with the sunland city yard. there were about 20 or 25 people who had access to that facility. many people had keys to the yard in 2008. fuel access cards were left in the trucks and the trucks were not locked. gregory mark, the depick up fuel from the sunlanand he would write medusa salon in as the payee and have mark cash them. the 12, police he was the person seen on the surveillance tape getting out of the truck and arguing 20 5 3. rebuttal evidence. mark told detective barbosa he had been in texas on the day the trailer broke down at the sunland city yard. barbosa identified numerous inconsistencies between y. for example: gregory insisted the broken trailer incident had occurred in april, not july; he could not provide even a ballpark estimate of the amounts on the checks he supposedly received from the armenians; he said he did not receive any compensation for selling the fuel and he certainly was never paid in drugs. contentions 1. the trial court erred by not instructing the jury that sukunyan was an accomplice as a matter of law. discussion 1. trial court did not err by neglecting to instruct the jury that sukunyan was an accomplice as a matter of law. mark contends his convictions must be reversed because the trial court failed to instruct the jury, sua sponte, that sukunyan was an accomplice as a matter of law. this claim is meritless. a. legal principles. identical offense charged against the defendant on trial in the cause in which the testimony of the of the criminal purpose of the perpetrator and with an intent or purpose either of people v. stankewitz (1990) 51 cal.3d 72, 91.) whether a person is an accomplice is a question of fact for the jury unless there is no dispute as to either the facts or inferences to be drawn from the facts. (people v. fauber (1992) 2 cal.4th 792, 834; people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 635, 679 [trial court may only instruct that witness is accomplice as matter of law if facts establishing culpability are clear and undisputed].) 6 corroborated by such other evidence as shall tend to connect the defendant with the commission of the offense . . . implicate the defendant and thus relates to some act or fact that is an element of the crime. people v. avila (2006) 38 cal.4th 491, 562-563.) b. discussion. mark argues sukunyan was an accomplice as a matter of law because he knowingly purchased stolen fuel and pled guilty to receiving stolen property. the attorney general, however, argues there was no evidence connecting sukunyan to anything more than receiving stolen property. the attorney general is right. him are guilty of distinct and separate substantive offenses and are not accomplices of each other. [citations.] an exception to the rule is recognized when the thief and the receiver conspire together in a prearranged plan whereby one is to steal and the other is to people v. raven (1955) 44 cal.2d 523, 526 [no prearranged plan shown even though thief sold jeep tires and power tools to receiver who dealt in used goods and knew beforehand some items had been stolen]; compare people v. lima (1944) 25 cal.2d 573, 576 [prearranged plan shown where, early in olive season, defendant agreed to buy all the olives thieves could steal] with people v. mckunes (1975) 51 cal.app.3d 487, 493 [prearranged plan not shown where thief knew receiver would be interested in purchasing 7 here, mark alleges only that sukunyan knew the fuel had been stolen. mark does not point to any evidence showing there had been a pre-existing agreement for sukunyan 2. there was no ineffective assistance of counsel. mark contends he was denied effective assistance of counsel because his attorney failed to request certain jury instructions and failed to call a particular witness to testify for the defense. these claims are meritless. a. legal principles. guaranteed the defendant by the sixth amendment. second, the defendant must show that the deficient performance prejudiced the defense. this requires showing that ose bability that, but for a reasonable probability is a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the williams v. taylor (2000) 529 u.s. 362, 390-391 [120 s.ct. entitlement to relief on an ineffective-(people v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d 171, 218.) i]f the record sheds no light on why counsel acted or failed to act in the challenged manner, we must reject the claim on appeal unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or there could be no satisfactory explanation for counsepeople v. castillo (1997) 16 cal.4th 1009, 1015.) 8 before examining the prejudice suffered by the defendant as a result of the alleged deficstrickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 697 [104 s.ct. 2052].) tactical choice within the range of reasonable competence, we have held that the conviction shoulpeople v. bunyard (1988) 45 cal.3d 1189, 1215; see people v. mitcham (1992) 1 cal.4th 1027, 1059 [decision whether to put on witnesses is -he choice of which, and how many, of potential witnesses [to call] is (people v. floyd (1970) 1 cal.3d 694, 709, disapproved on other grounds by people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258, 287, fn. [citations.] [] rather, the defendant must affirmatively show that the omissions of defense counsel involved a critical issue, and that the omissions cannot be explained on people v. floyd, supra, at p. 709.) b. discussion. as to each claim raised by mark, the record demonstrates defense counsel had a valid tactical reason for what he did. (1) calcrim no. 315. identification of appellant. in that regard calcrim 315 regarding the factors to con calcrim no. 315 is a specialized instruction suggesting particular factors for a jury to consider when evaluating the quality of an eyewitness identification. however, other than the first factowas the witness paying attentio9 done business with him on multiple occasions. the defense did not argue he had misidentified mark. rather, the defense argued sukunyan had lied by claiming he purchased the stolen fuel from mark because he was trying to protect his father. there was no reason to request calcrim no. 315 in this situation. required to make futile motions or to indulpeople v. torrez (1995) 31 cal.app.4th 1084, 1091.) (2) calcrim no. 350. mark contends defense counsel should have requested the character evidence instruction, calcrim no. 350,2 t evidence of the by itself instruction would have been based on the following testimony by john former supervisor: when he worked for you? issues? 2 calcrim defendant (is a <insert character trait> person/ [or] has a good reputation for <insert character trait> in the community where (he/she) lives or works). [] you may take that testimony into consideration along with all the other evidence in deciding whether the people have proved that the defendant is guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [] evidence evidence of (his/her) bad character for the same trait. you must decide the meaning and traits has not been discussed among those who know (him/her), you may assume that (his/her) 10 evidence code section 1101, subdivision section and in sections 1102, 1103, 1108, trait of his or her character (whether in the form of an opinion, evidence of reputation, or evidence of specific instances of his or her conduct) is inadmissible when offered to prove his or her conduct on a however, evidence code section evidence of his reputation is not made inadmissible by section 1101 if such evidence is: [] (a) offered by the defendant to prove his conduct in conformity with such character or trait of character. [] (b) offered by the prosecution to rebut evidence adduced by the defendant under subdivision nce code section 1102], a defendant in a criminal action may introduce evidence of his character or a trait of his character in the form of an opinion or evidence of reputation, but not in the form of specific conduct, in order to prove conduct in conformipeople v. honig (1996) 48 cal.app.4th 289, 348, italics added; accord people v. felix (1999) 70 cal.app.4th 426, 431- 1102 make clear, evidence of specific acts of the accused are, as a general rule, inadmissible to prove his disposition to commit such acts . . . people v. wagner (1975) 13 cal.3d 612, 619.) becau 350, the trial court would have properly refused to give it. (see people v. torrez, supra, 31 cal.app.4th at p. 1091 [counsel not required to indulge in idle acts to appear competent].) 11 (3) calcrim no. 3400. mark contends defense counsel should have requested calcrim no. 34003 because there was evidence he had been in texas when the fuel was taken from the sunland yard. but this alibi evidence was weak and undeveloped. it consisted solely of . . in the area of the sunland was out of the state on the day the trailer broke down. in any event, mark is ignoring the second half of calcrim no. 3400, which informs the jury that an aider and abettor need not be present at the crime scene. (see fn. 3, ante.) (4) failure to call defense witness. mark contends defense counsel was ineffective for failing to call dale reichhart4 as a witness. but the records shows reichhart would not have been a helpful witness. 3 calcrim no. committed <insert crime[s] charged>. the defendant contends (he/she) did not commit (this/these) crime[s] and that (he/she) was somewhere else when the crime[s] (was/were) committed. the people must prove that the defendant was present and committed the crime[s] with which (he/she) is charged. the defendant does not need to prove (he/she) was elsewhere at the time of the crime. [] if you have a reasonable doubt about whether the defendant was present when the crime was committed, you must find (him/her) not guilty. [] [however, the defendant may also be guilty of <insert crime[s] charged> if (he/she) (aided and abetted/ [or] conspired with) someone else to commit (that/those) crime[s]. if you conclude that the defendant (aided and abetted/ [or] conspired to commit) <insert crime[s] charged>, then (he/she) is guilty even if (he/she) was not 4 tion 12 he had participated in the fuel theft along with gregory, and that mark had not been involved. but the new trial motion itself shows reichhart would not have been a helpful the defendant, det. barbosa then went to meet with reichhart to find out whether the reichhart implicated the defendant in the sunland yard thefts. . . . however, post-trial, in his attached declaration, reichhart admits that he lied about the defendant and it was greg mark with whom he stole gasoline, which was then sold to the elder suk implicated defendant in the thefts, but then later changed his story, . . . defense counsel could have reasonably believed that calling him as a witness would have been sorely even apart from the fact reichhart at one time told police mark was guilty, in sum, there was no ineffective assistance of counsel in failing to request these three instructions or failing to call reichhart as a trial witness.5 5 mark argues that, even if harmless individually, the cumulative effect of these claimed trial errors mandates reversal of his convictions. because we have found no instructional errors, this cumulative error argument fails. (see people v. seaton (2001) 26 cal.4th 598, 639; people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 335.) 13 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: croskey, j. aldrich, j. 