filed 7/23/12 p. v. yancy ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. christopher yancy, defendant and appellant. b228563 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa058905) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, harvey giss, judge. affirmed. mark allen hart, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson, supervising deputy attorney general, noah p. hill, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________ 2 a jury convicted christopher bernard yancy of murder and found true a special allegation he had used a deadly or dangerous weapon. on appeal yancy contends the court erred in denying his reqcodefendant had been convicted and was serving a life sentence. yancy also argues the calcrim no. 400 was prejudicial error. we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. the information yancy was charged in an information with murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)).1 it was specially alleged yancy had personally used a deadly and dangerous weapon within the meaning of section 12022, subdivision (b)(1), in committing the offense. yancy pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegation. 2. the evidence at trial beatrice brothers lived in her own home with her adult son, sidney cole, and his young children. brotherstreet. in the early morning of december 5, 2005, cole woke up robinson at her home they had come at gates had molested one or more of her grandchildren. gates, who had been called into the house by brothers, was taken to the garage, where brothers, persons and yancy took turns beating him with a stick while he was . . . 1 statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 according to yancy, brothers sodomized gates with a rod during the attack. at some point, yancy claimed, he had had enough and left while the others continued to beat gates. when yancy left, gates was still alive, and nothing had been stuffed down his throat. were bound behind his back with a shoestring and a braided cord. a shirt or cloth had suffered bruising to his face, chest, abdomen, back, arms and legs, with lacerations on his forehead and face. the los angeles county deputy coroner who performed the autopsy opined gates died primarily from asphyxiation caused by a cloth stuffed down his throat although blunt force trauma was also a contributing cause of death. the deputy coroner acknowledged his autopsy report identithe area carefully because he had had no information that gates had been sodomized. he also testified the body had been so badly burned it would have been difficult to confirm that fact in any event. the people presented four different theories to support a charge of murder as to yancy: (1) yancy himself committed the murder; (2) he aided and abetted the murder; (3) ) he aided and abetted the torture, resulting in death. either of the last two theories would qualify the offense as first degree felony murder. yancy did not testify at trial. his defense theory was that, at most, he was guilty of manslaughter, either voluntary manslaughter based on heat of passion or involuntary manslaughter based on a misdemeanor battery resulting in death. 3. jury instructions the jury was instructed with calcrim nos. 520 (murder); 521 (degrees of murder); 540a and 540b (first degree felony murder based on torture or aiding and 4 abetting torture); 810 (elements of torture); 570 (voluntary manslaughter based on killing in heat of passion); 522 (provocation reducing first degree murder to second degree or voluntary manslaughter); and 580 (involuntary manslaughter based on misdemeanor battery). the jury was also instructed with former calcrim no. 400 (general of the crime whether he or she committed it personally or aided and abetted the crimes). 4. the verdict and sentence the jury found yancy guilty of second degree murder and found true the special allegation he had used a deadly weapon in committing the offense. yancy was sentenced to an aggregate state prison term of 16 years to life. discussion 1. a. relevant proceedings brothers, yancy and persons were tried separately for their respective roles in 2 robinson explained she could not remember details of the incident. after several unsuccessful attempts at eliciting testimony from her about the killing, the court deemed her to be a hostile witness and permitted the prosecutor to refer to her prior testimony in questioned regarding her testimony at the trial of beatrice brothers. i read to the jury person or persons may have been involved in the commission of the crime charged against the defendant. there may be many reasons why someone who appears to have 2 brothers was convicted of first degree murder in a trial that concluded prior to people v. brothers (dec. 12, 2011, b225376) [nonpub. opn.]) based on instructional error and remanded the case for a new trial. 5 been involved might not be a codefendant in this particular trial. you must not speculate about whether that person or those other persons have been or will be prosecuted. your duty is of beatrice brothers. you are not to concern yourself with the verdict in that particular different issues connected with that case than . . . with this particular case. but so that ents made at that mother ever been sentenced to life in pristhe court denied the motion and admonished the jury to disregard the comment. the prepare an additional instruction. later, during cross-examination of paul gliniecki, the deputy medical examiner, attack they were not allowed to identify the defendant in the prior trial. the court responded, impact or case, because the defendants are different, and testimony might be different as it relates to 6 estioning of the witness. later that afternoon, after the jury had been dismissed for the day, defense counsel convicted in the prior trial. defense counsel argued robinson had said her mother was the court denied the motion, once again inviting defense counsel to prepare her own curative statement if she felt the several the court had already given were inadequate. defense counsel did not prepare any additional statement. b. jury receiving a people v. bolden (2002) 29 cal.4th 515, 555; accord, people v. gonzalez should grant a mistrial only if the defendant will suffer prejudice that is incurable by abuse of discretion. (bolden, at p. 555; people v. ayala (2000) 23 cal.4th 225, 282.) yancy contends the court should have granted a mistrial after it told the jury brothers had been convicted in her earlier trial based on the same attack. evidence defendant. (people v. cummings (2009) 4 cal.4th 1233, 1322; people v. leonard (1983) 34 cal.3d 183, 188-189; see people v. neely rationale for this rule is that a guilty plea or conviction of a participant is irrelevant to whether another person was positively and correctly identified as a coparticipant, and informed the jury brothers had been convicted were each followed by detailed admonitio 7 different. we presume the jury followed those admonitions and find no error. (see people v. gonzalez, supra, testimony and properly admonished the jury. although soliz asserts the admonitions were inadequate, we see no basis for the assertion and presume, as always, that the jury people v. waidla (2000) 2. instructing the jury with former calcrim no. 400, while erroneous, was not prejudicial yancy contends the trial court erred when it instructed the jury with a former crime whether he or she committed it personally or aided and abetted the perpetrator who 3 the supreme court held in people v. mccoy (2001) 25 cal.4th 1111 (mccoy), a case in which two defendants were tried together on murder charges, that and abettor may be guilty of greater homicide-related offenses than those the actual perpetrator. (id. at p. 1114 [recognizing a scenario in which the perpetrator could have committed voluntary manslaughter in the heat of passion with the assistance of his coparticipant, who, rather than acting in the heat of passion, harbored implied malice].) ourt in people v. samaniego (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 1148 and division three in people v. nero (2010) 181 cal.app.4th 504 held instructing that an aider and abettor and a perpetrator are did not recognize 3 8 an aider and abettor could be guilty not only of a greater, but also a lesser homicide offense than the perpetrator. (samaniego, at p. 1165; nero, at p. 510.) we agree the instruction is erroneous to the extent it suggests a defendant can be guilty of murder, even if he or she acted in the heat of passion, based solely on the greater culpable mental state of his or her coparticipants.4 that each of the defendantshe, persons and brothershad become enraged after theory that each had acted under the influence of that passion during the sustained attack on gates.5 for the erroneous instruction to have had any effect in this case, the jury would have had to have found that yancy had acted in the heat of passion while one or more of his coparticipants had acted with express or implied malice. it is simply not conceivable on this record that the jury could have found and/or her boyfriend had not acted in the heat of passion, but that yancy, who, by his own admission, did not know brothers or any of her grandchildren, had. accordingly, any error in instructing with former calcrim no. 400 in this case was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (see people v. williams (2001) 26 cal.4th 779, 797 [an instruction error unless it is harmless beyond a reasonable doubt]; people v. samaniego, supra, 172 cal.app.4th 1148, 1165.) 4 in rejecting his involuntary manslaughter defense, the jury plainly did not believe the application of deadly force. yancy does not contest this inference. he argues the jury could have believed he aided and abetted the homicide while acting in the heat of passion, thus negating malice, but nonetheless found him guilty of murder based on the 400. 5 in addition to highlightinprovoked. he was outraged. everybody was 9 disposition the judgment is affirmed. perluss, p. j. we concur: woods, j. jackson, j. 