filed 10/25/12 p. v. coleman ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jason eddie coleman et al., defendants and appellants. b228221 c/w b233787 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sa072508) appeals from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county. curtis b. rappe, judge. affirmed as modified. charlotte e. costan, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant jason eddie coleman. david h. goodwin, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant jason anthony hurtado. david y. stanley, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant gwindon love murphy. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii and marc a. kohm, deputy attorneys general for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendants and appellants gwindon love murphy (murphy), jason anthony hurtado (hurtado), and jason eddie coleman (coleman), appeal their murder convictions.1 murphy contends that conspiracy is not a valid theory of criminal liability. hurtado contends that his conviction was not supported by substantial evidence, and he impeachment evidence, admitting evidence despite late discovery, refusing several proposed pinpoint jury instructions, and denying his petition to disclose juror information. coleman also challenges the sufficiency of the evidence to support the laims prejudice from cumulative error. in addition, coleman seeks correction of the abstract of judgment to reflect joint and several liability for victim restitution. respondent seeks modification of the judgment to impose a parole revocation fine. we modify the judgment to include a parole revocation fine and direct the trial contentions and affirm the judgments. background 1. procedural background in an amended information, defendants were charged in count 1 with the murder of preston brumfield (brumfield) in violation of penal code section 187, subdivision (a).2 in count 2, defendants were charged with conspiracy to commit assault by means likely to cause great bodily injury. ( 182, subd. (a)(1), 245, subd. (a)(1).) in counts 3 and 4, murphy and samuel murphy were charged with solicitation to commit assault by means likely to cause great bodily injury. ( 653f, subd. (a), 245, subd. (a)(1).) it was further alleged as to counts 1, 2, and 4, pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(a), that the crimes were committed for the benefit of, at the direction 1 the jury was unable to reach a verdict against a fourth defendant, samuel murphy, and he is not a party to this appeal. 2 all further statutory references are to the penal code, unless otherwise indicated. 3 of, and in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further and assist in criminal conduct by gang members. finally it was alleged, for purposes of section 667.5, subdivision (b), that hurtado had served prison terms for felony convictions in 2002 and 2003. nd him guilty of counts 1, 2, and 3 as charged, but found not true the gang allegation. coleman and hurtado were found guilty of counts 1 and 2 as charged and the gang allegation was found to be true. hurtado admitted one prior prison term allegation, and for the other, the prosecution presented evidence in a court trial. the trial court found both allegations to be true. murphy was thereafter sentenced to 15 years to life as to count 1, and the concurrent middle terms of three years each as to counts 2 and 3, were stayed pursuant to section 654. murphy received 353 actual days of presentence custody credit. the court sentenced hurtado to 15 years to life as to count 1, with minimum parole eligibility of 15 years due to the gang finding, plus two consecutive years due to the prior prison terms. the court imposed the middle term of three years as to count 2, with a consecutive three years due to the gang finding, all stayed pursuant to section 654. hurtado received 348 actual days of presentence custody credit. the trial court sentenced coleman to 15 years to life as to count 1, with minimum parole eligibility of 15 years due to the gang finding. the court imposed the middle term of three years as to count 2, with a consecutive three years due to the gang finding, stayed pursuant to section 654. coleman received 342 days of actual presentence custody credit. as to all three defendants the trial court ordered mandatory databank specimens, imposed statutory fines and fees, and entered a joint and several award of $7,674.60 in direct victim restitution. murphy and coleman filed timely notices of appeal. hurtado obtained relief from subsequently consolidated with the appeals filed by coleman and murphy. 4 2. prosecution evidence in the coleman/hurtado trial3 evidence regarding the beating and death of brumfield brumfield was beaten during the late evening of may 11, 2008. he was found unconscious and bleeding on a dark sidewalk on 20th street in santa monica. the beating left brumfield with a skull fracture and bleeding in the brain, which resulted in his death a few days later. margarita jones (jones) and her daughter virjine murphy (virjine) lived in the neighborhood not far from where brumfield was assaulted. brumfield was homeless, and in exchange for help with household chores, jones had fed him and allowed him to sleep live with jones and virjine, he was a frequent visitor. at first, murphy considered brumfield a friend, but came to resent his attentions to jones and was discomforted by brumfield so frequently around virjine. argued weekly. several heard murphy threaten to hit brumfield with his cane. brumfield called 911 and several police officers came and took a report. another time, jones and virjine saw murphy swing his cane at brumfield. the day after brumfield was beaten, jones received a call from the hospital informing her that brumfield was there and asking her to identify him as he had been at the same time, santa monica police department (smpd) detectives hee seok ahn hy was there visiting, and the detectives interviewed both of them separately. murphy immediately volunteered to detective ahn 3 al was essentially the same as that is a wholly legal one, without reference to the facts, we do not separately summarize the 5 how much he disliked brumfield, and that if he knew which hospital brumfield was in, ace. murphy said that brumfield had he would do so, but a stroke had left his left side semi-paralyzed. he added that he would hire someone to do it if he had the money. virjine testified that about one week before the beating, murphy told her that he murphyand he had some boys who were going to get brumfield. a few days later virjine heard they wer a day or two after the assault, virjine listened to her father speaking on the telephone. she took notes and reported the conversations to detective henry. among aid they several weeks after the assault, virjine overheard another telephone conversation in ce of dope and that was to get [brumfield] beat up and if he ever come back out here that they gone as a witness, she would testify that brumfield and samuel murphy never had any problems with each other. a longtime neighborhood resident, pius walters (walters), testified that about one because he caused jones to mistreat his brothermurphy say something inaudible to brumfield. in response, brumfield cast his eyes e nothing to say to me, and if you 6 neighbor jason rossel (rossel), testified that everyone knew everyone else in the neighborhood. rossel and hurtado were cousins and had always been close. rossel also knew coleman very well and knew paul thompson (paul) by name. he had seen testified that hurtado and another cousin were associated with the graveyard crip gang. liquor store, where he had gone with hurtado around midnight. while there they saw coleman and paul, with whom hurtado conferred privately for about a minute. rossel then walked home alone. about 15 or 20 minutes later, as rossel was sitting in his front yard, hurtado arrived, followed quickly by coleman and paul. upon arrival hurtado went into the alley -aul assured him that he was just knocked unconscious. coleman disagreed, explaining that brumfield had a steel plate in his head, was bleeding from his head after the attack, and was not moving. when hurtado returned from the alley, coleman asked, another longtime neighborhood resident and across the street neighbor of jones, stephon simpson (simpson) testified that occasionally he saw brumfield in the erved murphy and brumfield arguing. murphy had told simpson he did not like brumfield, and once, when angry, murphy phy told him not to say anything about their conversation. simpson had known murphy and his brother for many years. simpson had also 7 coleman and hurtado around the neighborhood for several years. he knew coleman as -head with his feet, perhaps delivering the final blow, and that he felt bad. simpson gave many inconsistent and obviously evasive answers during the morning session of his trial testimony. after lunch, simpson apologized to the court for lying, and confirmed that on october 1, 2009, he had given a written statement to detective henry in which he wrote that coleman had told simpson that he and hurtado had beaten brumfield in the head with an iron rod with the intent to scare him but not to kill him. simpson told detective henry that approximately six monthdeath, coleman admitted that he hid in a dark area until brumfield walked by, and then he and hurtado beat and kicked brumfield as he attempted to defend himself. coleman told simpson that hurtado had hit brumfield in the head with a stick or pipe, and that they left him lying on the ground bleeding. a recording of the interview was played for the jury. simpson testified that he had not given detective henry this information in interviews in 2008 because he feared for his life, as he imony for one week to allow an interview with simpson by a defense investigator. being labeled a snitch arose during the winter of 2007, when coleman and hurtado confronted him after he had been released early from jail. coleman asked why he was simpson tried to run away but coleman and hurtado chased him and he fell down. as coleman tried to hit him while he was on the ground, hurtado pretended to have a gun, threatened to shoot him, and asked for his shoes, jacket, and wallet. simpson gave up his shoes and jacket, but not his wallet, and then ran away. sometime later, simpson told 8 thereafter, coleman apologized to simpson, but hurtado did not. police interviews and witness relocation detective henry testified that he first interviewed simpson in august 2008 while simpson was in a rehabilitation facility. simpson said then he had heard rumors, but he would not provide any information about the beating due to fear for his safety and the safety of his family who lived and worked in santa monica. then, in october 2009, detective henry learned that simpson was about to be arrested on a narcotics charge and arranged with the narcotics detective to hold simpson for an interview. detective henry did not promise simpson any relief on the narcotics case, but told him that the narcotics about the murder case and provide whatever information he had. simpson then made the written statement about his conversation with coleman. narcotics detective vincent gamache testified that he informed simpson of his detention on narcotics charges. simpson was handcuffed when brought to the police station, but not during his interviews. detective gamache remained in the room while detective henry interviewed simpson, and when that interview was over, detective gamache interviewed simpson about the narcotics case. detective gamache told simpson about photographs, video, and audiotape of the three cocaine sales he made to an informant named lisa. simpson signed a written confession to the narcotics transactions. during the summer of 2008, detective henry tried to interview another neighbor, maryann holloway (holloway), but she did not cooperate and later expressed a fear of testifying. when detective henry learned that holloway was arrested on narcotics charges in october 2009, he also arranged to interview her. detective henry made no promise to holloway regarding her narcotics case if she cooperated with him, but did promise to keep her safe. narcotics detective gerardo leyva testified that he had a good case against holloway for selling narcotics on two occasions. he had audio and video evidence of the 9 crimes. after detective leyva arrested holloway, he turned her over to detective henry for an interview. detective leyva said that had she not given detective henry the information he wanted, holloway would have been booked on the narcotics charges. d and played for the jury after holloway testified that she did not recall meeting with detective henry.4 holloway told detective henry that she had known brumfield from the neighborhood for about two years before his death. she related a conversation shwhile she was in a car with samuel murphy and coleman. samuel murphy said he offered to pay coleman with money and drugs, adding that he wanted him to do this soon. detective henry testified that holloway was given government assistance to move out of santa monica prior to the preliminary hearing. jones, virjine, simpson, and walters still resided in the same neighborhood. rossel had recently been relocated after he provided information that justified his relocation. detective henry testified that he had arranged for funds to help rossel, and that he had provided relocation assistance to witnesses especially in gang cases, on many past occasions. if the witness believed that his life or safety or that of his family was in jeopardy, and it was determined after an investigation that there had been a credible threat against the witness, the relocation program would be activated. relocation funds were paid directly to the witness. gang evidence detective henry had patrolled this neighborhood for about 14 years as a patrol officer, and had been a narcotics investigator in the same area before becoming a homicide detective. he was familiar with the gang activity there and testified that there 4 holloway testified that she did not remember her arrest or any statements given to detective henry, and she denied that she was afraid to testify. she testified that she suffered from both schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, was on several psychotropic medications and occasionally had visual and auditory hallucinations. 10 were two active gangs in the area, the graveyard crip gang and the santa monica 17th street gang. was familiar with the graveyard crip gang after having investigated 20 to 25 crimes committed by graveyard crip members or involving a graveyard crip member as the victim. he had also reviewed police reports prepared by other officers who had investigated crimes involving the graveyard crip gang. officer lozano regularly patrolled the graveyard crip gang territory, and made daily contact with gang members occurred on the 1900 block of 18th street and the 1900 block of 19th street, as well as the alley between them. graveyard crip gang members also frequently patronized gang called themselves graveyard gansymbol, and gygc graffiti could be seen in the neighborhood. hand signals forming a g, a y, and a c were also used. the gang was established in the mid-2008, it had 10 to 15 members. officer lozano testified that the graveyard crip gang sold narcotics such as pcp, cocaine, and marijuana, in order to finance the purchase of firearms. in addition to weapon, robbery, burglary, witness intimidation, murder, and attempted murder. its members committed such crimes anywhere, but mainly in their own territory. officer lozano had previously investigated and arrested suspected graveyard crip gang member asjah ainslie boldware (boldware). a certified court document showing violation of section 12021, subdivision (a)(1) was admitted. officer lozano was also acquainted with self-admitted graveyard crip member kendrick jaron dove (dove). possession of a controlled substance in violation of health and safety code section 11351. 11 officer lozano also knew hurtado, who had personally admitted to the officer that he was a member of the graveyard crip gang. officer lozano had numerous contacts with hurtado, had arrested him, and investigated crimes in which hurtado was involved. other graveyard crip gang members identified hurtado as a member of the gang and noted that the c in his moniker, c-walk, stood for crip. in addition, other police officers had confirmed that hurtado was a member of the gang and that c-walk was his moniker. based on his contacts and the information provided, officer lozano gave his opinion that hurtado was a member of the graveyard crip gang. coleman admitted to officer lozano in 2007 that he was an active member of the graveyard crip gang and that his moniker was lucky. in june 2009, officer lozano came into contact with coleman, when coleman was with paul and another graveyard august 3, 2010, depicting hurtado with other gang members, including boldware and -- graveyard crip gang. officer lozano testified that although he was not personally acquainted with samuel murphy, he had reviewed relevant documents and had spoken about him with other officers, residents of the neighborhood, and currently active ard crip members referred to him as an og and as someone they admired. officer lozano explained that in african-american gang culture, an og was an older member who had been around for a ommitting many crimes. beating at the request or at the direction of a senior member of the gang and this beating r his opinion, whether such a crime benefitted the gang or was committed in association with a gang. officer lozano testified to his opinion that such a beating benefitted the gang because 12 beatings or killings showed the citizens of the community that gang members were willing to kill, which intimidated them and caused them to be too frightened to call the police. officer lozano added that it also instilled fear and intimidation in rival gangs in (younger members) at the request of an og, the beating was committed at the direction of the gang, because youngsters aspired to be like the og and would be willing to commit the crime to impress the og and bolster their reputations by demonstrating a willingness to commit violent crimes. 3. defense evidence the defense called the investigating officer in this case, detective maury sumlin, who was involved in witness relocations during the first week of trial. detective sumlin authenticated a memorandum from the city of santa monica which showed that on march 3, 2010, a check in the amount of $1,500 was issued to rossel, and later cashed. page two of the memorandum reflected that on august 24, 2010, an additional $2,300 check was authorized and generated for rossel. detective sumlin testified that relocation expenses were justified by evidence of witness intimidation and that the service was offered to witnesses who were fearful of retaliation and thus might not otherwise testify. testified that he found brumfield unconscious and bleeding on the sidewalk when he arrived home shortly before 11:00 p.m. on may 11, 2008. after unsuccessfully trying to flag down a patrol officer, michael went into his residence and asked his mother, sandra tolbert (tolbert), to call 911. tolbert went outside with the telephone and paul followed. michael also testified that the two gangs in the area were the graveyard crip gang and the santa monica 17th street gang, but claimed that the graveyard crip gang no longer had active members, although there was still sporadic gang activity in the neighborhood. michael did not know whether coleman was a member of the graveyard crip gang, but believed that the only association coleman or paul had with the gang was 13 to have gone to school with its members, as had anyone who lived in santa monica, including michael.5 approximately 9:00 p.m. on may 11, 2008, in the alley behind her home, when she went out to ask paul to come inside. paul was in the alley with coleman, his daughter, and his mother. paul then came inside and watched television with tolbert and did not leave the house until after michael came home between 10:30 and 11:00 p.m. and he was questioned by police. defense investigator thomas maeweather, a retired los angeles police department captain, testified that when he interviewed simpson on august 20, 2010, simpson told maeweather that he had been in jail with coleman, and that they had gone to court at the same time. about three months after simpson was released, he saw coleman with hurtado and four others. simpson and coleman fought, and when simpson fell to the ground, hurtado came and both continued to assault simpson, including by pulling off his jacket. simpson told maeweather that hurtado pretended to have a gun and threatened to shoot simpson, before ordering him to take off his shoes. simpson removed his shoes and fled. coleman apologized a week later. simpson said nothing to maeweather about a wallet. 4. rebuttal detective william heric clarified that he arrived at the crime scene moments after the 911 call, at approximately 11:48 p.m., and did not see paul during the 45 minutes he was there. detective heric spoke to michael and tolbert at the scene, and michael denied knowing the victim. michael did not say he had searched for a patrol car, but did tell detective heric that he had found the victim at 11:40 p.m. 5 at the time of trial, michael was 31 years old, a teacher and a professional basketball player. 14 discussion murphy contends that conspiracy is not a valid theory of criminal liability under california law and thus cannot be the basis of his murder conviction.6 murphy argues that the trial court erred by instructing the jury that he could be found guilty of murder if it found that he conspired to commit the assault on brumfield which resulted in his death as the natural and probable consequence of the assault. directly commit the act constituting the offense, or aid and abet in its commission, or, not being present, have in re hardy (2007) 41 cal.4th 977, 1025-1029, citing  31; see also people v. kauffman (1907) 152 cal. 331, 334.) further, as murphy also concedes, the california supreme court first applied the rule of natural and probable consequences to a conspirator in 1907 in people v. kauffman, at page 334, and continues that rule today. (in re hardy, at pp. 1025-1026.) carrying out the common purpose, i.e., all acts within the reasonable and probable ibid.) instead declare it inconsistent with section 31 and contrary to law. we must decline auto equity sales, inc. v. superior court (1962) 57 cal.2d 450, 455.) as respondent notes, in addition to adhering to supreme court authority, another appellate court has rejected identical arguments on the merits. (see people v. mohamed (2011) 201 cal.app.4th 515, 523-525 6 murphy does not challenge his conviction of count 2, conspiracy in violation of section 182, subdivision (a)(1). 15 (mohamed).)7 we agree with the mohamed (id. at p. 524.) a. substantial evidence hurtado contends that the evidence was insufficient to support his conviction. review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidence -- that is, evidence which is reasonable, credible, and of solid value -- such that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a people v. johnson (1980) 26 cal.3d 557, 578; see also jackson v. virginia (1979) 443 u.s. 307, 318-319.) we must presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably deduce from the evidence. (people v. kraft (2000) 23 cal.4th 978, 1053the same standard applies when the ibid.) we do not reweigh the evidence or resolve conflicts in the evidence. (people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181.) people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 331.) hurtado has based his contention on a summary of the evidence in the light least coleman as related by simpson and rossel, and by considering other evidence from whicimplicating him must be disregarded as unreliable because the prosecution witnesses reasonable 7 we note that murphy does not mention mohamed although the opinion was published four months before murphy filed his opening brief in this case. (see mohamed, supra, 201 cal.app.4th 515.) 16 value, nonetheless it is the exclusive province of the . . . jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts on which that determination depends. [citation.] thus, if the verdict is supported by substantial evidence, we must accord due people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206.) indeed, we do not reject testimony believed by the jury unless it was physically people v. ennis (2010) 190 cal.app.4th 721, 725; see also people v. young, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 1181.) hurtado does not contend that the testimony was impossible or inherently improbable. upon reviewing all the evidence in the light most favorable to the judgment, we conclude that substantial evidence supported the verdicts against hurtado. about one week before the beating, murphy told virjine that samuel murphy had some boys who were going to retaliate against brumfield for his disrespect toward murphy. a few days samuel murphy was a graveyard crip og, admired by younger members of the gang, who were willing to commit crimes requested by an og in order to impress him and elevate their reputations within the gang. the jury could observe that hurtado and coleman were both younger members of the graveyard crip gang.8 about 10 days t he hurtado, who conferred there in a huddle with coleman and paul. about 20 minutes later, as rossel sat in his front yard, hurtado went past him to the alley, where he 8 according to the probation reports, coleman was 28 years old at the time of trial murphy was 66 at the time of trial. 17 remained out of sight for several minutes. coleman and paul arrived moments after found unconscious without any identification. mpson heard coleman admit that he and hurtado had beaten brumfield and that hurtado had hit brumfield in the head with a stick or pipe. we conclude from this evidence and the inferences that may reasonably be drawn therefrom that a rational jury could have found, beyond a reasonable doubt, hurtado guilty of murder and conspiracy to assault brumfield. (see people v. johnson, supra, 26 cal.3d at p. 576.) b. joinder incorporateopening brief. hurtado adds a claim of prejudice peculiar to him as a result of the errors sthe testimony of witnesses given immunity, leniency, or other benefit. we defer i a. exclusion of impeachment evidence coleman contends that the trial court abused its discretion by excluding two types evidence regarding three uncharged narcotics offenses in july 2009. coleman contends that the exclusion of this evidence resulted in a denial of due process as guaranteed by the united states constitution by preventing him from mounting a complete defense. as a result, coleman argues 18 charges. 1. standard of review people v. clark (2011) 52 exclude id. at p. 932.) the party who claims that the trial court abused its discretion bears the burden to reasoned judgment and guided by legal principles and policies appropriate to the people v. superior court (alvarez) (1997) 14 cal.4th 968, 977.) it is not enough to argue that reasonable people could disagree with the trial court. (people v. preyer (1985) 164 cal.app.3d 568, 573.) nor is it sufficient to present facts which would merely support a different opinion. (people v. stewart (1985) 171 cal.app.3d 59, 65.) people v. dement (2011) 53 cal.4th 1, 52, quoting people v. hall (1986) 41 cal.3d 826, 834.) to establish a constitutional violation, the defendant must show that the impeachment evidence people v. dement, at p. 52.) as coleman did not make a constitutional argument below, we do not reach his due process claim unless and until he establishes error under state law. (people v. thornton (2007) 41 cal.4th 391, 443-444; people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 435-439.) 19 2. conduct impeachment to two 2007 felony convictions, one for selling or transporting narcotics in violation of health and safety code section 11352, and the other for assault with a deadly weapon in violation of section 245, subdivision (a)(1). the prosecution sought to exclude five other convictions: two felony convictions in 1988 and 1989 for selling or transporting narcotics; a 1989 felony conviction of possession of narcotics for sale; a 2007 misdemeanor conviction of being under the influence of a narcotic (committed in 2004); and misdemeanor spousal abuse in 1994. the trial court found the 1988 and 1989 felonies to be remote, and apparently agreed with the prosecution that the 2007 conviction of being under the influence of a narcotic was not a crime of moral turpitude. while coleman did not claim that the offense was a crime of moral turpitude, he argued that it demonstrated ongoing criminality because it was committed in 2004, within 10 years of the misdemeanor spousal abuse conviction. the court permitted impeachment with the two 2007 felony convictions. as respondent notes, a trial court may act within its discretion by disallowing impeachment with convictions that are more than 20 years old. (people v. clair (1992) 2 cal.4th 629, 654.) it is not unreasonable to exclude remote convictions, particularly when other impeachment evidence is admitted, as it was here. (see people v. dement, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 52.) coleman counters that the 1988 and 1989 convictions were not really remote because the 2004 offense showed that simthat in such a circumstance less weight may be given to the older convictions, but they are not rendered inadmissible. coleman relies on authority that addresses the admissibility of prior convictions as aggravating circumstances in sentencing. (see people v. catlin (2001) 26 cal.4th 81, 172; people v. gaston (1999) 74 cal.app.4th 310, 321.) 20 admissible or inadmissible. we agree that the convictions were admissible, subject to the people v. clark, supra, irrational or arbitrary. (see people v. superior court (alvarez), supra, 14 cal.4th at p. 977.) we conclude that he has not made that showing. der convictions were not remote because a 2004 offense value of the proffered evidence against the time in which it would take to make the presentation and concluded in fpeople v. clair, supra, 2 cal.4th at p. 656, fn. 3.) 3. uncharged misconduct and promise of leniency coleman contends that the trial court unduly limited evidence relating to not make clear what evidence was excluded. after coleman sought leave to present evidence of the three narcotics transactions, the trial court ruled that defendants would be make clear just what evidence was erroneously excluded, coleman suggests that his cross-examination was cut short. coleman contends that the trial court prohibited him he trial court ruled that defendants would be permitted to ask whether simpson was on probation and whether he was under arrest or felt free to leave at the time he was brought to the police station in october 2009. the court explained that if the responses did not suggest exploitation of the narcotics charges by detective henry, the defense would not be permitted to consume additional time attempting to develop its impeachment theory that 21 promises of leniency were made to simpson. the court did not rule that simpson could not be asked whether the police made promises of leniency. indeed, as coleman concedes, the prosecution asked simpson whether he had been promised leniency. it was ruling. although simpson was initially evasive regarding his narcotics cases and was reluctant to answer when asked whether any promises were made, he did acknowledge that officers confronted him with information about narcotics sales and told him that if he with the prosecutor during the lunch recess, simpson admitted that he had been evasive, and told the court that he had been surprised by questions about his narcotics case. further, detective henry acknowledged that he told simpson the narcotics officers had a him any information simpson had about the murder case. cross-examination was not curtailed. the defense was freely permitted to elicit cooperation. simpson confirmed that on jpurchase crack cocaine. simpson admitted that the narcotics detectives told him that they had audio recordings of the purchases, and that he then wrote out a statement. simpson admitted that he knew when he was interviewed that he was on probation for narcotics sales and for assault and that a probation violation could result in an 18-year prison term. testimony concerning a condition of his probation that required him to cooperate with police officers. simpson and detective henry, and coleman has failed to demonstrate what cross-examination was curtailed or what evidence of an express or implied promise of leniency to simpson coleman was prevented from presenting. 22 4. prejudice we agree with respondent that had the trial court erred, any such error would be found harmless under any test for prejudice. (see chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 [beyond a reasonable doubt]; people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 (watson) [no reasonable probability].) a. no prejudice to coleman criminal behavior and the credibility was well impeached: he admitted lying under oath; he admitted that he had three drug charges pending; he was arrested on those charges, handcuffed when brought to the station, and told that the evidence against him was strong; and detective henry admitted that he told simpson it would be to his advantage to share his information about argue extensively that simpson was a coleman contends that prejudice is demonstrated by the prosecutomistaken. the prosecutor argued truthfully that simpson had testified that as far as he knew the narcotics arrests were still hovering over his head. furthermention of the issue came in her rebuttal argument, in response to the closing argument still viable.9 moreover, as respondent points out, even without si 9 well, hello. he was on probation for two felonies . . . . he knew he was looking at [17] be out there. they could still be charges. he never even got booked. three sales, the 23 coleman, hurtado, and paul at the liquor store shortly before the beating as well as r. virjine heard holloway overheard samuel murphy conspire with coleman to beat brumfield. samuel murphy was an older, respected member of the graveyard crip gang, and coleman had admitted to law enforcement that he was an active member of that gang. the jury could observe that coleman was a young man10 and consider that fact together with the gang t crimes at the direction of an og to impress the older member and bolster their reputations within the gang. given the strength of the evidence and the effectiveness of the impeachment allowed by the trial court, it appears beyond a reasonable doubt that the absence of any additional impeachment evidence did not contribute to the verdict, and was thus harmless under any standard. (see chapman v. california, supra, 386 u.s. at p. 24; watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836.) b. hurtado hurtado contends that he too suffered prejudice from the alleged limitation on the only evidence against there was no other evidence against him, hurtado argues that the statements made by murphy and samuel murphy must be disregarded because they did not directly implicate him, and that his admission that he burnt the wallet did not imply guilt because there was first, hurtado is mistaken. although there was no direct evidence that a wallet was taken from brumfield, he was found with no identification. indeed the hospital 10 see footnote 8, ante. 24 those who beat brumfield, including hurtado. second, hurtado fails to support his arguments with citation to any authority. in particular, he does not cite authority for a harmless error review that would require disregarding all evidence that does not directly implicate the defendant. in fact, any harmless error review requires an examination of the entire record, including all the evidence. (see cal. const., art. vi,  13; people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 174; watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836.) substantial evidence was based primarily on evidence other than simpbrumfield. based upon this evidence and the effectiveness of the impeachment allowed by the trial court, it appears beyond a reasonable doubt that the absence of any additional impeachment evidence did not contribute to the verdict, and was thus harmless under any standard. (see chapman v. california, supra, 386 u.s. at p. 24; watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836.) b. delayed discovery coleman contends that the brady (see brady v. maryland (1963) 373 u.s. 83, 87 (brady);  1054.1.) in particular, coleman contends that the prosecution failed to disclose the following evidence: (1) from giving information to detective henry in august 2008; (2) the statement overheard 25 by walters in which brumfield told samuel murphy that if samuel murphy harmed him, he would call the police; and (3) witness relocation payments.11 1. no brady violation in general, a prosecutor must disclose favorable and material evidence to the defendant. (brady, supra, 373 u.s. at p. 87.) the obligation to disclose exists regardless of whether the defendant has made a specific request for the evidence. (strickler v. greene (1999) 527 u.s. 263, 280.) a brady violation is composed of three elements: (1) the evidence must have been suppressed; (2) the suppressed evidence must have been favorable; and (3) it must have been material. (strickler v. greene, supra, at pp. 281-282.) no brady violation occurs if the evidence is disclosed at trial. (people v. verdugo (2010) 50 cal.4th 263, 281 (verdugo).) such evidence is not considered suppressed, even when it was not presented in discovery. (ibid.) none of the challenged evidence was suppressed in this case. indeed, coleman concedes that the allegedly undisclosed information was disclosed during trial. there was no brady violation. (see verdugo, at p. 281.) 2. no prejudicial discovery violations coleman also contends that the delay in providing the categories of evidence enumerated above was a violation of the california discovery statutes. attorney or if the prosecuting attorney knows it to be in the possession of the 11 in his opening brief, coleman also complained that a recorded interview of loffered into evidence, she did not testify, and coleman did not object or suggest any rono further. 26 of witnesses or reports of the statements of witnesses whom the prosecutor intends to call ubds. (e), (f).) the material must be disclosed at least 30 days before trial or immediately, if learned within 30 days of trial, unless good cause is shown why a disclosure should be denied, restricted, the individual prosecutor is presumed to have knowledge of in re brown (1998) 17 cal.4th 873, 879.) (people v. ayala (2000) 23 cal.4th 225, 299.) as the appellant, coleman bears the of discretion. (kennedy v. superior court (2006) 145 cal.app.4th 359, 366, 377-378.) his first task on appeal is to establish the violation.12 further, burden to show that the failure to timely comply with any discovery order is prejudicial, people v. jenkins (2000) 22 to the harmless error standard set forth in [watsonverdugo, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 280.) coleman contends that section 1054.7 was violated when the prosecution failed to immediatelythe 2007 assault by coleman and hurtado during a midtrial lunchtime interview, and began her examination in the afternoon without first disclosing the information. the trial court found a discovery violation, offered a continuance, ordered the prosecutor to turn over her notes of her interview with simpson, and postponed -examination. although defense counsel did not accept the offer of a 12 coleman apparently begins with the assumption that the enumerated items of evidence fit within the categories set forth in section 1054.1, as he quotes the statute but offers no further analysis on that point. 27 defense counsel had the opportunity to do whatever investigation was needed. the layed for more than one week, during which all defense counsel and investigators had the opportunity to interview simpson. of discretion, that the one-week continuance did not cure the harm, or even that any harm -examination began. (see generally people v. jenkins, supra, 22 cal.4th at p. 905.) coleman mistakenly asserts that the trial court imposed no sanction at all for any of the alleged discovery burden to establish either an abuse of discretion or prejudice. the day before the prosecutor called walters to testify, she learned he had overheard the conversation between samuel murphy and brumfield in which brumfield said he would call the police if samuel murphy harmed him. the prosecutor gave the defense a summary of the new information first thing the following morning, just before of the discovery violations, but makes no specific argument about the incident. indeed, coleman does not describe in what manner he believes the trial court abused its discretion or what prejudice he suffered due to the allegedly late discovery of this information. we need not address perfunctory assertions made without supporting argument. (people v. smith (2003) 30 cal.4th 581, 616, fn. 8.) testimony, and coleman did not join in the objection. after counsel for samuel murphy typed and she would provide copies to the defense as soon as it was finished. she further offered to make walters available immediately for an interview, and called a different 28 testimony. n or motion forfeits the issue on appeal, unless such joinder would have been futile. (people v. wilson (2008) 44 tly turned over as promised. coleman has not suggested that his joinder in the objection would have been futile, or that some special harm to coleman was not avoided by the actions taken by the prosecutor. coleman has thus not only failed to develop the issue sufficiently, he has failed to preserve it for review. c. witness relocation funds coleman contends that he was surprised midtrial by evidence that witnesses were paid relocation expenses. when coleman objected, the trial court ordered the prosecutor to find and provide all information regarding witness relocation and funds paid. the -examine detective henry extensively regarding relocation expenses paid to rossel and holloway. additional extensive cross-examination was permitted the day after the relocation information was provided. coleman requested no sanctions. as with the other alleged discovery violations, coleman makes no attempt to show deprived him of adequate time and opportunity to prepare to impeach important have given him any advantage or benefit; nor has he demonstrated a reasonable probability that without the delays, coleman would have attained a more favorable result at trial. (see watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836.) 29 as there is no reasonable probability under such circumstances that earlier discovery of such evidence would have benefitted coleman or altered the trial result, any delay disclosure was harmless. (see verdugo, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 285.) c. pinpoint jury instructions coleman contends that the trial court erred in rejecting five of the six pinpoint jury instructions he proffered, and that the error resulted in a violation of his due process rights under the united states constitution. coleman argues that the instructions were necessary to his defense given the promises made to holloway, implied promises made to relocation. 1. standard of review people v. wharton (1991) 53 cal.3d 522, 570.) he acknowledges that the trial court is required to give only those pinpoint instructions that are correctly phrased. (see people v. saille (1991) 54 cal.3d 1103, 1119; people v. wharton, supra, at p. 570.) however, as we ach proffered instruction, coleman appears to contend that the trial court was required to give the requested pinpoint instructions solely because they were predicated upon defense theories. ed by the defendant if it incorrectly states the law, is argumentative, duplicative, or potentially confusing people v. moon [w]hat is pinpointed is not specific evidence as such, but the theory people v. wright (1988) 45 cal.3d 1126, 1137.) an improper pinpoint instruction is one that implies certain conclusions from specified evidence. (ibid.) in general, instructional error is reviewed de novo. (see people v. posey (2004) 32 cal.4th 193, 218; people v. alvarez (1996) 14 cal.4th 155, 217.) 30 2. informant instructions coleman proposed two alternative instructions regarding informants. the first instructed in essence that the testimony of an in-custody informant should be viewed with caution and close scrutiny. the first pinpoint instruction tracks the language of section 1127a which the trial -custody inf-witness, accomplice, or coconspirator whose testimony is based upon statements made by the defendant while both the defendant and the informant are held within a correctional witnesses. coleman suggests that simpson and holloway were in-custody informants, because they were in custody and gave information about statements made by defendants. however, the information they gave did not concern statements made by coleman while simpson and coleman were in custody or while holloway and samuel murphy were in riding in a car. the instruction was therefore properly refused. (people v. bivert (2011) 52 cal.4th 96, 120-121.) else for money, or to escape punishment for his or her own misdeeds or crimes, or for other personal reason or advantage, must be examined and weighed by the jury with greater care than the testimony of a witness who is not so motivated. the jury must affected by self-interest, or by the agreement he or she has with the government, or his or her own interest in the outcome of 31 this alternate informant instruction directs the jury to examine and weigh inprovides evidence against someone else for money, or to escape punishment for his or her instruction was duplicative of pattern instructions. as simpson and holloway were not in custody, the trial court properly instructed the jury with calcrim no. 358, to unless the people v. mckinnon (2011) 52 cal.4th 610, 679.) further, as coleman acknowledges, the trial court read calcrim no. 226, which provides factors to evaluate the credibility of witnesses. one such factor is w -with-language and that special credibility instructions were required because the evidence showed that the witnesses expected and obtained a benefit in exchange for testimony favoring the prosecution. we disagree. a trial court properly denies a pinpoint instruction that duplicates a pattpeople v. bacon (2010) 50 cal.4th 1082, provides evidence against someone else for money, or to escape punishment for his or her interpretation of the impeachment evidence, and is thus argumentative. as such, it was properly refused. (see people v. bonilla (2007) 41 cal.4th 313, 330.) coleman also requested the following instruction on evaluating informant testimony: informant, you should consider the believability of the informant as well as other factors, including, but not limited to, any of the following: 32 eward; should consider that testimony with more caution than that of ordinary erly refused for the same reasons as the others. it is duplicative of calcrim nos. 226 and 358, incorporates the argumentative definition of informant, and eliminates the 13 factors suggested in calcrim no. 226 for evaluating credibility. instead, colemafour factors: falsity in other testimony; immunity; leniency or hoped for benefit; and any have them draw from the police interviews of simpson and holloway and the relocation expenses paid to rossel. it was properly denied. (see people v. mincey (1992) 2 cal.4th 408, 437.) 3. immunity instruction coleman contends the trial court erred in reftestimony of a witness who provides evidence against a defendant for immunity from coleman makes no attempt to provide any individualized argument in relation to this instruction. we need not address perfunctory assertions made without supporting argument. (people v. smith, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 616, fn. 8.) moreover, as the instruction was not supported by any evidence of immunity, it was properly rejected. (see people v. moon, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 30.) 4. fear instruction coleman proposed the following instruction regarding the evaluation of fearful witnesses: you conclude that the witness was afraid you may consider this fact solely on the issue of his or her credibility. you are not to consider it for any 33 other purpose. [] there is no evidence that the defendant was in any at the again, coleman makes no argument to support his contention or even explain why he believes the trial court erred in refusing the instruction. thus, it need not be addressed. (see people v. smith, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 616, fn. 8.) moreover, it is duplicative and argumentative, as the trial court added the following language to calcrim no. 226 and read it to the jury: testify in fear of retaliation if they did testify. such evidence, if believed, may be considered by you only in evaluating the believability of the particular witness and for no other purpose. you may not conclude from this evidence that any of the defendants is a person of bad character or that ault by coleman and hurtado resulting in his fear of testifying, the trial court admonished the jury: might be crelate to his testimony or fear of retaliation for testimony or other things. hing puts him in danger and so forth, you can consider his statement for that purpose but not for the truth of what he these instructions given by the trial court covered, in a neutral manner, all of the other than the argumentative statement that no evidence that the defendant was in any manner responsible for the (see people v. moon, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 30.) 34 5. neither coleman nor hurtado suffered prejudice as we have found no error, there is no need to address prejudice. nevertheless, as respondent notes, the failure to give pinpoint instructions is generally evaluated for prejudice under the standard of watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at page 836, and no prejudice results where the rejected pinpoint instructions were covered in other instructions given by the court. (see people v. earp (1999) 20 cal.4th 826, 887.) as calcrim nos. 358 and 226, as modified, adequately instructed on the legal principles contained in the proposed instructions, it is not reasonably probable that the jury would have come to any different conclusion had the trial court given the requested duplicative instructions. (see watson, supra, at p. 836.) d. gang evidence coleman contends that the evidence was insufficient to support a gang finding and sentence enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1), which provides in a felony committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to a gang enhancement finding is reviewed under the same substantial evidence standard as any other conviction. (people v. ochoa (2009) 179 cal.app.4th 650, 657 (ochoa).) enhancement, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidence -- that is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value -- from which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] we presume every fact in support of the judgment the trier of fact could have reasonably deduced from the reversal of the judgment is not warranted simply because the circumstances might also people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 59-60 (albillar).) 35 benefit (people v. morales (2003) 112 cal.app.4th 1176, 1198 (morales).) the gang enhancement finding has two prongs: (1) the crime was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang; and (2) the crime was committed with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang members. (people v. villalobos (2006) 145 cal.app.4th 310, 322 (villalobos); see albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at pp. 67-t prong of the statute, not in the second prong requiring a specific intent. (people v. leon (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 149, 162 (leon).) specific intent to promote, further or assist gang members in the commission of the crime -- the second prong of the statute -- may be established with substantial members of a gang . . . albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 68; see also villalobos, supra, 145 cal.app.4th at p. 322; morales, supra, 112 cal.app.4th at p. 1198.) coleman does not contend that the prosecution failed to prove that he and hurtado were gang members or that he and hurtado committed the crime together. there was also ample evidence from which the jury could reasonably infer that coleman and hurtado knew they were fellow gang members when they jointly assaulted brumfield. officer lozano testified that the graveyard crip gang territory was a fairly small area between olympic and pico boulevards, consisting mostly of the 1900 block of 18th street, the 1900 block of 19th street, and the alley between them. detective henry testified that the neighborhood was rossel had been close to his cousin hurtado all his life, and he knew coleman very well. he also testified that coleman and hurtado were both graveyard crip gang members, coleman most certainly knew that hurtado was a gang member and hurtado most 36 certainly knew that coleman was a gang member. thus the specific intent prong of the statute was satisfied. (see albillar, supra, at p. 68.) relying on the interpretation of section 186.22 in two federal cases, briceno v. scribner (9th cir. 2009) 555 f.3d 1069, and garcia v. carey (9th cir. 2005) 395 f.3d 1099, coleman contends that proof of the second prong failed for the additional reason that there was no evidence of a specific intent to promote or further some other criminal activity of the gang. that interpretation was repudiated by the california supreme court in albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at pages 65 to 66, in which our high court explained that th the specific intent to promote, further, or assist a gang; the statute requires only the specific intent to promote, further, or assist criminal conduct by gang membersalbillar, at p. 67.) we are bound by the albillar interpretation. (auto equity sales, inc. v. superior court, supra, 57 cal.2d at p. 455.) in what appears to be a challenge to the evidence supporting the first prong of the statute, coleman also contends that the evidence was insufficient to establish any motive on his part to benefit the gang. it was not necessary to establish a motive to benefit to the gang. because the first prong is worded in the disjunctive, a gang enhancement may be imposed without evidence of any benefit to the gang so long as the crime was committed in association with or at the direction of another gang member. (leon, supra, 161 cal.app.4th at p. 162.) thus the first prong may be established with substantial evidence that two or more gang members committed the crime together, unless there is evidence that morales, supra, 112 cal.app.4th at p. 1198; see also leon, at p. 162.) coleman contends that the assault was unrelated to the gang and the motive was ousy of and hatred for brumfield. coleman points out that murphy was not shown to be a member of the gang, and he readily admitted his personal desire to have brumfield beaten. coleman contends that we must assume that samuel murphy was not a gang member, because the jurors were unable to 37 reach a verdict with regard to samuel murphy.13 people v. superior court (sparks) (2010) 48 cal.4th 1, 5.) morales, supra, 112 would not necessarily follow that coleman and hurtado did not harbor a gang motive. brumfield by asking a younger gang member to assault brumfield. officer lozano opined that such a request amounted to direction by the gang, because younger members aspired to be like the og and would be willing to commit the crime to impress him and bolster their reputations within the gang. further, when such a crime is committed within g citizens of the community to be too frightened to call the police when they engaged in criminal activities, by intimidating coleman seeks a comparison with the facts of several cases in whiopinion was not sufficiently supported by the evidence. (see ochoa, supra, 179 cal.app.4th at pp. 654-655 [expert opinion was speculative; no evidence the crime was committed in gang territory or with special gang permission]; people v. albarran (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 214, 227 [circumstances did not suggest any gang connection]; in re frank s. (2006) 141 cal.app.4th 1192, 1195-weak inferences]; people v. ramon (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 843, 851-853 [evidence of 13 coleman relies on dictum in pulido v. chrones (9th cir. 2007) 487 f.3d 669 (pulido), in which the ninth circuit court of appeals made a similar assumption for purposes of its discussion of instructional error. as respondent notes: the federal appeals court cited no authority and attempted no analysis; its decision in pulido was vacated and reversed by the united states supreme court in hedgpeth v. pulido (2008) 555 u.s. 57, 62; and the supreme court has held that collateral estoppel or issue preclusion cannot be failure to reach a verdict. (yeager v. u.s. (2009) 557 u.s. 110, 121 38 two gang members in a stolen car found insufficient to support expert opinion as possession of stolen vehicles was not shown to be a primary activity of the gang].) showed the assault was committed in gang territory by two members of the gang at the request of an older, respected member of the gang; one of them used a stick, bat, or pipe; de e. confidential juror records coleman contends that the trial court abused its discretion in denying his petition to unseal juror contact information. code of civil procedure section 237 provides that juror identification information may be unsealed after the verdict in a criminal trial only upon application establishing good cause. (code civ. proc.,  237, subds. (a)(2), (b).) we review for abuse of discretion the trial insufficient to make a prima facie showing of good cause. (townsel v. superior court (1999) 20 cal.4th 1084, 1096; people v. carrasco (2008) 163 cal.app.4th 978, 991.) was arbitrary or capricious. (people v. santos (2007) 147 cal.app.4th 965, 978.) receipt of the following email sent by the prosecutor after the verdict: by telephone. the juror explained to me that as to samuel murphy, the jury was hung 11 to 1 for guilt. the one juror who voted not guilty for samuel murphy initially voted not guilty for defendants coleman and hurtado as well. the juror explained to me that this juror appeared to have some sort of bias which the juror would not discuss, and was fairly quiet during deliberations. when the other jurors attempted to inquire as whether there other jurors as to the guilt of coleman and hurtado, but would not be 39 juroagreement that if the juror change her/his vote of not guilty regarding [coleman] and [hurtado], the other jurors would then state they were hopelessly deadlock [sic] regarding co-hurtado joined in the petition. coleman contends that the trial court considered only the effect of disclosure upon to balance that consideration with the the petition after finding that coleman had not shown good cause to disclose juror information, as he presented no evidencspeculation on the part of the reporting juror. to demonstrate good cause for the release of juror identification information pursuant to code of civil procedure section 237, subdivision (b), a defendant musforth a sufficient showing to support a reasonable belief that jury misconduct occurred, that diligent efforts were made to contact the jurors through other means, and that further investigation is necessary to provide the court with adequate information to rule on a townsel v. superior court, supra, 20 cal.4th at pp. 1093-1094, quoting people v. rhodes (1989) 212 cal.app.3d 541, 552.) a petition to disclose juror identification information must be supported by more than mere people v. rhodes, at p. 552.) use for disclosure of juror information. defense counsel merely speculated that misconduct may have occurred, and admitted that to develop evidence of misconduct, the juror would have to be questioned regarding his or her thoughts and reasoning processes. exceptions, evidence that the internal thought processes of one or more jurors were biased statements made, or conduct, conditions, or events occurring, either within 40 or without the jury room, of such a character as is likely to have influenced the verdict mental processes by (in re hamilton (1999) 20 cal.4th 273, 294; evid. code,  1150, subd. (a).) coleman has suggested no exceptions to the above rule and has in effect admitted to requesting an opportunity to investigate in the hopes of obtaining inadmissible evidence. we thus find no abuse of discretion. the petition was properly denied. (see people v. rhodes, supra, 212 cal.app.3d at p. 552.) f. no cumulative effect coleman argues that the cumulative effect of all the errors heretofore discussed was to deny him a fair trpeople v. sapp (2003) 31 cal.4th 240, 316.) iv. the abstracts of judgment the trial court awarded victim restitution, payable jointly and severally by all defendants. as none of the abstracts of judgment reflects a joint and several order, coleman asks that we direct the trial court to issue amended abstracts for all three defendants. (see people v. neely (2009) 176 cal.app.4th 787, 800.) respondent has no objection. respondent asks that we also modify the judgments to include a parole revocation fine of $5,000, the same amount as the restitution fine which the court did impose, as required by section 1202.45. (see people v. smith (2001) 24 cal.4th 849, 851.) murphy and hurtado did not reply, and coleman agrees to the modification so long as the judgment reflects that the fine is stayed as provided in the statute. (see  1202.45 [the judgments as requested and direct the trial court to issue amended abstracts of judgment. 41 disposition the judgment against each defendant is modified to impose a parole revocation restitution fine of $5,000, which is suspended unless parole is revoked. the superior court is directed to prepare an amended abstract of judgment for each defendant reflecting this modification as well as refrestitution as the joint and several liability of all defendants. the superior court is further directed to forward the amended abstracts to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. as so modified, and in all other respects, the judgments are affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. ____________________________, j. chavez we concur: ____________________________, p. j. boren ____________________________, j. ashmann-gerst 