filed 2/24/12 p. v. miller ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. robin miller, defendant and appellant. b229662 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na081509) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, tomson t. ong, judge. affirmed. joy a. maulitz, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and corey j. robins, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant robin miller appeals from the judgment entered following his conviction by jury of attempted murder, with findings that he used a knife during the commission of the offense and personally inflicted great bodily injury upon the victim. (pen. code,  664/187; 12022, subd. (b); 12022.7, subd. (a).)1 he was sentenced to 13 years in prison. his sole contention is that the trial court abused its discretion by imposing the upper term sentence for the attempted murder. we affirm. statement of facts2 on the night of march 21, 2009, vincent mcleod was at the springbok bar & grill with his fiance and friends, including his best man for the upcoming wedding, gurjit samra. at approximately 10:30 p.m., mcleod prepared to leave and walked to the noticed a man walking in the area of the restaurant, but paid little attention to him. as he and mcleod continued to converse, sashoulder. samra assumed the man, who appeared homeless, was going to ask for directions or money. without speaking a word, the man swung his arm and struck mcleod in the neck. mcleod felt a sharp pain, looked behind him, and saw defendant.3 mcleod felt blood coming out of his neck. he put his hand on the wound to put pressure on it and ran back into the bar. while inside, he removed his hand, causing blood to gush from the wound. a nurse got mcleod to lie on the ground. she recognized that wound until paramedics arrived. 1 in a bifurcated proceeding, the jury found defendant was sane during the commission of the crime. 2 as defendant does not challenge the sufficiency of the evidence, we set forth an abbreviated version of the facts. 3 3 samra repeated the question walked away. defendant was apprehended by police a short distance away. a swiss army knife was found in his right front pants pocket. defendant told the officer who detained him that he had stabbed someone. at the station, defendant admitted to a second officer that he stabbed a man in the neck and wanted to kill him. when asked why he stabbed the some ascertain whether he suffered from mental illness. defendant denied that he did. mcleod spent seven days in the hospital, undergoing surgery to repair his carotid artery and a jugular vein. as a result of the attack, mcleod has limited range of motion. discussion defendant to the low term for the attempted murder. with the enhancements, the resulting sentence would be nine years. counsel acknowledged there were two aggravating factors, the infliction of great bodily injury and the use of a weapon, but argued defendant was not subject to additional time for those factors because of the alleged enhancements. counsel argued substantial evidence demonstrated that although defendant was legally sane at the time he stabbed the victim, he suffered from mental illness. the attorney contended there were four mitigating factors: (1) the crime was 4 the crime; (3) defendant had an insignificant criminal record; and (4) but for his statutory ineligibility for probation, he would be granted probation. the prosecutor also submitted a sentencing memorandum. she asserted the upper term for the attempted murder was appropriate, citing three circumstances in aggravation: (1) the victim suffered great bodily injury; (2) defendant used a knife during the commission of the crime; and (3) the victim was vulnerable. she conceded that defendant had admitted wrongdoing at an early stage. at the sentencing hearing, mcleod addressed the court. he said that due to the injuries suffered in the attack, he was unable to pursue his professional goal of being a attack had changed their lives forever, and noted her husband would never be able to pursue his dreams. defendant expressed remorse for his actions, which he characterized as a product of his mental illness. callousness and cruelty and viciousness, and under 4.421 of the defendant attacked the victim from behind and without warning, the court found the victim vulnerable, determining that to be a second aggravating factor. the court stated: . . that this warrants defendant contends the court abused its discretion by imposing the upper term and crime was callous, cruel, and vicious and that the victim was vulnerable. instead, mitigating defendant alleges that by failing to consider the ramifications of his mental illness, the court did not properly consider the offender as well as the offense. moreover, he urges, 5 mental illness was a mitigating factor. citing people v. scott (1994) 9 cal.4th 331, 353, the attorney general contends term. we disagree. by filing a sentencing memorandum, defendant clearly set forth his argument that a sentence less than the upper term for attempted murder was appropriate. in imposing the upper term, the court did not consider any factor not discussed by the parties. thus, no further objection was necessary to preserve the issue for purposes of appeal. (see people v. downey (2000) 82 cal.app.4th 899, 909, fn. 4.) (people v. sandoval (2007) 41 cal.4th 825, 847.) tmanner that is not arbitrary and capricious, that is consistent with the letter and spirit of ibid.) sentence other than the upper term. the problem with his position is that it ignores the circumstances of the offense. the vicious nature of the attack could very well have of his professional goal. in addition, because defendant perpetrated the assault by approaching the victim from behind and striking without warning, the trial court properly determined the victim was vulnerable. the trial court considered the circumstances of the offense and the offender and concluded the former justified the imposition of the upper term. although we recognize that reasonable people might disagree with the sentence imposed, an appellate court is not authorized to substitute its judgment for that of the trial court. (people v. carmony (2004) 33 cibid.) 6 ry, reversal is not warranted. aside the sentence only if it is reasonably probable that the trial court would have chosen a lesser sentence had it known people v. price (1991) 1 cal.4th 324, 492, superseded by statute on other grounds as stated in people v. hinks (1997) 58 cal.app.4th 1157, 1161-1165.) here, as we have noted, in imposing sentence the trial condition at the time of the commission of the crime. it is not reasonably probable that the court would have imposed a lesser sentence had it known it was improper to consider disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports suzukawa, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. manella, j. 