filed 5/15/12 p. v. olivas ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. joadanus jerome olivas, defendant and appellant. b229301 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta108118) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, arthur m. lew, judge. affirmed as modified. meredith j. watts, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii and j. michael lehmann, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 with regard to a may 29, 2009 gang-related shooting, defendant joadanus jerome olivas was charged with five counts of attempted murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a), 664; counts 1-5)1 and two counts of shooting at an inhabited dwelling ( 246; counts 6-7). the jury found defendant guilty on all seven counts and also found true the allegations that he: (1) inflicted great bodily injury on the victims in count 1 (antoin vercher) and count 2 (willie brown) within the meaning of section 12022.7, subdivision (a); (2) personally used a firearm in counts 1 and 2 within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b), (c), and (d); (3) personally used a firearm in counts 3, 4, and 5 within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (c); and (4) committed all seven counts for the benefit of a criminal street gang within the meaning of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c). in this appeal from the judgment, wf evidentiary error and insufficient evidence, but modify the sentence as to the firearm enhancement for each of counts 3, 4, and 5.2 1 unless otherwise indicated, all further statutory references are to the penal code. the attempted murders in counts 1 through 5 were not alleged to be willful, premeditated, and deliberate. 2 defendant, who was 16 years old on the date of the crimes, received a state prison sentence of 44 years to life. on count 1, the base term, the court imposed a term of 44 years to life, consisting of the upper term of nine years for attempted murder ( 187, subd. (a), 664, subd. (a)), 10 years for the gang allegation ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)), and 25 years to life for the gun allegation ( 12022.53, subd. (d) [personal use of a firearm causing great bodily injury]). the court imposed an additional term of three years for the great bodily injury allegation ( 12022.7, subd. (a)), which was stayed pursuant to section 654. on count 2, which was identical to count 1, defendant received a concurrent term of 44 years to life. on each of counts 3 through 5, defendant received a concurrent term of 39 years to life, but the trial court misspoke in imposing the life term. it correctly imposed the upper term of nine years for attempted murder ( 187, subd. (a), 664, subd. (a)) and 10 years for the gang allegation ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)), but misspoke in imposing 20 years to life for the firearm enhancement, which should be 20 years ( 12022.53, subd. (c)). the abstract of judgment, which erroneously refers to subdivision (d) of section 12022.53, must be corrected to reflect a 20-year firearm enhancement for each of counts 3 through 5 3 background on may 24, 29, and 30, 2009, there were three shootings within the same part of compton between the members of campanella park piru bloods (campanella bloods) and of the tragniew park crips (tragniew crips). this case concerns the second shooting, on may 29, for which defendant, who belongs to the campanella bloods, was charged with five counts of attempted murder (counts 1-5) and two counts of shooting at department, was that defendant committed the may 29 shooting for the benefit of the campanella bloods in retaliation for the earlier may 24 shooting by the tragniew crips.3 defendant contends on appeal that: (1) his trial was rendered unfair by the admission of irrelevant and unduly prejudicial evidence of other crimes, namely, the first shooting on may 24 and the third shooting on may 30; and (2) the evidence was insufficient to support his identification as the shooter in the second incident on may 29. i. the three gang-related shootings the -related shootings included the following: the first shooting. on may 24, 2009, a gang-related shooting that resulted in a murder occurred on the southeast corner of rosecrans and central avenue, which is in under section 12022.53, subdivision (c). with those corrections, the concurrent term for each of counts 3 through 5 is 39 years. on each of counts 6 and 7, the court imposed a concurrent term of 17 years, consisting of the upper term of seven years for shooting at an inhabited dwelling ( 246) and 10 years for the gang allegation ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)), which was stayed pursuant to section 654. 3 defendant challenges the sufficiency of the evidence to support his identification as the shooter, but does not otherwise challenge the sufficiency of the evidence to support the true findings on the firearm and gang enhancements. 4 the area claimed by the campanella bloods. the suspected shooter, who was not defendant, belonged to the tragniew crips. the murder victim, who was not a gang member, had relatives who are known members of the campanella bloods. the second shooting (this case). on may 29, 2009, the shooting in this case occurred at approximately 9:30 p.m. on caswell street, which is in the area claimed by the tragniew crips and is near the scene of the first shooting. five people (the victims in counts 1-5) were standing in front of a house associated with the tragniew crips when a thunderb the third shooting. on may 30, 2009, a third shooting occurred at approximately 10:20 p.m. on maie avenue and 151st street, which is also in the same area claimed by the tragniew crips. the shooter and his companion fled from the scene after crashing and abandoning a black 1994 thunderbird. a pair of manicure scissors was found inside the abandoned thunderbird. ii. the evidence linking defendant and the abandoned thunderbird to the second shooting on may 29 the primary issue at trial concerned the identification of defendant as the shooter in the second shooting on may 29. the prosecution relied on circumstantial evidence of defendant during a photographic lineup. the shell casingsthe casings and determined that they were fired from the same weapon, an ak-47 semi-automatic rifle. the weapon was never recovered. the stolen thunderbird. the black thunderbird that was crashed and abandoned by the assailants at the scene of the third shooting was identified as a stolen vehicle. the thunderbird was taken from the carport of an apartment on compton boulevard on 5 may 29, the night of the second shooting. based on evidence that the second and third shootings were committed with the same weapon on consecutive days and in the same vicinity by a suspect in a dark thunderbird, the prosecution argued that it was reasonable to infer that the stolen thunderbird was used in both the second and third shootings. defendant confronted the owner of the stolen thunderbird on may 30. on may 30, two members of the campanella bloods confronted corvetta morris, the owner of the stolen thunderbird, in the carport where the car was stolen on may 29. during a photographic lineup, morris identified defendant as one of the two men who had confronted her in the carport. morris provided detective arias with the following information: on may 29 at approximately 7:00 p.m., morris parked her thunderbird in the 9:00 p.m., she heard the sound of a vehicle starting in the carport, but did not realize until the following afternoon that her thunderbird had been stolen. on may 30, morris and her brother were waiting in the carport for the police to arrive to take her stolen vehicle report. as they were waiting, they were approached by complexion and tattoos on his face, was carrying a pair of manicure scissors and a gun. told them that she was having a bad day. she stated that she had just had her baby the day before and that somebody had stolen her car and she was not having a gothe fact that her car had been stolen. and at that point, the second individual, the taller, immediately started walking away from her and her brother . . . while rris also provided a 6 and myself. while talking to us, he showed us his gun/scissors. basically they were defendant was arrested for auto burglary. at about midnight on june 7, 2009, deputy sergio jimenez was patrolling the area near 13625 stanford avenue in compton chest was close to the steering wheel, his torso was tilted to the right, and his hands were ray) was standing next to it. defendant saw the patrol car, got out of the vehicle, and ducked behind the van with ray as if to hide. the deputy ordered the men to come closer. defendant dropped a screwdriver and ray dropped a pair of scissors, which are common burglary tools for jumping the ignition of a car or prying open a window. after and ascertained that the men did not have permission to enter it. defendant was arrested for auto burglary. as depicted in his arrest photograph, defendant is photo of defendant displaying a gang color (red) and hand signal of the campanella bloods. th a victim identified photographs of defendant and the stolen thunderbird. detective arias interviewed marvin kelly, the victim in count 3 of this case, on june 3 thunderbird with a shiny metal plate that ran along the side of the bottom portion of the bird that was abandoned during the may 30 shooting. in his second interview, kelly identified defendant during a photographic lineup on, kelly was shown a photograph of the stolen thunderbird, which he identified as the vehicle used by the shooter in this case. 7 defendant matched the physical description of the shooter. detective arias testified that defendant matched the physical descriptions of the shooter that were provided by several of the may 29 victims. none of the witnesses identified defendant in court,4 which detective arias explained was not unusual in gang-related cases. antoin vercher, the victim in count 1 of this case, gave a description in court of a black male observing defendant in the courtroom, vercher testified that defendant and the shooter were similar in height. vercher was shown a photograph of the stolen thunderbird and he was shot. discussion i. the first shooting was relevant to establish motive and intent in this case 4 morris testified that she did not remember the face of the man whose photograph she had selected during the photographic lineup. when morris was shown a photograph person with a gun and scissomorris denied that she was afraid because the man had shown her a gun and yelled out the name of a gang. she also denied telling detective arias that two men in the courtroom lived down the stree . . similarly, kelly did not identify defendant in court. kelly acknowledged that he drew a cihe was afraid to identify the person in the photograph. detective arias explained that victims of gang violence are often afraid to testify to testify and that kelly, as an associate and suspected member of the tragniew crips, was reluctant to be identified as a snitch. 8 with regard to the first shooting on may 24, defendant contends that: (1) the shooting not be identified as a murderd the first contention assumes that the trial court prohibited the use of the word murder with respect to the first shooting. however, no such prohibition was in effect inquirywas not an exclusionary ruling. ultimately, only three facts were excluded from scholarship to usc; and (3) the name of the louisiana fried chicken outlet where the victim was shot.5 in all other respects, the court stated, in its entiretyevidentiary support for the assumption that the prosecution was barred from referring to the first shooting as a murder. accordingly, we need not discuss the contention of prosecutorial misconduct, which, assuming it was preserved for appellate review, is unsupported by the record. uld have been excluded as irrelevant. in determining that the first shooting was relevant, the second shooting was a retaliatory shooting in a gang war. when viewed within the broader context of a possible gang war, it is clear that both the earlier shooting and committing the charged offenses. 5 the trial court statedas a gang war going on]. but i think 9 vidence of gang membership is often relevant to, and admissible regarding, including evidence of enterprises, rivalries, and the likecan help prove identity, motive, modus operandi, specific intent, means of applying force or fear, or other issues pertinent to guilt of the people v. hernandez (2004) 33 cal.4th 1040, 1049.) moreover, because defendant was charged with gang enhancement allegations, evidence of gang-related activity was admissible during the case-in-section 186.22 suggests the street gang enhancement should receive special treatment of the kind given prior convictions. (see also  190.1, subds. (a), (b), 190.2, subd. (a)(2), (22) [requiring the truth of a prior murder conviction special circumstance be tried only after the guilt determination, but other special circumstances, including a gang special circumstance like the gang enhancement of this case, be determined at the same time as people v. hernandez, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 1049.) having determined that the first shooting was relevant to the determination of the charges and gang enhancements in this case, we turn to the remaining issue of undue prejudice. people v. ayala (2000) 24 cal.4th 243, 282.) we have examined the record and find that the trial court acted within its considerable discretion in admitting a sanitized version of the first shooting. in order to prevent the jury from possibly identifying the first shooting as the highly-publicized killing of a scholarship student football player at a louisiana fried name of the restaurant. and to avoid any inference that defendant was involved in the first shooting, the trial court advised the jury that he was not a suspect and detective unrelated added.) in addition, the trial court gave the following limiting instruction regarding 10 limited purpose of deciding whether: [] the defendant acted with the intent, purpose, and knowledge that are required to prove the gang-related crime[s] [and] enhancement[s] charged; [] or [] the defendant had a motive to commit the crime[s] charged. [] you may also consider this evidence when you evaluate the credibility or believability of a witness and when you consider the facts and information relied on by an expert witness in reaching his or her opinion. [] you may not consider this evidence for any other purpose. you may not conclude from this evidence that the defendant is a person of bad character or that he has a disposition t because the jury is presumed to have followed the limiting instruction (people v. delgado (1993) 5 cal.4th 312, 331) and because the trial court excluded facts that might possibly have allowed the jury to identify the first shooting as the murder of a promising young athlete at a louisiana fried chicken outlet, we conclude that the evidence was not subject to exclusion under evidence code section 352. ii. defendant contends that the third shooting on may 30 was irrelevant to this case and, even if relevant, should have been excluded under evidence code section 352 as more prejudicial than probative. we disagree. during an apparent evidence code section 402 hearing, the prosecutor informed the trial court and defense counsel of his intention to introduce the third shooting in order . . crashed the shell casings from the scenes of the second and third shootings were analyzed and found to have been fired from the same weapon. the prosecutor stated that he had no direct evidence linking defendant to the third shooting. in response, defense counsbeyond that about a murder that occurred and the car fled the murder and the car crashed, w that is relevant to these charges, particularly when there is no 11 [identification] of anybody involved in that murder or this car crash that relates to my prejudicia was fleeing the scene of a pursuant to a stipulation by the parties, the jury wa. . . responded to a shooting at the scene of 151st street and maie avenue . . . in compton, california. and at that scene, the deputy recovered four 7.62 by 39-millimeter the jury was not informed that the third shooting involved a murder. sion of limited evidence of the may 30 shooting, which was given in the form of a stipulation of counsel, any objection based on relevance was forfeited. in any event, the may 30 s that were recovered from the third shootingincluding the shell casings, manicure scissors, and stolen vehicleto the offenses charged in this case. finally, we conclude that the trial court did not abuse its discretion by rejecting prejudicial than probative. to the extent that the evidence recovered from the third shooting tended to incriminate defendant in an uncharged crime, the evidence was highly evidence was properly admitted. (evid. code,  1101, subd. (b) [evidence of other rove some fact (such as motive, opportunity, intent, preparation, 12 plan, knowledge, identity, absence of mistake or accident . . .) other than his . . . iii. defendant contends that the evidence was insufficient to support his identification as the shooter. we conclude there was substantial evidence from which to identify defendant. determine prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime jackson v. virginia (1979) 443 u.s. 307, 319, original italics; people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 34; people v. johnson (1980) 26 cal.3d 557, 578 . . . circumstantial evidence, we must decide whether the circumstances reasonably justify those fipeople v. proctor (1992) 4 cal.4th 499, 528-people v. earp (1999) 20 cal.4th 826, 887-888.) shooter during a photographic lineup. (see evid. code,  411 [generally, direct evidence of one witness is sufficient for proof of any fact].) although kelly disavowed his identification of defendant at trial, the evidence showed that he lived in a neighborhood of actively warring gangs and, as a suspected gang member, he would be reluctant to be . . that the reason for [his] failure to make a positive identification at trial was simply that in the interim he had become reluctant to testify against this defendantpeople v. ford (1981) 30 cal.3d 209, 215.) 13 physical description of the shooter; (2) on the day after the second shooting, he accosted morris in the carport where her thunderbird had been stolen and showed her a gun and a pair of manicure scissors and identified himself as a member of the campanella bloods; (3) when he was arrested for auto burglary, he demonstrated his knowledge of the use of manicure scissors to jump the ignition of a car; (4) the shell casings from the third shooting and the stolen thunderbird used in the third shooting were linked to the second shooting; and (5) based on the above evidence, it was reasonable to infer that defendant had stolen the thunderbird in order to commit the second shooting in retaliation for the first shooting. disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed. on each of counts 3, 4, and 5, the life term is stricken from the firearm enhancement, which is modified to 20 years under subdivision (c) of section 12022.53. the clerk of the superior court is directed to prepare 14 a corrected abstract of judgment and to forward a copy to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published in the official reports suzukawa, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. manella, j. 