filed 4/24/12 p. v. young ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. isaiah young, defendant and appellant. b229846 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba360441) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. leslie a. swain, judge. affirmed. william hassler, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and michael j. wise, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________________________ 2 a jury convicted isaiah young, an african-american, of attempted second degree robbery of vincente hernandez, a hispanic. on appeal young contends the trial court erred in finding that he failed to establish a prima facie case that the prosecutor peremptorily challenged an african-american juror on the basis of his race. (people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258; batson v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 79 [90 l.ed.2d 69, 106 s.ct. 1712].) he further contends the court erred in admitting evidence of a set of brass knuckles found in his possession shortly after the attempted robbery and in denying his motion for a mistrial based on prosecutorial misconduct.1 we find no merit to these contentions and affirm the judgment. facts and proceedings below a. vicente hernandez waited for a bus just after midnight at the corner of vermont avenue and venice boulevard. hernandez saw a van drive by, make a u-turn, and pull into the strip mall behind the bus stop. two men got out of the van. one of the men behind his back. hernandez testified that he believed he had been struck by bare hands. still later hernandez testified that it felt like the person who struck him had something metal in his hands. hernandez testified that the person behind him held his hands with one of his his other hand. the person who did this 1 we codefendant, kent morrison (people v. morrison (2011) 199 cal.app.4th 158, 163-165), in which we held that the trial court did not err in admitting testimony to impeach morriso 3 person searching him ran toward the van while the other person remained at the corner. the van drove out of the parking lot. a passerby offered to give hernandez a ride to follow the van and hernandez accepted. as they pursued the van, hernandez called 911 and gave a description of the van and the last three numbers of its license plate. a police officer in a patrol car spotted a van that met the description given by hernandez. after the van ran through two stop signs, the officer ordered it to stop. the officer detained morrison, who was the driver, and two male passengers including young. when hernandez arrived at the scene, he identified all three men as the ones who had been involved in trying to rob him. other officers arrived at the scene to assist in the arrest and to search the men and the van. in searching young, officer larry oliande saw that young was wearing a belt that that he was brass knuckles were shown to the jury and admitted into evidence. at trial, hernandez testified that the van the police stopped was the same van the - b. wheeler/batson motion the prosecutor used a second peremptory challenge to excuse juror no. 7430, an african-american man, leaving just one other african-american on the panel.2 young immediately moved for a mistrial under the wheeler and batson decisions which prohibit a party from striking jurors based on group bias. in a sidebar conference, had served on two other juries, that he otherwise seemed to be a fit juror.3 he indicated 2 the record does not show whether this remaining african-american served on the trial jury. 3 4 he was a prior explorer [scout] and he had no bad feelings about any of the hung jury experiences -did not ask the prosecutor to explain her strike and she did not volunteer a reason. the chall c. the verdict and sentence a jury found young guilty of one count of attempted second degree robbery. the court sentenced him to a total prison term of seven years, eight months. young filed a timely appeal. discussion i. of the wheeler/batson motion the use of peremptory challenges to remove prospective jurors solely on the basis of group bias, predicated on their membership in a racial or other type of cognizable group, constitutes a violation of the right under the california constitution to a jury selected from a representative cross-section of the community (people v. wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d at p. 272), and of the right under the united states constitution to equal protection of the law. (batson v. kentucky, supra, 476 u.s. at p. 89.) the party claiming a wheeler/batson violation must make a prima facie showing that a peremptory challenge has been exercised on the basis of race, ethnicity or other group bias. if that showing is made, the burden of producing evidence shifts to the party who made the peremptory challenge to offer a neutral basis for it. if that showing is made, it is up to the trial court to determine whether the objecting party has proven purposeful discrimination. (people v. hamilton (2009) 45 cal.4th 863, 898.) here, young did not get past the first step of his wheeler/batson motionthe showing of a prima facie case of group bias. nds. first, the -americans in the jury venire. second, juror no. 7430, a former boy scout, was a married businessman from 5 santa monica and there was nothing in his background that would support a legitimate peremptory challenge, leaving racial bias as the only possible motive. although young did not mention it, it would have been clear to the court that young and the challenged easoning nor offer any reason of her own for excluding the juror. the trial court denied the motion on the ase of group bias cannot be based solely on the striking of one or two minority jurors. (people v. garcia (2011) 52 wheeler motion, the issue is not whether there is a pattern of systematic exclusion; rather, the issue is (people v. avila (2006) 38 cal.4th 491, 549.) because the prosecutor did not offer even a post-ruling reason for excluding juror no. 743people v. farnam (2002) 28 on two juries that could not reach a verdict. even though he stated he was in the majority in both cases, his service in two trials that resulted in hung juries constitutes a race-neutral reason which could have led the prosecutor to excuse him. (id. at p. 138 disclosure that she previously served in a case that resulted in a hung jury challenge].) ii. the court did not err in admitting evidence of the brass knuckles young objected to the introduction of evidence of the brass knuckles on the grounds that there was no evidence whoever struck hernandez on the back of the head introduction of this evidence was unduly prejudicial. the court found the brass knuckles 6 man who struck him and that their introduction into evidence was not unduly prejudicial under evidence code section 352. we agree. the case. they linked young to the attempted robbery. hernandez testified that the cution did not claim have had access to the brass knuckles because he and young were riding in the van for abuse of discretion. (people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158,1195.) young argues the introduction of the brass knuckles was unduly prejudicial because the jurors would look on them as evidence of his dangerousness. the evidence was relevant to connect the assailants to the crime. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in weighing the probative value of that evidence against its prejudice and admitting the brass knuckles. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. rothschild, acting p. j. we concur: chaney, j. johnson, j. 