filed 4/26/12 p. v. smith ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. marvin gaye smith, defendant and appellant. b229724 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya075936) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, vincent okamoto, judge. affirmed. melissa j. kim, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and tannaz kouhpainezhad, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________________ 2 appellant marvin gaye smith was convicted of being a felon in possession of a firearm and ammunition. on appeal, he contends substantial evidence did not support his intent to possess the gun or establish that it fit the statutory definition of -- possession of a short-barreled shotgun -- the jury returned logically inconsistent verdicts, requiring reversal. we affirm. factual and procedural background a. information in a four-count amended information, appellant marvin gaye smith was charged in count one with possession of a short-barreled shotgun (pen. code,  12020, subd. (a)(1))1; in count two with possession of a firearm by a felon ( 12021, subd. (a)(1)); in count three with possession of a controlled substance (health & saf. code,  11377, subd. (a)); and in count four with possession of ammunition by a felon ( 12316, subd. (b)(1)). b. evidence at trial 1. prosecution evidence logrecco and sergeant loy luna, were at a federal express location in hawthorne monitoring parcels. detective logrecco was a member drugs or drug money being shipped through package delivery services such as federal express and the united postal service. a suspicious package containing 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 2 detective logrecco confiscated the package, and along with sergeant luna and other deputies and pacnet team members, took it to the address on the label.3 dressed as a federal express employee, detective logrecco approached appellant, who was standing between the main house and a smaller back house located at that address, and asked him if he was marvin smith and if he was expecting a package. appellant ansthe deputies identified themselves and appellant agreed to talk to them inside the back house, a studio with a separate bathroom. appellant led the deputies into the house. he denied having any weapons or being on probation or parole. during discussions inside the house, appellant asked for his cell phone. detective logrecco handed him a phone and wallet lying on a desk; appellant said he wanted the phone on the bed. detective logrecco did not see a phone until, at shotgun rounds.4 appellant then admitted there was a shotgun on the bed under the pillow. appellant said he had found the shotgun a few days earlier on a curb 2 deputy logrecco identified the package as suspicious because the airbill was handwritten, there were no telephone numbers for the sender or recipient, the sender paid in cash, it was shipped with overnight delivery instructions, and it came from tennessee, a state where drugs are often shipped by parcel delivery. 3 when the the federal express package was searched, the deputies found two magazines containing $2,760 in 20 dollar bills between the pages. 4 described as having primer, powder and pellets in one cartridge. he stated that when the primer at the bottom of the cartridge was struck, the powder provided the force needed to shoot the pellets out. the shells were put into evidence. 4 by a nearby house. asked why he had denied having a weapon, appellant said he thought the deputies were referring to handguns. premises located at 2929 west 78th street. the deputies searched and uncovered a number of items in the house, including four boxes of live shotgun shells, an empty ion form containing 5 appellant denied dealing prescription drugs, but stated that he had a friend, a frequent visitor whose name he would not provide, who did. appellant denied that the friend lived at the house, stating that he lived alone. the shotgun was shown to the jury and entered into evidence. detective logrecco testified that he was familiar with shotguns because he used them to shoot skeet and traps. according to his testimony, the shotgun found in the house utilized a pump action and had a pistol grip. the barrel had been shortened after 25 inches when the shotgun was assembled. when the shotgun was disassembled, the barrel measured 17 inches.6 detective logrecco ascertained that the shotgun was in working order by dry-firing it. he heard and felt the firing pin click. he further ascertained that the pump action, which ejects a spent shell and loads a new one, was working. he stated that the shotgun was capable of firing the rounds found in the house. 5 appellant initially admitted and then denied the planner was his. 6 a short-designed or redesigned to fire a fixed shotgun shell and has a barrel or barrels of less than 5 detective logrecco expressed the opinion that the shotgun was likely used for be held along the cheek for purposes of aiming and the shortened barrel meant the shot would expand before reaching a clay pigeon or hunted animal. the prosecution presented evidence that appellant had sustained prior felony convictions for robbery and fraud. 2. defense case calvin turner testified that he had lived at 2929 west 78th street earlier in the year, from march to may 2009. he stored his belongings there for a month or two afterward. among the stored items was property he inherited from his deceased mother and grandfather, which included the shotgun. he stated that he left the shotgun wrapped up in clothing under the pillow on the bed.7 michael daniels, the owner of the property located at 2929 west 78th street, testified that he had been renting the back house to appellant for some time, and that after the main house burned in 2009, he agreed to allow appellant to sublet the back house. daniels did not spend much time at the property, but would occasionally see the sublettor, whom he did not identify. daniels believed appellant lived nearby with his girlfriend. c. the verdict and sentence the jury found appellant guilty of possession of a firearm and possession of ammunition and not guilty of the other two offenses. the jury found true that 7 asked on cross-examination, turner was unable to describe the shotgun other than its pistol grip. 6 appellant had suffered a prior conviction of a serious or violent felony. appellant was sentenced to a total term of four years and eight months. discussion appellant contends the evidence presented at trial was insufficient to support his conviction of count two, possession of a firearm in violation of former section 12021, subdivision (a)(1).8 in this regard, appellant first contends the prosecution did not light of the defense evidence that someone other than appellant had lived in the house or stored belongings there. appellant further contends that the prosecution failed to establpossession of a short-barreled shotgun, indicates a logically inconsistent verdict and juror confusion and requires reversal of the guilty verdict on count two. we not inconsistent. a. knowledge element . . and who owns, purchases, receives, or has in his or her possession or under his or her custody or 12021 are conviction of a felony and ownership, possession, custody or control of 8 appellant was charged in count two under former section 12021, subdivision (a)(1), which has been recodified, effective january 1, 2012, as section 29800, subdivision (a)(1), with no substantive changes. 7 people v. jeffers people v. kim (2011) 193 mplicit in the crime of possession of a firearm is that a person is aware both that the item is in his or her possession and that it is a ibidthrough misfortune or accident, but who has no intent to exercise control or to have ibid.) to support his contention that no evidence supported his knowledge of the presence of the shotgun inside the house or his intent to possess or control it, appellant relies exclusively on the defense evidence indicating that appellant sublet the house to turner, who claimed ownership of the shotgun and testified to having placed it under the pillow on the bed. hdeputies provided substantial evidence to support that he possessed and/or exercised control over the shotgun. after the deputies spotted the shells on the bed, appellant told them the shotgun was under the pillow. when the deputies found the shotgun, appellant admitted bringing it into the house, claiming to have found it on a curb by a nearby house. when asked why he had not admitted to having a weapon when the deputies first inquired, he did not deny knowing of the gun, but claimed not to have considered it the type of weapon to which the deputies were referring. moreover, there was more than sufficient evidence to residing in the house. a federal express package containing a substantial sum of money was addressed to appellant at 2929 west 78th street, providing circumstantial evidence that he told the sender he lived there. appellant was first observed standing outside the house and admitted he was waiting for delivery of 8 the package. he led the deputies into the house without suggesting he did not live there or that he had no right to be inside it. his wallet and two cell phones were found inside the house, along with a number of items containing his name, including a day planner, receipts and a prescription. appellant subsequently ved alone. substantial evidence of his possession of and control over the firearm and the house where it was found. b. a weapon, from which is expelled through a barrel, a projectile by the force of any people v. monjaras (2008) 164 cal.app.4th 1432, 1435, quoting [former ]  12001, subd. (b) [now  16520, subd. guns because, instead of explosion or other combustion, they use the force of air pressure, gas pressure, or spring action to expel a projectpeople v. monjaras, supra, at p. 1435.) appellant contends the evidence did not establish that the recovered shotgun used an explosion or other form of combustion to propel the shells and suggests that it might have used air. appellant overlooks that detective logrecco testified that the rounds recovered from the house were fixed shotgun shells, which, he went on to explain, meant that they contained primer and powder that, when struck, provided the force needed to expel the pellets. he further testified that the shells 9 found in the house fit the shotgun.9 later, when testifying concerning the purpose indicating that the force of the shotgun would be sufficient to stop an adversary, something that would not have been true of a bb gun. this evidence was sufficient to establish that the shotgun at issue used an explosion or combustion to expel projectiles and therefore fit the statutory definition of firearm. c. the jury found appellant guilty of possession of a firearm, but not guilty of possession of a short-barreled shotgun. appellant contends that the elements of both were sufficiently similar that the verdicts were logically inconsistent. to a defendant charged with two offenses. an acquittal on one offense will not invalidate a verdict on a second offense, although the two verdicts are factually incpeople v. pettaway rule is based on the realization that inconsistent findings may be caused simply by id. at p. 1324; accord, people v. lopez (1982) 131 cal.app.3d 565, 571.) here, moreover, the verdicts were not inconsistent. to prove appellant guilty of possession of a short-barreled shotgun, the prosecution was required to shortnpeople v. king (2006) 38 cal.4th 617, 628.) the jury was instructed short[-- 9 we note that both the shells and the shotgun were placed into evidence for the jurors to examine. 10 ]barreled shotbarrel of the gun was 17 inches, only one inch less than the legal length. the jury length. in short, there disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports manella, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. willhite, j. 