filed 4/2/12 p. v. robles ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. raymond robles, defendant and appellant. b229761 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka087616) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. bruce f. marrs, judge. affirmed. jennifer a. mannix, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and stacy s. schwartz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________________________ 2 raymond robles was convicted of murdering richard herrera. on appeal, robles statements about the crime. appellant was recorded while conversing in jail with two appellant was not deprived of a fair trial in violation of his fifth amendment right against self-incrimination or his sixth amendment right to counsel, because this was not miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436, 444. appellant was unaware that he was speaking to law enforcement agents and voluntarily described the murder. as a result, his statements are admissible. facts on july 27, 2007, 20-year-old raymond robles attended a barbeque with friends. in the wee hours on july 28, the partygoers drove to a supermarket to buy more beer. appellant rode in a black nissan sentra driven by his long-time neighbor monica alfaro; others followed in a dodge charger. after alfaro parked and began to walk toward the parking lot. believing that there was a fight, alfaro returned to her car. alfaro was a recalcitrant witness who expressed concern about being in court, bottles breaking and a gunshot; however, during the initial police investigation, alfaro spoke reluctantly but more openly about the shooting. her statements to police were recorded and played for the jury. during her recorded police interview, alfaro told officers that she drove appellant, cesar gonzales, and tiffany to the market to buy beer. as alfaro walked toward the market, a fight broke out in the parking lot. she heard gunshots. she turned and saw with a gun pointed downhands. alfaro and tiffany returned to the car, followed by appellant, who jumped into the back seat. gonzales was still on top of the victim, hitting him. alfaro repeatedly yelled at gonzales to get in the car, then saw someone come up behind gonzales and hit 3 him with brass knuckles. gonzales finally looked at alfaro, who told him to get into the car, and he did. several independent eyewitnesses left the supermarket just when cars pulled in. about 10 people piled out and a fistfight started. they did not see who started the fight. nor did they see bottles used as weapons during the fight. one witness saw a gun pulled out and fired, but could not identify the shooter. they ran away to escape the gunfire. afterward, they saw someone lying on the ground, shot in the chest. martin jimenez went to the supermarket with his life-long best friend richard herrera, john trujillo, and samuel quintero. while jimenez and quintero waited in the car, herrera and trujillo entered the market. jimenez saw two cars pull into the lot and park nearby, a nissan sentra and a dodge charger. herrera returned from the store, got behind the wheel, and began to back out of his parking spot. as cesar gonzales, anothe market, gonzales and herrera exchanged words. trujillo heard gonzales say to neither jimenez nor trujillo saw who threw the first punch. a general melee broke out when jimenez and trujillo went to help herrera. jimenez saw the man traveling with gonzales holding a gun. by then, only gonzales and herrera were still fighting. herrera did not have any kind of weapon in his hands. jimenez called out to herrera, to warn him about the gun. jimenez ran for cover when the gunman raised the weapon with both hands and pointed it in the direction of the fight. the gunman hesitated for a few seconds, as if he did not want to shoot, but others were shouting at him to shoot. jimenez and trujillo saw fire come from the gun muzzle. at trial, jimenez and trujillo identified appellant as the shooter. jimenez asked a security guard inside the market to call 911. when jimenez returned to the parking lot, gonzales and herrera were still fighting. herrera tried to and trujillo 4 drove herrera to the hospital. when the police arrived, they found blood spatters, a bullet casing, one broken beer bottle and multiple unbroken bottles, but no people. as monica alfaro fled the scene after the shooting, appellant gave her instructions on which way to turn, saying that someone was following them. arriving back at the another participant in the fight named carlos showed alfaro that his head was bleeding because he had been hit with a bottle. the group went into the garage, and appellant told eaten up, not shot. after observing that gonzales had blood all over his shoes, alfaro went to her car and saw blood on the floor mats. gonzales directed her to discard the floor mats instead of washing them. appellant left with tiffany, and alfaro drove home, circling around the crime scene, which was surrounded by police tape. herrera died from a bullet wound to his chest. a bullet casing retrieved from the crime scene matched a hollow-from a nine-millimeter semiautomatic handgun. when interviewed by police after his arrest, appellant admitted being present at the supermarket, and admitted that there was a fight between gonzales and herrera, but denied any involvement in the shooting. appellant took the stand at trial. he recalled the barbeque with his friends, where he consumed four or five beers and some rum. they went on a beer run to the supermarket where they encountered herrera and his friends sitting in a car, drinking. as appellant approached the supermarket entrance, a scuffle broke out behind him. he turned and saw three men surrounding his friend cesar gonzales: one of them struck cesar with his fists, and another hit cesar in the head with a bottle. cesar was trying to defend himself from the attack. appellant testified that one of the attackers reached inside his car, and appellant believed he was reaching for a weapon. appellant lifted up his shirt, pulled out a gun, aimed in a downward manner, and fired one shot. the person he shot was not the one who was reaching into the car: it was the one who hit cesar with a bottle. before firing, 5 appellant did not warn anyone to stop fighting or he would shoot. the length of time between the start of the fight and his gunshot was less than a minute, appellant estimated. he only waited four or five seconds from the time he noticed the fight until he fired the shot. at the time, appellant was scared and somewhat drunk, and now wishes that he had fired a shot into the air. he states, carrying the gun to impress his friends, and is not proud of what he did. appellant is car and he and his friends drove back to the barbeque. appellant stayed at his home for a week, then went to stay with a friend in barstow. he was arrested two years later. he asked his friends monica alfaro, cesar gonzales and the others from the barbeque to lie to the police for him. he did not intend to kill anyone. for sound, and for undercover officers to be in the cell with appellant. officers miguel beltran and manny avina posed as inmate gang members and experienced criminals on july 16, 2009, while sharing a cell with appellant.1 a recording of their conversation was played for the jury. s cell, beltran was in the car with him and was involved in the fight. appellant speculated that a woman snitched on him, and opined that everyone in the car should be worried about this id not get caught. beltran 1 officer beltran has posed as an inmate in some 40 to 60 undercover operations, particularly in murder cases. sporting a shaved head and a goatee, he described himself 6 went to a barbeque with his friends. they drove to a supermarket. a fight broke out behind appellant as he walked across the parking lot, and he saw men who were drinking beer in another car breaking bottles over the heads of his friends. appellant pulled out a weapon he was carryinga nine-and fired. it happened so quickly that appellant believed that the only person who saw him shoot stimated that the incident lasted only four seconds, after which he immediately jumped into the nissan and went home with the others. herrera was the biggest of the assailants. appellant was 20 feet away from herrera when went to barstow to lay low. beltran asked more questions to find out who witnessed the crime. both avina and beltran urged appellant to retrieve the gun and throw it off a pier, to be sure it was gone. they also encouraged appellant to devise a story with gonzales about the crime. ng the gun. procedural history on november 19, 2009, appellant was charged with the murder of herrera, and three counts of assault with a firearm against jimenez, trujillo and quintero. he pleaded as that he fired one shot at herrera, while acting in self-defense. he argued that his intent was to stop the fight, not to kill anyone. on october 15, 2010, a jury found appellant guilty of second degree murder while using a firearm. he was acquitted of the assault charges. appellant sought a new 7 of 40 years to life in prison. discussion appellant moved to suppress evidence of his july 16, 2009 jail cell conversation with the two detectives posing as inmates. he maintained that admission of his statements at trial would violate his constitutional rights against self-incrimination and to counsel during police questioning. the prosecutor responded that appellant was not entitled to be advised of his rights in this setting, because (1) appellant was unaware that he was in a cell with officers so there was no coercive police interrogation, and (2) he was not charged with a crime at the time he made his admissions of guilt. the court a criminal suspect who makes incriminating statements is not entitled to miranda ct is unaware that he is speaking to a law enforcement officer illinois v. perkins (1990) 496 u.s. 292, 294 (perkins).) in perkins, an undercover officer posing as an inmate was placed in the same cellblock as the defendant, who was suspected of murder. the officer proposed that he and perkins escape from jail. while refining the escape plan, perkins described at length anybody. the officer did not give miranda warnings before having the incriminating conversation with perkins. (perkins, at pp. 294-295.) no miranda warnings are required before an undercover officer asks questions to an incarcerated suspect that may elicit an incriminating response. such statements are perkins, supramiranda forbids coercion, not mere strategic deception by trust in one he supposes to be a fellow prisoner. . . . ploys to mislead a suspect or lull him into a false sense of security that do not rise to the level of compulsion or coercion to speak are not within miranda id. at p. 297. accord: people v. williams (1988) 44 cal.3d 1127, 1141- 8 miranda . . . has never been applied to conversations between an inmate and an people v. webb (1993) 6 cal.4th 494, 526-miranda was not meant to protect suspects from boasting about their criminal activities in front of perkins, supra, 496 u.s. at p. 298.) finally, because no murder charges had been filed against perkins when he incriminated himself, his constitutional right to counsel did not attach. (id. at p. 299.) beltran and avina. appellant believed the men were inmates, and was not coerced into disclosing details about the crime when they asked what happened. appellant thought that the two were helping him to cover up the crime and devise a story to tell the police. his statements were voluntary. at the time he made the statements in july 2009, appellant had just been arrested; he was not charged with the murder until november cell about the events leading to his arrest. there is no indicationeither from the transcript or elsewherethat appellant was threatened by either beltran or avina. appellant was simply encouraged to speak, and he did. you aappellant, who could have either declined to speak or fabricated a story. instead, appellant spoke honestly in describing the fight and the shooting, offering the insight that he was only trying to shoot herrera in the leg. during his subsequent police involved in the fight and did not fire the gun. if anything, the taped conversation may or premeditated. the court looks at the totality of the circumstances surrounding an interrogation to will was overborne. (schneckloth v. bustamonte (1973) 412 u.s. 218, 226; people v. hogan (1982) 31 cal.3d 815, 841.) it is only where a 9 police subterfuge is likely to coerce a confession that a due process violation results. (colorado v. connelly (1986) 479 u.s. 157, 167; people v. mickey (1991) 54 cal.3d 612, 649-(people v. chutan (1999) 72 cal.app.4th 1276, 1280, 1282.) unreliable result that rendered his trial fundamentally unfair. the circumstances in this case were not coercive. appellant spoke will was not overborne by the deception. beyond a reasonable doubt. (chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24; people v. cahill (1993) 5 cal.4th 478, 509-510.) all of the testimony pointed to one gun and one danger when he pulled the gun and fired. herrera was unarmed. appellant did not tell detectives during his formal police interrogation that he saw anyone reaching into a car for a weapon, and feared for himself or others. there was ample evidence of guilt, even disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. boren, p.j. we concur: doi todd, j. ashmann-gerst, j. 