filed 12/17/12 p. v. garcia ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. roger jesus garcia, defendant and appellant. b229386 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba354566) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, rand s. rubin, judge. affirmed. barbara a. smith, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, assistant attorney general, lance e. winters and peggy z. huang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 roger jesus garcia appeals the judgment entered following his conviction by jury of attempted murder, two counts of attempted second degree robbery, attempted carjacking, two counts of assault with a deadly weapon, receiving stolen property and attempted extortion. (pen. code,  664/187, subd. (a), 664/211, 664/215, subd. (a), 245, subd. (a)(1), 496, subd. (a), 664/524.)1 the jury found garcia committed each offense, except receiving stolen property, for the benefit of a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)), garcia personally used a deadly weapon in the commission of attempted murder, attempted carjacking, one count of attempted robbery and both counts of assault with a deadly weapon ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)), and garcia personally inflicted great bodily injury in the commission of attempted murder, attempted carjacking, one count of assault with a deadly weapon and one count of attempted robbery (12022.7, subd. (a)). on appeal, garcia contends the trial was marked by prosecutorial and judicial misconduct which deprived him of a dispassionate consideration of the impeachment of the victims, thereby denying him due process and a fair trial. however, none of the cited instances amounts to anything more than incivility and quite nearly all of the asserted misconduct occurred at the sidebar and thus could not have affected the jury. we therefore affirm the judgment. facts and procedural background 1. . a. the incident in toberman park. on january 29, 2009, at approximately 8:00 p.m., carlos arroyo drove his friends, jose and omar garcia, lillian perez, antonio hernandez and robert ortiz in his lincoln navigator to toberman park in the city of los angeles to play basketball. arroyo parked near the gate to the basketball courts. another friend, adam buenrostro, drove separately and parked on the other side of the park. jose garcia had been to the park on numerous previous occasions to play basketball and had noticed burlington gang graffiti 1 subsequent unspecified statutory references are to the penal code. 3 in the area. when they arrived, a game was in progress on the main court so they went to another court. when the game ended, jose garcia and his friends moved to the main court to play the winners of the previous game. garcia, who had been standing next to the fence drinking with several other people, approached jose garcia and robert ortiz and asked where they were from, which they interpreted as a gang question. jose garcia responded they were not from anywhere and they just wanted to play basketball. gwhich jose garcia interpreted as a demand for property. omar garcia and robert ortiz k but jose garcia was able to grab it back. garcia swung the box cutter at jose garcia, causing him to step back to avoid being cut. jose garcia and his friends decided to leave. as they walked from the basketball court, buenrostro saw garcia and his friends in a when they arrived at the navigator, buenrostro realized he had left his wallet and cell phone near the basketball courts. arroyo asked a male on the other side of the fence if he could get the wallet and phone. arroyo saw a group of individuals, including closing. garcia arroyo and then dragged him from the navigator with several others, including castillo. through the suv window, jose garcia saw garcia, castillo and others beating and kicking arroyo. while arroyo was being attacked outside the suv, four other males rushed the e garcia from the vehicle. at this point there were 11 to 13 people around car, trying to break the windows and open the doors. one individual was on the roof of the suv attempting to break the moon roof. 4 jose garcia punched one of the individuals trying to pull him from the car. jose garcia eventually was able to close the door and lock it. during the attack on arroyo, garcia stabbed arroyo three times on the arm and once in the stomach. arroyo pulled himself back into the suv, saw he had been cut to the bone and started screaming. garcia and his friends pulled him from the navigator a second time, knocked him to the ground and again attacked him. arroyo was able to reenter the suv but again was pulled from it and pummeled at about the time arroyo was able to return to the vehicle the third time, and cut arroyo on the left side of the head near the eye. blood was pouring from the wound. garcia reached in and tried to take the car keys. when arroyo leaned forward, omar garcia punched garcia in the face. garcia looked at omar garcia and said, arroyo managed to start the navigator and drive away but he was near fainting. his friends took him to california hospital. on the way, perez called 911. she became excited during the call and jose garcia spoke to the dispatcher. a recording of the 911 was played for the jury. b. investigation. los angeles police officer arroyo escobar and his partner, officer anthony lanza, received a radio call regarding the incident. they went to california hospital to interview arroyo but he was in surgery. they resumed patrol and saw garcia, castillo and hernan martinez on burlington avenue, a short distance from toberman park. garcia gave escobar permission to pat him down and, in garcescobar found a box cutter that had wet stains on it. garcia also had what appeared to be blood stains on his sweatshirt and the leg of his pants. all three were transported to rampart division. 5 when the officers returned to the hospital to interview arroyo, they were advised the scene while officer lanza remained at the hospital and interviewed the other witnesses. when escobar and buenrostro c. testimony of the gang expert. los angeles police officer alfredo aguayo testified as a gang expert. the burlington locos gang has 15 to 20 members and is one of the smaller gangs in the rampart jurisdiction. garcia was not a known member of the gang prior to this incident. washington boulevard. burlington gang members congregate in the area of toberman for sale of narcotics, possession of handguns and carjackings. given a hypothetical based on the facts of this case, aguayo opined an individual who asked where others were from, claimed an area for a gang and demanded rent, would be a gang member. if this individual were not a gang member, aguayo would expect be seen as disrespect. aguayo further opined the crimes were committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang and garcia was an active member of the gang at the time of this incident. burlington loc 6 castillo is a member of the pico union district kings, a tagging crew that associates with the burlington locos gang. aguayo has researched whether any of the victims in this case are gang members and, to his knowledge, none was. 2. . companions. after the argument ended, arroyo and his friends walked to the navigator and entered the vehicle. arroyo then exited, spoke to someone at the fence and yelled something at garcia who was on the other side of the park. garcia started walking toward arroyo and three or four people followed him. a fight ensued on the far side of castillo testified in his own defense. he has known garcia for over five years and has heard garcia was a gang member before castillo knew him. castillo noticed jose garcia, omar garcia and arroyo arguing with the players who lost the first game. castillo recalls one of them was in the middle of the street yelling insults at people on the court. garcia walked to the street, started arguing and someone struck him. when a fight started, castillo ran to the scene and tried to separate the combatants. 3. . garcia testified in his own defense. he was employed as a maintenance worker by the pico union housing corporation, which has corporate and maintenance offices in friends joined the burlington gang but garcia had friends in other gangs. when garcia was 15 years of age, he had the name of his girlfriend tattooed on his left shoulder. he later tried to cover it with a bnls tattoo but did not have the tattoo finished because he wanted no part of the gang. garcia denied gang membership. on the date of the incident, garcia remained in the park after work, drinking. by 8:00 p.m., he was intoxicated. garcia saw arroyo, jose garcia and omar garcia arguing on the basketball court about who would play the next game. garcia had seen all three in the park previously. garcia told th7 at the fence talking to someone. jose garcia and omar garcia yelled challenges at garcia from the street and called him a bitch. as garcia and arroyo walked toward the navigator, garcia felt a blow to the back of his head. arroyo then punched garcia in the left eye. garcia momentarily lost consciousness, then produced a box cutter he uses at work and swung it blindly in self-defense until he was pulled away. garcia denied trying head injury at the county jail and he had a black eye when he was arraigned. garcia denied that he possessed officers did not find a wallet when they searched him. garcia also denied that he told the arresting officers he was a member of the burlington locos gang and denied he told a doctor at the jail the arresting officers struck him in the back of the head. 4. rebuttal. officer lanza testified that, after he recovered the box cutter from garcia, he ad been a member of the burlington locos for eight years and he did not have a job. 2009. garcia had a hematoma on the back of his head and said he was involved in an altercation with arresting officers. 5. verdicts and sentencing. the jury convicted garcia as charged. the jury acquitted codefendant castillo of attempted carjacking and attempted robbery of arroyo, but convicted him of assault with a deadly weapon on arroyo committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang. at allocution, garcia thanked the trial court for a fair trial and requested leniency. the trial court sentenced garcia to state prison for 25 years and four months. 8 contentions garcia contends numerous instances of judicial and prosecutorial misconduct resulted in a trial filled with open hostility which deprived him of a dispassionate consideration of the evidence, especially the impeachment of the victims, thereby denying him due process and a fair trial. discussion 1. relevant principles. tribunal before a judge with no actual bias against the defendant or interest in the outcome of the case. [citations.] [] section 1044 provides that a trial court has the duty to control the trial proceedings. [citation.] when an attorney engages in improper tion to reprimand the attorney, even harshly, as the even when erroneousdo not establish a charge of judicial bias, especially when they are subject to review. [people v. guerra (2006) 37 cal.4th 1067, 1111, overruled on other grounds in people v. rundle (2008) 43 cal.4th 76, 151.) a trial court commits misconduct if it creates the impression it is denigrating the defense or otherwise allying itself with the prosecution. (people v. blacksher (2011) 52 cal.4th 769, 824.) the due process clause, neither is the mere appearance of bias sufficient. instead, based on an objective assessment of the circumstances in the particular case, there must exist people v. freeman (2010) 47 as opposed to a people v. snow (2003) 30 cal.4th 43, 78.) 9 trial with such unfairness as to render the subsequent conviction a denial of due process, people v. houston (2012) 54 cal.4th 1186, 1222.) 2. none of the incidents cited by garcia rises to the level of misconduct. any of the alleged incidents of judicial misconduct. because a timely admonition could have cured any potential prejudice, garcia has forfeited those claims. (people v. blacksher, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 825; people v. sturm (2006) 37 cal.4th 1218, 1237.) garcia claims the trial court disparaged defetoo much time. he claims the disorderly and rude trial proceedings tended to alienate the garcia, and it compromised the fairness of garcia first complains the trial court called an objection by his counsel in response to an objection interposed by counsel for codefendant castillo, not counsel for garcia, in which parties by their full names. moreover, the trial court referred to the objection as ridiculous outside the presence of the jury. thus, the remark could not have been prejudicial. (see people v. guerra, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 1112 [no judicial misconduct he presence of the jury]; accord people v. burnett (1993) 12 cal.app.4th 469, 475; people v. kagan (1968) 264 cal.app.2d 648, 662; see also people v. williams (2009) 170 cal.app.4th 587, 630 of the jury could not have prejudiced the defense].) 10 garcia further contends the trial court improperly advised defense counsel during a sidebar discussion that her questions were misleading. this incident occurred during cross-examination of jose garcia with respect to whether he knew, at the end of the 911 sought to impeach jose garcia with preliminary hearing testimony which indicated he did not know the police were coming. at the side bar, the prosecutor indicated jose garcia tion instead of changing it. the trial court also even see a lot of relevance t this admonition did not amount to judicial misconduct and fell well within the garcia next complains the trmid-trial, told the parties the case should by plea bargained. the record indicates that, outside the presence of the jury, the trial court inquired whether there was a chance of a disposition. the parties then discussed pending plea bargains. during this conference, the trial court noted an alternate juror would have to be released and complained the time proceeding, there was a risk other jurors would not be able to complete the trial. nothing in these proceedings outside the presence of the jury caused garcia prejudice. (see people v. guerra, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 1112.) garcia notes the trial court told his counsel to stop cross examination on 5:00 p.m. daily to complete the matter as expeditiously as possible. garcia contends the they would have to stay longer each day to make the trial move along conveyed the view the particulars of the testimony were unimportant. 11 at the pages cited by garcia, outside the presence of the jury, the trial court as not bringing the defendants into the courtroom in a timely manner and advised counsel it would try the case from 10:00 a.m. until 4:30 or suggested questions related to where everyone was seated in the navigator were more for nothing. you are wasting tthe trial court advised the jury of the new timetable for the trial. nothing in the trial the suggestion that counsel focus on key issues and avoid aggravating the jury cannot have prejudiced garcia. moreover, the trial court justifiably was concerned with the length of the trial, given that two jurors were excused during the course of the trial because it exceeded time estimates and a third juror would have been lost had the trial not concluded when it did. the trial court asked garcia next asserts the trial court stated at a sidebar conference the prosecutor was -was going to be like defense counsel. in fact, after the jury exited the courtroom, the prosecutor discussed the photographic evidence the people intended to use during examination of the gang expert, which previously had been addressed. during the 12 ed impeachment in an -examination of arroyo regarding whether anyone in his group made gang signs on the basketball court. tess answer the questions. these comments not only were made at the sidebar but also were well within the trial inappropriate behavior. (people v. snow, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 78;  1044.) at the end of the sidebar conference, the trial court asked defense counsel to show any photographs counsel intended to use during cross-examination to the prosecutor before they were presented to the jury. defense counsel previously had asserted the defense had no obligation to disclose impeachment evidence. garcia does not claim error garcia next contends the trial court demonstrated anti-defense bias during a sidebar conference in which the trial court told defense counsel she purposely was confusing arroyo on cross-arroyo was arguing with her. this situation arose after arroyo complained defense the evening of the incident were confusing him. at the sidebar, the trial court indicated ing what arroyo told the police but whether arroyo made a specific statement. at the close of the d outside the presence proceedings. ( 1044.) 13 garcia asserts the trial court also disparaged arroyo, saying impeachment was meaningless, given that he was not the trial court made -examination of arroyo. indicated garcia produced the box ccourt agreed arroyo had testified inconsistently as to when he first saw the box cutter and the trial court indicated defense counsel would not be foreclosed from arguing arroyo trial court for its ruling. certainly, this is not the stuff of judicial misconduct. garcia complstruck 20 times rather than to indicate he landed 20 blows and thereafter made rulings response to defenit the testimony was not unreasonable. moreover, even if the trial court was mistaken in this regard, substantially more is required to demonstrate a violation of the right to a fair trial. (people v. freeman, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 996.) garcia next complains that even witnesses butted heads with defense counsel, noting officer escobar hen -examined officer escobar with respect to who removed exchange adversely affected garcia. 14 garcia next asserts the prosecutor record indicates that, on direct examination, the prosecutor asked if officer lanza saw blood in various areas. defense counsel objected the question required a conclusion as to whether blood was on the clothing. the trial court sustained the objection and advised question and, before officer lanza responded, the prosecutor asked defense counsel to defense counsel. the prosecutor then indicated defense counsel haindicated she had been glaring at the prosecutor. the prosecutor indicated she did not appreciate the defense making light of the case. the trial court s statement prejudiced garcia. further, the trial right to a fair trial or prosecutorial misconduct appears. garcia next asserts that, in the presence of the jury, the trial court agreed defense n fact, during cross-examination evidence. the prosecutor then asked defense counsel to refrain from disclosing the names of witnesses. shortly thereafter, pineda testified he saw no physical fight on the 15 the and nothing the trial court or the prosecutor said denied garcia a fair trial. garcia next claims there was a hostile sidebar conference during which the esence of the indicates the counsel inappropriately was using the last names of the witnesses in violation of a protective objected she had only been trying to protect the identity of the witnesses. the trial court here and we talk for another five minutes. the questions are not to the point. the questions are not detailed. the questions are misleading, and counsel . . . [] . . . keeps this side bar was not hostile and, given that the jury was unaware of the content of the sidebar, nothing stated by the trial court could possibly have prejudiced garcia. proceedings. 16 garcia contends he was somehow prejudiced by a conference outside the presence of the jury during which the prosecutor declined to stipulate that only one 911 call had been placed. during the conference, defense counsel expressed outrage and asserted it , garcia prejudice. as there was no serious dispute with respect to how many 911 calls were placed, nothing in the tenor of the sidebar conference or the prosecutorstipulate suggests the trial was unfair. assuming the prosecutor did giggle, the jury was not present. consequently, garcia could not have been prejudiced. in what garcia refers to as a prime example of misconduct that must have led the jury to conclude the prosecutor hated garcia and his counsel, garcia cites the trial member of the burlington gang. garcia requested a mistrial when the prosecutor asked garcia on cross-examination if he told the police he was a gang member. at the sidebar, further cross-examination, the trial court ruled that if garcia denied admitting to the police he was a member of the burlington gang, he could be impeached with his prior inconsistent statement. because garcia took the stand and testified in his own defense, (see, e.g., harris v. new york (1971) 401 u.s. 222, 225-226 [28 l.ed.2d 1] [statements obtained in violation of miranda v. arizona (1966) 17 384 u.s. 436 [16 l.ed.2d 694] may be used to impeach a testifying defendant]; walder v. united states (1954) 347 u.s. 62, 65 [98 l.ed. 503] [evidence obtained in violation of the fourth amendment]; people v. may (1988) 44 cal.3d 309, 315 [statements obtained in violation of miranda].) thus, no improper prejudice to garcia is shown. -examination of castillo, the trial court commenced a sidebar conference by telling gar-examination of castillo. the prosecutor asked whether castillo told the police officers he had been at the park during the fight. defense comments and the giggling is so unprofessional and after the jury left the courtroom, defense counsel protested the prosecutor improperly had asked castillo whether he protested his innocence after being stopped by the police. the trial court disagreed and indicated the prosecutor asked whether castillo told the police he had been in the park. after further discussion, defense counsel asserted lack of familiarity with her professional responsibility gave defense emotiona18 been the prosecutor resumed cross-examination of castillo with respect to whether he told the police he was at the park. when castillo agreed he did not tell the police he hdefense counsel again requested a sidebar at which the prosecutor indicated castillo wrote a statement in which he said he did nothing. defense counsel noted this inform after further discussion, the trial court sustained the objection because the written the record demonstrates none of the asserted incivility occurred in the presence of proceedings. further, in the course of the colloquy, the trial court disagreed with defense acted inappropriately in the presence of the jury. the trial court observed: sidebar exchange amounts to judicial or prosecutorial misconduct. garcia contends that, during defense argument, the prosecutor objected to this incident occurred when defense 19 misconduct. asked to approach and, at the sidebar, objected there had been no evidence presented regarding the public versus the private aspects of the myspace page. thus, defense consequently, no misconduct appears. garcia garcia had no criminal record as misleading, which the trial court sustained. garcia asserts this ruling was improper, given that the only evidence before the jury with respect past 10 years. garcia claims that, because this testimony did not include the underlying nce to discuss this matter, the trial court became angry when the defense called the trial a the record reflects that, at the sidebar, defense counsel asserted the trial court had criminal convictions before the jury. the trial court ruled defense counsel could argue referencing the fact that, on redirect examination, defense counsel asked garcia whether he had been to prison in the last 10 years and he responded he had. defense counsel 20 at the next break, after the jury left the courtroom, the trial court stated: sel in this case. i go out of my way to see that the defendants have a fair trial. [] i know the fair job here. but for counsel to call this a dog and pony show, you are contemptuous of this court. you are the denigration of defense counsel appears to be nothing more than a reaction to misleading. further, because these proceedings occurred outside the presence of the jury, no prejudice to garcia appears. garcia next claims misconduct occurred during final argument when the counsel asserted it was improper for the prosecutor defense had the right tadmonished the jury that argument of counsel is not evidence. 21 that it is inappropriate to comment on matters outside the record, was well taken. thus, the prosecutor properly could refer to defense prejudice to garcia. regarding the claimed snickering and head gestures, garcia failed to make a record in the trial court reflecting this conduct. even had the record borne out the conduct attributed to the prosecutor would not have resulted in the denial of a fair trial. 3. conclusion. we have reviewed each of the claimed instances of judicial/prosecutorial al. the during sidebar conferences and thus could not have prejudice the jury. (see people v. guerra, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 1112; people v. burnett, supra, 12 cal.app.4th at p. 475.) in claiming otherwise, garcia asserts the lack of civility prevented the jury from an impassionate consideration of the impeachment evidence, which included whether s chain, whether 4 or 14 individuals attacked the suv and whether the victims did not fight back, as they told the police on the night of the incident, or whether jose garcia and omar garcia each the first issue, regarding when garcia produced the box cutter, was thoroughly necklace while holding the box cutter but each was impeached with prior testimony indicating garcia produced the box cutter after the necklace was recovered by jose garcia. nothing in the claimed instances of judicial and/or prosecutorial misconduct 22 with respect to whether there were 4 or 14 attackers, the defense was given free rein to develop this theory at trial. the defense elicited from the police officer witnesses that, at the hospital, none of the witnesses said the attackers tried to drag jose garcia from the suv or that jose garcia or omar garcia threw a punch. further, none of the witnesses mentioned 13 to 15 suspects, suspects on the roof of the suv, suspects surrounding the suv, or trying to do things to other doors and windows beside the however, the defense theory that the witnesses embellished the facts for trial by increasing the number of assailants was undercut by statements written by jose garcia and robert ortiz on the photographic lineup cards shown them at the hospital on the night of the incident. each idstarted the fight and snatched my chain. . . . [t]he same guy was the one . . . with the blade that cut up my friend [arroyo] and jumped him with about 11 to 15 others that tried to break the cacarlos arroyo in multiple areas of the body, about 15 or more suspects all rushed us and tried to pull . . . all of us out of the car, threatened us all, and asked us for all our given these written statements made on the night of the attack, any incivility tion of the defense theory of the case. finally, the fact codefendant castillo was not convicted as charged, cited by garcia as evidence the unpleasant exchanges between the prosecutor and defense counsel, and between the trial court and defense counsel, affected how jurors viewed the evidence, is more appropriately 23 discussion that occurred during the trial. taken in context, none of these incidents indicated bias or prejudice or created the impression the trial court had allied itself with biased judicial conduct [that] warrants people v. geier (2007) 41 cal.4th 555, 614, overruled on another point in melendezdiaz v. massachusetts (2009) 557 u.s. 305 [174 l.ed.2d 314]; people v. fudge (1994) 7 cal.4th 1075, 1108.) as noted in people v. guerra, supra, 37 cal.4th 1067willingness to let the entire trial pass without [a] charge of bias against the judge . . . [ci(id. at p. 1112.) indeed, the trial court issued many rulings that favored garcia. it excluded from evidence dmission of gang membership to the arresting officers, which became admissible as a prior inconsistent statement only after garcia testified. at sentencing, garcia personally thanked the trial court for affording assessment. responses to the various situations presented. none of the comments constituted judicial misconduct, discredited the defense theory of the case or created the impression the trial exasperation and unfiltered candor, the trial was protracted . . . . much time was consumed on, at best, collateral matter. questioning by counsel was imprecise, repetitious, and often obfuscating. through it all the trial court was protective of (people v. burnett, supra, 12 cal.app.4th at p. 476.) 24 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: croskey, j. aldrich, j. 