filed 5/8/12 p. v. johnson ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. kevin darnell johnson, defendant and appellant. b229931 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma048457) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. kathleen blanchard, judge. affirmed. edward h. schulman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii and kathy s. pomerantz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________ 2 introduction a jury found kevin johnson guilty of first degree murder with firearm allegations also found true. he was sentenced to a term of 50 years to life in state prison. johnson appeals, claiming insufficiency of the evidence and sentencing error. we affirm. factual and procedural summary on march 2, 2010, at 7:23 p.m., johnson called 911 and told the operator he and tting there playing around with a gunjust playing dispatcher was trying to help the gun was loaded. we johnson put chatman on the floor as the dispatcher directed and put the gun outside the front door. he brought his infant daughter and placed her on the bed. he checked whether chatman was breathing and put pressure on the gunshot wound with a towel. deputy sheriff noel witty arrived at about 7:25 p.m. in the bedroom, he saw chatman on her right side with her right arm extended above her head. johnson was ven the circumstances. deputy witty took johnson to the living room and asked what had happened. miranda rights (miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u. s. 436), and johnson continued speaking with him. johnson said chatman had argued with her grandmother earlier in the day. when she returned home, chatman and johnson argued because she thought he was cheating on 3 with their daughter asleep in a bedroom downstairs, he and chatman began drinking in their bedroom upstairs. johnson said he got his gun so he could clean it and sat down in a chair near the computer. he said he racked the slide back and forth four or five times and the gun went off. chatman was standing at the foot of the bed, on the otwas holding her abdomen. when he lifted her shirt, he said, he saw that she had been shot. he helped her to the floor and called 911. he went outside to leave the gun at the door, went back to help chatman, then went downstairs to get his daughter because he said she was crying and brought her to the upstairs bedroom. when deputy witty first saw johnson kneeling by chatman, he was not crying and had no tears in his eyes; he showed no remorse and appeared to be more concerned influence of any intoxicant. deputy witty did not see any cleaning instruments or oil ordinarily used to clean firearms in the residence. at about 12:30 a.m. on march 3, sergeant ewing and detective kinney conducted to shoot her. i was registered in his name, and he had owned it for two or three years. he said he kept it in a asked whether 4 put the baby to sleep downstairs and started relaxing in their bedroom upstairs. he said after relaxing for about 10 or 15 minutes, johnson said, he took the gun out of the closet and left it on the dresser. he said the magazine was fully loaded but there was no e were just talking and talking standing on his side of the bed and was about to sit at the computer to do her homework. she may have been trying to get to the phone. johnson just kept moving the slide back saw she was bleeding from her have ecause you 5 where paramedics treated her, and the other was found on the bed. johnson said he remembered her wearing one earring, and her ear was bleeding when he laid her down on chatman died as a result of the gunshot wound. johnson was charged with one count of murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a) [all further statutory references are to the penal code]), with firearm allegations pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) through (d). at trial, the people presented evidence of the facts summarized above. the jury s police interview. the medical examiner (vadim button. the bullet traveled through her liver, intestines, mesentery, and aorta before ending up in her fourth lumbar vertebraeback and slightly downward. chatman also had a bruise below her right ear and another bruise on the corner of her right eye. there was a laceration with a surrounding abrasion behind her right ear which opined it was caused by a blow to the side of the head with a blunt object, such as a handgun. in addition, chatman had small abrasions on the inside of her lips. based on the police investigation, it appeared johnson was sitting about eight feet, four inches away from chatman when he shot her. an expert in crime scene had to have been bent at the waist when she was shot, and the shooter had to be standing up, above the level of the entrwere consistent with having been hit with a gun. 6 sister had changed after johnson made fun of chatman because she stuttered; he was disrespectful and would tell her she was ugly. she was more talkative when johnson was not around. laughing so ronald did not take it seriously. chatman had no injuries or bruising when she saw chatman at the park the afternoon of the shooting; their conversation was upbeat and they did not argue. department) who examifeatures, was functioning properly. trajectories. the jury found johnson guilty of first degree murder and found true the three firearm allegations. the trial court sentenced johnson to state prison for a term of 50 years to life, calculated as follows: 25 years to life on count one plus a consecutive term of 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (d).1 1 johnson was also sentenced to 10 years on the enhancement under subdivision (b) of section 12022.53 and 20 years for the subdivision (c) enhancement, but sentence was stayed in these respects. 7 johnson appeals. discussion according to johnson, the evidence was insufficient as a matter of law to support deliberation. we disagree. premeditated and deliberate murder: evidence of planning, motive, and method. rom people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15, 26whether the evidence is supportive of an inference that the killing was the result of preexisting reflection and weighing of considerations rather than mere unconsidered or people v. elliot (2005) 37 cal.4th 453, 470471 [35 cal. rptr. 3d 759, 122 p.3d 968] (elliot).) these three categories are merely a framework for appellate review; they need not be present in some special combination or afforded special weight, nor are they exhaustive. (see, e.g., people v. brady (2010) 50 cal.4th 547, 562 [113 cal. rptr. 3d 458, 236 p.3d 312] (bradypeople v. booker (2011) 51 cal.4th 141, 173.) premeditation and deliberation and committed first degree murder. first, as to planning, he went to the closet to get his gun, then went to retrieve it again after putting it down on the dresser. he had to take it out of a holster in order to shoot it. he knew a bullet was in chatman, himself and their baby four days before fatally shooting chatman. the evidence supports an inference of planning. (people v. elliot, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 471.) second, according to johnson himself, he shot chatman after they argued about him cheating and pushed each other, and he was disrespectful of chatman and made fun of her, supporting an inference of motive. (people v. anderson, supra, 70 cal.2d at p. 8 shot supports the inference of premeditation and deliberation. (people v. koontz (2002) 27 cal.4th 1041, 1082.) in addition, johnson changed his story so many times supporting an inference of consciousness of guilt rather than any accident. he said he and chatman had been playing around with the gun; he said they had argued and she had threatened to kill herself; he said he had taken the gun out to clean it but there were no cleaning supplies to johnson also says, notwithstanding california supreme court authority to the contrary, (1) the imposition of a weapons use enhancement pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivisiacknopeople v. izaguirre (2007) 42 cal.4th 126 and people v. sloan (2007) 42 cal.4th 110 to the contrary but asserts these arguments to preserve his claims for subsequent review. disposition the judgment is affirmed. woods, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. zelon, j. 