filed 7/23/12 p. v. mangasaryan ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. armen mangasaryan et al., defendants and appellants. b229867 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga076057) appeals from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, lisa b. lench, judge. affirmed. vincent james oliver for defendant and appellant armen mangasaryan. shouse law group and al f. amer for defendant and appellant arpiar terrgalstanyan. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, stephanie a. miyoshi and rama r. maline, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________ 2 armen mangasaryan and arpiar terrgalstanyan appeal from the judgments entered following their convictions by a jury of the murder of hasmik voskanyan. both defendants challenge the admission of cell phone records linking them to the location of the murder, as well as recordings of various telephone conversations and police interviews, and the sufficiency of the evidence supporting their convictions. terrgalstanyan also contends the trial court erred in admitting evidence of guns found in the trunk of his car and in failing to give the jury an accomplice instruction. we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. r late in the evening of february 24, 2009 voskanyan and her boyfriend, agasi simonyan, were watching television in an upstairs room of their home in southwest burbank. simonyan, who had a history of heroin abuse and was recuperating from surgery, had taken 40 milligrams of methadone and 25 milligrams of xanax, smoked some marijuana and was dozing on the couch. about 12:15 a.m. voskanyan woke simonyan and told him someone was knocking on their front door. looking out the second-floor window overlooking who drove a black bmw sedan. voskanyan went downstairs to open the door, and simonyan heard her unlock the deadbolt. a few seconds later, he heard a single gunshot. simonyan called out to voskanyan, but she did not answer. he went to the window and saw a black mercedes cls sedan with tinted windows and shiny wheels. simonyan recognized the car as one he had seen previously at their house driven by an acquaintance whose father had previously done business with voskanyan. simonyan also saw a man of small stature wearing a white sweater and dress pants and shoes running toward the front passenger door of the mercedes. although he could not see the om he had known for some bella stepanyan. as the car drove away, simonyan heard a screeching sound as if the tires had spun on the street. he ran downstairs where he found voskanyan lying in the doorway with a gunshot wound to her face. simonyan called the police. 3 2. the arrests and charges burbank police officer gilberto moreno was on patrol on pass avenue when he heard a gunshot. he had turned west looking for its source when the dispatcher broadcast that a shooting had occurred on jacaranda avenue. moreno saw no vehicles as he approached the house. when he arrived, moreno found voskanyan lying face down in a pool of blood. simonyan told moreno he did not know what had happened. police recovered a smith & wesson .40-caliber shell casing manufactured by speer outside the front door and a tire mark adjacent to the curb in front of the house. simonyan was interviewed extensively through the early morning at the burbank porequest, an armenian-speaking burbank police officer, steve karagiosian, accompanied him outside to smoke. speaking in armenian, simonyan indicated he knew more than he had belief voskanyan had been murdered because of a dispute with mangasaryan, brother artur and acquainted with artur, whom he had known for five or six years. in the months preceding the murder artur had been incarcerated on an immigration hold in orange county. stepanyan and voskanyan had once been close friends but had argued after funeral and had been unable to repay the debt. simonyan was aware that stepanyan and voskanyan had quarreled during a telephone conversation in january and that artur had become involved in the dispute. mangasaryan, stepanyan and the man simonyan knew as following after the quarrel rendered the dispute deeply personal. 4 simonyan was then shown photographic six-packs in which he identified artur as the person who had girlfriend with whom voskanyan had quarreled and mangasaryan as the shooter.1 his photograph as the when mangasaryan and stepanyan had attempted to collect money from voskanyan. stepanyan was arrested around noon on february 25, 2009. she claimed she did not know voskanyan had been murdered but admitted voskanyan had borrowed $5,000 another $3,000 several weeks later. although voskanyan had promised to repay stepanyan within weeks, she had failed to do so; consequently, stepanyan had been unable to repay her own debts. mangasaryan was arrested later that afternoon. in a recorded interview with evening until approximately 1 a.m. when he called a taxi to drive him home because he the evening but then admitted leaving for a period of about five minutes to make a phone call. told by officer karagiosian his cell phone had registered at a tower at the other terrgfebruary 25, 2009. undercover burbank police officers observed a mercedes cls over, the officers arrested terrgalstanyan and his passenger. a number of firearms, including assault weapons and four handguns of different calibers, were recovered from the trunk of the mercedes. although none of the handguns found in the car fired the shot that killed voskanyan, one was a desert eagle .40 caliber, semiautomatic weapon loaded 1 in an excerpt of the recorded interview played for the jury, simonyan stated he 5 with speer-manufactured .40 caliber smith & wesson hollowpoint bulletsthe same kind of bullet used in the murder. a fingerprint lifted from the magazine belonged to terrgalstanyan. police recorded statements made by terrgalstanyan in the police car after his arrest and during interviews at the station. in the backseat of the car, terrgalstanyan told karagiosian after the officer told him one of the guns was the same caliber as the murder weapon. in response to questioning terrgalstanyan insisted he had been at his phone had been detected in burbank. mangasaryan, terrgalstanyan and stepanyan were each charged with one count of murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)),2 with the special circumstance defendants had committed the murder by means of lying in wait ( 190.2, subd. (a)(15)). it was further alleged against all defendants a principal had been armed with a firearm ( 12022, subd. (a)(1)) and that mangasaryan had personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury or death ( 12022.53, subds. (b)-(d)). terrgalstanyan was additionally charged with two counts of possession of an assault weapon ( 12280, subd. (b)). the special circumstance allegation was dismissed before trial. in addition, the murder charge against stepanyan was dismissed, and she pleaded no contest to one count of being an accessory after the fact to murder. before trial terrgalstanyan pleaded guilty to the two assault weapon charges. 2 statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 6 3. the evidence at trial a. simonyan testified at trial, and taped excerpts from his statements to the police were played for the jury. stepanyan also testified at trial. she had become friends with voskanyan after voskanyan helped her attempt to post bail for artur, who had been charged with a felony in august 2008.3 stepanyan and voskanyan saw each other the relationship soured. voskanyan stopped answering ss sometime in january 2009. stepanyan complained frequently about voskanyan in telephone calls to artur, who was incarcerated in a santa ana jail, and mangasaryan, who was often connected on the calls. on january 30, 2009 stepanyan learned voskanyan had voskanyan, and the two women argued. stepanyan told artur of the incident and connected mangasaryan and voskanyan on the call. after a bitter argument voskanyan hung up, and artur assured stepanyan that voskanyan would be dealt with and that recorded, and excerpts played for the jury. stepanyan did not see mangasaryan on the evening of february 24, 2009 but spoke with him multiple times by cell phone and exchanged text messages. -in-law, testified he had gone with there were four or five people at the apartment drinking vodka and talking. mangasaryan left the apartment at some point after 11 p.m., but haghverdian could not say how long he was gone. he and mangasaryan took a taxi home around 2 a.m. marine tokatlyan, who arrived at the apartment around 10 p.m., recognized mangasaryan as someone she had that voskanyan had told her she 3 although the bail was posted, artur was not released because of an immigration hold. 7 remember me? 11 p.m. and asked their host for his address during the call. he gave someone named -street before ending the call. he left the apartment about 11:30 p.m. she did not see him return. the people introduced numerous records for mangasaryan, stepanyan and records, call detail records and cell site location information. edward dixon, a senior network cell support engineer for at&t, identified the types of records generated for those cell phones (two of which were iphones) and described the technology used by at&t at the time of the murder to provide cellular service and track usage for its customers. dixon testified at&t cell sites used two frequencies to ensure maximum range and capacity of coverage. for each cell site, coverage was demarked by sectors identified by separate cell identification numbers. using a computer program called atoll, at&t was able to plot the individual sectors of coverage within that site.4 at&t uses these maps for business purposes, which include the positioning and manipulation of its equipment to maximize efficiency in the switching of calls between cell sectors and to minimize duplicate coverage between adjacent sites, as well as maintenance of the integrity of the system. dixon opined a customer was highly likely to have made or received a call at a location around a particular cell sector if a call or text message was handled by that sector. the people also called as witnesses a firearm examiner who testified the desert bullet that killed voskanyan and a burbank police detective who testified 4 the atoll program uses multiple inputs to calculate the footprint of cell sites and sectors, including topology, building size, shape and composition, antenna types and direc 8 in front of in closing argument the prosecutor used the at&t records and the map generated cell phones on the evening of the murder through the following morning. the prosecutor because she called and texted him repeatedly without receiving an answer until well after the 12:15 a.m. murder. terrgalstanyan and mangasaryan, however, phoned each other several times that evening, and both phones were identified in a cell sector near the apartment where mangasaryan had spent the evening and then in a southwest burbank a text to mangasaryan from his wife was recorded in that sector just minutes before burbank police received a call from simonyan about the murder. b. the defense case defense his brother-in-law, who accompanied mangasaryan to the party, testified he was wearing white athletic shoes and an uncollared shirtnot the dress clothes described by t-shirt, white athletic shoes, denim jeans and a sport coat. between 11:00 and 11:30 p.m., stepanyan brought him home to change his shirt because he had spilled a drink. she gave him another white t-shirt. they returned to the party, and she went to bed. she also testified she had never seen him act violently toward anyone. 4. the verdicts and sentencing the jury found mangasaryan guilty of first degree murder. terrgalstanyan was found guilty of second degree murder. all firearm allegations were found true. mangasaryan received an indeterminate sentence of 25 years to life on the murder count and an additional 25 years to life on the firearm enhancement. terrgalstanyan was sentenced to an indeterminate term of life with the possibility of parole on the second degree murder count, plus one year for the firearm enhancement, plus the low term of 9 16 months on the first assault weapon count and a concurrent sentence on the second assault weapon count. contentions both mangasaryan and terrgalstanyan contend the trial court erred in admitting the atoll program cell system map and contest the sufficiency of the evidence at trial. terrgalstanyan additionally contends the court erred in admitting evidence of the handguns found in the trunk of his car and various cell phone conversations, text messages and statements recorded by police. he also contends the court erred in failing to instruct the jury stepanyan was an accomplice to the murder, or, in the alternative, his trial counsel provided ineffective assistance at trial by failing to request such an instruction. discussion 1. the trial court did not err in admitting the at&t cell site evidence a. proceedings below before trial mangasaryan moved to exclude certain of the at&t records and the coverage maps generated by the atoll program. the people had proffered the evidence under evidence code section 1552, which creates a rebuttable presumption that printed computer-source information contained in the computer. although the records and maps were establish an adequate foundation for their admission. the expert had not been the one to prepare the reports and could not identify the parameters that led to their creation. relying on the business records exception to the hearsay rule set forth in evidence code section 1271, mangasaryan argued the individuals who created these parameters and who caused the document to be prepared were required to testify in court subject to cross-examination. terrgalstanyan also objected to admission of the records and maps under evidence code section 352. the trial court rejected the defense objections and admitted the records and maps pursuant to evidence code section 1552. 10 b. the records and maps are not hearsay and thus not subject to the limitations of evidence code section 1271 enacted to reconcile the historical best evidence rule with modern technology (see assem. com. on judiciary, analysis of sen. bill no. 177 (1997-1998 reg. sess.) as amended may 5, 1998), evidence code section 1552, subdivision (a),5 establishes a presumption that printed representations of information stored in a computer are accurate representations of the computer information they purport to represent. (see people v. hawkins (2002) 98 cal.app.4th 1428, 1450 (hawkinsdoes not operate to establish the accuracy or reliability of the printed information. on that threshold issue, upon objection the proponent of the evidence must offer ibid.)6 the at&t expert testified he had reviewed logs for the relevant time period and had not seen any trouble reports, which would have been generated if the system had not been functioning properly. we agree with the people that testimony was sufficient foundation to admit the records under evidence code section 1552. the issue raised here 5 of computer information or a computer program is presumed to be an accurate representation of the computer information or computer program that it purports to represent. this presumption is a presumption affecting the burden of producing evidence. if a party to an action introduces evidence that a printed representation of computer information or computer program is inaccurate or unreliable, the party introducing the printed representation into evidence has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of evidence, that the printed representation is an accurate representation of the existence and content of the computer information or computer program that it evidence code section 1553 establishes a similar presumption for images stored on a video or other digital medium. 6 no doubt because of our pervasive reliance on the digitization of information, . . computer people v. martinez (2000) 22 cal.4th 106, 132.) when errors and mistakes occur, they could be developed on cross-examination and should not affect the admissibility of the computer record itself. (ibid.) 11 by defendants, however, is whether the call detail records and coverage maps should be treated as hearsay7 and thus inadmissible unless accompanied by the foundational showing required by the business records exception set forth in evidence code section condition, or event is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule when offered to prove the act, condition, or event if: (a) the writing was made in the regular course of a business; (b) the writing was made at or near the time of the act, condition, or event; (c) the custodian or other qualified witness testifies to its identity and the mode of its preparation; and (d) the sources of information and method and time of preparation were it is true, as mangasaryan and terrgalstanyan assert, that california courts have frequently required compliance with evidence code section 1271 when grappling with the admissibility of computer records. (see, e.g., people v. lugashi (1988) 205 cal.app.3d 632, 641-642 [business records]; people v. martinez (2000) 22 cal.4th 106, 126-134 [official records]; aguimatang v. california state lottery (1991) 234 cal.app.3d 76qualify under some hearsay exception, such as business records under evidence code recognized that not all information stored on or generated by a computer constitutes information entered by human operators[; but] [a] computer can also be programmed to generate information on its own, such as a record of its internal operations. . . . [t]he latter type of computer-generated information is not hearsay because it is not a statement hawkins, supra, 98 cal.app.4th at p. 1449; accord, people v. nazary 7 witness while testifying at the hearing and that is offered to prove the truth of the matter by law, heid., (a) oral or written verbal expression or (b) nonverbal conduct of a person intended by him 12 (2010) 191 cal.appregular course of business, but whether the computer was operating properly at the time of the printouhawkins, at pp. 1449-1450; accord, nazery, at pp. 754-755 [test of admissibility of machine-generated receipts from automated gas station island pumps is 8 the trial court correctly concluded the cell sector coverage maps at issue here did not constitute hearsay and, thus, were not subject to evidence code section 1271. in the hearsay rule. inwere gathering readings in the field to improve the accuracy of the atoll program. 225, 1200, subd. (a).) c. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the records over evidence code section 352 objection if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or otestimony of the at&t expert and the maps indicating the predicted coverage of relevant cell sectors were speculative, too confusing for the jury and insufficiently probative to warrant their admission. this argument is wholly without merit. cell phones are now ubiquitous, and most users undoubtedly understand the basic fact that cell phone reception varies depending upon accessibility to coverage from a cell site. expert testimony was necessary to 8 the supreme court has granted review in two cases addressing the admissibility of computer-generated red-light camera photographs, video and data. (see people v. goldsmith (2012) 203 cal.app.4th 1515, review granted may 9, 2012, s201443; people v. borzakian (2012) 203 cal.app.4th 525, review granted, may 9, 2012, s201474.) 13 explas that the maps were predictive rather than conclusive and that a particular call might not register with the closest sector. nonetheless, the pattern shown by the recorded calls and messages was highly probative and not particularly confusing. the trial court properly admitted the evidence and allowed the defendants ample opportunity to impeach the factual and technological basis for the maps. there was no abuse of discretion. (see people v. rodriguez (1990) 20 cal.4th 1, 9- ruling exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage of justice].) 2. the out-of-court statements were properly admitted terrgalstanyan objects to the admission of recorded cell phone conversations and text messages between stepanyan and the mangasaryan brothers, as well as a statement he made during his initial interview with officer karagiosian. most of the conversations terrgalstanyan contests were those in which mangasaryan, his incarcerated brother, artur, and stepanyan discussed the money owed to pay on their own debts. terrgalstanyan was a party to only one of these conversations. in admitting these recordings, the trial court ruled most of the statements were not hearsay because they were offered for state of mind and potential motive, rather than the truth of the contents. although woverruling the objections, it was not an abuse of discretion to admit the recordings into evidence. evidence code section 1250, subdivision (a), permits hearsay evidence of a people v. san nicolas quarrels between a defendant and decedent and the making of threats by the former is 14 of the statements were also admissible under evidence code section 1220, which creates an exception to the hearsay rule for statements of a party. (see people v. hornung (2004) 34 see also evid. code,  1230 [hearsay exception for statements against interest].) terrgalstanyan also complains these statements should have been excluded under evidence code section 352 because they implicated mangasaryan only, had no probative value against him and were highly prejudicial. to the extent this is true, however, the -admissibility, by itself, people v. memro (1995) 11 cal.4th 786, 850.) terrgalstanyan points to no actions he took to minimize the purported prejudice to him: identify any request by his counsel for a limiting instruction on this point. (see people v. macias (1997) 16 cal.4th 739, 746 [absent request by defendant, trial court has no duty to give limiting instruction].) a limiting instruction was given by the court concerning other evidence, but terrgalstanyan has not complained the court improperly denied such an instruction on this point. the court did, as required, instruct pursuant to calcrim no. terrgalsthe statement was unduly prejudicial, arguing the statement was ambiguous and did not necessarily mean he believed he would be sentenced to 45 years. at trial, however, terrgalstanyan failed to object to the statement on those grounds. his argument on appeal is therefore forfeited. (see people v. tate (2010) 49 cal.4th 635, 692; accord, people v. coffman and marlow (2004) 34 cal.4th 1, 81-82 [failure to object to testimony in trial court on grounds asserted on appeal results in forfeiture of argument on appeal].) 15 3. evidence of the handguns found in the trunk of the mercedes was properly admitted terrgalstanyan asserts the trial court abused its discretion under evidence code section 352 in permitting testimony that multiple handguns, including a desert eagle .40 caliber handgun containing bullets matching the one that killed voskanyan, had been found in the trunk of his car the day after the murder. according to terrgalstanyan, numerous courts have rejected prosecutorial attempts to introduce evidence of weapons that were not used in the underlying crime. (see, e.g., people v. henderson (1976) 58 cal.apcharged . . . leads logically only to an inference that defendant is the kind of person who surrounds himself with deadly weaponsa fact of no relevant consequence to determination people v. riser (1956) 47 cal.2d 566, 577 evidence that other weapons were found in his possession, for such evidence tends to show, not that he committed the crime, but only that he is the sort of person who carries , overruled on other grounds in people v. morse (1964) 60 cal.2d 631, 652, fns. 5 & 17.) rwise people v. cox (2003) 30 cal.4th 916, 956 [trial court properly admitted se of death was , disapproved on other grounds in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22; see people v. neely (1993) 6 cal.4th people v. lane (1961) 56 cal.2d 773, 785 [admission of guns found in abandoned truck not people v. carpenter (1999) 16 21 d her he kept a gun in his van was relevant and admissible as circumstantial evidence he committed the offenses].) in this case, two assault weapons and four handguns were found in the trunk of counts of possession of an assault weapon. in justifying the admissibility of the four handguns at an evidence code section 402 pretrial hearing, the prosecutor advised the court none of the handguns was the murder weapon but the weapons were nonetheless relevant for multiple reasons: terrgalstanyan had been trying to dispose of incriminating evidence the day after the murder;9 two of the rounds found in the desert eagle .40 caliber gun were identical to the bullet that killed voskanyan and terrgalstanyanremoved from the gun; and, when informed one of the guns matched the murder weapon, desert eagle statement would be relevant only if guns of different caliber had been found in the trunk. testimony about the four handguns but not the assault weapons.10 this ruling was well within the discretion of the court. the relevance of the desert eagle .40 caliber handgun and its contents is not subject to dispute; and significantly more probative in light of the existence of non-.40 caliber weapons. was evidence under evidence code section 352 is designed to avoid is not the prejudice or damage to a defense that naturally flows from relevant, highly probative 9 terrgalstanyan told officers he was disposing of the guns because his parents had objected to having them in their house. 10 the court also gave a limiting instruction as to the permissible use of this statement subsequently made by defendant arpiar terrgalstanyan when interviewed by 17 evidence code section 352 applies to evidence which uniquely tends to evoke an emotional bias against the defendant as an individual and which has very little effect on people v. karis (1988) 46 cal.3d 612, 638.) 4. the trial court properly instructed the jury on accomplice testimony terrgalstanyan contends the trial court failed to instruct the jury with calcrim was an accomplice to the murder.11 because the evidence stepanyan was an accomplice was disputed, the trial court instructed pursuant to calcrim no. 334,12 which requires 11 itted, then [stepanyan] was an accomplice to that crime. you may not convict the defendant of [murder] based on the testimony of an accomplice alone. you may use the testimony of mony is supported by other evidence that you believe; 2. that supporting evidence is independent defendant to the commission of the crimes. supporting evidence, however, may be slight. it does not need to be enough, by itself, to prove that the defendant is guilty of the charged crime, and it does not need to support every fact mentioned by the accomplice in the statement or about which the witness testified. on the other hand, it is not enough if the supporting evidence merely shows that a crime was committed or the circumstances of its commission. the supporting evidence must tend to connect the defendant to the commission of the crime. the evidence needed to support the testimony of one accomplice cannot be provided by the statement or testimony of another accomplice. any testimony of an accomplice that tends to incriminate the defendant should be viewed with caution. you may not, however, arbitrarily disregard it. you should give that testimony the weight you think it deserves after examining it with care and caution and in 12 calcrim no. 334 is substantially the same as calcrim no. 335, but, as given in this case, contains the following language preceding the corroboration requirement: against the defendants armen mangasaryan and arpiar terrgalstanyan, you must decide whether bella stepanyan was an accomplice to the crime of murder. a person is an accomplice if he or she is subject to prosecution for the identical crime charged against the defendant. someone is subject to prosecution if he or she personally committed the crime or if: [] 1. he or she knew of the criminal purpose of the person who committed the crime; and [] 2. he or she intended to, and did in fact, aid, facilitate, promote, encourage, or instigate the commission of the crime or participate in a criminal 18 the jury to decide whether a particular witness is an accomplice such that their testimony must be corroborated. the trial court did not err in failing to instruct under calcrim no. 335. section 1111 prohibits conviction on the testimony of an accomplicedefined by unlrequirement is apparent: an accomplice is likely to implicate the defendant in order to shift the blame and minimize his or her own culpability. (people v. tobias (2001) 25 cal.4th 327, 331; people v. hayes (1999) 21 cal.4th 1211, 1271.) within the meaning of section 1111, a witness must be found to be a principal under section 31. (see people v. lewis (2001) 26 cal.4th 334, 368; people v. williams (2008) commission of a crime . . . whether they directly commit the act constituting the offense, or aid and abet in its commission, or, not being present, have advised and encouraged its accomplice, the court must so inform the jury under calcrim no. 335 and instruct it on the corroboration requirement. (lewis, at p. 369 [directing courts to instruct with conspiracy to commit the crime. [] the burden is on the defendant to prove that it is more likely than not that bella stepanyan was an accomplice. [] an accomplice does not need to be present when the crime is committed. on the other hand, a person is not an accomplice just because he or she is present at the scene of a crime, even if he or she knows that a crime will be committed or is being committed and does nothing to stop it. [] a person may be an accomplice even if he or she is not actually prosecuted for the crime. [] if you decide that bella stepanyan was not an accomplice, then supporting evidence is not required and you should evaluate his or her statement or testimony as you would that of any other witness. [] if you decide that bella stepanyan was an accomplice, then you may not convict the defendants of murder based on her statements and testimony alone. 19 participation of a witness in the crime for which the accused is on trial are clear and not people v. hayes, supra, 21 cal.4th at p. 1271.) likewise, if there is sufficient evidence from which a reasonable juror could find the witness to be an accomplice, the trial court must instruct the jury under calcrim no. 334 that, if it finds by a preponderance of the evidence a witness is an accomplice in accordance with the legal definition, the witnetestimony implicating the defendant must be independently corroborated before it may be considered. (see lewis, at p. 369; people v. zapien (1993) 4 cal.4th 929, 982.) in either situation the jury must also be instructed the testimony of an accomplice witness is to be viewed with distrust. (zapien, question of fact for the jury unless there is no dispute as to either the facts or the people v. fauber (1992) 2 cal.4th 792, sufficient evidence is presented at trial to justify the conclusion that a witness is an (people v. brown (2003) 31 cal.4th 518, 555.) stepanyan was originally charged in the information with murder and investigated as a principal based on the money she was owed by voskanyan, the deterioration of their however, before trial the people withdrew the murder charge, and stepanyon pleaded guilty to the lesser charge of being an accessory after the fact. 13 although the abandonment of the murder charge is not dispositive as to whether an instruction under calcrim no. 335 should have been given, the evidence presented at trial did not support the theory stepanyan had been a principal in the murder. in the face of her 13 committed, harbors, conceals or aids a principal in such felony, with the intent that said principal may avoid or escape from arrest, trial, conviction or punishment, having knowledge that said principal has committed such felony or has been charged with such 20 complaints about voskanyan, the mangasaryan brothers repeatedly told stepanyan to leave the problem of dealing with voskanyan to them. several of those conversations were recorded and played for the jury. there was no evidence stepanyan understood those statements to mean they intended to kill voskanyan. thus, whether stepanyan was an accomplice was an issue properly resolved by the jury, and the court correctly instructed pursuant to calcrim no. 334. we presume the jury understood and followed the instruction given. (see people v. yeoman (2003) 31 cal.4th 93, 139.) accordingly, if the jury concluded stepanyan was an accomplice, it had been properly instructed to view her testimony with distrust. failure to instruct on accomplice liability is harmless if there is adequate corroborating people v. williams, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 638; people v. lewis, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 370; people v. fauber, supra, ight, may be entirely circumstantial, and need not be sufficient to establish every element of connect the defendant with the crime in such a way as to satisfy the jury that the lewis, at p. 370; accord, people v. brown, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. 556.) harmed him such that her testimony required corroboration. her testimony regarding jury. similarly, cell phone records supported her testimony she had not been with mangasaryan on the night of the murder. the single piece of testimony she gave a text message. under these circumstances, any error by the court in failing to instruct under calcrim no. 335 was harmless. (see people v. mower (2002) 28 cal.4th 457, harmless error standard stated in people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836]; people v. 21 frye (1998) 18 cal.4th 894, 968-969, overruled on other grounds in people v. doolin, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 421, fn. 22 [instructions on the corroboration requirement in  1111 do not define an element of the charged offense and thus do not involve the federal constitution].) 14 5. the verdicts are supported by substantial evidence record to determine whether any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime or special circumstances beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the record must disclose substantial evidence to support the verdicti.e., evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] in applying this test, we review the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution and presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably have deduced from the evidence. [citation.] testimony [that] is subject to justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends. [citation.] we resolve neither credibility issues nor evidentiary conflicts; we look for substantial evidence. [citation.] hypothesis wh (people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357.) having reviewed the record on appeal, we see no basis for reversal on the ground of insufficient evidence. the evidence established the existence of a serious conflict 14 at oral argument terrgalstanyan suggested for the first time that the inclusion of the names of both defendants in calcrim no. 334 improperly permitted jurors to sufficient to corroborate all parts of her testimony, including portions lacking independent corroboration that may have been used to convict terrgalstanyan. we need not decide whether this objection to the wording of calcrim no. 334 was forfeited as untimely or constitutes error because, as explained above, any error was harmless. 22 between the victim and the defendants, who belonged to the same insular community and who had visited her on several occasions in attempts to collect the debt she owed, driving the same car simonyan identified on the night of the murder. while it was dark and his glimpse of the shooter and the vehicle was fleeting, simonyan had known the mangasaryan brothers for several years. he also recognized the distinctive car as one his arrest, coupled with the discovery in the mercedes of the identical .40 caliber bullets the jury was entitled to believe all of this testimony, in addition to the highly defendants lied to the police about their actions when arrested just hours after the murder. disposition the judgments are affirmed. perluss, p. j. we concur: zelon, j. jackson, j. 