filed 3/19/12 p. v. avila ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. roberto avila, defendant and appellant. b229013 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va111774) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. roger ito, judge. affirmed. richard d. miggins, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, and victoria b. wilson and chung l. mar, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ 2 appellant roberto avila appeals his conviction for three counts of sexual intercourse or sodomy with a child 10 years of age or younger (pen. code,1  288.7, subd. (a)). in his appeal, avila argues that the trial court erred in denying his motion for a new trial based on alleged juror misconduct, and in denying his post-verdict petition court properly concluded that no prejudicial juror misconduct occurred, we affirm. factual background and procedural history i. the charges the los angeles county district attorney charged avila with five counts of sexual intercourse or sodomy with his then eight-year-old son, r., in violation section 288.7, subdivision (a). it was also alleged that avila committed the charged offenses by the use of force, violence, duress, menace, or fear of immediate or unlawful bodily injury in violation of section 1203.066, subdivision (a)(1). avila pleaded not guilty to all charges and denied the special allegations. ii. prosecution evidence avila is r.r. was eight years old and resided in a studio apartment with his father, mother, and three siblings. during that time, r. generally arrived home from school shortly after 1:00 p.m. r.not get out of school until later in the afternoon, and his one-year-old brother stayed at the home of a neighbor during the day. when r. arrived home from school, his father was usually there while his mother was at work. one day in march 2007, robert arrived home from school and saw avila watching r. to watch the movie, but r. refused. on another day in march 2007, r. arrived home from school and saw avila masturbating. 1 unless otherwise stated, all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 on three other occasions between march and june 2007, avila committed an act of sodomy against r. on each of those occasions, shortly after r. arrived home from school, avila prepared a white tasteless liquid in a plastic cup that he gave r. to drink. about a half-hour after drinking the liquid, r. his bed and fell asleep; he was fully clothed at the time. when r. woke up, he was lying on his side and no longer wearing his pants. avila was naked and directly behind r. r.buttocks. r. he woke up. when r. walked to the bathroom, he saw that he was bleeding from his rectum.2 r. r. with a belt if he did. according to r.third act of sodomy, r. tried to avoid avila by hiding outside the house until his mother arrived home from work. there were three other times when avila tried to get r. to drink the white liquid, but r. refused and went outside. in 2007, r.other to r.room. r. became upset because he thought he had already done so. he told his mother that he was tired of people making him do things that he did not want to do. when his mother asked r. what he meant by that statement, r. told her that avila had made him watch a pornographic movie, but he did not disclose any other misconduct at that time. about a month later, in june 2009, r.er found him crying in the closet and asked him what was wrong. r. 2 at trial, r. initially testified that this sequence of events occurred on five separate occasions. r. later clarified that the first two incidents consisted of avila showing him a pornographic movie and masturbating in his presence, and the next three incidents consisted of the acts of sodomy. 4 partner met with r. on two occasions about his sexual abuse allegations. r. was reluctant to speak with the deputies, but relayed that he had been sodomized by avila eight to 10 times. in describing the sodomy, r. stated that, after drinking a bubbly white liquid, he would fall asleep fully clothed and would wake up without his pants. he also reported that he would have bleeding and pain in his rectum when he woke up. r. was calm and unemotional during the interviews. after meeting with r., deputy mitchell had the case transferr bureau, interviewed avila for approximately two hours about r.allegations. during the interview, avila repeatedly denied the allegations, but also made certain admissions. avila admitted that he masturbated while watching pornographic r. was asleep in the home and that he had used methamphetamine. when detective vega suggested that avila may have sodomized r. while he was under the influence of methamphetamine, avila swhat specifically happened with r. happened, i feel bad him, to forgive me. that i love him very much. if he the interview, avila repeatedly denied any memory of the alleged sodomy, telling . . . it would be to tell a lie to tell you that i do remember when i d 5 r. r of the special victims bureau, testified as an expert on child sexual abuse. he explained that, in his experience, not all child victims of sexual abuse react the same way emotionally and some victims do not cry in interviews. additionally, like adults, children may not be entirely consistent in their descriptions of past events and may provide slightly different versions of events in multiple interviews. detective lopez also stated that it was common for a child to delay disclosure of sexual abuse, particularly when there is a threat of physical harm from the abuser. it would not be unusual for a child to continue delaying disclosure even when the threat of harm is no longer imminent. detective lopez further testified that, in his experience, where the alleged abuse occurred two years prior to the report, detective lopez would not request a medical examination for the child because there would be no likelihood of recovering any physical evidence. iii. defense evidence r..a., was married to avila for 14 years and had three children with him. in 2007, when they were still married, s. typically worked during the day while avila stayed at home and watched the older children. s. later separated from avila and relocat s. testified that r. that she believed r.sexual abuse, hr.s. was serving a prison term for threatening r. with a barbecue knife. according to s., she grabbed the barbecue knife during an argument with r. because he was not listening to her, but r. to kill him. s. denied that she tried to kill r., but admitted that she mistreated him and pleaded guilty to the charges to accept responsibility for her actions. 6 s. testified that, one day in 2009, she told r. to clean his room, but he refused to comply. r. accused his mother of being just like his father in making him do things that he did not want to do. when s. asked r. what he meant by that statement, he disclosed that avila had forced him to watch a pornographic movie, but denied that any other abuse had occurred. about a month or two later, r. told his mother that avila also had masturbated in his presence. on a subsequent occasion, in june 2009, s. was looking for r. because he had not cleaned his room, and found him crying in the closet. at that point, r. about eight times. when s. asked r. why he had not told her before, he answered that he was afraid of his father. r. also said that his father had warned him that both parents would go to jail if he told anyone and he would be all alone. according to s., after r. difficult to control. etective doreen evans, a member of the special victims bureau, testified that she interviewed r. about his sexual abuse allegations on june 29, 2009. during the interview, r. relayed to detective evans that avila sodomized him five times. when detective evans asked r. about his prior statement that the sodomy occurred eight to 10 times, he explained that avila had attempted to assault him three other times, but r. was able to avoid him by going outside. in describing one of the incidents, r. told detective evans that, when he woke up, avila was standing behind him and pulled up his pants when he saw that r. was awake. r. also recounted that, when he first woke up, he felt something inside his anus but he was not sure what it was. r. did not tell detective evans that avila was completely naked during that incident, but he did describe another incident when he saw avila fully naked with an erect penis. in addition, r. told detective evans that, when he woke up after drinking the white liquid, he experienced pain and bleeding from his rectum. craig peterson, a licensed private investigator, interviewed r. on february 15, 2010. when peterson asked r. how many times the sexual acts with avila occurred, r. r. told peterson that he was 7 fully clothed when he fell asleep, and that both he and avila were completely naked when he woke up. r. also indicated that he was unsure his anus. however, robert recounted that, when he woke up, he felt something inside his anus and that avila was lying behind him about an inch from his back. during the interview, r. repeatedly stated that he was telling the truth and that he would not lie about something so serious. iv. verdict and sentencing at the conclusion of the trial, the jury found avila guilty of three counts of sexual intercourse or sodomy with a child under the age of 10, and not guilty of two. following the verdict, the trial court sentenced avila to three consecutive terms of 25 years to life for an aggregate prison sentence of 75 years to life. avila has filed a timely appeal. discussion i. motion for a new trial based on juror misconduct avila first contends that the trial court committed reversible error when it denied his motion for a new trial based on alleged juror misconduct.3 the specific misconduct claimed by avila consists of (1) two jurors bringing a bible into deliberations and the jurors then discussing their religious views on homosexuality, and (2) two jurors failing to disclose during voir dire a bias against homosexuals based on their religious beliefs. we conclude that the trial court properly denied the new trial motion because there was no prejudicial juror misconduct in this case. 3 for a new trial was based on four alleged errors: (1) insufficiency jury with a read-back othe new trial motion based on jury misconduct, but does not make any argument or cite to any evidence concerning the other errors alleged in his motion. accordingly, avila has forfeited those arguments on appeal. (people v. stanley (1995) 10 cal.4th 764, 793 on the points made. if none is furnished on a particular point, the court may treat it as 8 a. relevant proceedings during voir dire, the trial court asked the prospective jurors to disclose their city of residence, their marital status, their highest level of education, their occupation and the occupation of any spouse or domestic partner, the ages and occupations of any children, any prior jury service, and any reading materials that they brought with them to court that day. the trial court also asked the prospective jurors to provide information about any personal contacts and experiences with law enforcement, any prior experience as a victim of or witness to a crime, and any prior criminal charges or arrests. of the 12 individuals who were ultimately selected to serve on the jury, four jurors (juror nos. 11, 14, 17, and 52) indicated that they had brought a religious book with them. juror no. 11 brought a book on buddhism, juror no. 14 brought a christian devotional book, and juror nos. 17 and 52 each brought a bible. the trial court asked each of these prospective jurors or impossible for him or her to serve as a juror in this case. each of the jurors answered, prospective juror about his or her religious views on homosexuality. jury deliberations commenced on tuesday, march 9, 2010, at 1:30 p.m. the following day, at 11:30 a.m., the jury reacthe trial court polled the jurors, each of whom confirmed that the verdicts as read were on march 15, 2010, the defense filed a post-verdict petition for the disclosure of new trial based on juror misconduct. the petition was supported by a declaration from defense counsel which stated that, immediately after the verdict, he stepped outside the courtroom to see if any of the jurors would speak with him about the case and only juror no. 21 agreed. juror no. 21 told defense counsel that he was the main reason why the deliberations took as long as they did because he did not belthat the other jurors became angry and aggressive with him and pressured him to change 9 his position because they wanted to get back to their lives and work. defense counsel asked juror no. 21 if he had an abiding conviction that avila committed the offenses, and juror no. 21 answered that he did. defense counsel gave juror no. 21 his business card so that the juror could contact him if he wished to discuss the case further. according to the declaration, defense counsel later received a lengthy e-mail from juror no. 21 about the case. in the e-mail, juror no. 21 discussed the evidence presented by the prosecution and explained why he initially did not find it persuasive. he stated evidence needed to be considered and nothing else, to take my personal feelings from the telephone conversation with juror no. 21 during which the juror further described the deliberations. juror no. 21 indicated that three jurors brought a bible into the deliberations and there was discussion among the jury about whether avila was a homosexual, whether homosexuality was a lifestyle choice, and whether homosexuality was a sin. on march 26, 2010, the trial court held a hearing on the petition. the court ruled that avila had made a prima facie showing of good cause for the disclosure of juror no. had, but had failed to make such a showing as to the remaining 11 jurors. the court noted that juror no. 21 was equivocal in his e-mail to defense counsel, and based on the juror misother jurors without prejudice and invited defense counsel to submit a declaration from juror no. 21 for the purposes of renewing his request for the disclosure of the other on july 2, 2010, the defense filed a motion for a new trial based, in part, on juror misconduct. the motion specifically asserted that there was misconduct during 10 deliberations when one of the jurors read aloud from the bible about homosexuality being a sin and stated his belief that avila was a homosexual. the motion was supported by a declaration from juror no. 21. according to the declaration, on the first day of no. 17, in particular, stated that he was convinced that avila was a homosexual and that his homosexuality should have been a central issue at trial. on the second day of deliberations, juror no. 17 brought a bible into the jury room, read aloud a verse which stated that homosexuality was a sin, and declared that no further discussion was necessary because avila was homosexual and therefore guilty. juror no. 17 also told the other jurors that he believed homosexuality was a choice and that homosexuals were was a sin and that avila was guilty. on july 8, 2010, the trial court held a hearing on the motion for a new trial. the trial court declined to rule on the motion at that time, but found that further investigation into possible juror misconduct was necessary based on the declaration provided by juror no. 21. the prosecution noted that there were significant discrepancies between juror -mail to defense counsel, and proposed that he be examined about the alleged misconduct before any of the other jurors were contacted. the trial court agreed that juror no. 21 should be called to testify first before it decided whether to order the appearance of any other jurors or the disclosure of their personal identification information. on august 6, 2010, the trial court held an in-chambers hearing with juror no. 21. at the outset of the hearing, the trial court stated that the purpose was to determine and whether additional inquiry of any other jurors was appropriate. the trial court and both counsel then questioned juror no. 21 under oath. 11 juror no. 21 testified that, on the second day of deliberations, an elderly male juror brought a bible into the jury room.4 two other jurors indicated that they were not certain whether avila was guilty, the elderly male juror who had brought the bible became frustrated and stated something to the something there for hi one of the jurhomosexual brother who would harm himself because he felt that everyone was against homosexuals juror made this statement while staring at another older male juror who was seated at the -going in response to these references to homosexuality and the bible, other jurors noted forepeconcentrate [on] what the judge -- as to the rules and what we need to follow because aboujury reached its iven by the judge. juror no. 21 also confirmed that, immediately after the verdicts were 4 at the evidentiary hearing, juror no. 21 could not recall the assigned juror number of any of the jurors except his own. 12 rendered, he had an abiding conviction of the truth of the charges for which the jury found avila guilty. mented on the record that it deliberations, the court tentatively ruled that there was insufficient evidence to warrant nformation. the court indicated that it information and the motion for a new trial. on october 5, 2010, the trial court held a final hearing on the matter. the court first adopted its tentative ruling that there was no good cause for further disclosure of the hearing. addressing the new trial motion, the court tthink you have enough evidence here to suggest that there is a motion for new trial that should be granted based upon what i heard, the totality of the circumstance[s] ] rendering of a verdict, the fact the jury rendered mixed verdicts, the fact that although he indicated that a bible had been brought into the jury room that ultimately the foreman shepherd[ed] them into using the law on the case -- i should say, the facts on the law, so based on all those factors, i do not believe that there is sufficient evidence to suggest that a new-trial motion is appropriate and that motion for a new trial. b. standard of review undertakes a three-presented for its consideration is admissible. . . . [] once the court finds the evidence is admissible, it must then consider whether the facts establish misconduct. . . . [] finally, if misconduct is found to have occurred, the court must determine whether the people v. sanchez (1998) 62 cal.app.4th 460, 13 people v. danks presumption of prejuddetermine whether there is a reasonable probability of actual harm to the complaining party [resulting fpeople v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1114, 1208.) credibility determinations and findings on questions of historical fact if supported by substantial evidence. [citations.] whether prejudice arose from juror misconduct, people v. nesler (1997) 16 cal.4th 561, 582.) as the aside, the likelihood of bias . . . must be substantial. . . . [t]he criminal justice system must not be rendered impotent in quest of an ever-elusive perfection. the jury system is fundamentally human, which is both a strength and a weakness. [citation.] jurors are not automatons. they are imbued with human frailties as well as virtues. if the system is to function at all, we must tolerate a certain amount of imperfection short of actual bias. to demand theoretical perfection from every juror during the course of a trial is people v. danks, supra, 32 cal.4th at p. 304.) c. references to religious beliefs on homosexuality during deliberations avila asserts that the jury committed prejudicial misconduct during deliberations when two jurors brought a bible into the jury room which was referenced in discussing xuality being a sin in on homosexuality constituted misconduct, but that such misconduct was not prejudicial. [citation] extraneous to the people v. williams misconduct involves the receipt of information from extraneous sources, the effect of such receipt is judged by a review of the entire record, and may be found to be 14 nonprejudicial. the verdict will be set aside only if there appears a substantial likelihood find bias if the extraneous material, judged objectively, is inherently and substantially so prejudicial in context that its erroneous introduction in the trial itself would have first tethe misconduct must still be examined to determine objectively whether a substantial of upon examining the entire record, that there is no substantial likelihood that the complaining party suffered people v. danks, supra, 32 cal.4th at p. 303.) in this case, the testimony at the evidentiary hearing on the motion for a new trial established that two jurors made comments about an extraneous matter when they referenced the bible and their religious beliefs on homosexuality during deliberations.5 specifically, an elderly male juror who had brought a bible into the jury room pointed to an unidentified biblical passage and made statements to the effect that avila was a homosexual, that homosexuality was a sin, and that homosexuals had to repent for their 5 al does not reflect that a bible into the jury room, only one of them (the elderly male juror) ever referenced the bible during deliberations. the other juror with a bible (the young male juror) never read aloud from the bible, circulated any passages from the bible, or made any reference to the bible in the jury room. in fact, when other jurors began commenting on whether homosexuality was a sin in the bible, the young male juror with the bible, along with the . . the rules and what we need to 15 sin or else they would go to hell. an elderly female juror then expressed that she shared bible and their religious beliefs that homosexuality was a sin were clearly extraneous and non-evidentiary, and as such, they constituted misconduct. (people v. williams, supra, people v. danks, supra, 32 misconduct in commenting on the bible and homosexuality during deliberations was not prejudicial. according to the testimony of juror no. 21, which the trial court found to be s, including . . the rules their verdicts after the foreperson, (people v. williams, supra, 40 cal.4th at 335 [people v. danks, supra, 32 cal.4th at p. 308 [one jurbiblical passage during deliberations was not inherently prejudicial].) there is nothing in the record which reflects that, after 16 the final verdicts rendered by the jury further support a finding that there was no substantial likelihood of bias against avila unanimously voted to acquit avila of two of the five charged counts of sexual intercourse -guilty verdict on two of the five counts fails to rebut the presumption of prejudice because the agree with the attorney general that this argument actually bolsters the conclusion that the jury based its verdicts on the evidence presented at trial rather than on any personal agreement with biblical passages concerning homosexuality as a sin. avila further asserts that the misconduct that occurred during deliberations was prejudicial because juror no. 21 testified that he voted for the guilty verdicts based on his verdict is inadmissible under evidence code section 1150, which precludes any consideration of the subjective reasoning processes of a juror.6 (see people v. steele people v. hedgecock (1990) 51 n a juror in the course of deliberations gives the reasons for his consideration of such a statement as evidence of those processes is barred by evidence code section 1by the other jurors to end the deliberations, he confirmed that he only reached his verdict after the foreperson focused all the jurors on the evidence and the instructions. juror no. 6 validity of a verdict, any otherwise admissible evidence may be received as to statements made, or conduct, conditions, or events occurring, either within or without the jury room, of such a character as is likely to have influenced the verdict improperly. no evidence is admissible to show the effect of such statement, conduct, condition, or event upon a juror either in influencing him to assent to or dissent from the verdict or concerning the mental 17 21 also admitted that he had an abiding conviction that avila had committed the offenses for which he was found guilty. religious beliefs on homosexuality were not inherently or substantially likely to have influenced the jury to convict avila of a crime that they believed the prosecution failed to prove, nor was it substantially likely that any juror was actually biased against avila in rendering the verdicts. the jury misconduct that occurred during deliberations was therefore not prejudicial. d. failure to disclose religious bias against homosexuals in voir dire avila also argues that two jurors committed prejudicial misconduct during voir dire by concealing that they were biased against homosexuals based on their religious beliefs. we conclude that avila forfeited this argument on appeal by failing to raise it in their religious views on homosexuality during voir dire did not constitute misconduct. first, avila forfeited his claim that the jurors concealed a religious bias during voir dire because he never asserted this specific claim of juror misconduct in connection with his motion for a new trial. rather, the sole claim of juror misconduct that avila raised in his new trial motion was based on the conduct of the jurors during deliberations. there was no additional claim that any juror committed misconduct during voir dire by concealing material facts or providing false information. in people v. dykes, the california supreme court rejected a similar attempt by an appellant to assert new claims of juror misconduct that were never raised in the trial court. (people v. dykes (2009) 46 misconduct and seek relief from the court on that basis results in a forfeiture of the issue on appeal. [citations.] the circumstance that defendant raised some juror misconduct claims in his motion for new trial does not serve to preserve other bases for his claim on id. at p. 808, fn. 22.) avila accordingly forfeited his claim of juror concealment on appeal. 18 second, even asfails on the merits. the failure of a juror to disclose information in voir dire does not information by a potential juror may constitute implied bias justifying his or her disqualification or removal [citations], mere inadvertent or unintentional failures to whether a failure to disclose is intentional or unintentional and whether a juror is biased in this regard are matters within the discretion of the trial court. except where bias is clearly apparent from the record, the trial judge is in the best position to assess the state of mind of a juror or potential juror on voir dire examination. [citati(people v. san nicolas not be disturbed unless a manifest and unmistakable people v. carter, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 1210.) unable to recall the assigned juror numbers of the individuals who discussed their religious views on homosexuality during deliberations; he simply described them as an no. 21 specifically identified the jurors who made references to their religious beliefs on homosexuality as juror no. 17, a male juror, and juror no. 14, a female juror. the record further reflects that, during voir dire, both juror no. 17 and juror no. 14 disclosed that they had brought a religious book with them. juror no. 17 brought a bible and juror no. 14 brought a book on christian devotional reading. in response, the trial court asked these jurors a general question as to whether their religious beliefs would make it difficult for them to serve as a juror in thi any additional questions about their religious beliefs to probe for a potential bias against 19 homosexuals. rather, it appears from the record on voir dire that both the court and the parties regarded the charges against avila not as a case about homosexual behavior, but as a case about child sexual abuse. furthermore, based on the evidence presented at trial, ory of the alleged crimes was not that avila was a homosexual, but that he was a pedophile who had sexually abused his eight-year-old child. given that the religious beliefs on homosexuality in voir dire, it would be unreasonable to conclude that the jurors themselves should have known that it was relevant to their views on the matter in responding to generalized questions about their ability to serve as a juror in this case. under these circumstances, any alleged failure of the jurors to disclose a religious bias against homosexuals did not constitute an intentional concealment of material facts. avila thus has failed to demonstrate that any jury misconduct occurred during voir dire. e. adequacy of the hearing on the motion for a new trial avila further claims that the evidentiary hearing that the trial court conducted on the motion for a new trial was inadequate because the court failed to order any juror other than juror no. 21 to appear for questioning. we disagree. hearing to resolve factual disputes raised by a claim of juror misconduct. [citation.] ed to an evidentiary hearing as a matter of right. such a hearing should be held only when the court concludes an evidentiary hearing is people v. dykes, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 80evidentiary hearing on the issue of juror misconduct will be reversed only if the id. at p. 810.) here, the trial court acted well within its discretion in declining to call any of the other jurors to testify at the evidentiary hearing because a more extensive hearing with the remaining 11 jurors was not necessary to resolve any disputed issues of material fact. at the evidentiary hearing that was held, both the trial court and counsel conducted a detailed examination of juror no. 21 concerning the alleged juror misconduct that 20 occurred during deliberations. following the testimony of juror no. 21, the trial court stated on the record tas a result, there were no disputed factual issues to be resolved through further testimony from the remaining 11 jurors. instead, the trial court reasonably could have concluded that it had a sufficient factual record about actions of the jury during deliberations to make an informed ruling as to whether any prejudicial juror misconduct had occurred. ii. in a related claim, avila contends that the trial court committed reversible error when it denied his post-identification information for the purpose of preparing a new trial motion. we conclude, focommunicate with jurors for the purpose of developing a motion for new trial or any other supported by a declaration that includes facts sufficient to establish good cause for the r for hearing if the petition and supporting declaration establish a prima facie showing of good 237, subd. (b).) t[] forth a sufficient showing to support a reasonable belief that jury misconduct occurred, that diligent efforts were made to contact the jurors through other means, and that further investigation is necessary to provide the court with adequate information to rule on a people v. carrasco (2008) 163 cal.app.4th 978, 990.) the people v. jefflo (1998) 63 cal.app.4th 1314, 1322.) good cause does not exist where the allegations of juror misconduct are speculative, conclusory, 21 vague, or unsupported. (people v. wilson (1996) 43 cal.app.4th 839, 852.) we review information for an abuse of discretion. (people v. jones (1998) 17 cal.4th 279, 317.) here was juror misconduct, and to testimony about the conduct of the other jurors during deliberations, and thus, there were no disputed factual issues that required further investigation before the court could adjudicate the motion for a new trial. because the trial court had sufficient factual timony to rule on the merits the motion, the court identification information was unwarranted. (people v. granish (1996) 41 cal.app.4th 1117, 1132 [trial court properly denied request for juror identification information where to the extent that avila sought such information to investigate would be inadmissible under evidence code 1150, which bars consideration of the mental processes of the jurors in arriving at their verdicts. finally, avila failed to meet his burden of showing that the juror misconduct that occurred during deliberations was people v. jefflo, suprato the bible and their religious beliefs on homosexuality were misconduct, such misconduct was not prejudicial. in sum, because the record reflects that no prejudicial juror misconduct occurred for a new trial based on juror misconduct. 22 disposition the judgment is affirmed. zelon, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. woods, j. 