filed 3/5/12 p. v. manriques ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. domingo manriques, defendant and appellant. b229277 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba370308) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, drew e. edwards, judge. affirmed. daniel g. koryn, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, pamela c. hamanka, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and douglas l. wilson, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________ 2 appellant domingo manriques appeals from his conviction and sentence of continuous sexual abuse of a child under the age of 14 years. (pen. code,  288.5, subd. (a).) before this court he claims that the lower court erred in failing to grant his motion to suppress evidence of incriminating statements he made during a police interview because he had invoked his right to remain silent under miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. furthetest pursuant to penal code section 1202.1 is unlawful. as we shall explain, the evidence incriminatory statements to police and any error with respect to the blood testing order was harmless. accordingly, we affirm the judgment. factual and procedural background maria s., then 12 years old, confided to the principal of her school, that appellant, her stepfather, had repeatedly sexually molested her. according to maria, the abuse occurred on occasions when maria was alone with appellant. appellant had first touched maria inappropriately in 2003 when she was six years old. on that occasion, while sleattempted to touch her vagina. initially, maria would stop appellant and he would return to his bed. sometimes during the night, appellant would wake maria up and force her to watch pornographic movies with him. maria testified appellant threatened to hurt her family, especially her mother, if she told anyone about what was occurring. when maria was in the third grade, appellant drove her to and from school in his van. maria recalled that on one occasion, appellant picked her up from school and drove rectum after she had tried to escape. this type of molestation occurred for about one year, two to four times a week. on other occasions, while they were alone at home, shower. maria eventually moved away with her mother and siblings. detective sandra kipp, the officer investigating this case, interviewed maria at her new home. maria was visibly upset and cried during the interview. detective kipp then 3 conducted an interview in spanish with appellant on april 15, 2010. appellant admitted touching maria inappropriately and sexually, beginning when maria was seven years old. he admitted to specific allegations and incidents and he concluded the interview by thing the amended information charged appellant with two counts: continuous sexual abuse of a child (pen. code,  288.5, subd. (a)) and lewd acts with a minor (pen. code,  288, subd. (a)). a hearing on the motion to suppress following a seven-day jury trial, appellant was convicted of continuous sexual abuse of a child in count 2. the court sentenced appellant to 12 years in prison and ordered appellant to register as a sex offender and to submit to aids testing under penal code section 1202.1. appellant filed a timely notice of appeal from the judgment. discussion i. the court did not err in denying the motio before this court appellant claims that the lower court erred in failing to suppress evidence of statements he made during his interview by police. appellant argues that the police continued to question him after he invoked his right to remain silent, and therefore the court should have excluded his statements. a. factual background at the start of the interview, detective kipp introduced herself, advised appellant of his miranda rights, and appellant stated that he understood his rights.1 detective kipp appellant responded that he did not know who was accusing him. after, detective kipp t do you want to talk about the reasons 1 detective kipp read appellant his miranda advisements in spanish. 4 ponse: abuse, i think, right? kipp: yes. name. want to talk? appellant: uh, yes/no, yes. kipp: yes? appellant: mhm. kipp: okay, just sign here saying that you understand your rights and you want to during the hearing on the motion to suppress, the court considered the argument language during the questioning. the court stated that the question asked by detective properly asked appellant additional questions to clarify whether he wanted to invoke his right to remain silent. further, the court noted that after the follow-up questions, appellant spoke with the detective and signed a written waiver of his miranda rights. b. analysis whether a suspect has invoked his right to counsel or right to remain silent is a question of fact to be determined in light of all the circumstances. (people v. musselwhite (1998) 17 cal.4th 1216, 1238.) in reviewing the admissibility of a statement 5 ght to remain silent, we choices among conflicting inferences, and its evaluations of witness credibility, provided that these findings are supported by substantial evidence. (people v. crittenden (1994) 9 cal.4th 83, 128.) however, we review independently, based on the undisputed facts and those properly found by the trial court, whether the challenged statements were legally obtained. (ibid.) th amendment privilege against self-incrimination, a person undergoing a custodial interrogation must first be advised of his right to remain silent, to people v. stitely (2005) 35 cal.4th 514, 535, citing miranda, supra, 384 u.s. at pp. 444, 467-473, 478-long as the suspect knowingly and intelligently waives these rights, the police are free to interrogate him. [citation.] however, if, at any point in the interview, the suspect invokes his rights, questioning must cease. [citations.] statements obtained in violation stitely, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 535.) miranda rights must be clear and unequivocal. in stitely, invoke the fifth amendment privilege after it has been waived, and in order to halt police unambiguously stitely, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 535, quoting davis v. united states (1994) 512 u.s. 452, 459.) the stitely a reasonable police officer to understand that the suspect might be invoking his rights. faced with an ambiguous or equivocal statement, law enforcement officers are not required under miranda, supra, 384 u.s. 436, either to ask clarifying questions or to cease questioning altogether. [citation.] of course, such an approach may disadvantage suspects who, for emotional or intellectual reasons, have difficulty expressing themselves. however, a rule requiring a clear invocation of rights from someone who has already received and waived them 6 stitely, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 535.) in stitely, defendant who had been advised of and then waived his miranda rights stitely, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 534.) upholding admission of the entire interview at trial, the supreme court held the defendant did not clearly and unambiguously invoke his miranda rights after he waived them. (stitely, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 536.) contrary to what appellant claims, appellant demonstrated that he understood each of his miranda rights and detective kipp then asked appellant if he wanted to discuss the reasons why he was arrested. appellant did not directly respond to the question and instead stated that he was not certain who was accusing him. detective kipp then attempted to follow-up by again asking clarifying questions to ascertain whether appellant was invoking his right to remain silent. the question detective kipp asked, which question he was answering. detective kipp then asked additional questions to determine whether appellant wanted to talk about the charges. rather than exercising his right to silence, appellant continued to inquire about who was accusing him. from the transcript of the interrogation it is clear that detective kipp asked several questions to determine whether appellant wanted to talk about the situation leading to his arrest. the questions were compound and confusing. appellant gave a number of ambiguous responses-- and also asked questions about the identity of his accusers. reviewing only the transcript, it does not appear that appellant unequivocally invoked his right to remain silent during the interrogation, and in fact subsequently acknowledged in writing that he understood his miranda rights and wanted to speak about the situation. there is no indication from the transcript that detective kipp engaged in coercive tactics or intentionally attempted to confuse or trick appellant to obtain a waiver of his miranda rights. the lower court had the benefit of 7 statements had been obtained in violation of his rights. based on the evidence before us 2 2 in rewas the product of a two-step custodial interrogation in which incriminating statements were elicited without a miranda waiver to coerce a confession. in missouri v. seibert (2004) 542 u.s. 600 (seibert), the police woke defendant at 3:00 in the morning, arrested her for murder, and took her to the police station. defendant was questioned for 30 to 40 minutes until she confessed. (id., at pp. 604-605.) after a short break, defendant was given miranda warnings, signed a waiver, and asked the same questions until she confessed again. (ibidmiranda warnings, thus resorting to an interrogation he had been id., at p. 606.) the supreme court held that the interrogation procedure did not comply with miranda id., at p. 604.) first, [and] render miranda warnings ineffective by waiting for a particularly opportune time to give them after the suspect had id., at p. 611.) the court stated the following factors should be miranda warnings delivered midstream could be effective to accomplish their object: the completeness and detail of the questions and answers in the first round of interrogation, the overlapping content of the two statements, the timing and setting of the first and the second [round of questions], the continuity of id., at p. 615.) seibert is inapposite because there was no deception, coercion, or coordinated interrogation strategy to extract a confession. appellant was questioned after receiving a complete miranda advisement. police did not engage in a two-step interrogation process here. detective kipp initially asked appellant identifying questions, such as identifying members of his family, past and present residences, work location, and prior arrest history. seibert concerned the admissibility of a second, repeated confession after the defendant had confessed and was then advised of miranda rights. from the record it is clear that detective kipp followed the requirements of miranda and did not question appellant about his arrest until appellant indicated that he wished to talk. this is not a case in which miranda warnings camissouri v. seibert, supra, 542 u.s. at pp. 613 & 615.) the trial court found, and we agree, the videotaped statement was voluntary and admissible. 8 ii. the trial court's aids testing order did not result in prejudicial error.3 penal code section 1202.1 requires the trial court to order dsubmit to a blood or oral mucosal transudate saliva test for evidence of antibodies to the probable causative agent of acquired immune deficiency syndrome (aids) within 180 (a).) among those designated are persons convicted of continuous sexual abuse of a child in violation of blood, semen, or any other bodily fluid capable of transmitting hiv has been transferred pen. code,  1202.1, subd. (e)(6)(b).) the trial court did not specifically articulate its reasons for the aids testing order on the record as it was required to do under penal code section 1202.1, subdivision (e)(6)(b). we conclude, however, that any error with respect to this matter is harmless. sodomy. on at least one occasion, appellant rubbed hsufficient evidence to support a finding of transfer of bodily fluid and to support an order 3 at the sentencing hearing, defense counsel failed to object to the order for aids testing. however, as the attorney general concedes, forfeiture principles do not apply to a claim of insufficient evidence to support a finding of probable cause to order aids testing under penal code section 1202.1, a point established by the california supreme people v. butler (2003) 31 cal.4th 1119. as stated in butler, defendant may challenge the sufficiency of the evidence even in the absence of an id. at p. 1123.) 9 did not result in prejudice requiring reversal of the order. disposition the judgment is affirmed. woods, acting p. j. we concur: zelon, j. jackson, j. 