filed 3/19/12 p. v. tolentino ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jojie tolentino, defendant and appellant. b230399 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka091974) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, robert m. martinez, judge. affirmed. heather l. beugen, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, marc a. kohm and kathy s. pomerantz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant, jojie tolentino, appeals the judgment entered following his conviction for resisting an executive officer and possession of methamphetamine, with great bodily injury and prior prison term enhancement findings (pen. code,  69, 12022.7, 667.5; health & saf. code,  11377).1 he was sentenced to state prison for a term of seven years, eight months. the judgment is affirmed. background viewed in accordance with the usual rule of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established the following. on september 18, 2010, deputy sheriff josue rodriguez was on patrol in rowland heights when he saw a silver bmw stalled on colima road. defendant tolentino, who was sitting in the car, said he had broken down and asked rodriguez to use his patrol car to push the bmw to the side of the road. rodriguez did so and then drove off. almost immediately, however, rodriguez realized he had failed to comply with drove back. tolentino, who was now standing alongside the car, seemed nervous; he was looking around and touching his waistband. his eyes looked like he was under the influence of a stimulant. rodriguez became concerned tolentino might have a weapon. have it. when rodriguez told tolentino to put his hands on the hood of the bmw, tolentino became belligerent and accused rodriguez of harassing him. rodriguez left hand. he tried to push tolentino up against the patrol car in order to control his 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 3 at this point, a pickup truck drove up and david hagopian, a retired police officer, jumped out and offered his assistance. rodriguez asked him to control ed rodriguez push him up against the patrol car. rodriguez ordered tolentino to put his hands behind his back, but tolentino refused and instead tried to move his arms to the front my vehicle and . . . i kept ordering him to put his hands behind his back, stop fighting, stop rodriguez kneed tolentino in the torso, below the armpit, and was then able to his back and put a handcuff on it. hagopian was move his right arm to the front of his body. rodriguez and hagopian finally rm behind his back and handcuffing it to this right arm. hagopian testified he saw rodriguez reach out to grab tolentino and tolentino pushed him up against the patrol car. all the while, tolentino was fighting with [rodriguez] was trying to hold him against the side of the car. he was having a 4 who had been sitting nearby in her parked car. she saw rodriguez extend his arm she then saw rodriguez try to restrain tolentino: away as the officer was pulling him by the shirt every which way, and i realized . . . [the] officer was not going to be able to hold the man down. can you describe what he was doing. ng back at times. at times trying . . . to run or lean forward. the officer had him by the scruff of the neck of the shirt, was trying to get him with his legs . . . trying to put him over the police car, and the defendant was struggling at all him. they both tried to subdue him. they were still having difficulty trying to get the handc after tolentino was finally restrained, rodriguez found he had a folding knife in his right pants pocket, and a bag containing 1.05 grams of methamphetamine in his left pants pocket. after the incident, rodriguez went to the hospital. his right ring finger had been dislocated and fractured in three places. he had first noticed the pain in his hand while he was handcuffing tolentinohagopian at the time. as a result of this injury, rodriguez wore a splint on his finger for three weeks and had to be assigned to light duty. 5 contentions 1. there was insufficient evidence to sustain the great bodily injury enhancement. 2. the trial court misinstructed the jury on the elements of the great bodily injury enhancement. discussion 1. for unlawfully attempting by violent means to prevent officer rodriguez from performing his duties, the jury found true a great bodily injury allegation ( 12022.7). tolentino contends the enhancement must be reversed because there was insufficient evidence he caused the injury. this claim is meritless. a. legal principles. is to review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidence that is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the federal standard of review is to the same effect: under principles of federal due process, review for sufficiency of evidence entails not the determination whether the reviewing court itself believes the evidence at trial establishes guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, but, instead, whether, after viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the standard of review is the same in cases in which the prosecution relies acquit a defendant if it finds that circumstantial evidence is susceptible of two interpretations, one of which suggests guilt and the other innocence [citations], it is the 6 findings, the opinion of the reviewing court that the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding does not warrant a reversal of the people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 11.) finder of fact] of the trial court can be set aside for the insufficiency of the evidence, it must clearly appear that on no hypothesis whatever is there sufficient substantial evidence to people v. sanghera (2006) perhaps the most fundamental rule of appellate law is that the judgment challenged on appeal is presumed correct, and burden to affirmatively demonstrate error. [citation.] thus, when a criminal defendant claims on appeal that his conviction was based on insufficient evidence of one or more of the elements of the crime of which he was convicted, we must begin with the presumption that the evidence of those elements was sufficient, and the defendant bears the burden of convincing us otherwise. to meet that burden, it is not s of the evidence, . . . [citation.] rather, he must affirmatively demonstrate that the evidence is ibid.) section 12022.7 provides for an enhancement in cases where the defendant people v. cole (1982) 31 cal.3d 568, our supreme ure intended the to (id. at p. 579.) cole among the several dictionary definitions of 7 ed. 1961).) no other expression could have more clearly and concisely expressed what we interpret to be the plain meaning of the legislature: that the individual accused of inflicting great bodily injury must be the person who directly acted to cause the injury. the choice of tnecessarily excludes those who may have aided or abetted the actor directly inflicting id. at p. 572.) case law has construed cole enhancement to apply, the defendant must be the direct, rather than proximate cause, people v. warwick (2010) 182 cal.app.4th 788, 793; see also people v. valenzuela that proof a defendant proximately caused great bodily injury does not constitute proof people v. rodriguez (1999) 69 take some direct action which proximately causes injur b. discussion. citing people v. cole, supra, 31 cal.3d 568, and people v. rodriguez, supra, 69 the direct cause of the injury as no one saw the injury occur, and rodriguez could not nothing more than that rodriguez had been injured at some point during the struggle and this was insufficient. but cole and rodriguez are clearly distinguishable from the facts of colehouse. when the victim was slow to respond to their orders, cole ordered his accomplice to kill the victim and the accomplice hit the victim in the head with a rifle. escape by pointing a gun at him. at trial, cole was convicted of robbery, burglary, and grand theft. the supreme court vacated a great bodily injury finding because legislature intended to impose an additional penalty for causing great bodily 8 injury only on those principals who perform the act that directly inflicts the injury, and that one who merely aids, abets, or directs another to inflict the physical injury is not people v. cole, supra, 31 cal.3d at p. 571.) in rodriguezpolice station to a jail. he escaped custody and began running away, instigating a bystander handed rodriguez a bicycle to aid in his escape. martin tackled rodriguez on the bicycle and both men fell to the ground. martin testified that during the tackle he hit his head, either on the ground, the concrete sidewalk, or the lamppost, and was people v. rodriguez, supra, 69 cal.app.4th at p. 346.) rodriguez in this case rodriguez did not initiate a struggle or any other physical contact with the officer. nor can we find (idevidence rodriguez proximately establish that rodriguez directly inflicted the injury. according to the record, rodriguez did not push, struggle or initiate any contact with the officer . . . . instead, the evidence shows that rodriguez was trying to escape arrest on a bicycle and the id. at p. 352.) thus, cole involved a defendant who had no physical contact whatsoever with the victim, and in rodriguez the officer injured himself when he tried to tackle a fleeing defendant who, before that moment, had not had any physical contact with the officer. here, on the other hand, tolentino had substantial physical contact with him, and it was during the ensuing struggle that rodriguez was injured. 9 the attorney general cites people v. guzman (2000) 77 cal.app.4th 761, as a more apposite case. there, guzman, while driving under the influence, made an unsafe turn and collided with another vehicle, injuring his passenger. on appeal, guzman challenged a great bodily injury enhancement on the ground he did not id. at p. 764.) the court of appeal rejected this claim, reasoning: ional act was the direct cause of the collision and therefore was the direct cause of the injury. appellant was not merely an accomplice. thus, appellant personally inflicted the injury on [his passenger]. . . . the 1995 amendment to section 12022.7 deleted the vehicle was involved in the collision is unavailing. more than one person may be found to have directly participated in inflicting a single injury. for example, in people v. dominick (1986) 182 cal.app.3d 1174, 1210-1211 . . . , the defendant who held the victim while a codefendant struck her was found directly responsible for the injury the victim suffered when she fell while pulling away. similarly, in people v. corona [(1989) 213 cal.app.3d 589, 594], the court held that the defendant could be punished with a great bodily injury enhancement when he participated in a group beating, although it was not possible to determine which assailant inflicted which injuries. [citation.] thus, the fact that the collision involved two vehicles does not people v. guzman, supra, 77 cal.app.4th at p. 764.) as in guzman, tolentino committed a volitional act by resisting and then fighting with deputy rodriguez. during the ensuing struggle, which apparently lasted ccurred when 10 tolentino hit the finger, rodriguez banged it against the patrol car, or hagopian crashed into it,2 tolentino was a direct cause of the injury. as guzman teaches, neither the accidental nature of the injury, nor the fact that more than one person may have participated in inflicting it, absolves tolentino of responsibility. guzman is inapposite because there was insufficient evidence to know precisely how rodriguez incurred his injury. that is, we do not think it makes any difference to the result in guzman came crashing down as a result of the collision. guzman and tolentino each personally inflicted the great bodily injury even if the injury was also the result of some concurrent cause. as our supreme court explained in people v. modiri (2006) 39 cal.4th 481, while construing the identisection 1192.7, subdivision (c)(8)3: , . . . does not mean exclusive ual or immediate presence or action of the individual framed this way, the requisite force must be one-to-one, but does not foreclose 2 this possibility can apparently be discounted. it was a fair inference from the evidence that hagopian, who was occupied with 3 section 1192.7, subdivision which the defendant personally inflicts great bodily injury on any person, other than an accomplice, or any felony in which the defendant personally uses a (italics added.) 11 participation by others. [] in . . necessarily implies that the defendant must act apeople v. modiri, supra, at cole stands for the modest proposition that a defendant personally inflicts great bodily harm only if there is a direct physical link between his own act id. at p. 495, italics added.) injury enhancement. 2. jury was not misinstructed on the great bodily injury enhancement. tolentino contends the trial court misinstructed the jury on the elements of the great bodily injury enhancement. this claim is meritless. a. background. the jury was given the following instruction with regard to the great bodily injury enhancement allegation: 1, you must then decide whether the people have proved the additional allegation that the defendant personally inflicted great bodily injury on j. rodriguez in the commission of that crime. you must decide whether the people have proved this allegation and return a separate finding. great bodily injury means significant or substantial physical injury. it is an injury that is greater than minor or moderate harm. violation of penal code section 69, is not by itself the infliction of great bodily injury. rodriguez may have caused his own injury and you cannot decide whether j. rodriguez or the defendant personally caused the injury, you may conclude that the defendant personally inflicted great bodily injury on j. rodriguez if the people have proved that: 12 rodriguez was sufficient to cause great bodily injury in combination with the force used by j. rodriguez in lawfully detaining or arresting the defendant. the defendant must have applied substantial force to j. rodriguez. if that force could not have caused or attributed [sic; contributed?] to the great bodily injury then it was not substantial. an act causes injury if the injury is the direct, natural, and probable consequence of the act and the injury would not have happened without the act. a natural and probable consequence is one that a reasonable person would know is likely to happen if nothing unusual intervenes. circumstances established by the evidence. a substantial factor in causing the injury. a substantial factor is one that is more than [a] trivial or remote factor; however, it does not have to be the only factor that causes the injury. the people have the burden of proving this allegation beyond a reasonable doubt. if the people have not met this burden, you must find the allegation has not been proved. b. discussion. tolentino argues these instructions were erroneous because they allowed a finding he personally inflicted the injury even if the jury could not decide whether he or rodriguez had actually caused it. however, as discussed ante, this was correct. defendant may . . . be criminally liable for a result directly caused by his or her criminal law 3d ed. 2000) elements,  37, p. 243; see e.g., people v. ross (1979) 92 concurring causes contribute to the fatal result, one may be criminally liable by reason of his own conduct which directly contributes to 13 tolentino argues the instructions were erroneous because they facts of this case, a case involving a single defendant, not several assailants who each threw at least one blow to the victim which collectively caused the victim great bodily causation, a principle which applied here. and that is why people v. guzman, supra, 77 cal.app.4th at p. 764, cited a group assault case, people v. corona, supra, 213 cal.app.3d 589, in support of its conclusion that guzman was liable for having collision id cole has logical application with regard to the section 12022.7 culpability of an aider and abettor who strikes no blow, it makes no sense when applied to a group finally, citing people v. rodriguez, supra, 69 cal.app.4th 341, tolentino arrodriguez, the instruction in this case is wrong because it allowed jurors to find that mr. tolentino personally inflicted great bodily injury if they found him to be a rodriguez was that the jury was only given a proximate cause instruction, and therefore was able to find the did not push, stid. at p. 352.) the pertinent portions of the jury instruction in rodriguez were the following: [an] act or acts that cause the physical injury. to prove personal infliction, the people need not prove that the defendant intended to cause the great bodily injury, but only conduct. . . . [] . . . to constitute the personal infliction of great bodily injury there must be in addition to the injury an unlawful act which was a cause of such injury. [] criminal law has its own particular way of defining cause. a cause of injury is an act 14 that sets in motion a chain of events that proceed [sic] a direct, natural and possible (people v. rodriguez, supra, 69 cal.app.4th at pp. 346-347.) noting this was not a standard caljic instruction, but had been drafted by the prosecutor, rodriguez means to directly perform an act that causes injury and then expressly defines cause as proximate cause. the problem with the instruction is that the definition of cause is injury, not just to proximately cause it. the instruction was wrong because it allowed people v. rodriguez, supra, 69 cal.app.4th at pp. 347-348.) and although the attorney general agrees with tolentino that the instructions here made the same mistake,4 we find otherwise. what happened in rodriguez could not have happened here because tolentinboth a proximate cause requirement and a substantial physical force requirement. the instructions said and that physical force that [tolentino] used on [the officer] was sufficient to cause great bodily injury in combination with the force used by [the officer] in lawfully detaining found the great bodily injury allegation true had the facts been similar to the facts in rodriguez. hence, we conclude there was no instructional error in this case. 4 instruction in rodriguez said that proximate causation was all that was required for a true finding on the great bodily injury enhancement . 15 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: kitching, j. aldrich, j. 