filed 6/28/12 p. v. jahina ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. michael a. jahina, defendant and appellant. b230042 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba364516) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. gail ruderman feuer, judge. affirmed. william j. kopeny for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr. and robert c. schneider, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________________ 2 michael alexander jahina appeals from his conviction of one count of offering false evidence. we affirm. facts and proceedings below jahina wrecked his 2003 porsche boxster and decided to use the insurance money to convert the boxster into a more prestigious porsche carerra gt3. jahina contracted with los angeles dismantlers for porsches (ladp) to purchase the necessary parts. the boxster and the parts were delivered to a body shop that made the conversion. soon after he picked up his converted porsche, jahina filed a complaint against ladp with the california bureau of automotive repair (b.a.r.). jahina told the b.a.r. done to his vehicle which included repairing the vehicle with new [original equipment instead, jahina claimed, ladp sold him a mix of new and used parts. in support of his complaint jahina furnished coble with an email, purportedly sent to him by ladp, which stated that all parts sold to him would be factory new and an invoice listing the getting new parts[.] police officer assigned to conduct computer forensic investigations discovered that the email jahina submitted to the b.a.r. had been altered. language had been added stating: loyee who wrote and sent the original email, testified that he did not include the language about all new factory parts and the email did not contain that language when he sent it to jahina. to the contrary, chinchilla stated, he specifically told jahina that he was selling parts sold to jahina, that jahina submitted to coble, had been altered. 3 a jury convicted jahina of one count of offering false evidence in an investigation authorized by law. (pen. code  132)1 the court placed him on three years probation on the condition, among others, that he pay restitution to ladp in the amount of $52,519.80. jahina filed a timely appeal. discussion i. rted by substantial evidence. jahina argues that his conviction is not supported by substantial evidence because offered the altered email and invoice to the b.a.r.; (2) the prosecution produced no evidence to show that the alleged altered documents pertained to any material issue under investigation by the b.a.r.; and (3) the prosecution did not produce evidence that jahina personally altered the documents. none of these arguments have merit. investigation whatever, authorized or permitted by law, offers in evidence, as genuine or true, any book, paper, document, record, or other instrument in writing, knowing the same to have been forged or fraudulently altered or ante- in the terms of an the evidence that jahina or someone on his behalf changed the terms of the email and criminal or administrative charges against ladp based on a false accusation. inew parts for his porschethe claim coble, the b.a.r. investigator, testified was the 1 all statutory references are to the penal code. 4 repair. those aspects were totally irrelevant to the question whether jahina knowingly submitted fraudulently altered documents to the b.a.r. in connection with jacomplaint that ladp had promised him all new parts and sold him some used parts. finally, there is no requirement in section 132 that the person who knowingly offers fraudulently altered documents must be the person who fraudulently altered them. ii. the court did not err in failing to instruct the jahina next argues that the court erred in not instructing the jury on the meaning of .2 we a proceeding, inquiry, or inveof words commonly understood by those familiar with the english language. those terms needed clarification he had to make a request. his failure to do so forfeits the issue on appeal. (people v. rundle (2008) 43 cal.4th 76, 151.) 2 he provides no argument and citation of authorities on this point so it is waived. (people v. stanley (1995) 10 cal.4th 764, 793.) 5 iii. the court did not err in instructing the jury that the prosecution was not required to prove jahina had a motive to commit the crime charged. erred in giving this instruction because it is inconsistent with the instruction the people reason a person chooses to commit a crime, e.g. to impress someone, to get revenge against someone. deceive. (people v. hillhouse (2002) 27 cal.4th 469, 503-504.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. rothschild, acting p. j. we concur: chaney, j. johnson, j. 