filed 9/14/12 p. v. ortiz ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. efrain ortiz, defendant and appellant. b230181 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba362218) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, sam ohta, judge. affirmed. kimberly howland meyer, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., supervising deputy attorney general, stephanie a. miyoshi, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury convicted defendant and appellant efrain ortiz of second degree robbery (pen. code,  2111) and found true the allegations that he personally used a firearm in the commission of the robbery within the meaning of sections 12022.5, subdivisions (a) and (d) and 12022.53, subdivision (b). the trial court sentenced defendant to state prison for 12 years. on appeal, defendant contends that the trial court erred in coercing him to withdraw his motion for mistrial and in failing to declare a mistrial, in denying his motion for new trial, and in denying his request to conduct further inquiry into his claim of juror misconduct. we affirm. background during the evening of august 29, 2009, richard mayerik, alex oligny, and andrea kistler were en route to the bigfoot lodge on los feliz boulevard. they parked, and walked on glenfeliz avenue toward los feliz boulevard. a man approached them from behind and told mayerik to hand over his wallet. mayerik turned around and saw defendant holding a gun. defendant was not wearing a mask and made no effort to hide or disguise his face. defendant stood about five feet from mayerik and asked him also to hand over his cell phone. mayerik gave his wallet and cell phone to defendant. defendant told mayerik, oligny, and kistler to turn around and walk away. they the area, they noticed a los angeles police department or california highway patrol officer performing a traffic stop. mayerik contacted the officer and reported the robbery. the officer called for a second unit to take statements from mayerik and his companions. when the second unit arrived, mayerik described the robber to the investigating officer as a very large hispanic male who had a short, cropped hairstyle and no facial hair -shirt and dark jeans. kistler described the robber as being tall and big with short, dark hair. 1 all statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 3 kistler said the robber wore a hat and may have said that he had facial hair. later, kistler told a los angeles police department detective that the robber was very fat and probably weighed around 300 pounds. kistler testified at trial that she was uncertain of the an hispanic male who was over six feet tall and was very large, weighing over 300 pounds. oligny said that the robber wore a baggy white t-shirt and baggy denim bottoms. oligny believed that she did not tell the officer that the robber had a moustache, and was 95 percent certain that the robber did not have a moustache. the investigative repmayerik, oligny, and kistler did not recall telling the investigating officer that the robber weighed 200 pounds. when defendant was arrested, he told the police that he weighed 415 pounds. christopher guerra knew defendant and testified in his defense. guerra testified that he saw defendant in a recreation center parking lot about 6:30 p.m. on august 29, 2009. defendant was wearing a t-shirt and gray basketball shorts. defendant had a moustache. liza ortiz2-in-law, testified that defendant lived with his brother and her at the time of the robbery. defendant slept in the living room. liza believed that defendant weighed at least 450 pounds at that time, and testified that defendant always had a mustache. on august 29, 2009, liza arrived home about 6:00 p.m. and remained there the rest of the night. at some point, liza and her husband fell asleep. sometime between 9:30 p.m. and 11:00 wake them up. liza spoke with defendant and then watched the 11:00 p.m. news in the living room. defendant fell asleep during the news. liza continued to watch t.v. until 2:00 a.m. defendant remained in the living room while liza watched t.v. liza woke up 2 because she has the same last name as defendant, we r 4 about 10:30 a.m. the next morning. defendant was still asleep. defendant did not leave the apartment until 4:00 p.m. that day. discussion i. motion for mistrial defendant contends that the trial court should have granted his motion for mistrial. the trial court abused its discretion, defendant contends, when it failed to rule on his motion and instead coerced him into withdrawing his motion by proposing to interview the jurors to determine if they had been prejudiced by the introduction of certain inadmissible testimony. because defendant withdrew his motion for mistrial, he has forfeited review of this issue. a. background prior to the presentation of evidence, the prosecutor moved, under evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b), to introduce evidence that defendant had been arrested on november 26, 2005, for possession of a firearm in the same general area as the robbery. the trial court denied the motion. during direct examination, los angeles police department detective brian miyakawa testified that seneca avenue was within a mile of los feliz boulevard and glenfeliz avenue. the prosecutor asked the detective if he knew where defendant lived at the time of the investiduring other investigations, his documented residence address wasthe trial court sustained the objection, finding the testimony irrelevant. establish that defendant lived in the area where the robbery took place. the trial court told the prosecutor to ask detective miyakawa if defendant lived near the area where the robbery took place. 5 counsel moved focourt observed, would highlight the issue to the jurors. the trial court stated it would have to ask the jurors if they could disregard the testimony, and would instruct them to disregard it. defense counsel stated that he did not want to bring more attention to the issue trial court responded that it could not grant a mistrial without determining if there was the trial court stated that the record should reflect that defense counsel discussed the motion for mistrial with defendant. defense counsel agreed. the trial court asked defendant if he understood the issue and asked defendant to inform the court how he would like to proceed. defendant stated that he understood. the trial court said that fendant tated that he understood. the trial court explained to defendant that defense counsel had asked for a mistrial, but that the trial court could not declare a mistrial without determining whether the ourt could not determine prejudice without speaking to the jurors, which would highlight an issue the jurors might have forgotten. defendant stated that he understood the potential negative side effect of the jury inquiry. 6 the trial court explained to defendant that if the jurors all said that they could point, however, the jurors would have heard twice that defendant had been investigated. the trial court explained that that was the issue with which defense counsel was dealing. the trial court asked defense counsel to discuss the issue with defendant. defendant said, my residence, it b. defendant forfeited review of this issue by withdrawing his motion for mistrial mistrial when he voluntarily withdrew the motion. (see cardenas v. superior court have allowed the trial to proceed and would have amounted to a waiver of any claim of prejudice from the incident by petitioner thereafter, either on appeal or on motion for a people v. boyd (1972) 22 cal.app.3d 714, 719 [same]; see also people v. jones (2003) 29 cal.4th 1229, 1255 [express withdrawal of objection to the admission of evidence relating to prior crimes waived issue on appeal].) here, the trial court asked defendant if he wanted to proceed with his mistrial motion. defendant said, mistrial motion because he was withdrawing the motion. defense counsel responded, tion for mistrial and, in doing so, has forfeited review of this issue. defendant contends that we should disregard his withdrawal of the motion for mistrial because it was impermissibly coerced by the manner in which the trial court 7 proposed to determine stated it would have to ask the jurors if they could disregard the testimony, and would instruct them to disregard it. defendant contends that such proposed inquires forced him to withdraw his motion for mistrial because they would have exacerbated the prejudice incurable by admonition or instruction. [citation.] whether a particular incident is incurably prejudicial is by its nature a speculative matter, and the trial court is vested with people v. jenkins (2000) 22 cal.4th 900, 985-ony made only a address. the detective did not say that defendant was the subject of, or explain the nature of, those investigations, although the jurors reasonably could have inferred that defendant was the subject of prior criminal investigations. because the trial court was to grant a mistrial only if it found prejudice that was incurable by admonition or instruction, it properly proposed to inquire of the jurors what they understood the statement to mean and whether they could ignore the statement. (ibid.inquiries of the jury were appropriate and did not amount to impermissible coercion, we al of his motion for mistrial. ii. motion for new trial defendant contends that the trial court erred in denying his new trial motion based on juror misconduct. according to defendant, the jury impermissibly considered his 8 a. background testify. he or she may rely on the state of the evidence and argue that the people have failed to prove the charges beyond a reasonable doubt. do not consider, for any reason at all, the fact that the defendant did not testify. do not discuss that fact during your deliberations or let it influence your decisi after his conviction, defendant filed a motion for new trial based in part on juror misconduct. relying on a declaration from a juror filed in support of the motion, defendant contended that the jurors committed misconduct by discussing wondered to take it into account as to whether he was truthful if the defendant did take the the trial court found that the jury committed misconduct by discussing ation showed that defendant did not suffer prejudice from the misconduct. the trial court defendant was truthful if he testified showed that the jurors understood that they could t no adverse inference had been drawn by his failure to testify. 9 investigations, the trial court appears to have found no juror misconduct. the trial court she did not recall the jurors discussing prior investigations of the defendant did not support a finding of misconduct. the trial court further found that there was no showing of prejudice. the trial court denied the new trial motion. b. standard of review conflicts in the evidence, to assess the credibility of the declarants, and to evaluate the people v. cumpian (1991) 1 findings on (people v. nesler (1997) 16 cal.4th 561, 582.) an appellate court reviews de novo whether there was misconduct. (people v. cumpian, supra, 1 cal.app.4th at p. 311.) hether prejudice arose from juror misconduct . . . is a mixed question of law and fact people v. avila (2009) 46 cal.4th 680, 726-727.) c. application of relevant principles 1. people v. leonard (2007) 40 cal.4th 1370, 1425.) such (ibid.) 10 substantial evidence supports the tpeople v. nesler, supra, 16 cal.4th at p. 582.) the trial failure to testify. (people v. leonard, supra, 40 cal.4th at p. 1425.) defendant was not likelihood that defendant suffered actual harm. (ibid.failure to testify. (ibid. testify is to prevent the jury from drawing adverse inferences (people v. loker people v. avila, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 727 tetruthfulness if he had testified demonstrated that she understood that evidence concerning was not such evidence. 2. a jury does not commit misconduct if it considers inadmissible evidence it has inadvertently been provided. (people v. gamache (2010) 48 cal.4th 347, 397-398.) the id. at p. 398; people v. clair (1992) 2 cal.4th 629, 665, 667-668 [consideration by the jury of an 11 the court clerk had inadvertently provided to the jury and portions of which had been excluded as irrelevant and unduly prejudicial, was ordinary error and not misconduct].) testimony concerning defendant and prior investigations. defense counsel objected to the testmotion for mistrial, the trial court stated that if defendant proceeded with his motion, it mony. previously lived with his parents in a location apparently near the scene of the crime. motion for mistrial. even assuming the jury discussed detective miyaanalogous to the discussion of inadvertently provided inadmissible evidence, the consideration of which involves ordinary error and not misconduct. (see people v. gamache, supra, 48 cal.4th at pp. 397-398; people v. clair, supra, 2 cal.4th at pp. 665, 667-668 iii. investigation of juror misconduct defendant contends that the trial court abused its discretion when it denied his petition for release of personal juror identifying information so that he could investigate juror misconduct and when it failed to conduct its own investigation of juror misconduct in connection with his motion for new trial. the trial court acted within its discretion. a. background following his conviction, defendant filed a petition under code of civil procedure section 237 for the release of personal juror identifying information. defendant contended that such information should have been released so that he could assess the 12 impacwith defendant from prior investigations. the trial court denied the petition, finding that defendant had not shown misconduct by any of the jurors defendant filed a motion to reconsider his request for the release of personal juror identifying information.3 the motion apparently was based on a declaration from a defense investigator concerning conversations he had with two jurors. the investigator reportedly stated in his dhistory and his failure to testify. defendant sought access to the all of the jurors to the motion establish prejudice to defendant, and defendant had the identity and cooperation of two jurors whose declarations could be used as the basis for a new trial motion. the trial court stated that defendant could file another petition for the release of personal jury identifying information if he believed he could present additional information justifying disclosure. defendant suggested that he would obtain juror affidavits. thereafter, defendant filed his motion for new trial to which he attached the juror defendant did not renew his request for the release of personal juror identifying information. b. standard of review for access to personal juror identifying information under the deferential abuse of discretion standard. (people v. carrasco (2008) 163 cal.app.4th 978, 991.) 3 the record on appeal does not contain a copy of the motion. 13 c. application of relevant principles may . . . petition the court for access to personal juror identifying information within the subd. (g).) (code civ. proc.,  237, subd. (b).) a defendant establishes good cause for the release of people v. rhodes (1989) 212 cal.app.3d 541, 552.) influenced the people v. jefflo (1998) 63 cal.app.4th 1314, 1322, quoting evid. code,  1150, subd. (a).) found that defendant showed that the jury committed misconduct. that being so, defendant did not need juror identifying information to establish misconduct. as for prejudice, defendant had personal identifying information for two jurors. those jurors release of personal juror identifying information. defendant submitted a declaration from one of the two jurors with his motion for new trial based on juror misconduct. the juror whose declaration defendant submitted provided no information that any juror improperly statement tt personal juror identifying information or to conduct its own investigation of juror 14 misconduct. (code civ. proc.  206, subd. (g) & 237, subd. (b); people v. rhodes, supra, 212 cal.app.3d at p. 552; people v. jefflo, supra, 63 cal.app.4th at p. 1322.) aration stated which defendant objected concerned prior investigations. accordingly, because defendant failed to make a showing of good cause for access to personal juror identifying or in not conducting its own investigation of juror misconduct. (code civ. proc.  206, subd. (g) & 237, subd. (b); people v. rhodes, supra, 212 cal.app.3d at p. 552; people v. jefflo, supra, 63 cal.app.4th at p. 1322.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. mosk, j. we concur: turner, p. j. armstrong, j. 