filed 3/19/12 p. v. delatorre ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. carlos delatorre, defendant and appellant. b230591 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va112243 ) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, phillip h. hickok, judge. affirmed. paul richard peters; and lawrence r. young for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and stacy s. schwartz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________ 2 defendant and appellant, carlos delatorre, appeals the judgment entered following his conviction for two counts of forcible lewd act on a child, and two counts of forcible oral copulation, with a finding the crimes involved multiple victims (pen. code,  288, subd. (b)(1), 288a, subd. (c)(2), 667.61).1 he was sentenced to state prison for a term of 100 years to life. the judgment is affirmed. background viewed in accordance with the usual rule of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established the following. 1. prosecution evidence. d.p. testified that in 1999 he had his hair cut by defendant delatorre, who owned carlos hair salon in bellflower. at the time, d.p. was 13 years old. delatorre did not charge for the haircuts and he gave d.p. free hair products and services. during the occasion, delatorre took d.p. into the back of the salon and orally copulated him. d.p. did. d.p. was not cooperative with the police during the early stages of the investigation because he was embarrassed. at one point he even lied to the police by having stolen any money from delatorre. r.s. 1999 when they walked home from school. at the time, r.s. was 13 years old. when 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 3 services and produclothing. one day, delatorre told r.s. and d.p. they owed him for the hair products he had given them. he locked the boys inside the salon and threatened to tell the police they had stolen from him. delatorre then took d.p. into a back room. twenty minutes later, d.p. into the back room and told him to pull his pants down. r.s. heard delatorre squeezing lubricant out of a bottle and felt him apply it to his anus. delatorre then penetrated r.s. ween them. he masturbated and orally copulated them. delatorre threatened to hurt them if they told anyone. r.s. never returned to the salon. r.s. testified he was sexually attracted to girls, not boys, when he was 13. he never kissed or fondled another boy in front of delatorre. he waited ten years to report the abuse, but ultimately felt compelled to do so because he knew delatorre was detective scott mccormick of the los angeles . . fingers, and . . admitted locking the doors of 2. defense evidence. delatorre testified he recalled r.s. and d.p. coming to his salon in 1999, and that he gave them sometimes stole his money. 4 delatorre denied ever having had any sexual contact with r.s. he lied to the police about engaging in a sexual act with r.s. because he felt pressured and intimidated during the police interview. delatorre admitted having masturbated d.p. one time at the salon. delatorre day that he told me to put my hand o delatorre believed d.p. was 14 or 15 years old at the time. the salon door was locked when this incident occurred, but that was only because it was after the shop had closed for the day. delatorre denied pressuring d.p. to engage in sex. delatorre falsely told the police he and d.p. had engaged in anal sex because he was intimidated by detective dennis blackstock. several witnesses testified they had known delatorre for many years and considered him honest and truthful. salon during 1999 from 10:00 a.m. until 6:00 p.m. she denied having ever seen d.p. or r.s. there. 3. rebuttal evidence. detective mccormick testified he had interviewed delatorre before detective blackstock interviewed him. delatorre initially denied there had been any sexual activity the following day that delatorre admitted having had anal intercourse with d.p. and having sexually touched r.s. delatorre admit 5 contentions 2. there was ineffective assistance of counsel. discussion 1. ce statements were properly admitted. delatorre contends his convictions must be reversed because the trial court improperly admitted inculpatory statements he made during his police interviews. this claim is meritless. a. background. delatorre moved to suppress the inculpatory statements he made to the police on two grounds: he had not been given a miranda2 warning at the beginning of detective either detective. at an evidentiary hearing, mccormick testified he interviewed delatorre in english. at the beginning of the interview they were just speaking casually and mccormick was only trying to establish a rapport with delatorre. but when their conversation turned to the child molesting accusations, mccormick realized he had forgotten to give delatorre a miranda realized i had forgotten to miranda. miranda denied having deliberately delayed the miranda advisement until delatorre made inculpatory statements. mccormick testified delatorre appeared to understand everything mccormick was saying. mccormick, who does not speak spanish, testified that if, at any point, he 2 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 [86 s.ct. 1602]. 6 interview and gotten the 3 miranda rights. you said that you felt comfortable speaking to him in english, right? the trial court suppressed the portion of conducted prior to the miranda warning, but admitted the remainder. b. miranda warning. delatorre contends that, in addition to his pre-miranda statements, the subsequent statements he made to detective mccormick as well as all the statements he made to detective blackstock the following day should have been suppressed because they were tainted by the miranda violation. not so. oregon v. elstad (1985) 470 u.s. 298 [105 s.ct. 1285, 84 l.ed.2d 222] (elstadin custody, made pursuant to a waiver of miranda rights, was nonetheless inadmissible because it followed an earlier incriminating statement obtained by custodial questioning without a miranda warning. finding that the subsequent statement need not be excluded, the elstad majority held that (1) a miranda violation does not require full application of 3 nding an me versus going through an interpreter. if i believe that they are not going to understand 7 the . . (2) instead, if an unwarned custodial statement was otherwise voluntary, a later statement must be deemed untainted if also voluntary and in compliance with miranda; and (3) in determining whethpeople v. storm (2002) 28 cal.4th 1007, 1028-1029.) tects against compelled testimonial self-incrimination. miranda and its progeny are designed to allow full understanding and exercise of this constitutional right in the inherently custodial to administer miranda warnings does not mean that the statements received have actually been coerced, but only that courts will presume the privilege against compulsory self-incrimination has not been thus, such statements must be excluded otherwise voluntary [citation.] [] but it does not follow that the fruits statement are invariably tainted and inadmipeople v. storm, supra, 28 cal.4th at p. 1029.) miranda warning was given and that it was waiver of the right to remain silentberghuis v. thompkins (2010) 130 s.ct. 2250, individual who, with a full understanding of his or her rights, acts in a manner inconsistent with their exercise has made a deliberate choice to relinquish the protection ibidmiranda rule and its requirements are met if a suspect receives adequate miranda warnings, understands them, and has an opportunity to invoke the rights befoid. at p. 2263.) delatorre made no showing at the evidentiary hearing that any of his admissions had been tainted by the delayed miranda warning. delatorre did not testify at the 8 hearing. indeed, he did not even ask the trial court to make a finding that any of his statements had been coerced. delatorre merely asked the trial court to exclude his pre-miranda statements, which the trial court did. in essence, the coercion issue has been waived. (see people v. ray motion or argued at the hearing. as a result, the parties had no incentive to fully litigate this theory below, and the trial court had no opportunity to resolve material factual disputes and make necessary factual findings. under such circumstances, a claim of people v. clark (1993) 5 cal.4th 950, 988, fn. 13, disapproved on another ground in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22 [where defendant did not, at the suppression hearing, allege coercive police questioning he could not raise the issue on appeal].) delatorre also argues the delayed miranda warning constituted the kind of -missouri v. seibert (2004) 542 u.s. 600 (124 s.ct. 2601).4 not so. seibert condemned an interrogation tactic in which a suspect is intentionally interrogated without a miranda warning in the hope incriminating statements will be made. if they are, miranda is then given and the interrogation continues with the aim of re-custodial interrogation that calls for giving no warnings of the rights to silence and counsel until interrogation has produced a confession.[5] although such a statement is 4 . . that he forgot to give the warning at the beginning. the question then becomes, should [the] police be aided by the failuable to use any admissions that a defendant provides them afterward. clearly, anything 5 the police officer in seibert withhold miranda warnings, thus resorting to an interrogation technique he had been e 9 generally inadmissible, since taken in violation of miranda . . . , the interrogating officer follows it with miranda warnings and then leads the suspect to cover the same ground a second time. the question here is the admissibility of the repeated statement. because this midstream recitation of warnings after interrogation and unwarned confession could not effectively comply with mirandamissouri v. seibert, supra, 542 u.s. at p. 604.) as the attorney general points out, however, the situation here is quite unlike seibert because detective mccormick testified his miranda advisement had been delayed unintentionally [because it was] also voluntary and in compliance with mirandapeople v. storm, supra, 28 cal.4th at pp. 1028-1029), the trial court was not required to suppress any more c. interpreter. delatorre contends all of his police statements should have been suppressed because, even after telling the detectives he was more comfortable speaking spanish, they gave him the miranda warnings in english, which violated his right to an interpreter under the california constitution. this claim is meritless. -english-speaking criminal defendants the distinct it i,  14.) the provision was adopted in 1974. prior to enactment of this constitutional missouri v. seibert, supra, 542 u.s. at pp. 605-606.) 10 appointment of an interpreter was required as a matter of due process. [] in the past, trial cour[citations.] nothing in the new constitutional provision changes this well established requirement of a finding of necessity by the trial court. indeed, the provision specifically i,  14.) prior to the right being spelled out in the need was deemed violative of fundamental fairness and sometimes required reversal of people v. carreon (1984) 151 cal.app.3d 559, 566-567.) was not part of a judicial proceeding. (see people v. gutierrez (1986) 177 cal.app.3d 92, 100 [cal. const., art. i,  14, did not apply to probation interview for presentence event, delatorre failed to carry his burden of demonstrating he could not understand english. harged with a crime to understand english is being evaluated at the outset of the proceedings, the burden is on the accused to show that his understanding of english is not sufficient to allow him to understand the nature of the proceedings and to intelligin re raymundo b. (1988) he demand an interpreter. while the fact that the person who has been charged with a crime states that he does not understand english and requests an interpreter on that basis may be some evidence of the fact that the charged individual does not understand english, it c(idprior proceedings was just one factor to be evaluated. as long as there was other 11 evidence before the lower court that indicated the defendant did, in fact, understand english, a decision of the lower court denying the appointment of an interpreter will be idid. at p. 1452.) hence, delatorre was not entitled to an interpreter merely because he requested one, nor is the fact an interpreter was subsequently used at trial dispositive. there was certainly evidence in the record showing delatorre did not need an interpreter. upon the conversation i was having with him. he clearly appeared to understand me. he answered my questions in an appropriate manner, he asked appropriate questions of testified delatorre said he understood english, although he was more comfortable speaking spanish. moreover, the definitive evidence on this point might well have been the transcripts of the police interviews, but delatorre has failed to make these transcripts part of the appellate record. (see people v. akins (2005) 128 it is axiomatic that it is the burden of the appellant to provide an adequate record to permit review of a claimed error, and failure to do so may be deemed a waiver of the issue on .) burden of demonstrating that he failed to understand english to such an extent as to trigger the 2. delatorre was not denied effective assistance of counsel. delatorre contends he was denied the effective assistance of counsel at trial. this claim is meritless. a. legal principles. that counsel guaranteed the defendant by the sixth amendment. second, the defendant must show 12 that the deficient performance prejudiced the defense. this requires showing that were so serious as to deprive the defendant of a fair trial, a trial whose .] a reasonable probability is a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the williams v. taylor (2000) 529 u.s. 362, 390-burden of proof that the defendant must meet in order to establish his entitlement to relief on an ineffective-assistance claim is preponderance of the evidencepeople v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d 171, 218.) challenged manner, we must reject the claim on appeal unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or there could be no satisfactory explanation for people v. castillo (1997) 16 cal.4th 1009, 1015.) before examining the prejudice suffered by the defendant as a result of the alleged strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 697.) tactical choice within the range of reasonable competence, we have held that the people v. bunyard (1988) 45 cal.3d 1189, 1215; see people v. mitcham (1992) 1 cal.4th 1027, 1059 [decision whether to put on witnesses ] of trial tactics and strategy which a reviewing court generally may not second-poor, or that the case might have been handled more effectively. [citations.] [] rather, the defendant must affirmatively show that the omissions of defense counsel involved a critical issue, and that the omissions cannot be explained on the basis of any people v. floyd (1970) 1 cal.3d 694, 709, disapproved on other grounds by people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258, 287, fn. 36.) 13 b. delatorre contends defense counsel was ineffective for failing to object when the this claim is meritless. during introductory remarks to the jury before opening statements or the taking of any evidence, the trial court read the criminal information which had been filed against delatorre has pled not guilty. he says, sufficient amount of evidence that can be produced to convince you that he is guilty, or to convince you that he is not guilty of these crimdefendant had some burden to prove his own innocence. true burden of proof was thereafter correctly and thoroughly explained to the jury both in the and at the close of trial when the court formally read out the official jury instructions. immediately following its erroneous statement, the trial court went on to say: have a federal, and we have a state constitution which guarantees to all of you, to all of us, certain rights. one of those rights is the right to have a jury trial if . . f a crime, the entitled to come in here and have a jury decide if there is enough evidence to find you guilty. [] mr. delatorre is here for that reason. there are other rights he has, and you have, too. and his attorney can sit here and do crossword puzzles, or read the newspaper throughout the reason for this is that the district attorney, the people, they have a burden of proving the guilt [of] mr. delatorre. not only do they 14 have the burden of bringing in evidence showing his guilt, they have to bring in so much evidence that you are convinced beyond a reasonable doubt that he did, in fact, commit then, at the close of all the evidence, the trial court instructed the jury with calcrim no. 220, the standard instruction explaining the concept of reasonable doubt. the charge is true. you must not be biased against the defendant just because he has been arrested, charged with a crime, or brought to trial. [] a defendant in a criminal case is presumed to be innocent. this presumption requires that the people prove a defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. whenever i tell you the people must prove something, i mean they must prove it beyond a reasonable doubt. [] proof beyond a reasonable doubt is proof that leaves you with an abiding conviction that the charge is true. the evidence need not eliminate all possible doubt because everything in life is open to some possible or imaginary doubt. [] in deciding whether the people have proved their case beyond a reasonable doubt, you must impartially compare and consider all the evidence that was received throughout the entire trial. unless the evidence proves the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, he is entitled to an acquittal and you must find him not guilty it is true that prejudicial error has sometimes been found when a trial court offers ee, e.g., people v. johnson (2004) 115 cal.app.4th 1169, 1172 [reversal a deliberative process to the depth required of jurors[,] or that such people finalize their plans only after persuading themselves that they have an abiding conviction of the was not trying to clarify the meaning of reasonable doubt. rather, it was merely making general, introductory remarks about the forthcoming trial, and the remarks it made immediately thereafter clearly informed the jurors that delatorre was not required to prove anything. moreover, when it delivered the actual jury instructions, the trial court 15 emendation or commentary. because there could have been no resulting prejudice, this ineffective assistance of counsel claim fails. c. opening statement errors. delatorre contends defense counsel was ineffective because some of the remarks during his opening statement to the jury served only to prejudice the defense. this claim is meritless. (1) admitting the molestations occurred. delatorre argues defense counsel admitted acts of child molestation did take place m[.], she was an adult, . . [a]pparently [r.s.] told debbie m[.] about this, abouyet . . hear testimony that he told ms. but as the attorney general points out, defense counsel did not make any preliminary hearing testimony. (2) multiple victims. similarly, delatorre complains defense counsel alerted the jury to the fact there is r.s. ultimately . . he was having, whether it be psychiatric, or psychological, or emotional, or mental problems he will describe for you. and he then, in some way, had contact with police as an adult. he indicated what had happened to him, and described that they should contact mind of the jury that there were two victims and thus, the defendant would be shown to be guilty of [the multiple victim enhancement set forth in] section 16 again, no admissions were made. defense counsel was merely describing how the case had first been brought to the attention of the police. moreover, the jury had been charged with molesting two victims. (3) r l hear that when the police interviewed mr. delatorre with, mr. delatorre talked about the fact that he has a hard time. he can speak it, but he has a hard time understanof his interview he talks about the fact that he indicated to detective mccormick that spanish was his primary language, and that he said he would better understand the interview if it was done in spanish. he would feel more comfortable if the interview was spanish, it was done in english. so this interview that includes these admission or confessions by mr. delatorre was done entirely in english, never offered a spanish again, defense counsel was merely alluding to evidence he knew the jury was going to hear. and, as the attorney general argues, defense counsel was apparently had a client who was going to take the stand and admit to at least one of the charged acts of molestation. d. failure to call expert witness. in his opening statement, defense counsel told the jury it would hear the testimony of a psychologist who had examined delatorre. on appeal, delatorre complains defense counsel ultimately failed to call this witness even though she would have given the very crucial testimony that he was a gay man who engaged in sex with men his own age, and 17 ophilia and has no personality disorder that but the record reveals defense counsel apparently decided not to call the psychologist after discovering delatorre had misrepresented to her the nature of a prior conviction he had suffered.6 when the prosecution indicated it would ask the psychologist if this information would have changed her opinion about delatorre, defense counsel told the trial court he had decided not to call the psychologist as a witness. he choice of which, and how many, of potential witnesses [to call] is precisely (people v. floyd, supra, 1 cal.3d at p. 709.) the attorney general argues defense counsel made just such a tactical decision here. in his reply brief, delatorre does not dispute this assertion, but appears to argue defense counsel should have called the psychologist to testify that the information would not have altered her diagnosis. that she would have do e. failure to file written brief. delatorre complains defense counsel failed to file a written brief in support of the miranda theory, arguing this inadequacy led the trial court to admit some of the police statements. but, as discussed ante, the fruit of the poisonous to make futile motions or to indulge in idle acts to appear compet(people v. torrez (1995) 31 cal.app.4th 1084, 1091.) we conclude delatorre has failed to show any ineffective assistance of counsel. 6 apparently delatorre had a prior conviction for lewd conduct based on his having solicited prostitution, but delatorre told the psychologist he had been convicted for urinating in public. 18 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: croskey, j. aldrich, j. 