filed 5/22/12 p. v. duke ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. david alexander duke, defendant and appellant. b230290 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka090669) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. george genesta, judge. affirmed in part; reversed in part. cindy brines, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and david f. glassman, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 appellant david alexander duke appeals from the judgment of conviction following a jury trial in which he was convicted of the unlawful driving of a vehicle in violation of vehicle code section 10851, subdivision (a), a felony. the jury found true the allegation that the offense was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang within the meaning of penal code section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(a). the trial court sentenced appellant to the midterm of two years for the unlawful driving of a vehicle, plus three years for the gang enhancement, for a total of five years. the court suspended execution of sentence, and placed appellant on formal probation, on the condition that he serve 365 days in county jail. appellant was given 486 days of credit, consisting of 243 days of time served plus 243 days of good time/work time credit. appellant contends there was insufficient evidence to support both his conviction of the unlawful driving of a vehicle and the gang enhancement. we are satisfied the evidence supports the underlying conviction, but we agree there is insufficient evidence to support the gang enhancement. facts on may 15, 2010 at 9:00 p.m., jessie salas was standing outside his residence in michael humberto munguia, got out of the passenger side of a 1984 toyota van parked across the street. the van had been reported stolen about a month earlier.1 munguia approached salas and sanchez, holding a semi-automatic handgun in one hand and a your ass up with an ak- 1 3 munguia hit him on the side of the walked back to the van and got inside. salas and sanchez saw other men and a woman inside the van. salas called 9-1-1. about five or ten minutes later, los angeles county deputy sheriff russell helbing, wstopping and then was stationary. the vehicle lights were off, and then we saw the brake puty street toward the house, and several people came out of the garage and joined him. they headed south on the street. munguia walked to the middle of the street where he was met by a man and the same woman who was seen earlier in the van, and they headed north on the street. about three minutes later, appellant and munguia were arrested and searched. a key ring with three keys was found on appellant. no firearm was recovered. when questioned by los angeles county deputy sheriff robert chism about his whereabouts that evening, appellant initially responded that he had been inside a nearby mall, then stated he had only been outside the mall. when deputy chism asked appellant where anything further. townsmen gangs. the location where munguia threatened salas and sanchez is in an area that overlaps the territories of both gangs. he opined that based on their self-admissions, tattoos and associations, appellant and munguia were active members of the 4 iving of the van deputy chism testified that it is typical for gang members to drive stolen vehicles between crimes because such vehicles are harder to trace. he also testified that appellant driving a vehicle . . . discussion appellant contends the evidence was insufficient for the jury to find beyond a reasonable doubt that he unlawfully drove the van and that he did so for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang members. standard of review. role on appeal is a lpeople v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206.) we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether a rational trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. (ibid.) this standard applies whether direct or circumstantial evidence is involved. (people v. thompson jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon people v. maury (2003) 30 cal.4th 342, 403.) even when there is a significant amount of countervailing evidence, the testimony of a single witness can be sufficient to uphold a conviction. (people v. barnwell (2007) 41 cal.4th the opinion of the reviewing court that the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding does not warrant reversal of the judgment. (people v. 5 albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 60; people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 11.) reversal people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 331.) a. unlawful driving of a vehicle vehicle code section 10851, subdivision (a), provides, in pertinent part, as consent of the owner thereof, and with intent either to permanently or temporarily deprive the owner thereof of his or her title to or possession of the vehicle, whether with or without intent to steal the vehicle, or any person who is a party or an accessory to or an accomplice in the driving or unauthorized taking or stealing, is guilty of a public offense . . . to another person, people v. windham (1987) 194 cal.app.3d of his car may be inferred from all the facts and circumstances of the particular case. once the unlawful taking of the vehicle has been established, possession of the recently taken vehicle by the defendant with slight corroboration through statements or conduct tending to show guilt people v. green while not an element of the offense, may constitu (2007) 153 cal.app.4th 1569, 1574.) possession of recently stolen property itself raises a strong inference that the possessor knew the property was stolen. (ibidexplanation from defendant that did not invite reasonable acceptance, coupled with 6 inconsistencies that tended to cast doubt upon the truth of his statements, are sufficient evidence to sustain a conviction. [citapeople v. brown (1969) 1 cal.app.3d 161, 166; in re jonathan mpossession of the stolen vehicle, inherently implausible testimony, and an unsatisfactory explanation may provide more than sufficient evidence. (people v. soranno (1971) 22 cal.app.3d 312, 315.) driving of a vehicle. it is undisputed that the van was stolen. the evidence also suggests appellant knew the van was stolen. when appellant was arrested, he did not have evening of his arrest, appellant blurted out to deputy chism that he was not the only person in the van. moreover, the jury could reasonably infer that when appellant became aware he was being observed by a police helicopter, he stopped the van, with no lights on at night, and immediately walked away from it. although appellant never ran away from any officers, his conduct of quickly leaving the van could reasonably be viewed as flight, evidencing a consciousness of guilt. (in re lynette g. (1976) 54 cal.app.3d 1087, 1095.) n the opposite direction as appellant, indicating that both occupants of the van were attempting to dissociate themselves from both the van and each other. while knowledge ce of the supra, 153 cal.app.4th at p. 1574.) the evidence also suggests appellant was the driver of the van. when deputy helbing observed the van from the helicopter, appellant was taking of the vehicle has been established, possession of the recently stolen vehicle by the defendant with slight corroboration through statements or conduct tending to show guilt is sufficient to sustain a conviction of violating vehicle code section 10851. (people v. green, supra, 34 cal.app.4th at pp. 180181.) 7 b. gang enhancement who is convicted of a felony committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang members, shall, upon conviction of that felony, in addition and consecutive to the punishment prescribed for the felony or attempted felony of which he or she has been convicted, be punished as follows . . . (calcrim no. 1401). appellant argues the evidence was insufficient to establish beyond a reasonable doubt the elements of the gang enhancement. the first prong of penal code section committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street with a criminal street gang. appellant was driving the stolen van with munguia as his passenger. the evidence established that both appellant and munguia were active deputy helbing from the air, it had just come to a stop in front of the house of a fellow the very fact that defendant committed the charged crimes in association with fellow people v. morales (2003) 112 cal.app.4th 1176, 1198; see also people v. albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 62; people v. ochoa (2009) 179 cal.app.4th 650, 661, fn. 7; people v. martinez (2008) 158 cal.app.4th 1324, 1332.) what is troubling here is the second prong of penal code section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1), which requires that a defendant commit the gang-the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang people v. albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 64.) the only criminal conduct with which munguia was charged was two felony counts of criminal threats in violation 8 of penal code section 422 and two felony counts of assault with a firearm in violation of penal code section 245, subdivision (a)(2), both against salas and sanchez. appellant correctly points out there was no evidence placing him in the van when munguia threatened salas and sanchez and assaulted a passerby. although salas and sanchez observed several people in the van and identified munguia and the woman later seen walking with him as being in the van, no one identified appellant as being in the van at were gang related, there was no evidence that appellant saw, heard or otherwise knew about the threats or assault committed by munguia. appellant was not charged as an gang signs. as appellant notes, the van was located between two to four miles from the location to the other. when deputy helbing located the van, the only occupants he saw in the van were appellant and munguia. there was no evidence as to when the other occupants left the van, nor any evidence as to when appellant began driving the van. would want to improve his status within the gang by doing work for the gang, such as our supreme court recently stated, mere nominal or passive involvement with a gang. . . . it applies when a defendant has personally committed a gang-related felony with the specific intent to aid members of people v. albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at pp. 6768.) with no evidence that appellant was driving the stolen van when munguia committed his offenses, the jury could not reasonably infer that appellant had the specific intent to promote, further, or assist criminal conduct by munguia. any such inference was mere speculation, and 9 people v. killebrew (2002) 103 cal.app.4th 644, 661.) disposition we reverse the jury finding of the gang enhancement and order the trial court to prepare an amended abstract of judgment and to forward a certified copy to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. the judgment is otherwise affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. _____________________, j. doi todd we concur: ____________________________, p. j. boren ____________________________, j. ashmann-gerst 