filed 4/23/12 p. v. james ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. taumu james, defendant and appellant. b230771 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka085233 consolidated with no. ka086790) in re taumu james on habeas corpus. b237448 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. charlaine f. olmedo, mike camacho, and daniel j. buckley, judges. modified and affirmed. original proceeding; petition for a writ of habeas corpus. petition denied. alex coolman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant, appellant, and petitioner. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle, supervising deputy attorney general, and eric j. kohm, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant taumu james appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial in which he was convicted of six counts of first degree robbery, with personal gun use, acting in concert, and child victim findings. defendant contends the trial court erred by admitting evidence of pretrial identifications by three victims who had found and viewed -denying his motion for discovery pursuant to pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531 (pitchess). he further contends insufficient evidence supports the robbery convictions pertaining to two children whose property was not taken. we affirm. defendant also petitions for a writ of habeas corpus, contending that the the victims violated due process. we deny the petition for a writ of habeas corpus. background about 8:45 p.m. on november 23, 2008, five men entered a five-bedroom home on -year-old daughter and six-year-old son. barragan was in the garage sorting laundry when an african-american man wearing a ski mask entered the garage. she began shouting for help. the man placed his hand over her mouth and a gun against her head and ordered her to be quiet and walk into the house. she complied. the man led her into the living room, where she saw both of her children lying facedown on the floor. an unmasked african-american man was standing near her children, pointing a gun at them. he ordered barragan to lie down on the floor next to them. she complied. rafael testified two masked men and one unmasked african-american man entered the living room and ordered him to lie on the floor. all three men had guns. rafael lay on the floor and pretended to have fainted when they later tried to lift him. 3 one of the men stepped on his back. he heard barragan screaming and then heard her enter the house with someone else. encountered a masked african-american and an unmasked hispanic man, both of whom bedroom. jardines testified she was in the kitchen when five men, all carrying guns, entered the house. at least two of the men were wearing masks. four of them were african-american and she thought one was hispanic because he spoke spanish. jardines took one of her sons to her bedroom, and two of the african-american menone masked and the other notentered her bedroom. they had felicitas with them and were pointing a gun at her back. they asked jardines if she had phoned the police, and she told them she where the safe was located. the masked man repeatedly told felicitas to open the safe and fill a pillowcafollowed, but one of the robbers forced barragan and her daughter to lie down in the hallway outside the befelicitas testified the robbers threatened to shoot the boy in the head if felicitas did not open the safe. felicitas opened the safe, which contained no money, only papers and some jewelry. the men took the jewelry and repeatedly asked where the money was. them money. jardines and felicitas told them there was no money. saavedra testified that she and her husband were in their bedroom at the time the interior and saw two african-american men wearing masks, an unmasked african-american man, and an unmasked hispanic man, all of whom had guns. she heard one of 4 the men demand money. she called 911, but hung up when she heard one of the men walking toward her bedroom. walter emerged from his bedroom late in the incident. the robbers ordered him to lie on the floor, and he did so. the robbers expressed concern that walter had phoned the police, then they left the house. car. in a police helicopter had seen two african-american men run into the yard at 545 south fifth avenue, la puente. a deputy detained codefendant dion hawkins as he walked north on fifth avenue at proctor avenue. other deputies transported barragan, rafael, and jardines, one at a time, to view hawkins. barragan identified hawkins as the unmasked robber who had pointed a gun at her children as they lay on the living room floor. rafael identified hawkins as the unmasked robber who put a gun to his head. jardines also identified hawkins as one of the robbers. the next day, barragan and jardines identified hawkins from a photographic array. at 545 south fifth avenue deputies recovered a hooded sweatshirt, sweatpants, and gloves. two houses south, at 555 south fifth avenue, they recovered a dark blue jumpsuit, a pair of gloves, and a black ski mask with a gun inside of it. the ski mask appeared to be a knit cap into which someone had cut two holes for eyes and one hole for avenue and redburn avenue, la puente. a police criminalist extracted dna from 11 items of the recovered clothing, including from (1) the inside of the cap turned into a ski mask that had been found with a gun inside of it at 555 south fifth avenue, (2) the inside of the gloves found at the same address, and (3) the collar of the blue jumpsuit found at the same address. dr. paul colman conducted the dna analysis. he testified that the profile of the major 5 contributor to the dna extracted from inside the ski mask that had been found at 555 south fifth avenue matched defendant. there was a 1 in 5.2 quintillion chance that the dna could have come from another african-american man. colman testified the dna have been hawkins. but colman testified that hawkins matched the profile of the major contributor to the dna extracted from inside one of the gloves that had been recovered from 555 south fifth avenue. a second very minor profile on that glove did not match defendant. colman further testified that the dna extracted from texhibited a partial profile indicating two contributors, and he could not exclude hawkins as one of the contributors. them, one at a time, a photographic arrecognized defendant, they told him that the family had received a letter informing them that someone named taumu james was a suspect in their case, then saavedra went onto tell them to go on the internet, it was something they just did because, according to present when saavedra found the photograph, but jardines was not. saavedra testified that barragan and felicitas were present when she viewed the photograph on the internet, and she believed jardines was, as well. chism testified he neither sent the letter nor knew of its existence before the victims told him about it. and although she knew about the letter, she testified and told chism that she had not seen her pretrial identification. at trial, 6 she testified that everyone in the family viewed the photograph on the internet together, but this was sometime after chism showed them the photographic array. chism showed the photographic array to felicitas on july 6, 2009, and she selected photograph on the internet with saavedra. chism testified that felicitas said her selection is photograph on the internet. at trial, felicitas denied making that statement and further denied that her selection of at trial, only jardines identified defendant as one of the robbers. she testified that defendant threatened everyone, demanded money, and demanded that they open the safe. he was close to her the entire time, at times just one foot away from her, and even though he was masked, the mask did not cover his mouth, nose, eyes, or the skin around his eyes. saavedra and felicitas merely identified defendant at trial as the person whose photograph they had selected in the photographic array. defense dna expert mehul anjara had no criticisms of the processes used to major contributor of the dna on the inside of the ski mask. but he opined that because the dna from the mask contained a second profile, multiple people could have worn it at mask without him wearing it, for example by him salivating or perspiring on it. the defense investigator testified that he interviewed jardines about one month before the trial began. she told him that she received the letter naming defendant and photographic array. jardines denied making this statement. defense eyewitness identification expert dr. robert shomer testified regarding the unreliability of eyewitness identification, and specifically identified the masking of the difference in race between the perpetrator and the witness, and exposure to a photograph 7 of a suspect prior to an identification procedure as factors detrimental to the accuracy of an identification. in response to a hypothetical question based upon the testimony in this identification could be deemed valid. al commenced. a jury convicted defendant of six counts of first degree robbery (pertaining to rafael, barragan, felicitas, a gun (pen. code,  12022.53, subd. (b); all further statutory references pertain to the penal code unless otherwise specified) and acted in concert with two or more others ( 213, subd. (a)(1)(a)) in the commission of each robbery. the jury also found that 4 years of age, and defendant knew or reasonably should have known this. ( 667.9, subd. (a).) the jury acquitted defendant of kidnapping barragan, and the trial court had previously dismissed a seventh robbery charge naming walter gonzalez as the victim. defendant waived a jury trial on a section 667, subdivision (a)(1) enhancement allegation, which the court found true. the court sentenced defendant to 71 years in prison. discussion 1. admission of pretrial identification evidence at the outset of the trial, defendant asked the court to exclude evidence that any probative value thcounty probation indicating that taumu james may be involved in the case that they are witnesses and/or victarizona department of corrections. but either way, there is a law enforcement agency 8 that has given notice to these individuals indicating that mr. james is about to be released look up mr. james on the arizona department of corrections web site. at that point that she had not seen the photo on the web site was not credible because she contradicted herself to the defense investigator and she lived in a small house with many family members. defense counsel also argued that admitting the identifications would inform ntification because if the identification comes in, not only does this other information come in, but the prosecutor informed the court that he did not have a copy of the letter because the victims had never provided one to the detective or the prosecutor. the trial court agreed that the witnesses should not refer to the arizona department of corrections, but denied the motion to exclude evidence of their pretrial identifications of defendant. the court exprest to be so impermissibly suggestive, because the witnesses themselves are the ones that went online to find the picture and to take a look at the defendant contends that the trial court erred by admitting evidence that barragan, evidence was irrelevant. he further contends that the admission of this evidence violated due process because the pretrial identifications were the product of an unfairly suggestive identification procedure and there was no permissible inference the jury could draw from the evidence. 9 a. due process claim due process requires that evidence of a pretrial ident[citation]perry v. new hampshire (2012) __ u.s. __, __ [132 s.ct. 716, 720] (perryeffect of the police-arranged suggestive circumstances, the identification evidence ordinarily will be admitted, and the jury will ultimately determinibid.) but the introduction of purportedly unreliable identification evidence does not violate due id. at p. 730enforcement activity is involved, . . . it suffices to test reliability through the rights and opportunities generally designed for that purpose, notably, the presence of counsel at postindictment lineups, vigorous cross-examination, protective rules of evidence, and jury instructions on both the fallibility of eyewitness identification and the requirement that id. at p. 721.) police-arranged suggestive circumstances.letter was sent by an unknown source that was not a part of the prosecution team, probably the state of arizona, without any involvement by california law enforcement or the prosecution team. chism testified he had nothing to do with the letter, and indeed only found out about it when the victims told department sent the letter is implausible, as the record demonstrates that defendant was not on probation during the relevant time period. at the time of the charged offenses he was on parole in california following prison terms for his 2002 and 2003 convictions. thereafter, he was in prison in arizona for a march 2009 conviction, and defense counsel specifically told the court that the letter stated that defendant was about to be released from an arizona prison. thus, arizona was the probable source of the letter. in either 10 case, the record fails to show police-arranged suggestive circumstances because neither the state of arizona nor the los angeles county probation department were part of the identification evidence obtained under unnecessarily suggestive circumstances . . . is to deter law enforcement use of improper lineups, showups, and photo arrays in the first place. . . the police engaged in no impropperry, 132 s.ct. at p. 726.) even if there were a basis for imputing responsibility for the letter to the investigative or prosecutorial team, everything that happened after the victims received nitiative and actions. there was no evidence or suggestion that the letter included a photo of defendant or told the recipients they could see his photo on the arizona corrections web site or elsewhere on the internet. indeed, barragan later testified that the letter did not tell her family to look up defendant online. most outrageous behavior by a private party seeking to secure evidence against a defendant does no(colorado v. connelly (1986) 479 u.s. 157, 166 [107 s.ct. 515].) as stated in perry, testimony adisposal to attempt to persuade the jury that the evidence that barragan, saavedra, and creperry, 132 s.ct. at p. 723.) the admission of evidence may violate due process if there is no permissible inference a jury may draw from the evidence. (people v. steele (2002) 27 cal.4th 1230, 1246; people v. albarran (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 214, 229.) there were no permissible inferences to be drawn from the identification evidence in issue is wrong: the permissible inference to be drawn from the evidence was that barragan, 11 saavedra, and felicitas photograph on the internet. although the relevance of such an inference was minimal, it was not impermissible, unlike an inference of a propensity to commit crimes, for example. in addition, he admission of evidence, even if erroneous under state law, results in a due process violation only if it makes the trial fundamentally unfair.people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 439.) admbecause the jury was repeatedly informed of the circumstances surrounding the selection of array by barragan, saavedra, and felicitas opening statement; the testimony of barragan, saavedra, felicitas, and chism; testimony; defense couthe jury indicated its awareness of the role of the letter, internet search, and viewing of which i b. state law claim we review any ruling on the admissibility of evidence for abuse of discretion. (people v. guerra (2006) 37 cal.4th 1067, 1113.) evidence is relevant if it has any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact of consequence to the determination of an action. (evid. code,  210.) arguably, the trial court should have excluded as irrelevant any evidence of identifications by saavedra, barragan, and felicitas. but of the evidence requires reversal only if it is reasonably probable defendant would have obtained a more favorable outcome had the evidence been excluded. (evid. code,  353, subd. (b); people v. earp (1999) 20 cal.4th 826, 878; people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) 12 any error in admitting evidence of identifications of defendant by saavedra, barragan, and felicitas was harmless, in light of the abundant evidence and argument fully informing the jury of the receipt of the letter, the conduct of saavedra, barragan, and felicitas in response to the letter, and the role of the internet photo in their identifications; identification of defendant; and the dna evidence showing the presence of near the crime scene in the immediate wake of the crime. although, as the defense dna na could have been placed on the cap on some other occasion and possibly even without him wearing it, acceptance of this theory would require the jury to discount a number of improbabilities: defendant put his dna on the inside of the mask at another time, but it was found close to crime scene in the immediate wake of the crime, with a gun inside of it and with other discarded clothing, including a pair of gloves bearing dna that matched dion hawkins, who was arrested soon after the crimes a little farther north on the same street where the clothing was discarded and identified by three of the victims as one of the unmasked robbers. alternatively, the jury robberies, and defendant discarded the mask and the gun he used in the robberies as he fled from the crime scene with hawkins. given the absence of any evidentiary showing of alternative acts by defendant that would have placed his dna on the inside of the mask, it is reasonably probable that the jury concluded defendant wore the mask during the robberies. the admission of the array by saavedra, barragan, and felicitas may have even benefitted defendant becaprebeen able to fully develop this theory. 13 it is thus not reasonably probable that defendant would have obtained a more favorable result if the trial court had excluded the evidence in controversy. 2. - defendant represented himself through much of the pretrial phase, commencing on -which he and five other similar men would wear black ski masks while being viewed by motion the day it was filed. the prosecutor informed the court that although he had not seen the written dna report, he had been informed that there was a dna match on recovered evidence, and he thus believed identification would not be an issue. he further schedule a line-the people say there is dna on some clothing recovered, the issue is the only evidence defendant agreed to waive time, with october 6, 2009 as day zero of 60. on october 6, 2009, the prosecutor filed written opposition to the motion for a lineup, explaining that three of the robbers wore masks but codefendant hawkins was not masked; shortly after the robbery personnel in a police helicopter saw two men running from the crime scene; deputies went to where the men were running and arrested gun defendant was found on the mask; dna consistent with hawkins was found on coveralls [from] someopposition also explained that jardines identified defendant from a photographic lineup, 14 james was involved in the robbery includes intercepted calls from a federal wiretap. law enforcement officers were monitoring calls of various main street mafia crips, of which defendant james and hawkins are members. prior to the robbery, calls were intercepted between defendant hawkins and defendant james and a third individual discussing a plan the dna match of defendant james to the mask is substantial evidence of his participation. the ntified case against you is bdefendant photographs of, mrdna on it that was [sic] recosee how does that make i citing his arguments regarding the admission of the identification evidence 15 light of the unusual problems with the masked lineup. as a preliminary matter, we note that the issue of whether a challenge to a denial of a request for a pretrial lineup must be raised by way of pretrial writ petition or may be raised on appeal is pending before the supreme court in people v. mena (2009) 173 cal.app.4th 1446, review granted august 26, 2009, s173973. we treat the issue as preserved for appellate review. therefor, be afforded a pretrial lineup in which witnesses to the alleged criminal conduct can participate. the right to a lineup arises, however, only when eyewitness identification is shown to be a material issue and there exists a reasonable likelihood of a evans v. superior court a material issue and ibid. . . the benefits to be derived by the accused and the reasonableness of his request but also . . (ibid.) devidence that was introduced at trial. but we must evaluate the propriety of the trial . . not by reference to evidence produced at a people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 739.) at the time the trial court ruled on the motion, dethe nature of the evidence against defendant. nor did he raise any coherent, let alone one of the robbers was based principally on dna. notably, a little earlier in the hearing, 16 case was based upon dna. accordingly, the trial court did not abuse its discretion by accepting the for purposes of that eyewitness identification was not a material issue and that there was no reasonable likelihood of a mistaken identification that a lineup would tend to resolve. 3. -year-old daughter and six-year-old son were named as robbery victims in counts 6 and 7, respectively, although nothing in the record indicated that any of their property was taken in the robbery. the jury was instructed on actual and constructive possession and heawas not in possession of any property taken from the home. (defendant did not argue a was insufficient to suppchildren were in neither actual nor constructive possession of any of the property that was taken. to resolve this issue, we review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment to decide whether substantial evidence supports the conviction, so that a reasonable jury could find guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. ceja (1993) 4 cal.4th 1134, 1138.) robbery is defined as the taking of personal property of some value, however the intent to permanently deprive the person of the property. ( 211; people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 34.) robbery is an offense against the person. (people v. weddles (2010) 184 cal.app.4th 1365, 1369 (weddles).) any person who owns or who exercises direct physical control over, or who has constructive possession of, any property taken 17 may be a victim of a robbery if force or fear is applied to such person. (people v. scott (2009) 45 cal.4th 743, 749750 (scott).) purposes of robbery, it is enough that the person presently has some loose custody over the property, is currently exercising dominion over it, or at least may be said to represent people v. defrance (2008) 167 cal.app.4th (scott, supra, bery have possession of the property taken, the legislature has included as victims those persons who, because of their relationship to the property or its owner, have the right to resist the taking, and has excluded as victims those bystanders who have no greater interest in the id. at pp. 757758.) civil oneself, or of a wife, husband, child, parent, or obelonging to their family members against insufficiency of evidence claims. (people v. gordon (1982) 136 cal.app.3d 519 [parents robbed of marijuana belonging to their adult son]; defrance, 167 cal.app.4th 486 [mother robbed of car owned by her adult son]; weddles, supra ession of a single item of personal property, and multiple convictions of robbery are proper if force or fear is scott, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 750.) under civil code section 50, barobbers took. the children were not so young as to be either unaware of the robbery or 18 unable (if not held at gunpoint) to resist example shouting or phoning for help, running away with the property, or hiding it. the and because multiple people may simultaneously possess a single item of personal accomplices apparently considered it sufficiently necessary to overcome potential single item of personal property, the person attempting to unlawfully take such property must deal with all such individuals. all must be placed in fear or forced to unwillingly give up possession. to the extent that any threat may provoke resistance, and thus increase the possibility of actual physical injury, a threat accompanied by a taking of view the central element of the crime of robbery as the force or fear applied to the individual victim in order to deprive him of his property. accordingly, if force or fear is applied to two victims in joint possession of property, two convictions of robbery are people v. ramos (1982) 30 cal.3d 553, 589, reversed in part on other grounds in california v. ramos (1983) 463 u.s. 992 [103 s.ct. 3446].) children were supported by both the law and substantial evidence. 4. denial of pitchess motion while defendant was representing himself, he filed a pitchess motion seeking information regarding complaints against detectives chism and richardson pertaining to commit misconduct by fabricating reports and evidence, and also coerced witness [sic] 19 in this case is that this is a case of mistaken identification due impart [sic] to coercion by the detectives in this case. . . . [t]he defense believes that without the constant pressuring of the victims the defendant would not have been identified in this case. at the time of this crime the victim nancy jardines never gave any description of the suspects, also the detectives interviewed the victim in this case several times over a seven month period and no description was given. only after the victims received a letter informing them that the defendant had been involved in the robbery and all the victims in the residen[ce] except nancy jardines saw a picture of the defendant on the internet, that is when a description was given and he was positively identified. [] it is the defense[] theory that the identification came about do [sic] to illegal misconduct by the detectives. the defense plans to prove these detectives have knowledge and was [sic] indirectly responsible for the mysterious letter that was sent to the victi our motion is based entirely upon speculation as to police misconduct. you certainly have provided the court with no plausible factual scenario that there is any police misconduct. you simply concluded there must be police misconduct because of the idententitled to this motion. so your motion is denied without prejudice for failure to establish defendant contends the trial court erred by denying his pitchess motion because misconduct that were grounded in the facts of his case, including pressuring the witnesses to make a false identification, facilitating the mailing of the letter to the witnesses and failing to collect or preserve the letter in a bad faith effort to concea to obtain pitchess complaints against such officers, a defendant or petitioner must file a motion describing the type of records sought and showing, inter alia, the materiality of the information to the 20 subject of the pending action and good cause for disclosure. (evid. code,  1043, in support of a pitchess motion must propose a defense or defenses to the pending charges. the declaration must articulate how the discovery sought may lead to relevant evidence or may itself be admissible direct or impeachment evidence [citations] that warrick v. superior court (2005) 35 cal.4th 1011, 1024 (warrickibid . . . what the defendant must present is a specific factual scenario of officer misconduct that is plausible when read in light of the pertinent id. might or could have occurred. such a scenario is plausible because it presents an assertion of specific police misconduct that is both internally consistent and supports the id. at p. 1026.) if the trial court grants the motion, it should only order disclosure of complaints or incidents directly relevant to the specific factual scenario asserted by the defendant. (warrick, supra, 35 cal.4th at pp. 1022, 1027 [defendant who asserted police falsely accused him of discarding controlled substance entitled to discover complaints of making false arrests, planting evidence, committing perjury, and falsifying police reports or probable cause, but not reports of using excessive force or exhibiting racial, gender or sexual orientation bias]; people v. jackson (1996) 13 cal.4th 1164, 1220 [defendant who claimed officers coerced his confession entitled to discover only complaints alleging coercive interrogation techniques, not all excessive force complaints].) 21 laration failed to even attempt to show good cause for discovery of complaints relating to racial prejudice, dishonesty, or false arrest. at best, his declaration addressed a claim of fabrication of evidence. cific and plausible factual scenario of officer misconduct. first, defendant made a conclusory assertion that richardson and chism fabricated reports and evidence, and also coerced a witness into giving perjured testimony, but failed to describe or specify any perjured testimony that the detectives had coerced or any report or evidence that they had fabricated. the only person who had testified in this case at the time the pitchess motion was heard was chismthe sole witness at the preliminary hearing, and the trial court could reasonably conclude that it hearing. to the extent the claim of fabricated reports and evidence was supposed to refer or how their unspecified conduct constituted fabricating reports, fabricating evidence, or even misconduct. the trial court could also reasonably conclude that it was not plausible that the detectives bore any level of responsibility for causing the arizona department of eir misconduct, is undermined by both (1) his failure to assert that the victims still had the letter and would have provided it to the detectives if they asked and (2) his prior failure to make a specific and plausible showing that the detectives engaged in misconduct by . . several times over a seven month pe 22 tenacity. his claim that he would not have been identified without the detectives accordingly, we conclude the trial court did not abuse its discretion by denying pitchess motion. 5. calculation of presentence custody credits defendant contends, and the attorney general aptly concedes, that defendant was entitled to three additional days of presentence custody credit. accordingly, we modify the judgment to reflect an additional three days of credit. 6. petition for a writ of habeas corpus defendant also filed a petition for a writ of habeas corpus that we agreed to consider with his appeal. the attorney general filed an informal response to the petition, and defendant filed a reply to that response. the petition alleges that chism and the prosecutor violated due process by failing to obtain and provide defendant with the letter original source of the stated he does not know who sent the letter, he must have violated a duty to search for and disclose exculpatory information. people v. duvall (1995) 9 cal.4th 464, 474475.) if no prima facie case for relief is established, we summarily deny the petition. brady v. maryland (1963) 373 u.s. 83, 87 [83 s.ct. 1194] (brady), established that due process requires the prosecution to disclose to the defense any and all potentially exculpatory evidence. the defendant must establish that the undisclosed information was both favorable to the defense and material, meaning that there is a reasonable probability that, had the evidence been disclosed to the defense, the result of the trial would have 23 been different. (kyles v. whitley (1995) 514 u.s. 419, 433434 [115 s.ct. 1555] (kyles).) such a reasreasonably be taken to put the whole case in such a different light as to undermine id. at p. 435; in re williams (1994) 7 cal.4th 572, 611.) ity that an item of undisclosed information might have helped the people v. fauber (1992) 2 cal.4th 792, 829, quoting united states v. agurs (1976) 427 u.s. 97, 109110 [96 s.ct. 2392].) knowingly possesses or has the right to possess. (people v. jordan (2003) 108 cal.app.4th 349, 358.) the prosecution team includes both investigative and prosecutorial agencies and personnel. (ibid.) an individual prosecutor is presumed to in re brown (1998) 17 cal.4th 873, 879.) impeachment evidence, as well as exculpatory evidence, falls within the scope of brady. (united states v. bagley (1985) 473 u.s. 667, 676 [105 s.ct. 3375].) testimony in the appellate record, of which the petition for writ of habeas corpus requests judicial notice, established several facts regarding the nature of the letter and receipt. at the preliminary hearing, chism testified that barragan, saavedra, and felicitas viewed a photograph of him. chism did not tell the victims to go to the web site and first learned they had done so on the day he showed them the photographic array containing on the internet and the other victims had not discussed it with her. at trial, chism to barragan, saavedra, and felicitas, they each told him they had received a letter, and 24 based upon the information in that letter, they looked defendant up on the internet and found a photograph of him. chism neither sent the letter nor knew of its existence before the victims told him about it. chism also testified that jardines said she had not seen barragan testified at trial that the letter the family received indicated that someone named taumu james was a suspect in the case involving them, and although the letter did so saavedra went onto the internet to find a picture of taumu james. barragan and felicitas were present when saavedra found the photograph, but jardines was not. barragan further testified that chism had not told them they would receive a letter and had not told them to go on the internet to find a picture of james. jardines testified at trial that the letter the family received indicated that a person named taumu james was a suspect in the case, and someone in the family went on the internet, but jardines did not view the photograph on the internet until after chism saavedra testified at trial that a few days before chism came to their house to show them a photographic array, someone in the family received a letter that indicated that someone named taumu james might be a suspect in the case in which they were involved. saavedra looked online and found a photograph of defendant. barragan and felicitas were with her at the time, and she believed jardines was as well. felicitas testified that the family received a letter that indicated that someone named taumu james was a suspect in the case in which they were involved. she and saavedra went on the internet and found a picture of taumu james. in addition to the testimony regarding the letter, the prosecutor informed the court mailed to the victims in this case, from the department of corrections of arizona, which i do not have. i have no control over. it results [sic] to basically his case in arizona, and i 25 in addition, as previously set forth, when defendant moved to exclude evidence of more victims had stated that the letter was from the arizona department of corrections and one had said it was from the los angeles county probation department. defense individuals indicating that mr. james is about to be released from the arizona department of corrections, and he may barizona department of corrections web site. at that point they are able to obtain a the petition fails to state a prima facie claim under brady because the letter was neither material not potentially exculpatory. testimony in the appellate record establishes that the letter merely told the victims that defendant was a suspect in the case and might be arrested. this information was not exculpatory. testimony established that the letter they instead took the initiative and sought out his photograph. their conduct and its effect or potential effect upon their ability to identify defendant before and at trial was fully explored through the testimony presented at trial. there is no reasonable probability that, had the prosecutor managed to obtain the letter and then disclosed it to the defense, the result of the trial would have been any different. neither introduction of the letter in whole case in such a different light as to kyles, suprahave raised serious doubts about the notion that [jardines], despite being informed about 26 information about his image, and the appellate record establishes that the letter did not tell an independent decision to look defendant up online, where they found his photograph. thus, even if defendant could overcome the significant burden of establishing that the prosecution team knowingly possessed or had the right to possess the letter, his brady claim would have no merit. accordingly, we deny the writ petition. disposition the days to a total of 621 days. as modified, the judgment is affirmed. the petition for a writ of habeas corpus is denied. not to be published. mallano, p. j. we concur: chaney, j. johnson, j. 