filed 6/8/12 p. v. white ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. louis white, defendant and appellant. b230371 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na082581) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mark c. kim, judge. affirmed. waldemar d. halka, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, stephanie a. miyoshi and robert c. schneider, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________________ 2 appellant louis white appeals from a jury verdict convicting him of one count of murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a))1 and one count of being a felon in possession of a firearm (pen. code,  12021, subd. (a)(1).)2 he contends it was prejudicial error for the court to: (1) deny his motion for a pretrial lineup under evans v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 617 (evans); (2) instruct the jury according to caljic no. 2.92; (3) fail to provide a limiting jury instruction of the use of his stipulated prior felony conviction; (4) prosecutor to pose hypothetical questions to expert witnesses; and (6) fail to instruct the jury on the elements of the section 12021, subdivision (a)(1) charge. he also raises a claim of prejudicial cumulative error. lineup, to instruct the jury according to caljic no. 2.92, and to permit the prosecutor to impeach howard and pose hypothetical questions to the expert witnesses. while we find finding no prejudicial error, we affirm the conviction. factual and procedural summary on january 31, 2009, 15-year-old ezra davis was shot two times near his home in long beach. he later died from his wounds. renee mcclellan and joan henley were outside talking at the time of the shooting. when mcclellan heard gunshots she turned around and saw two african american men. she saw davis fall to the ground and the other man run northeast on washington boulevard. this man was wearing a white t-shirt and denim jeans. she thought he had a short afro or braids that were not newly braided. mcclellan did not see anyone else in the area. she did not get a good look at the shooter and was unable to identify him. 1 all further statutory citations are to the penal code, unless otherwise indicated. 2 operative january 1, 2012, this statute was repealed and reenacted as section 29800, subdivision (a)(1) without substantive change. 3 joan henley heard a gunshot and saw davis fall to the ground. she then saw the shooter fire two more shots at davis. henley was unable to identify the shooter because her view was obstructed by a tree. she saw the shooter holding the gun in his right hand. after hearing gunshots, shawnese armstrong looked out the window in her home and saw a man running on north washington. she observed the man enter a red car with an aaa sticker and drive away. she described him as an african american man, approximately six feet one inch tall, heavyset, with shoulder length braids, and wearing a white t-shirt and jeans. amelia jimenez was in her garage when she heard gunshots and saw a man running on washington. the runner had shoulder length braids and was wearing a white t-shirt, blue jeans, and a white hospital bracelet. she saw no other person in the area. she called to her son-in-law guillermo gutierrez. jimenez pointed to a man driving in a red car as the man she saw running away. the car had a dmv permit in its window. gutierrez also saw the red car with the dmv permit on the back window. he that looked similar. while gutierrez could not identify the driver, he thought he appeared to be 30 to 35 years old with shoulder length braids and wore a white hospital bracelet. police officers from the long beach police department observed a car matching the description provided by armstrong, jimenez, and gutierrez. they identified the car . it was a red 1990 acura legend with a dmv sticker in the rear window. it did not have an aaa sticker. officers conducted surveillance of the car and observed white driving it. both armstrong and jimenez identified white from a six-pack photographic lineup presented to them by the long beach police department (lbpd). armstrong, white was charged in count one with murder, a violation of section 187, subdivision (a), and in count two with being a convicted felon in possession of a firearm, a violation of former section 12021, subdivision (a)(1). it also was alleged that white personally used and discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury ( 12022.53, subds. 4 (b)-(d)), the crimes were committed for the benefit, or at the direction, and in association with a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)), and white had committed a prior felony crime and sustained prior strike convictions. white pleaded not guilty. at trial the prosecutor presented evidence that eric battieste was shot in the head by a member of the gang insane crips two days before davis was killed. battieste was a tor distraught over the shooting of battieste. davis, though not a member, was associated by family with the insane crips. white presented an alibi defense and a defense that he was left-handed and would not have shot a gun with his right hand. he also denied belonging to a gang. white stipulated to his prior convictions. the jury found white guilty of both counts and found the firearm enhancement to be true. it found the gang enhancement to be not true. white was sentenced to a total term of 80 years to life on count one. the sentence on count 2 was stayed under section 654. this timely appeal followed. discussion i white claims the court abused its discretion in denying his motion for a pretrial lineup pursuant to evans, supra, 11 cal.3d 617, resulting in a violation of his rights to due process and a fair trial. not filing a petition for a writ of mandate. the issue whether a challenge to a denial of a pretrial lineup must be raised by way of pretrial writ or may be raised on appeal is pending before the supreme court. (see people v. mena (2009) 173 cal.app.4th 1446, review granted august 26, 2009, s173973.) in people v. mena, the appellate court held that the failure to pursue writ relief waives the claim of error. however, precedent established before people v. mena held that failure to seek writ review does not constitute forfeiture of a postjudgment direct appeal challenging a pretrial ruling. a defendant may 5 seek writ review in the context of a pretrial discovery violation, but his failure to do so does not preclude appellate review following final judgment. (see people v. batts (2003) 30 cal.4th 660, 678; people v. memro (1985) 38 cal.3d 658, 675676, overruled on other grounds in people v. gaines (2009) 46 cal.4th 172, 181, fn. 2.) we follow this line of authority until the supreme court directs otherwise and assume for the purposes of this decision that white may seek reversal of the judgment on appeal based on his claim of error under evans. evans[, supra,] 11 cal.3d 617 . . . case that an accused, upon timely request therefor, be afforded a pretrial lineup in which witnesses to the alleged criminal conduct can participate. the right to a lineup arises, however, only when eyewitness identification is shown to be a material issue and there exists a reasonable likelihood of a id. at p. 625.) [the issue and whether fundamental fairness requires a lineup in a particular case are inquiries which necessarily rest for determination within the broad discretion of the magistrate or ibidpeople v. redd (2010) 48 cal.4th 691, 723 (redd).) white moved for an order compelling the attendance of armstrong and jimenez at a pretrial lineup. the trial court denied the motion on the ground that there was no reasonable likelihood of mistaken identification which a lineup would tend to resolve. we find no abuse of discretion. (see redd, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 723.) in support of his motion, white argued a reasonable likelihood of misidentification existed on the ground that mcclellan and henley, who actually witnessed the shooting, did not identify white. but both of these witnesses stated that they did not have a good view of the shooter or get a good look at him, while armstrong and jimenez said they were able to see the runner clearly. both armstrong and jimenez identified white as the person they saw running away from the shooting. they heard gunshots and saw white running north on washington, away from the location of the shooting. the somewhat varying descriptions 6 provided by armstrong and jimenez on the one hand and mcclellan and henley on the other, do not raise the possibility that armstrong and jimenez misidentified defendant as the runner. they only present the possibility that the person seen shooting davis by mcclellan and henley was not the person seen running from the shooting by armstrong and jimenez. armstrong and jimenez provided descriptions of the runner that were fairly when jimenez independently identified him. white does not challenge the lineups as impermissibly suggestive.3 although not identical, descriptions of the car provided by armstrong, jimenez, and gutierrez also were similar as they each described a red car with a sticker in the rear window. gutierrez provided the exact make and model of the car and estimated a year range. he based his identification on the fact that he previously had owned the same driving the car in the days after the shooting. this evidence demonstrates that the inability of mcclellan and henley to identify did not compel the trial court to conclude there was a reasonable redd, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 725.) white contended that armstrong and jimenez were equivocal in their identiand the certainty of their identifications was a subject for cross-examination by whitrial counsel. 3 while white makes passing reference to the brightness of his shirt in the photograph, he presents no legal challenge based on the suggestibility of the lineup. 7 white was provided with the statements and descriptions of the two witnesses, opportunity to challenge the identifications at trial, even without a pretrial physical people v. sullivan in [evans,] supracrime was explored for the first time at trial, the substance and quality of the long before defendant filed his motion. that the witnesses had picked defendant out of pretrial photographic lineups also meant they could not have been influenced by the inherent suggestiveness of his presence at the defense table. that the witnesses had identified defendant from a photograph taken [closer to the time of] the murder was more significant than their ability or inability to pick him out of a live lineup conducted long people v. abel (2012) 53 cal.4th 891, 913.) the record suggests longer wore braids, and had grown facial hair. (see ibid.) a pretrial lineup. ii defendant contends the trial court committed prejudicial error by instructing the weight to be given eyewitness identification testimony, you should consider . . . [] . . . [] [the] extent to which the witness is either certain or 4 he argues that the instruction is erroneous because scientific experts dispute the proposition implicit in this instruction 4 weight to be given eyewitness identification testimony, you should consider . . . factors which bear upon the of the following: [] . . . [] the extent to which the witness is either certain or uncertain of the identification. . . 8 that eyewitness certainty positively correlates with the accuracy of an identification. since the california supreme court has approved the instruction, we find no error. in people v. wright (1988) 45 cal.3d 1126 (wright), our supreme court be given when requested in a case in which identification is a crucial issue and there is no substantial id. at p. 1144.) in people v. johnson (1992) 3 cal.4th 1183 (johnson), our supreme court approved caljic no. 2.92 and rejected (johnson, at p. 1232.) the court found no error in the eyewitness certainty instruction th its id. at p. 1231; see also people v. arias (1996) 13 cal.4th 92, 168 [including ny should be suppressed], citing neil v. biggers (1972) 409 u.s. 188, 199-200; people v. clark (1992) in determining admissibility of identification].) in light of precedent holding that the certainty factor in caljic no. 2.92 is proper wright, supra, 45 cal.3d at p. 1144), we reject white did not object to it. (see people v. gaglione (1994) 26 cal.app.4th 1291, 1302-1303 [rejecting challenge to eyewitness certainty factor enumerated in caljic no. 2.92 wright and johnson], disapproved on other grounds in people v. martinez (1995) 11 cal.4th 434, 452.) white argues that johnson established, based upon numerous scientific studies, that there is no correlation between witness coat the time johnson was decided was not markedly different from the evidence white relies upon in his brief. indeed, of the 13 scientific articles white cites for the 9 proposition that eyewitness certainty does not correlate with accuracy, 11 were published prior to johnson. moreover, white fails to account for the wright proper because it is contradicted by scientific evidence. (see wright, supra, 45 cal.3d at p. 1144.) our supreme court clearly was aware of the scientific articles which called into question the certainty factor in caljic no. 2.92 when it approved the instruction in wright and affirmed it in johnson, because four years before wright of recent studies have found no statistically significant correlation between confidence people v. mcdonald (1984) 37 cal.3d 351, 369, overruled on another ground in people v. mendoza (2000) 23 cal.4th 896, 914.) thus, it is clear that at the time it decided johnson and wright, our supreme court knew of the conflict white raises between the scientific evidence and caljic no. 2.92. we are not at liberty to disregard those cases. white further attempts to distinguish johnson by arguing that the court below identification, dr. mitchell eisen, was a factor they could consider among the other factors provided with the caljic instruction. in johnson, the jury was instructed that it information presentejohnson, supra, 3 cal.4th at p. 1232), along with the other factors enumerated in caljic no. 2.92. . . . other factors which bear entification of the defendant, including, but not limited toit was told those factors were noaddressed the accuracy of eyewitness identification, it was considered by the jury as did not request the expert testimony factor be included in the instruction on eyewitness 10 identification. further, the jury was given instructions relating to expert testimony and was told that it could accept or disregard any expert opinions it considered unreasonable.5 (see caljijohnson, supra, jury on eyewitness identification. iii white contends the court committed prejudicial error in failing to give a limiting jury instruction concerning his status as a convicted felon at the time of the homicide. we find the error harmless. white stipulated that he had a prior felony conviction. this enabled him to withhold the nature of the conviction from the jury. (see people v. valentine (1986) 42 cal.3d 170, 173 (valentinetrial attorney requested a limiting instruction. the court stated it would give the instruction at a later time but inadvertently did not do so. neither party subsequently reminded or requested that the court provide the instruction. -felon status as an element of violativalentine, supra, 42 cal.3d at p. 182, fn. 7.) we review the failure to give a limiting instruction regarding the use of other crimes evidence for harmless error under the standard in people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836. (see people v. falsetta (1999) 21 cal.4th 903, 924-925.) 5 the jury also was instructed in terms of caljic nos. 2.80 (expert testimony-qualifications of expert), 2.82 (hypothetical questions), and 2.83 (resolution of conflicting expert testimony). 11 white admits that his prior conviction was admissible to prove an element of the section 12021, subdivision (a)(1) charge. (see valentine, supra, 42 cal.3d at p. 173.) he also acknowledges that the nature of his conviction was withheld from the jury, which is the procedure required under valentine. (id. at pp. 173, 181-182.) nothing in the record suggests the jury was unduly influenced by the stipulation. the prosecutor did not make repeated references to the conviction or suggest that the jury consider it for any other purpose than reaching its verdict on the section 12021, subdivision (a)(1) charge. the jury found the gang allegation was not true, indicating that it weighed the evidence and reached conclusions based on the facts of the case rather than punishing white for his prior conviction. review of the entire record convinces us that there is no reasonable likelihood the outcome would have been different had the court provided the limiting instruction related error was harmless. iv white contends the court abused its discretion when it allowed the prosecutor to impeach howard with evidence that she had told police officers that white always use of discretion. that could shoot evidence was inadmissible. the prosecutor called howard as a witness. on cross-responded that she had not. on redirect, the prosecutor reminded howard that she 12 you tell detectives when they talked to you that louis white always has a gun on his the prosecution called detective todd johnson, one of the investigating officers. the prosecutor asked him whether howard had said that white always carries a gun. defense counsel objected on the grounds that the evidence was irrelevant and was subject t the testimony was nonetheless inadmissible propensity evidence under evidence code section 1101, her character . . . is inadmissible when offered to prove his or her conduct on a specified code,  1101, credibility, the evidence was admissible under evidence code section 1101.6 white also contends the probative value of this evidence was outweighed by undue prejudice and it should have been excluded under evidence code section 352. prejudicial evidence need not be excluded if it is otherwise admissible and its probative value is not outweighed by its prejudicial effect. all relevant evidence is admissible evidence, including evidence relevant to the credibility of a witness . . . having any 6 statements for the limited purpose of determining the weight to give to her testimony or her credibility as a witness. thus, white forfeited any claim of error regarding the 13 tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the for purposes of determining whether probative value is outweighed by prejudicial t refers instead to evidence people v. kipp (2001) 26 cal.4th 1100, 1121.) evidence code section 352 for abuse of discretion. (people v. lucas (1995) 12 cal.4th 415, 449.) we may not disturb the trial in an arbitrary, capricious or patently absurd manner, and resulted in a manifest miscarriage of justice. (people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 1124-1125.) we find no abuse of discretion. johnson thdid not relationship with her, did not buy the red acura legend, and was not the only other person to drive the car. the court could reasonably find that this relevance outweighed any prejudice, especially since the testimony was not admitted for its truth but for impeaching howard. the prosecutor asked whether she had told officers white always carries a gun, not whether white actually carries a gun at all times. even if we found an abuse of discretion, white would not be entitled to reversal since he has not demonstrated a probability that he would have obtained a more favorable result in the absence of the alleged error. (see people v. watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836; cal. const., art. vi,  13.) while the prosecutor referred to the testimony in his 14 closing argument, he did so in the context of listing the ways in which howard had been trsection iii, we conclude that any error was harmless. v white contends the court prejudicially erred by allowing the prosecutor to pose a hypothetical question to the expert witnesses on gangs which assumed that white had been incarcerated for a period of time before the homicide. we find no error. white admitted a prior felony conviction for the charge of possession of a firearm by a convicted felon, section 120court granted the motion. gang unit and had specialized knowledge of the gangs operating in long beach as an expert witness on gangs. detective gutierrez testified that lbpd officers had come into contact with white and filled out field information (f.i.) cards, a method used by lbpd to track suspected gang members, for each of these contacts. according to the f.i. cards, during one of the contacts with officers, white admitted he was a member of the rolling on re-ve gutierrez how many contacts the lbpd had had with white since the year 2002. detective gutierrez member to have as few as three contacts in which he denies membership in two of on further redirect, the prosecutor asked if it was possible for the police to have contact with someone when that person is in state prison or county jail. the court 15 at it was not possible. white called steven strong, a retired los angeles police department detective, as someone . . . had three f.i. cards, he had three law enforcement contacts, in the last eight to ten years . . . what would your opinion be as to whether that person is an active he was an active gang member. there would be a lack of . . . a pattern of conduct . . . . during cross-examination the prosecutor reminded strong that he indicated that three contacts with officers over a period of eight to 10 years would not allow the expert person is in custody, [is he or she] able to have an f.i. card from contact with long , the those eight years where there were three contacts, the person had been in custody for at least five, maybe even up to six years of that time, would that change your opinion about whether or not the three contacts [were] important in determining whether or not the admitted that police officers would not be able to have contact with an individual who was incarcerated. white concedes that he had been incarcerated for a five- to six-year period before evidence. (see people v. gardeley (1996) 14 cal.4th 605, 618.) he argues, however, that the probative value of the hypothetical question was outweighed by its prejudicial impact since it implied that white had been incarcerated in the past. we disagree. ang membership was relevant to 16 people v. gonzalez (2005) 126 cal.app.4th 1539, 1550.) white made the issue relevant when his trial counsel asked both experts their opinion as to whether three contacts over the course of eight years would suggest active gang membership. this question assumed that white was able to have contact with the lbpd, which was not the case since he was incarcerated for the majority of the eight-year time period. whether white was incarcerated and thus unable to have contact with a ntacts compromised by incomplete information, even where the information the expert failed to people v. arias, supra 13 cal.4th at p. 184.) even assuming the court erred in allowing the prosecutor to pose the hypothetical question, it was harmless under people v. watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at page 836. the jury knew that white had been convicted of a felony from the stipulation admitting it. while the court did not provide a limiting instruction related to this conviction, we have already concluded that white suffered no prejudice from that omission. further, the hypothetical did not assert that white had been incarcerated, and the court provided the instruction in caljic no. 2.82 relating to hypothetical questions posed to expert witnesses. that instruction informed the jufrom all the evidence whether or not the facts assumed in a hypothetical question have been proved. if you should decide that any assumption in a question has not been proved, you are to determine the effect of that failure of proof on the value and weight of the vi white was charged with being a felon in possession of a firearm, a violation of section 12021, subdivision (a)(1), and the jury found him guilty. the jury was not instructed on the specific elements of the crime. while the failure to instruct on the 17 elements of a crime is erroneous, we conclude the error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. caljic no. 12.44 is the instruction for the charge of violation of section 12021, subdivision (a)(1) that should be provided when the defendant has stipulated to his prior felony convictions. (see people v. valentine, supra, 42 cal.3d at pp. 181-183.) it instructs the jury in relevant part that the elements of the crime are (1) the defendant had a firearm in his possession or under his control, and (2) the defendant had knowledge of the presence of the firearm. (caljic no. 12.44). the instruction was not given. the court did instruct the jury on the requisite intent for the charge, giving caljic no. 3.30.7 the court also instructed the jury as to the elements of the allegation that the defendant intentionally and personally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury, you find the defendant[] guilty of [murder], you must determine whether the defendant[] intentionally and personally discharged a firearm [and caused great bodily injury or death to a person] in the cludes [a semi-automatic this instruction, means that the defendant [himself] must have intentionally discharged it. [] . . . [] the people have the burden of proving the truth of this allegation. if you have a trial court has a sua sponte duty to instruct the jury on the elements of a charged offense (people v. flood (1998) 18 cal.4th 470, 504-505), and the inadvertent failure to do so is error. white contends the error is reversible per se, relying on people v. cummings (1993) 4 cal.4th 1233 (cummings). 7 charged in count two, there must exist a union or joint operation of act or conduct and general criminal intent. general criminal intent does not require an intent to violate the law. when a person intentionally does that which the law declares to be a crime, he is acting with general criminal intent, even though he may not know that his act or conduct 18 cummingssubject of several of the charges against the codefendant, kenneth earl gay. except for a . . . the specific intent to cummings, supra, 4 cal.4th at p. 1312, fn. 52), the jury was never informed of the elements of that crime or, in particular, victims against their will by means of force or fear. . . (idpeople v. mil (2012) 53 cal.4th 400, 415-416 (mil).) the california supreme court held that this error was reversible per se. (cummings, supra, 4 cal.4th at p. 1315.) the court recently explained when instructional error is reversible per se or subject to harmless error analysis in mil, supra, 53 cal.4th 400. the court considered a claim of instructional error in failing to instruct the jury with all the elements of special circumstance felony-murder by a defendant who was not the actual killer. (id. at p. 416.) circumstance allegation is amenable to review for harmless error under the state and federal constitutions, at least as long as the omission id. at p. 415.) the court concluded tconcededly correct instructions, made several essential findings concerning the existence as evidenced by id. at p. 416.) conviction for a violation of section 12021, subdivision (a)(1). in order to find beyond a reasonable doubt that white intentionally and personally discharged a firearm, the jury necessarily found beyond a reasonable doubt that white knowingly possessed a firearm. this was the only finding essential to the conviction since white stipulated to his status as a prior felon, 19 this is mil, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 417, citing washington v. recuenco (2006) 548 u.s. 212, 218) and reversible per se. thus we must consider whether it appears beyond a reasonable doubt thid. at p. 417.) we are convinced that it did not since the jury found true that white intentionally and personally discharged a firearm in the commission of the murder. vii white argues the cumulative effect of the errors was prejudicial. in a close case, the cumulative effect of multiple errors may constitute a people v. kronemyer (1987) 189 cal.app.3d 314, 349.) any claim ibid.) as we have explained, there were two instructional errors. one involved the the other the lack of a specific instruction on the elements of section 12021, subdivision (a)(1). as discussed, these errors were harmless. we find no reasonable probability that the jury would have reached a result more favorable to white in the absence of these two errors. 20 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports epstein, p. j. we concur: manella, j. suzukawa, j. 