filed 8/20/12 p. v. leon ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. efren m. leon, defendant and appellant. b230034 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga077653) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, candace j. beason, judge. affirmed. david carico, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, michael r. johnsen and eric e. reynolds, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________ 2 a jury found defendant and appellant efren manuel leon guilty in count 1 of oral copulation by use of intoxicating substance (pen. code,  288a, subd. (i))1 and in count 2 of sexual penetration by foreign object by use of intoxicating substance ( 289, subd. (e)).2 the trial court sentenced defendant to the midterm of six years in count 1 and to a consecutive term of two years as to count 2. jury lessened the burden on the prosecution on the issue of whether the victim was prevented from resisting the acts alleged, because the instruction are based on the erroneous reasoning in people v. giardino (2000) 82 cal.app.4th 454 (giardino). defendant also argues that the judicial giardino is unconstitutionally vague and overbroad. we affirm the judgment. facts i. prosecution a. testimony of millie a. and susana r. on august 8, 20women each drank an apple martini while at her house; susana testified that only millie had an apple martini because susana did not like them. according to susana, both women had a shot of jagermeister. susana had never had jagermeister before that night. 1 unless otherwise indicated, all statutory references are to the penal code. 2 the jury failed to return a verdict in count 3, which charged attempted rape in violation of sections 664 and 261, subdivision (a)(3). count 3 was dismissed at the time of sentencing. 3 ked on the third floor of a parking structure in pasadena. before leaving the parking structure, each of the women had a shot of jagermeister from a bottle that millie had in the trunk of her car. ed by club menage, where bouncers let them enter the club without paying a cover charge or waiting in line. club menage had three levelsstreet level, a basement, and an upstairseach with a bar and dance floor. the women ordered a shot of jagermeister in the basement. they were not interested in dancing with men at the club. susana had a boyfriend at the time and was not interested in meeting men. millie and susana danced together for 15-30 minutes and then had a second shot of jagermeister. they danced for another 15 minutes in the basement. both women were starting to feel drunk. susana and millie each drank a a shot of jagermeister mixed with red bull energy drinkwhile in the basement. the women went to the upper floor of the club and danced together again. susana and millie both drank a second jager bomb. susana began to feel drunk and slur her speech. as they were dancing, susana, who was wearing six-inch stiletto heels, began to stumble and fell to her knee. millie became concerned because people were starting to stare at susana. another woman at the club became angry with susana because the working as a security guard at the club, to tell the woman to stay away from susana. millie recognized defendant because she had seen him at the club about a month earlier when she was there with her boyfriend. susana remembered seeing millie speaking with susana to a booth to sit down. a man brought over a bottle of water for her to drink. susana remembered sitting in the booth and drinking the water, but could recall very little of what happened after that. susana could not sit up straight and kept falling over. when millie tried to get susana to sit up, she flopped forward and then threw herself back. 4 millie told defendant that she was leaving and asked for his assistance because susana was passed out and millie did not think she could get her to the car by herself. defendant answered that he would have to talk to someone first. defendant helped susana get out of the booth by propping her up. defendant put his arm helped susana down the stairs to the street level. susana and defendant exited the back of the building and walked toward the parking structure, followed by millie and another in his arms. susana appeared unconsciousher eyes were closed, her mouth was open, and her body was flaccid. susana did not remember leaving the club, but recalled that a man wearing black who had a mustache and dark skin carried her in the parking structure. they walked up the stairs to the third level of the parking structure. defendant set susana down on the hood of a car by the stairwell. she flopped forward and defendant propped her up with his hands. millie was not sure where her car was parked at first, but then remembered that it was further up the ramp. she began to walk up the ramp with the other security guard. defendant again picked susana up and started to follow millie. as millie was walking toward her car she could hear other voices and susana called her name. millie locar. defendant looked up at millie as if he was startled. millie told defendant that her car was close and urged him to hurry up. defendant looked down again. susana remembered being laid down briefly saw the lights in the parking structure, and that she called for millie. she did not remember anything that happened while she was on the hood of the car. it took several minutes for millie to get to her car. once she got in and backed out of her parking space, defendant carried susana to the car. susana was unconscious and 5 belt. defendant handed susana a business ca as millie drove out of the parking structure, susana began to vomit. millie obtained a plastic bag from the trunk of her car, which susana vomited into. susana did not speak during the drive, which lasted approximately 25 minutes. when they arrived at a mattress on the living room floor with a blanket and a bucket to vomit in. susana did not remember getting into susana was asleep when millie woke up. susana was still feeling sick when she woke up at around 9:00 a.m. she was unable to hold down any food or water. two or three days later, detective schuyler sandeen of the pasadena police department contacted susana. she went to the police station to speak with the detective, who told her that she may have been sexually assaulted in the parking structure. susana felt violated. she denied giving defendant permission to orally copulate her, put his fingers in her vagina, or otherwise sexually penetrate her vagina. she did not consent to any sexual contact with defendant. she did not make a pass at him, kiss him, or give him her phone number. about four days after the night at the club, millie spoke with detective sandeen, who requested that she come to the police station. detective sandeen asked millie what happened at the club and in the parking structure. millie identified defendant from a six-pack of photos detective sandeen showed her as the security guard who carried susana. millie had been unaware that susana had been sexually assaulted. millie never kissed defendant and never saw susana kiss defendant or dance with him. 6 b. other witness testimony anthony morris worked with defendant as a security guard at club menage for about six months prior to the night of the charged offenses. defendant asked anthony to help him escort two women to the parking structure around midnight. anthony saw defendant coming downstairs with the women and cleared a path for them to exit the club. anthony accompanied them but did not walk close to either of the women because his girlfriend was at the club next door, and he did not want her to see him with the women. he walked behind the rest of the group. anthony remembered that the women walked to the parking structure. he did not recall either woman stumbling or falling. anthony saw one of the women talking to defendant. he did not see defendant and the woman touch or kiss one another. anthony also did not recall defendant carrying either of the women to their car. anthony followed the woman who went to get the car up the card. defendant never relayed to anthony that the woman had been hitting on him or that they had kissed. sarah eberhart and her friends daniel garcia, heather keefer, valerie moore, and michelle clyde also went to club menage that night and parked in the same parking structure as millie and susana. they danced until 12:30 or 1:00 a.m. and then left the club and returned to the parking structure. sarah had not had any alcohol to drink because she was the designated driver. her friends did drink alcohol that night. as they were walking in the parking structure, daniel drew attention to defendant, appeared to be unconscious. the group saw defendant place the woman on the hood of a car. he positioned himself between her legs, lifted her dress, and then looked around. defendant lowered his head to the wto side briefly. he appeared to be orally copulating the woman. defendant then put his 7 appeared to be fondling the woman. he then unzipped his pants, stood between the the group yelled at defendant to get his attention. they asked if the woman was tried to call the police, but her call did not go through. sarah observed another man and woman walking ahead of them. after about five minutes, the other woman pulled up in a car and defendant placed the woman he had they had seen. sarah saw the woman who was driving get out of the car and walk to the trunk. sarah tried to speak with the woman, but she ignored sarah. sarah flagged down she told him what the group had witnessed. responded that everything was fine. susana looked like she was passed out. jose asked millie to wake her up, which she did. jose then asked susana if everything was fine, and she nodded her head and closed her eyes. jose went back to the group and told sarah that the women said everything was alright. he wrote down the license plate number of sarah drove out of the parking garage and turned the wrong way onto a one-way street. she saw a police car ahead of her and made a u-turn. the officer pulled her over. sarah reported what she had seen in the parking garage. detective sandeen took statements from everyone in the car. 8 c. ny detective sandeen was working extra duty patrol at the time sarah and her friends exited the parking structure. he observed sarah driving the wrong way on a one-way street. detective sandeen spoke with sarah and the other people in the car, who reported what they had witnessed in the parking structure. detective sandeen went into club menage at around 2:00 a.m. and spoke with the general manager. the detective gave the general manager a description of the suspect. the general manager brought out defendant and two other security guards. detective sandeen told the men that he had gotten a report that a woman had been violated in the parking structure and asked if any of the men had escorted a woman into the structure. defendant stated that he had accompanied a woman into the parking structure and that told defendant that the woman was reported to have been drunk and passed out. defendant agreed that the girl was drunk but stated that she knew what she was doing. to be protecting the women he was escorting into the parking structure and not orally copulating them. defendant then admitted that he had orally copulated the woman and before, and he answered that this was the first time. the detective asked if the woman would remember the encounter, and defendant replied that he did not know. when asked but that she knew what she was doing. defendant stated that he had talked to the woman soon afterward, detective sandeen received a forwarded e-mail from the group pasadena. the e-mail stated that a group of people in a car had contacted jose to report a rape in the parking structure, and that jose had written down the license plate number of the car that the 9 victim was riding in. detective sandeen contacted millie and confirmed that she and susana had been in pasadena that night. he then contacted susana. detective sandeen interviewed susana at the police station. he told her it had been reported that she had been sexually assaulted in the parking structure the night she went to club menage with millie. he asked susana if she had sexual contact with clothes. d. interview of defendant detective sandeen interviewed defendant at the police station.3 defendant stated that he had been talking to millie and susana most of the night. millie had asked him to take them to their car because some men had been following her and she was scared. defendant walked the women to the parking structure. susana sat on the hood of a car in the structure, and she and defendant started kissing and touching each other. defendant when reminded that he previously told detective sandeen he had engaged in oral sex having sexual intercourse with her. he said that susana did not talk to him, but he could tell she enjoyed it. he said susana kissed him and grabbed his penis. rather than holding her up. detective sandeen told defendant he had surveillance video showing defendant carrying susana. defendant explained he carried susana up the parking structure stairs because her feet hurt. he said that susana did not appear to be that drunk because she was walking on her own and talking to him. 3 a recording of the interview was played for the jury at trial. 10 defendant recalled that someone in the parking structure asked what he was doing and whether susana was his girlfriend. he replied that she was and to leave them alone. defendant sunconscious and limp, and he did not know why the witnesses would say she was. he thought she was conscious and knew what she was doing, because she was talking to him. defendant denied that he unzipped his pants, but after the detective told him that vagina, b ii. defense brian abrego, who frequented club menage, was at the club the night that susana and millie went there. he knew defendant and had seen him working on the upper floor of the club that night. he saw two women dancing together provocatively. the women refused to dance with any men in the club but did dance near defendant provocatively, with their buttocks near his crotch. brian observed one of the women trying to kiss defendant. brian saw both women walk down the stairs and out the back door of the club with defendant. he walked out after them to smoke a cigarette. the three were joined by another security guard when they reached the back patio. brian saw all four people walk toward the parking structure. he did not see either of the women fall, nor did he see defendant carry either of the women. 11 discussion burden of proof required of the prosecution a. instructions and verdict the jury was instructed in pertinent part as follows as to counts 1 and 2: cannot give legal consent. in order to give legal consent, a person must be able to exercise reasonable judgment. in other words, the person must be able to understand and weigh the physical nature of the act, its moral character, and probable consequences. legal consent is consent given freely and voluntarily by someone who knows the nature of the act involved. that the person was capable of consenting to [oral copulation or sexual penetration], even elief was wrong. the people have the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant did not actually and reasonably believe that the woman was capable of consenting. if the people have not met this burden, you must find the defendant not -2011) calcrim nos. 1017 [oral copulation of an intoxicated person], 1047 [sexual penetration of an intoxicated person].) during deliberations, the jury sent a note asking for the legal definition of consent when intoxicated. the trial court responded that the definition was contained in the instructions. by finding defendant guilty in counts 1 and 2, the jury necessarily prevented from resisting by any intoxicating or anesthetic substance, or any controlled substance, and this condition was known, or reasonably 288a, subd. (i), 289, subd. (e).) 12 b. defendant argues the standard calcrim jury instructions given by the trial court intoxication prevented her from resisting the acts alleged. the jury was instructed that not able to legally consent. understand and weigh the physical nature of the act[s], [their] moral character, and ibid.) defendant contends the foregoing language, drawn from giardino, supra, 82 cal.app.4th at page 466, demands a level of reasoning and cognition greater than sections 288a, subdivision (i) and 289, subdivision (e) require. defendant asserts that giardino was wrongly decided because its interpretation of alternately, defendant argues that if giardino does not necessitate the ability to weigh the moral dimensions of engaging in sexual activity. defendant contends consent to sexual activity requires the capacity to make a ability to weigh and make moral judgments. requiring the jury to determine whether the victim had the ability to weigh and make moral judgments would cause it to delve into giardino 13 c. standard of review the facts and that are people v. burney (2009) 47 cal.4th 203, 246 (burneyprinciple of law applicable to the case, expressed in plain language, indicating no opinion people v. wright (1988) 45 cal.3d 1126, 1135.) the trial court may reject an instruction that incorrectly states the law, or is not supported by substantial evidence, is argumentative, duplicative, or presents a possibility of confusing the jury. (burney, supra, at p. 246.) we review a claim of instructional error de novo. (people v. cole (2004) 33 ertain the relevant law and proper test for judging the adequacy of instructions is to decide whether the trial court whether error has been committed in giving or not giving jury instructions, we must consider the instructions as a whole . . . [and] assume that the jurors are intelligent persons and capable of understanding and correlating all jury instructions which are support the judgment rather than defeat it if they are reasonably susceptible to such people v. martin (2000) 78 cal.app.4th 1107, 1111-1112.) we evaluate instructional error as to an element of an offense for prejudice under the standard articulated in chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 22-24, to by the jury were such that it is clear beyond a reasonable doubt that if the jury had never heard the impermissible instruction its verdict people v. avila (1995) 35 cal.app.4th 642, 663.) 14 d. analysis initially, we rejecforfeited by a failure to object. section 1259 allows for appellate review of an instruction that affects the substantial rights of the accused. moreover, the instructions in questioncalcrim nos. 1017 and 1047are based on giardino, which is binding authority the trial court was not free to reject. (see people v. rincon-pineda (1975) 14 cal.3d 864, 872; auto equity sales, inc. v. superior court (1962) 57 cal.2d 450, 455-456.) the issue presented is a pure question of law, and had defendant objected, the trial court would have been obligated to instruct in accord with the binding language of giardino. giardino. there have been no cases criticizing or contravening giardino in the 12 years that have passed since giardino was decided. to the contrary, the court of appeal has recently cited this specific language in giardino with approval. (see people v. smith (2010) 191 cal.app.4th 199, 204-205.) in any event, if there was instructional error as claimed by defendant, it certainly there was overwhelming evidence in this case that susana did not give actual consent and was not able to resist in any manner. millie testified that when the women were on the upper level of club menage just before leaving for the parking structure, susana was so intoxicated that she was unable to sit up at a table without falling forward and jerking herself back. susana was too susana was limp, her eyes were closed, and her mouth was open. the group of five witnesses who saw defendant and susana in the parking structure said that she looked unconscious wh 15 testified that she did not remember leaving the club and had only a vague memory of being carried in the parking structure. she testified that she did not consent to engage in any sexual activity with defendant and did not make a pass at him, kiss him, or dance with him. millie testified that she never saw susana dance with or kiss defendant. finally, in his interview with detective sandeen, defendant admitted that susana was probably so intoxicated that she would not remember the encounter. in light of the overwhelming evidence that susana was barely conscious, if at all, we discern no reasdefendant under the statutory interpretation he suggests. vague defendant also argues that that giardino be able to understand and weigh the physical nature of the act, its moral character, and in a fashion that leaves the jury and the court guessing as to what conduct is prohibited. a. standard of review onstitution and article i, section 7 of the california constitution, each guarantee that no person shall be deprived of life, liberty, or property without due process of law. this constitutional command ation, especially in the criminal law . . . people v. heitzman (1994) 9 cal.4th 189, 199, quoting in re newbern (1960) 53 cal.2d 786, 792.) 16 a criminal statute is unconstitutionally vague if it does not give adequate notice to ordinary people of the prohibited conduct or if it encourages enforcement that is arbitrary and discriminatory. (kolender v. lawson (1983) 461 u.s. 352, 357.) the constitution requires only reasonable certainty. (tobe v. city of santa ana (1995) 9 cal.4th 1069, 1107.) there is a strong presumption that statutes are constitutional, and a statute ibid., quoting walker v. superior court (1988) 47 cal.3d 112, 143.) invariably arise under which the application of statutory language may be unclear. so long as a statute does not threaten to infringe on the exercise of first amendment or other constitutional rights, however, such ambiguities, even if numerous, do not justify the invalidation of a statute on its face. in order to succeed on a facial vagueness challenge to a legislative measure that does not threaten constitutionally protected conduct . . . a party must do more than identify some instances in which the application of the statute vague in all of its applicationspeople v. kelly (1992) 1 cal.4th 495, 533-534, quoting evangelatos v. superior court (1988) 44 cal.3d 1188, 1201.) b. analysis permitting jurors to convict based on their personal feelings about the conduct involved rather than on the facts. a fair reading of the instructions does not support this interpretation, as the instructions do not invite jurors to consider their own morals or the morals of society in general. the instructions, nor is her chastity or her virtuousness. the instructions clearly state that the jury must determine whether the victim had the ability to weigh the moral character of the acts given her level of intoxication. it is irrelevant whether the victim makes a good 17 what is important is that she be able to engage in the process of such a consideration. it is presumed that the jury is able to understand and adhere to the instructions given to them. (people v. hernandez (2010) 181 cal.app.4th 1494, 1502 (hernandez).) absent any evidence to the contrary, we presume the jury did so here and therefore did not considverdict. second, defendant contends the language is overbroad and infringes on privacy rights because in some cases, actual consent may not be sufficient to absolve a defendant and jurors would have to individually assess whether sexual activity while intoxicated meets a personal moral standard. this argument also fails. although it is true that in some instances actual consent will not absolve a defendant, this would only be the case if the victim was so intoxicated that she was rendered incapable of legally consenting. the fact of intoxication alone, even if it impairs thought and significantly lowers sexual inhibitions, is not enough to find a defendant guilty. the victim must have lost her ability to exercise reasonable judgment, and the perpetrator must have either known that this was the case or reasonably should have known that it was. (see giardino, supra, 82 cal.app.4th 454 at p. 466.) sexual conduct between two intoxicated adults who have retained the ability to legally consent is not criminalized by either statute no matter how morally offensive the conduct might be to an individual juror or society at large. the instructions do not direct jurors to look to their own moral standards or those of the victim to determine whether the victim could legally consent. jurors need only consider whether intoxication prevented the victim from being able to consider the moral character of the act. it is the ability to engage in the thought process that is at issue, not the content of the issues under consideration. to be devoid of meaning is likewise without merit. the instructions clearly state that the jury must evaluate whether the victim had the ability to understand and weigh the probable consequences of the sexual acts given her intoxication level, not discern those 18 probable consequences. we presume the jurors followed the plain meaning of the instruction in the absence of evidence establishing they did otherwise. (hernandez, supra, 181 cal.app.4th at p. 1502.) finally, defendant argues the statutes are facially void as construed by giardino. defendant contends the statute cannot be defended on the basis that defendant could have instructions or the statutes that implicate his personal moral character, and indeed there is no such language. to be guilty of oral copulation or sexual penetration by use of intoxicating substance under section 288a, subdivision (i), and section 289, subdivision (e), the defendant must have committed the act of oral copulation or sexual penetration; the victim must have been prevented from resisting by an intoxicating substance; and her condition must have been known, or reasonably should have been known by the defendant. no assessment of whether the defendant has lived righteously is involved. we therefore hold that the statute is not facially void as defendant asserts. additionally, because of the overwhelming evidence detailed above that susana reasonable doubt even had the instructions not included the complained of language. defendant suffered no prejudice. disposition the judgment is affirmed. kriegler, j. we concur: turner, p. j. armstrong, j. 