filed 3/20/12 p. v. walantus ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. charles jess walantus, defendant and appellant. b230302 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa064857) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, harvey giss, judge. affirmed in part; reversed in part and remanded. carol s. boyk, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, daniel c. chang and robert c. schneider, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 the jury convicted defendant charles jess walantus of three counts arising from a single incident: (1) commercial burglary (pen. code,  459) (count 2); (2) petty theft with a prior ( 666) (count 3); and (3) second degree robbery ( 211) (count 4).1 the trial court imposed a second strike sentence of 11 years.2 in this appeal from the judgment, defendant contends: (1) the evidence was insufficient to support his conviction of robbery; (2) the trial court had a duty to instruct sua sponte on attempted robbery; (3) the trial court prejudicially erred in giving calcrim no. 361; and (4) because theft is a lesser included offense of robbery, the theft conviction must be reversed because he cannot be convicted of both robbery and theft for the same offense. we reject all but the last contention and conclude that the theft conviction must be reversed. the judgment, as modified, is affirmed. background on june 12, 2009, dannsaw defendant place four bottles of liquor in a hand basket and leave the store without paying for them. almada followed defendant outside to his car and repeatedly told him to drop the basket. defenbasket, defendant began elbowing and pushing him away while trying to start the car. almada testified that during this struggle, which left red marks on his neck and chest, his 1 all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. the prosecution dismissed an additional count of attempted robbery ( 211, 664) (count 1) after the defense rested. 2 the court imposed the midterm of three years on count 4, the base term, which it -year enhancement for the prior serious felony conviction. ( 213, subd. (a)(2); 1170.12, subd. (c)(1); 667, subd. (a)(1).) the court imposed three-year sentences on counts 2 and 3, which were stayed under section 654. 3 car and drag him with it. two albertson employees, jacob briggs and robert patterson, arrived to assist behind almada and pulled defendant from the car. patterson and briggs held defendant on the ground until he quit struggling. the police arrived a short while later and arrested him. discussion i. the evidence of force was sufficient to support the robbery conviction robbery is the felonious taking of personal property in the possession of another, from his person or immediate presence, and against his will, accomplished by means of hat by leaving the store with unpaid merchandise, defendant committed a petty theft, which became a robbery when force or people v. estes (1983) 147 cal.app.3d 23, 28-29 [robbery conviction affirmed based on force that force or fear was used to retain the stolen property. the contention lacks merit. a. standard of review when assessing a challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence, we apply the substantial evidence standard of review, under which we view the evidence in the light most favorable to the judgment and determine whether any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the charged crime or allegation proven beyond a reasonable doubt. (jackson v. virginia (1979) 443 u.s. 307, 319; people v. johnson (1980) 26 cal.3d 557, 578.) s4 in the light most favorable to the judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence which is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a people v. johnson, supra, people v. morehead (2011) 191 cal.app.4th 765, 777-778 (morehead).) b. evidence of force dence did not show when the bottles were removed from the car, there was no proof that appellant tried to retain them by force or fear, as estes hat the record was silent as to when the bottles were removed from the car, almada testified to waiver [siced on force was used against almada before the stolen items were retrieved from the car. c. evidence of fear in light of our determination that the finding of force was supported by substantial dragged by the car was objectively unreasonable. the contention, in any event, lacks merit. morehead, supra, 191 cal.app.4th 765, which defendant cites for the proposition not decide that issue because it was not preserved for appellate review. without deciding reasonable, the court found there was substantial evidence of actual and reasonable fear in that case. must be both actual and reasonable, we conclude the evidence was sufficient to support a 5 uld create a reasonable fear of being dragged by the car. defendant argues that such fear was unreasonable given his testimony that he jury could have rejected defend-serving and not credible. reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends. [citation.] we resolve neither credibility issues nor evidentiary people v. maury (2003) 30 cal.4th 342, 403.) the evidence was sufficient to support a finding of actual and reasonable fear. ii. the trial court had no sua sponte duty to instruct on attempted robbery defendant contends that because the evidence supported a finding of an attempted robbery but not a completed robbery, the trial court had a sua sponte duty to instruct on attempted robbery. we disagree. people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 148-149 . . . .) the trial court has no obligation to instruct on theories not supported, evidence that the defendant is guilty only of people v. reeves (2001) 91 cal.app.4th 14, 51.) defendant contends that because the evidence was unclear whether the stolen bottles were still in the car when the struggle began, the jury could have believed that the struggle did not begin until after the bottles had been retrieved by a store employee, which would have supported a finding of attempted robbery but not a completed robbery. 6 as previously discussed, however, almada testified that the bottles were still in the car account. accordingly, the record does not support a finding that neither force nor fear was used to retain the stolen property. in the absence of such evidence, the trial court had no obligation to instruct on attempted robbery. iii. the instructional error in giving calcrim no. 361 was harmless fendant failed in (his) testimony to explain or deny evidence against (him) and if (he) could reasonably be expected to have done so based on what (he) knew, you may consider (his) failure to explain or deny in evaluating that evidence. any such failure is not enough by itself to prove guilt. the people must still prove each element of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt. [] if the defendant failed to explain or deny, it is up to you to decide the instructional error is subject to independent review by our court. people v. rodriguez (2009) 170 cal.app.4th 1062, 1066.) calcrim no. 361 is similar in content to caljic no. 2.62, which was approved in people v. saddler (1979) 24 cal.3d 671, 680-681. (rodriguez, supra, at pp. 1066-1067.) the itself to prove guilt. defendant contends that calcrim no. 361 was not warranted because he was not askthat he did not answer straightforwardly, either in direct or cross examination. he never in response, the attorney general contends that calcrim no. 361 wwitnesses, including his own, testified he elbowed almada, when he claimed he did not owing almada created a conflict in the a contradiction between 7 deny which justifies giving the instruction. (ibid.when a defendant explains or denies matters within his or her knowledge, no matter how improbable that explanapeople v. kondor (1988) 200 cal.app.3d 52, people v. lamer (2003) 110 cal.app.4th 1463, 1469 (lamer).) knowledge that he did not explain or deny. dewitnesses had lied does not compel us to conclude that the instruction was warranted. if testimony would likely have been deemed speculative and therefore, inadmissible. (see gherman v. colburn regarding the state of mind of another person absent proper evidence of such state of lamer, supra, 110 cal.app.4th at p. 1470, fn. omitted.) we therefore conclude that calcrim no. 361 should not have been given in this case. applying the watson harmless error standard (see lamer, supra, 110 cal.app.4th at p. 1471; people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836), we next consider whether giving calcrim no. 361 was prejudicial. defendant argues the instruction improperly reasonably probable that the jury wouexplanations if they had not been erroneously invited in effect to consider his testimony according to lamerfound that the improper giving of lamer, supra, 110 cal.app.4th at p. 1472.) one reason courts have found the improper giving of caljic no. 2.62 to be harmless is that the text of the instruction itself tells the jury that it would be unreasonable to draw an adverse inference if the defendant lacks the knowledge needed to explain or deny the evidence against him. as the court in people v. ballard (1991) 1 8 not direct the jury to draw an adverse inference. it applies only if the jury finds that the defendant failed to explain or deny evidence. it contains other portions favorable to the defense (suggesting when it would be unreasonable to draw the inference; and cautioning that the failure to deny or explain evidence does not create a presumption of guilt, or by itself warrant an inference of guilt, nor relieve the prosecution of the burden of proving every essential element of the crime beyond a reasonable prejudicial effect related to the improper giving of caljic no. 2.62. (saddler, supra, 24 lamer, supra, 110 cal.app.4th at p. 1472.) in this case, the jury received calcrim no. 200, which is similar to caljic uctions may not apply, depending on your findings about the facts of the case. do not assume just because i give a particular instruction that i am suggesting anything about the facts. after you have decided what the facts are, follow the instructions th we conclude that in light of the overwhelming evidence that defendant was elbowing and pushing almada, who emerged from the car with red marks on his neck and chest, and given that calcrim no. 200 was also provided to the jury, it is not reasonably probable that a result more favorable to defendant would have resulted if calcrim no. 361 had not been given. we therefore conclude that the instructional error was harmless. iv. the theft conviction must be reversed defendant contends that because theft is a lesser included offense of robbery, he could not be convicted of both theft and robbery. the attorney general agrees. included offense. [citations.] where there is sufficient evidence to sustain the conviction of the greater offense, the conviction of the lesser offense must be reversed. 9 people v. estes, supra, 147 cal.app.3d at p. 28.) in light of our determination that the robbery conviction is supported by substantial evidence, it necessarily follows that the theft conviction must be reversed. disposition the conviction on count 3, petty theft with a prior, is reversed. the case is remanded to the trial court with directions to prepare an amended abstract of judgment, which is to be forwarded to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports suzukawa, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. manella, j. 