filed 2/24/12 p. v. beal ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. bobbie beal, defendant and appellant. b231175 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba373655) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, norm shapiro, judge. reversed and remanded. alex green, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and baine p. kerr, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant bobbie beal was convicted of possessing hydrocodone for sale and sentenced to an eight-year prison term. he contends on appeal that the trial court erred in denying his challenge pursuant to batson v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 79 (batson) and people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 706 (wheelerexcusal of three african-batson/wheeler challenge to one juror was supported by substantial evidence, but that the trial coconditionally reverse the judgment and remand with directions. statement of the case on october 19, 2010, defendant was charged by a second amended information with selling hydrocodone (health & safety code,  11352, subd. (a) [count one]) and possession for sale of hydrocodone (id.,  11351 [count two]). the information also -(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d).)1 on october 29, 2010, a jury found defendant guilty of possessing hydrocodone for sale, but was unable to reach a verdict regarding the sales allegation. the court declared a mistrial as to this charge. on february 24, 2011, following defendanto the prior convictions, the court found the prior convictions to be true. pursuant to defendant to an eight-year prison term (upper term of four years doubled pursuant to the defendant timely appealed. 1 the prosecutor deleted a thirteenth alleged prior conviction. 3 discussion defendant contends that the trial court erred by denying his challenge pursuant to batson and wheeler f african-american jurors. juror no. 33 for a race-neutral reason was not supported by substantial evidence; and (2) the trial court erred when it refused to require the prosecutor to articulate her reasons for excusing two other african-american jurors. we consider these issues below. i. relevant facts during voir dire, juror no. 332 cutive assistant for a cpa firm, was divorced, and had three adult sons, all of whom were employed. she also stated that she previously sat as a juror in two civil cases and a verdict was reached in both of those matters. when questioned by defense counsel, juror no. 33 stated as follows: . . and, juror no. 33, the same kind of questions. do you have any idea about that, about a police officer coming into court? what do you think? y: you have no feelings about it at all? strong feelings one way or another about the accusations being made or allegations? o. 33: not really because nothing has been proven, so. -mind[ed], open slate? socioeconomic group may live differently than other people? 2 juror no. 33 is also referred to in the transcript as juror no. 11. 4 people that are more stable, do you accept that? subsequently, the prosecutor exercised a peremptory challenge to excuse juror no. 33. the following colloquy then took place at sidebar. batson, wheeler challenge at this point. . . african-reason for mr. (name redacted) to be excused, or the first guy, no. 4, who was black. t: lea[ving] aside the other people[,] as to this particular juror, you think there is insufficient reason? juror based on race? this juror? three adult children, three adult kids nything negative. go ahead and state the reasons as to her. 5 held up in the criminal justice system. she made a comment specifically that said, other people do it too. they jthe socioeconomic field. that would be a level of sympathy toward somebody, not privilege[d]. that was one thing. she also has a cross necklace and big cross earrings. i tend to think people who are religious to that extent have a difficult time judging other people. judgment. as to the statement of the question, i asked her was she, did she understand people of different socioeconomic groups might behave differently. she said, yes. i think she misunderstood my question which finding [sic] in her response people of other economic groups may do the same kinds of things, but they may not get caught as much. left her with a feeling that she may be problematic. so i have to honor that. as far as the certain impression that people who do perhaps exhibit or wear their religion, perhaps ms. kardan has found over in her experience there have been some difficulty. she tended to stay away from those jurors. on that reason i think the district attorney has established a reason that is sufficient for me to honor the challenge. e court needs to inquire as to the other jurors also excused. 6 to make a reasonable call on that. if you had, i would have gone through the same challenges. n challenge to go back now and make calls on the others. those jurors have left the people in the box. three have been dismissed already by the prosecutor. district attorney has stated a reason. the co ii. applicable law basis of group biasguished violates the right of a criminal defendant to trial by a jury drawn from a representative cross-section of the community under article i, section 16 of the california constitution. (wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d at pp. 276-277; see people v. griffin (2004) 33 cal.4th 536, 553.) such a practice also violates the 7 states constitution. (batson, supra, 476 u.s. at p. 88; see also people v. cleveland (2004) 32 cal.4th 704, 732.) batson states the procedure and standard to be used by trial courts when motions challenging peremptory shifts to the state to race--neutral explanation is tendered, the trial court must then decide . . . whether the opponent of the strike has johnson v. california people v. avila (2006) 38 cal.4th 491, 541.) iii. prosecutor excused juror no. 33 for race-neutral reasons defendant contends that the trial court erred in concluding that the prosecutor excused juror no. 33 for race-neutral reasons. for the following reason, we disagree. batson, supracause people v. arias (1996) 13 cal.4th 92, 136, italics added.) a prospective juror may be excused based upon facial expressions, gestures, hunches, and even for arbitrary or idiosyncratic reasons. (see people v. turner (1994) 8 cal.4th 137, 165; wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d at p. 275.) nevertheless, although a prosecutor may rely on any number of bases to select jurors, a legitimate reason is one that does not deny equal protection. (purkett v. elem (1995) 514 u.s. 765, 769.) certainly a challenge based on racial prejudice would not be supported by a legitimate reason. 8 wheeler/batson -neutral explanations to be credible. reasonable, or how improbable, the explanations are; and by whether the proffered miller-el v. cockrell (2003)] 537 u.s. [322,] 339.) [fn. omitted.] in assessing credibility, the court draws upon its experiences as a lawyer and bench officer in the community, and even the common practices of the advocate and the office that employs him or her. (see wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d at p. 281.) wheeler/batson motion is deferential, examining only whether substantial evidence supports its conclusions. (people v. bonilla [(2007)] 41 cal.4th [313,] 341-sume that a prosecutor uses peremptory to distinguish bona fide reasons from sham excuses. [citation.] so long as the trial court makes a sincere and reasoned effort to evaluate the nondiscriminatory justifications people v. burgener people v. lenix (2008) 44 cal.4th 602, 613-614.) in the present case, the prosecutor articulated two reasons for her exercise of a peremptory challenge against juror no. 33: (1) her impression that juror no. 33 believed that people of low socioeconomic status are unfairly targeted by law enforcement, and (2) her belief that people who are very religious (as she believed juror no. 33 was, based on her large cross earrings and necklace) have a difficult time judging others. the record justific 9 defer to these observations on appeal and, because an analysis of the record demonstrates conclude that the trial court did not err in denying the batson/wheeler challenge with regard to juror no. 33. iv. other african-american jurors was untimely defendant contends that the trial court erred in refusing to consider the merits of his challenge to -american jurors batson/wheeler successfully made out a prima facie case as to these jurors. the attorney general contends that the present record does not permit us to [internal record reference omitted], and the record does not show the identity of mr. people v. hamilton (2009) 45 cal.4th 863, 905.) we thus assume, as defendant asserts, that the prosecutor exercised two peremptory challenges against african-american jurors before exercising a similar challenge against juror no. 33. as to those two african-american jurors, the trial court erred in concluding that batson/wheeler challenge was untimely. in people v. rodriguez (1996) 50 cal.app.4th 1013, 1020-1021, 12 jurors were sworn to decide the case. during the process of selecting those jurors, the prosecutor exercised peremptory challenges as to two hispanic jurors. after the jury was sworn, the court went on to select three alternates. when the prosecutor exercised a peremptory challenge against a hispanic 10 alternate, the defense attorney immediately made a batson/wheeler motion as to the excusal of all three hispanic jurors. the trial court considered the motion as to the alternatidbatson/wheeler motion was timely as to all three hispanic jurors. (id. at p. 1023.) quoting its earlier decision in people v. gore (1993) 18 cal.app.4th 692, the court . . [t]o be timely a wheeler objection or motion must be made, where a court has indicated that a trial will be conducted with alternate jurors, the impanelment of the in re mendes people v. rodriguez, supra, at p. 1023.) thus, because the jury had not yet been impaneled when the defendant made his batson/wheeler motion, the motion was timely. in the present case, defendant made his batson/wheeler challenge as to all three african-american jurors well before the jury was empanelled or sworn. accordingly, the trial court erred when it ruled that challenge was untimely. the question then becomes the appropriate remedy. our supreme court addressed the issue of remedy in people v. johnson (2006) 38 cal.4th 1096, 1103-1104 (johnson). there, the court held that although the trial court had erred in concluding that the defendant had not established a prima facie case of group bias under batson, it need not reverse the judgment. instead, even though seven or eight years had passed since the jury selection, it remanded the case with directions to the trial court to attempt to conduct the second and third batson steps. (id. at pp. 1101, 1103.) in other words, the court said, the trial challenges. if the prosecutor offers a race-neutral explanation, the court must try to evaluate that explanation and decide whether defendant has proved purposeful racial discrimination. if the court finds that, due to the passage of time or any other reason, it cannot adequately address the issues at this stage or make a reliable determination, or if it determines that the prosecutor exercised his peremptory challenges improperly, it should 11 set the case for a new trial. if it finds the prosecutor exercised his peremptory challenges id. at pp. 1103-1104.) this court reached a similar result in people v. hutchins (2007) 147 cal.app.4th 992 (hutchins). there, the defendant made a wheeler motion after the prosecutor exercised a peremptory challenge to an african-american juror. the trial court found that defendant had made a prima facie case, but ultimately concluded that it could not find purposeful discrimination by clear and convincing evidence. (id. at p. 996.) we held that the opponent of a peremptory challenge does not have the burden of proving purposeful race discrimination by clear and convincing evidence; rather, it need only demonstrate such discrimination by a preponderance of the evidence. (id. at p. 997.) further, we concluded that we could not determine in the first instance whether the prosecutor had shown by a preponderance of the evidence that her peremptory challenge was race-neutral. (id. at p. 998.) we thus said a limited remand was appropriate so that the trial court could reconsider the third step under the proper legal standard. we noted that the factors to be considered in determining whether remand is appropriate length of time since voir dire, the likelihood that the court and counsel will recall the circumstances of the case, the likelihood that the prosecution will remember the reasons for the peremptory challenges, as well as the ability of the trial judge to recall and assess the manner in which the prosecutor examined the venire and exercised other peremptory id. at pp. 998-999.) because voir dire had occurred a little over a year earlier, there were detailed trial transcripts, both sides filed a written motion on the issue, and the prosecutor took notes, we found that a limited remand was appropriate. in the present case, as in hutchins, voir dire occurred a little over a year ago and there are detailed transcripts of the voir dire. thus, as in johnson and hutchins, a limited batson/wheeler challenge to the first two african-american jurors excused by the prosecutor. on remand, we direct the trial court to consider whether the defendant presented a prima facie case as to these two jurors. if so, the court should require the prosecutor to explain her challenges. if the prosecutor offers a race-neutral explanation, the court must 12 evaluate that explanation and decide whether defendant has proved purposeful racial discrimination. if the court finds that, due to the passage of time or any other reason, it cannot adequately address the issues at this stage or make a reliable determination, or if it determines that the prosecutor exercised her peremptory challenges improperly, it should set the case for a new trial. if it finds the prosecutor exercised her peremptory challenges in a permissible fashion, the trial court should reinstate the judgment. disposition the judgment is reversed and the cause is remanded to the trial court for reconsideration of its ruling on the wheeler/batson challenge. if the trial court finds that it cannot adequately address the challenge or make a reliable determination, or if it determines that the prosecutor exercised her peremptory challenges improperly, the reversal is to stand and the trial court is ordered to set the case for a new trial. if the trial court determines that defendant has not met his burden of proving purposeful race discrimination, the judgment shall be reinstated. not to be published in the official reports suzukawa, j. we concur: willhite, acting p. j. manella, j. 