filed 10/23/12 p. v. coakley ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jahsha coakley, defendant and appellant. b231522 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa065716) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. michael sally patrone brajevich, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and david f. glassman, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 appellant jahsha coakley, appeals from a judgment of conviction entered after a jury found him guilty of three counts of second degree robbery (pen. code,  211).1 the jury also found true the allegations that as to counts 1 and 2, a principal was armed within the meaning of section 12022, subdivision (a)(1), and as to count 3, appellant personally used a firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (b), 12022.5, subd. (a)). the trial court sentenced appellant to a prison term of 13 years and four months. appellant contends that his conviction must be reversed because of judicial misconduct during a pretrial proceeding which tainted his subsequent trial. he contends he was deprived of a fair trial due to juror misconduct involving one juror sleeping during the proceedings, and some jurors deliberating outside the presence of the entire jury. appellant also contends that he was prevented from accepting a package deal plea bargain because his codefendant refused to accept the deal. finally, he contends that the order to pay attorney fees must be stricken because he did not receive notice and a hearing on the matter. we agree that the attorney fees order must be stricken but otherwise affirm the judgment. facts prosecution evidence between 1:00 and 1:30 p.m. on november 9, 2009, rasheed tokunboh alabi2 entered s & g recycling center (s & g) in sylmar. alabi, whose face was partially covered, pointed a silver-colored handgun at s & g employee francisco gonzalez and demanded money. gonzalez said he did not have any money. alabi then pointed the gun at s & g owner, sandra velasquez and repeated his demand for money. velasquez handed him approximately $500, consisting mostly of one and five-dollar bills. alabi 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise stated. 2 alabi was charged and tried with appellant. the jury was unable to reach a unanimous verdict as to alabi and the court declared a mistrial in his case. 3 grabbed the money and took off running. he jumped over a barrier by the exit and got into a white mercedes-benz. velasquez went to the front door and saw that the driver of the mercedes was wearing a camouflage shirt. s & g employee santos lucio ortiz was standing on top of a large container that stored recycled glass. he saw that the driver of the white mercedes was male and wore a camouflage shirt. he observed a partial license at about 2:30 that afternoon, appellant entered the california recycling center in sylmar. he wore a dark blue shirt with a collar. he obtained a receipt for recycling materials and presented it to employee isidro gonzalez martinez.3 when martinez opened the cash register appellant displayed a revolver and demanded money. appellant reached into the cash register which contained approximately $100 in one-dollar bills and took the money. martinez gave him an envelope containing an additional $400 that he d during the robbery. martinez saw appellant get into a white mercedes and drive away. at approximately 2:40 p.m., los angeles police department (lapd) officer paul prevost was on patrol duty in the general area of the robberies and responded to a radio call advising him of the robbery at the california recycling center. martinez provided a description of the robber and the white mercedes vehicle used in the robbery. officer prevost was aware of the earlier robbery at s & g involving a white mercedes and communicated the information to the lapd air support division. was in a helicopter in the vicinity of the robberies. from the air, he saw a white mercedes matching the desapproximately one quarter of a mile from the california recycling center. he directed the officers on the ground to the gas station. from the air he observed a male, later 3 but to avoid confusion with s & g employee gonzalez, we will refer to him as martinez. 4 identified as alabi, exit the vehicle. alabi disappeared from his view for a moment and then was seen crossing the street and walking away from the gas station. officer prevost and his partner arrived at the gas station and saw a white mercedes with two occupants. the license plate was 4dee121. alabi who had been standing by the vending machines walked away. the white mercedes was registered to appellant and the police recovered $442 from his pants and shoes. all but $40 consisted of one and five-dollar bills. jamel chatters, who was seated in the front passenger seat of the white mercedes, was also taken into custody. a camouflage t-shirt was recovered from the trunk of the car. the officers found a loaded chrome steel revolver wrapped in a black ski mask between two vending machines where alabi had been standing. alabi was apprehended in a nearby alley and had $302 in his right front pocket consisting of 22 ten-dollar bills, one five-dollar bill, and 77 one-dollar bills. martinez positively identified appellant in a field lineup at the shell gas station as the person who had robbed him at gunpoint at the california recycling center. appellant was wearing the same clothes that he was wearing approximately half an hour earlier during the robbery. chatters testified at trial that he knew appellant. he testified that he was in the car for 10 minutes with appellant only, before stopping at the gas station. he testified that appellant was not involved in any robberies while he was with him on the day in question. in a pretrial recorded statement to the police which was played for the jury, chatters stated that alabi was also in the car, and that appellant and alabi discussed robbi defense evidence no evidence was presented on behalf of appellant. 5 discussion i. judicial misconduct a. contention appellant contends that the convictions should be reversed because he was prejudiced by the remarks made by the trial court judge prior to his recusal. he contends that the appointment of a different judge who oversaw the proceedings was not an adequate remedy. b. background trial. an unrecorded pretrial discussion with counsel regarding a plea agreement took place in the courtroom. judge giss perceived that counsel wished him to intercede and explain the benefits of the plea offer to the defendants. when it became clear that a disposition could not be worked out judge giss made a remark to counsel to the effect that the only thing that would make the defendants plead was for the judge to come out in a white sheet and pointy hat.4 judge giss declared a mistrial and recused himself.5 the case c. analysis due process clause guarantees a criminal defendant the right to a fair and impartial people v. freeman (2010) 47 cal.4th 993, 1000.) judicial bias must be raised appeal. (people v. guerra (2006) 37 cal.4th 1067, 1111, disapproved on another point in people v. rundle trial pass without [a] charge of bias against the judge not only forfeits his claims on 4 during an in-chambers discussion with counsel, judge giss recollected the remark 5 the commission on judiciaconstituted misconduct and he was publicly admonished. 6 appeal but also strongly suggests they are without merit. people v. guerra, supra, at p. 1112.) handling of the matter was an inadequate remedy is essentially a claim of judicial bias, which was forfeited for failure to raise it below. (people v. farley (2009) 46 cal.4th 1053, 1110.) in any event, the claim lacks merit. appellant acknowledges that judge giss declared a mistrial and the case set the tone for the appearance of bias but fails to identify even one occurrence during the trial before establish by an objective standard the bias and prejudice he alleges existed in his trial. (people v. chatman (2006) 38 cal.4th 344, 363.) ii. juror misconduct a. contentions appellant contends that his convictions must be reversed because of juror misconduct. he contends the court erred in denying his motions for mistrial when a number of jurors discussed the case outside the presence of the entire jury. appellant also contends the trial court violated his constitutional rights to due process and a fair trial by failing to remove a juror who fell asleep during the proceedings. we find no merit to these contentions. b. deliberations outside the jury room 1. factual background the jury coordinator informed the court that during the lunch hour she observed 7 in the room listening while the remainder of the jury were out in the hallway. the two jurors appeared to be discussing what happened at the gas station, where the gun was located, how many people were involved in the crimes or were just driving the car, and if someone jumped a wall, where that might have occurred. the other jurors in the room made casual comments. the court asked the jury coordinator if it appeared that any of the the court convened the entire jury and admonished them identified as having been present during the assembly room conversation. the court again admonished the entire jury that even if issues were constantly on their mind, they were not to discuss the case when they got together for lunch or at any time other than when all 12 were together for deliberations. the jury was sent back to continue deliberations. defense counsel moved for a mistrial which the court denied. the court acknowledged its concern but stated it did not believe there was any intentional misconduct on the part of the jurors. the court did not believe the jury was swayed by the discussions that had allegedly taken place because the jurors had continued to deliberate afterwards for an additional two hours and the questions subsequently submitted by the jury were unrelated to the issues allegedly discussed. following further discussion with counsel the court stated that it would consider the matter during the evening recess. the following morning the court informed counsel that having researched the issue he wanted to focus on the conduct of the jurors but was concerned about making stated that he intended to identify the individual jurors for the record, and then instruct them that they must disregard the discussion that took place outside the jury deliberation room and not let it influence them in any way and that discussions must take place, if needed, in the jury deliberation room 8 with all 12 jurors present. if all jurors agreed, he intended to have them continue deliberations. following further argument by counsel the court agreed that the juror able to follow the specific instructions he proposed regarding the incident and would be able to perform their duty. the jury entered the courtroom and was admonished again to deliberate only in the deliberation room when all 12 were present. addressing the jurors who participated in the improper discussions, the court ordered them to disregard the discussions and not to allow their deliberations to be influenced in any way by those discussions. the court asked if this order posed a problem for anyone in that group of jurors. none of the jurors to resume deliberations. the following morning, the court informed the parties that one of the jurors had become ill and was hospitalized. when the jury assembled in the courtroom the alternate was seated and the newly constituted jury was instructed to begin its deliberations anew. ( 1089; calcrim no. 3575.)6 the jury began deliberations and reached a verdict in 6 one of your fellow jurors has been excused, and an alternate juror has been selected to join the jury. [] do not consider this substitution for any purpose. [] the alternate juror must participate fully in the deliberations that lead to any verdict. the people and the defendants have the right to a verdict reached only after full participation of the jurors whose votes determine that verdict. this right will only be assured if you begin your deliberations again, from the beginning. therefore, you must set aside and disregard all past deliberations and begin your deliberations all over again. each of you must disregard the earlier deliberations and decide this case as if those earlier deliberations had not taken place. [] now, please return to the jury room and start your deliberations 9 2. applicable legal principles generally speakia trial court ruling denying a mistrialpeople v. silva (2001) 25 cal.4th 345, 372.) as more specifically pertinent to jury misconduct claims, we employ a two-prong review people v. nesler is a mixed ibid.) in in re hamilton (1999) 20 cal.4th 273, the california supreme court held that d, if the entire record in the particular case, including the nature of the misconduct or other event, and the surrounding circumstances, indicates there is no reasonable probability of prejudice, i.e., no substantial likelihood that one or more jurors were actually biased id. at p. 296.) -to-competing interest in timpossible to shield jurors from every contact or influence that might theoretically affect unavoidable fact that jurors bring diverse backgrounds, philosophies, and personalities into the jury room is both the strength and the weakness of the institution. [citation.] -elusive perfection. . . . [jurors] are imbued with human frailties as well as virtues. if the system is to function at all, we must tolerate a certain amount of imperfection short of actual in re hamilton, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 296.) 3. analysis 10 as a result of that misconduct. (people v. tafoya (2007) 42 cal.4th 147, 192.) we independently conclude, based on a review of the entire record and the totality of the circumstances, that the presumption of prejudice was rebutted. here, the trial court convened the jurors and immediately admonished them when the matter was brought to the jurors individually regarding the allegations as it had been informed of the general nature of the discussions by the jury administrator. in discussing with counsel the characteristics of groups of people gathered together, the court echoed the supreme in re hamilton. (in re hamilton, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 296.) the court took into account that the weather conditions forced the jurors to stay in the involve the court was influenced by the amount of time all of the jurors spent deliberating after the earlier improper discussion and that the subsequent questions asked by the jury were unrelated to the issues that were allegedly discussed. while the court was concerned that the jurors may have discussed issues related to the case it was not convinced that the ultimate issue of guilt or innocence was discussed, much less a decision reached. the court was confident the jury could follow its clear order to disregard any prior discussions that had taken place outside the presence of all jurors. on this record the whether [the jurors] could fulfill their obligati(people v. farnam (2002) 28 cal.4th 107, 141.) was seated. there is no requirement that a jury must deliberate for a particular length of 11 d upon the length of deliberations, to be without merit. (mendoza v. club car, inc. (2000) 81 cal.app.4th 287, 309.) c. sleeping jurors 1. factual background during a break in the testimony of the first witness in the case, the trial court advised the parties that juror no. 55 appeared to be sleeping. the juror seemed aware that the court was looking at her and appeared to try and stay awake thereafter. the court advised the parties that if her behavior continued he would address the issue. the trial continued for the remainder of that day without further incident. we need to nip in t when testimony concluded on the third day of trial the court invited counsel to discuss the options available to him in the event he decided to remove juror no. 55. he stated that he could not tell when she was looking down whether she was taking notes or if she had nodded off. the prosecutor observed juror no. 55 closing her eyes and d movement. he suggested an admonishment that would remind all the jurors to stay alert while taking notes. after proceedings were adjourned the following day the trial court remarked that he thought juror no. 55 was sleeping during the direct testimony of a witness. neither noted that juror no. 55 was not sleeping during cross-examination but stated that he had an obligation to make inquiries. the following day, the court conducted a hearing in the presence of counsel. addressing juror no. 55, the court stated that it was concerned that she was not 12 having trouble staying awake. juror noexpressed its concern that she may have missed some important information. juror no. that he had been watching her closely since her alleged sleeping had become an issue, and on a couple of occasions she was actually taking notes when he initially thought she was sleeping. the court stated that he too had seen her looking down and could not tell if she was taking notes. the prosecutor was concerned that juror no. 55 appeared to be sleeping and asked that she be excused. counsel for codefendant alabi characterized the that she had not been sleeping to the point that she had missed a information. juror no. 55 was told that everybody needed her to stay awake. she needed to is issue to come up again and it would be forced to take action if it did. 2. applicable legal principles the trial court has the authority to discharge jurors for good cause, including sleeping during trial. (people v. bradford (1997) 15 cal.4th 1229, 13481349 (bradford).) when the trial court receives notice that such cause may exist, it has an affirmative obligation to investigate. (id. at p. 1348.) both the scope of any investigation and the ultimate decision whether to discharge a given juror are committed to the sound discretion of the trial court. (ibid.) 13 3. analysis in bradford, the supreme court found no abuse of discretion where the trial court failed to conduct any inquiry, despite evidence that a challenged juror had slept for a substantial portion of at least two trial days. here, by contrast, an inquiry was conducted, portions of the trial. neither the judge, nor counsel for the defense or prosecution, claimed to have observed the juror sleeping for any substantial period. examination of juror no. 55 satisfied its duty of inquiry. the court asked the juror about her drowsiness, the reasons for it, and whether she had missed important testimony. as far as the written record shows, the juror was not defensive or hostile in response to the the court the notes that she had taken. juror no. 55 gave every indication in her responses that she approached her duties as a juror conscientiously. the trial court was in continued for an additional 16 days of testimony without further observations or claims that juror no. 55 was inattentive. the court was not required to interrogate juror no. 55 more aggressively, or to expand the scope of the inquiry that would bring the trial to a halt. we find the hearing the court conducted was adequate under the circumstances, and that the court did not abuse its discretion by failing to discharge juror no. 55. record. appellant contends that juror no. 1 and juror no. 10 also fell asleep. but it appears from the record that juror no. 10 is the same person as juror no. 55. the court . . discretion by the trial court. 14 iii. order to pay attorney fees a. contention as part of the judgment, the trial court ordered appellant to pay attorney fees of $8,265 pursuant to section 987.8. appellant contends the trial court erred in imposing the fees without (1) a hearing, (2) a finding of an ability to pay, and (3) any support in the record. point is correct, but requests remand for a hearing. b. applicable legal principles section 987.8 provides that a court may order a defendant to reimburse the county for the cost of legal representation. the trial court, at the conclusion of the trial, and after portion of the actual cost of his or her legal representation. ( 987.8, subd. (b).) t involve the taking of (people v. smith (2000) 81 cal.app.4th 630, 637.) section 987.8, subdivision (e) provides that at the hearing the defendant must be afforded the opportunity to testify, to present witnesses and documentary evidence, and to cross-examine adverse witnesses. moreover, subdivision (f) provides that prior to the rt may, after a hearing, make a determination of the present ability of the defendant to pay all or a portion of the cost of counsel. the court shall also give notice that, if the court determines that the defendant has the present ability, the court shall order him or her to defendant sentenced to prison does not have the ability to reimburse defense fees. this presumption may be overcome, though, by proof of unusual circumstances. ( 987, subd. (g)(2)(b).) c. analysis we agree that the order requiring appellant to pay for his legal representation was in error. the record does not contain any indication that appellant was given notice of 15 the possibility he might be ordered to reimburse the cost of his legal representation before counsel was appointed. the reimbursement order was not supported by substantial not conduct an on-the-record hearing to determine this issue. furthermore, we have examined the sentencing transcript and find no reference to the reimbursement order. and no evidence that appellant was given proper notice. we therefore reverse the order regarding reimbursement of attorney fees. respondent suggests, is inappropriate given the presumption that a defendant sentenced to subd. (g)(2)(b); see people v. lopez (2005) 129 cafinding of unusual circumstances [required] before ordering a state prisoner to reimburse find unusual circumstances of the financial ability to satisfy the order of reimbursement. the information in the record strongly points to the opposite conclusionat the time of the crime appellant was living with his parents and attending school. his only source of income was his aunt who paid him for doing odd jobs around her daycare business. we therefore strike the attorney fee order without remand in the interest of judicial economy. iv. validity of package deal plea bargains appellant contends that his rights were violated when he was prevented from accepting a plea bargain offer because it was a package deal requiring the assent of both defendants, and codefendant alabi refused the offer. appellant contends that he should be allowed to change his plea and accept the offer previously offered by the prosecution. this claim is without merit. 16 ackage-need for all in re ibarra (1983) 34 cal.3d 277, tor may be properly interested in avoiding the time, delay and expense of trial of all the defendants. he is also placed in a difficult position should one defendant plead and another go to trial, because the defendant who pleads may become an adverse wit-ibid.) nvolving multiple the drawback of not doing so and entering into plea bargains with less than all the codefendants is the risk of insufficient evidence to prove the case against the remaining codefendant(s). the risk results in some, or all, of the codefendants getting off lightly, or walking, including the major culprit in the offense. accordingly, most package deals are people v. pastrano (1997) 52 cal.app.4th 610, 617.) while acknowledging the general legitimacy of package deals, appellant argues sic) accepting the deal, so appellant was prevented from appellant essentially is arguing that it was unfair to force him to go to trial. but appellant ignores the fact that if a codefendant rejects the package offer, the people lose their expected benefit from the deal. (see liang v. superior court (2002) 100 cal.app.4th 1047, 1056when codefendants withdrew their pleas because one of the ba argument, by insisting on his right to the indicated sentence although his codefendants have withdrawn their guilty pleas, liang is trying to receive the benefits of his bargain when an express reciprocal condition was voided. moreover, liang has not been deprived of any right to receive the indicated sentence. he only had 17 the cases cited by appellant involve situations in which a defendant who has accepted a package deal later argues that he was coerced into accepting the plea. they have no relevance to the issue raised on appeal. likewise, appellant cites no authority for the proposition that he is entitled to a reversal of a valid conviction. disposition the judgment is modified to strike the order requiring appellant to pay attorney fees in the amount of $8,265 pursuant to section 987.8. the superior court is directed to prepare and forward to the department of corrections and rehabilitation an amended abstract of judgment reflecting this modification. the judgment is affirmed in all other respects. not to be published in the official reports. _______________________, acting p. j. doi todd we concur: _______________________, j. ashmann-gerst _______________________, j. chavez 