filed 10/23/12 p. v. lemus ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. andrew lemus, defendant and appellant. b231036 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta096889) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. paul a. bacigalupo, judge. affirmed as modified. john steinberg, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and rama r. maline, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 andrew lemus (appellant) appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial resulting in his convictions of two counts of first degree murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a); counts 1 & 2)1 with findings he personally used a firearm and intentionally discharged a firearm proximately causing death ( 12022.53, subds. (b) & (e)) and of multiple murder special circumstance ( 190.2, subd. (a)(3)). the jury also found that the offenses were committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang within the meaning of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c).2 in sentencing appellant for the murders in counts 1 and 2, the trial court imposed two consecutive terms of life without the possibility of parole, each enhanced by a term of 25 years to life for the discharge of a firearm. the trial court imposed various fines and court fees and awarded appellant 1,212 days of presentence custody credit. appellant contends that (1) the trial court should have excluded his confession obtained in violation of miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 (miranda), (2) prejudicial prosecutorial misconduct requires reversal of the judgment, (3) there was insufficient evidence to support the convictions, (4) the imposition of life sentences for the use of a firearm violated his constitutional rights under the sixth and fourteenth amendments to the united states constitution, (5) it was error to charge the jury with a flight instruction, (6) refusal to disclose juror information was an abuse of discretion, and (7) the trial court improperly imposed a parole revocation fine. we strike the parole revocation fine but otherwise affirm the judgment. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise stated. 2 the jury deadlocked on charges of assault with a firearm ( 245, subd. (a)(2); counts 3 & 4) and making criminal threats ( 422, counts 5 & 6). the trial court declared a mistrial as to those counts, which were ultimately dismissed. 3 factual background3 prosecution case the shooting around 11:30 a.m. on april 20, 2008, charles lemus saw his brother andrew, appellant, talking to their grandmother in the kitchen of their home at 2547 east 127th street, in the city of compton. appellant, a largo 36 gang member whose moniker was gatorade from the liquor store. he drove away in his gray mustang with black racing stripes. charles was online on the computer in the living room, which had a window that faced 127th street. although the computer had a clock, the time was incorrect and he did not know the exact time appellant left. he believed it was around noon. at 1:23 p.m., david gallegos, a wheelchair-bound paraplegic, left his residence to go to the international house of pancakes on alameda and compton. he was accompanied by his friend rigoberta vega who pushed gallegos down the sidewalk, south on alameda. shortly before 1:30 pm., carlos cruz was driving north on alameda near the intersection of alameda and palmer when he observed a gray automobile coming towards him, travelling south on alameda. the automobile made a u-turn in front of cruz and drove slowly towards gallegos and vega. cruz recognized the automobile as a mustang -seat passenger were both latinos, approximately 18 to 20 years old, and both appeared to have shaved heads. the passenger wore a short-sleeved white shirt. cruz slowed down behind the mustang and stopped his car. he heard yelling and then saw a big black shiny gun pointed from the passenger side of the mustang. cruz observed gallegos raise his hands and then heard three gunshots. vega tried to hide behind the wheelchair and cruz 3 we do not discuss the facts underlying counts 3 through 6 because they are not relevant to any issues on appeal. 4 heard two more gunshots. cruz tried to get the license plate number but the mustang drove quickly away northbound on alameda and turned left. near the intersection of palmer and alameda and were on the way to their church for a heard gunshots. aishah looked in the direction of the gunshots and saw a gray mustang with two black racing stripes. she saw vega who had been pushing the wheelchair fall to the church. zakiya saw vega fall to the ground. the shooter first lowered the long-barreled black gun and then raised it again. gallegos covered his face with his hands and then slumped over in the wheelchair. zakiya saw a gray mustang with two black racing stripes that had been stopped during the shooting. the mustang then drove away at a fast speed northbound on alameda. sharice royal saw vega slump over the wheelchair and then fall to the ground gun and shot gallegos who was in a wheelchair on the sidewalk. the shooter was a hispanblack hoodie sweater. he got into a gray mustang with black racing stripes which drove away northbound on alameda, and turned left on elm. as sharice ran towards the church she called 9-1-1.4 charles lemus remained online playing games and chatting on the computer while appellant was gone. his back was to the window facing 127th street but he looked out 4 a call reporting shots fired was received by the 9-1-1 dispatcher at 1:26 p.m. on april 20, 2008, and originated from 357 palmer street which was in the vicinity of the church that the daoud sisters and sharice royal attended. 5 occasionally. he testified that he heard the bottom of the car scrape the ground when appellant returned in the mustang and pull into the driveway because appellant was driving fast.5 appellant got out of the car and ran to the patio. he was wearing a white shirt underneath a black jacket which he removed. charles saw appellant talk to their uncle, george gomez. gomez, who lived next door to appellant returned with breakfast for his family between 10:00 and 10:30 a.m. and remembered seeing appellant sitting on the patio. sometime between 1:30 and 2:00 p.m. as gomez and his family were leaving their home gomez told appellant he could not help him because he was leaving. gomez called his cousin daniel renteria, who was across the street at a barbecue, and asked him to move other not remember how long he was at the barbecue when he got a call from his cousin george gomez. he came out, moved his suburban forward, turned it off and got out. appellant came outside and told daniel to back the suburban into the driveway to his then returned to the barbecue across the street. ricardo renteria testified that he and daniel went to a family party in riverside between 7:00 and 8:00 p.m. the previous evening and stayed there until 3:00 a.m. he and daniel got to the barbecue on april 20, 2008, between 11:00 a.m. and 12:00 p.m.6 his brother parked the suburban on the street and ricardo went to the barbecue. when the police arrived and he went out to the street he saw that the suburban had been moved 5 cha 6 at the preliminary hearing he testified that he got there at 12:00 p.m. 6 from where it was originally parked and was now backed up against the mustang in charles later told the police that after daniel renteria moved the suburban to block the driveway he saw appellant meet up with two shaved-headed hispanic males in white t-shirts in the middle of the street. the three of them walked away but charles did not know which direction appellant went. the investigation and his trainee deputy lucio venegas conducted a traffic stop in an unincorporated area of los angeles near the city of compton. detective kirste received a call from dispatch regarding a shooting that occurred close to their location. the dispatch operator described the getaway car as a silver ford mustang with two black racing stripes. ten seconds after hearing the broadcast, detective kirste looked up and observed a vehicle matching the description travelling eastbound on 130th street at approximately 50 miles per hour in an area where the posted speed limit was 25 miles per hour. detective kirste broadcast over the radio that he had seen the mustang and he and deputy venegas drove on 130th street in the same direction as the mustang. they turned north on alameda and saw a silver car travelling eastbound on el segundo boulevard and followed it until they could see that it did not have any black racing stripes. after driving for approximately 15 minutes looking for the mustang, they encountered some pedestrians on alameda who informed them that the mustang had turned left on 127th street. between 1:43 and 1:46 p.m. as deputy venegas drove slowly on 127th street, a gold or brown suburban almost completely blocked the view of the mustang. detective kirste broadcast over the radio that he had found the mustang and other units arrived to assist him in setting up a containment of the house. a black hoodie was found on the back seat of the mustang. 7 charles lemus and the people attending the barbecue at the house across the street, including daniel renteria and his brother ricardo renteria, were interviewed. appellant was the only member of the lemus, renteria, and gomez families that the police were unable to locate that afternoon and evening. the eyewitnesses from the scene of the shooting whouse to view the mustang. aishah identified the vehicle as the mustang she saw at the scene of the crime; zakiya positively identified it as the mustang she saw leaving the driveway was the one she saw at the crime scene; and carlos cruz identified it as the same one used in the shootings. seymour were assigned to respond to the call that shots were fired in the vicinity of alameda and palmer. they arrived at the crime scene at 3:00 p.m. and found both victims had been pronounced dead at the scene. lieutenant katz and detective seymour .m. and search warrants were executed at a number of residences on 127th street. a blue los angeles dodgers windbreaker was found in a his grandparents and aunt irma lived. the windbreaker was dry and had not been washed. lieutenant katz conducted several interviews during the course of the investigation that day. charles lemus was interviewed twice while in the back of a patrol car. the first occurred outside his home and the second with his aunt irma present, occurred at a field command post. a tape of both interviews was played in court. daniel renteria told lieutenant katz that he moved his suburban into the all from his cousin george gomez. gomez told renteria that appellant had asked him to move it. that incorporated driving eastbound on 130th street where he had reported seeing a vehicle that matched the description of the mustang. he drove early on a weekday 8 morning at the approximate speed he saw the mustang travelling. he completed the trip in four minutes and one second. he did it a second time and the total trip took three minutes and 52 seconds. sometime between 11:30 p.m. and midnight, lieutenant katz was informed that a tape of the interview was played in court. appellant told lieutenant katz that he was at interviewed jose vasquez, sr., the pastor of the church, and his son jose vasquez, jr. appellant told lieutenant katz that he was at church on april 20, 2008. he said jose vasquez, sr., the pastor at apostolic assembly torre fuerte, testified that on april 20, 2008, he and his wife got to the church at 8:00 a.m. he did not see appellant at sunday school class which ran from 10:30 a.m. to noon. regular services started at 1:30 p.m. there were two entrances to the church and from the platform at the front where vasquez was situated he could see when people entered and left the church. vasquez entered the church at approximately 1:45 p.m. and did not see appellant. he -shirt. on the day in question, jose vasquez, jr. went to church with his wife and sister and arrived in time to teach sunday school which started at 10:30 a.m. when sunday school ended at 11:45 a.m., vasquez, jr., ran some errands and then returned to the church for services at 1:30 p.m. appellant was nevthat day. vasquez, jr., could not remember what time he saw appellant in the church but it was sometime during the 1:30 p.m. services. after the services. vasquez, jr., was unable to go home because the streets around his 9 home were blocked. his neighbors told him what was going on and he returned to the pare gang evidence los angeles county deputy probation officer edward gomez testified that his investigation revealed a myspace account owned by appellant.7 friends on mysooed on his arm. 200 members. detective gutierrez testified that appellant, whose gang moniker was cd cases recovered from the mustang owned by appellant, and the numerous gang tattoos appellantattooed on his right arm. . . . 7 matter. 10 opinion that appellant was a member of the largo 36 gang. it was stipulated by the parties that the primary activities of largo 36 were murders, attempted murders, shootings, carrying loaded firearms, assaults with firearms, criminal threats, vandalism, and stealing vehicles. the parties also stipulated that certain identified members of largo 36 were convicted of murder, attempted murder, and carrying a loaded firearm. gang signs and symbols included c.v.l. 36, and largo 36, and gang members would throw responding to a hypothetical question based on the facts of this case, detective gutierrez opined that the drive-by murders of vega and gallegos were committed for the benefit of and in association with the largo 36 gang. the gang benefited because the enhanced because a drive-by shooting is by definition a gang crime and this was opping in daylight hours and acts on behalf of the gang. forensic evidence telephone records a custodian of records working for sprint nextel provided expert testimony regarding telephone records obtained from sprint. he indicated that the timing, duration, and locations of cell phone calls can be determined from telephone records and cell tower locations. incoming calls at 1:39 p.m. and at 1:44 p.m. on april 20, 2008. neither call went to voicemail8 cted with a cell 8 his cell phone at approximately 1:45 p.m. 11 vicinity of the church the phone would have connected with those towers. autopsies an autopsy was conducted and it was determined that vega had suffered three gunshot wounds, one of which perforated the heart and was fatal. the second shot hit the left lung, and the third hit the liver and aorta. the second and third gunshot wounds would also have been rapidly fatal. three medium-caliber bullets consistent with .38 an autopsy performed on gallegos determined that the cause of death was two gunshot wounds to the head. two bullets were recovered from gallegos which were also consistent with .38 special or .357 magnum caliber bullets.9 the gunshot wound to the left side of the head showed abrasions from gunpowder which meant the gun was between one-half inch to two feet away when discharged. gunshot residue scientific services bureau and analyzed gunshot residue (gsr) kits in the crime lab. no gsr particles were found on the front, passenger seat or headliner area of the mustang. he found one gsr particle from a fired weapon on the blue los angeles dodgers windbreaker recovered on april 20, 2008 from the washing machine located on that the windbreaker could have been worn by the shooter or someone next to the shooter, or the clothing could have touched a surface that had gsr particles on it. it was also possible that the washing machine was contaminated with gsr particles and a particle was deposited when the windbreaker was placed in it. 9 forensic fired from the same gun. 12 based on the facts of this case cavaleri opined that the shooter did not wear the windbreaker. there were multiple shots fired and the windbreaker was recovered shortly after the shooting. because of that short time frame, he would have expected to see many more gsr particles on the windbreaker if the shooter had been wearing it. defense case anthony martinez met appellant in 2002 when martinez graduated from high school and appellant was in the 7th or 8th grade. after high school martinez belonged to raymond rivera and appellant. he testified that there was a ranking system within the gang and he, appellant and rivera belonged to the lowest level, which was referred to as stealing cars and selling drugs, but was never arrested for shooting or killing anybody. nothing raymond rivera belonged to the f.c. tagging crew when he was in high school. rivera stole cars and possessed and sold guns. he lived across the street from appellant licenses borrowed and used the mustang. santos briones grew up on 127th street and knew appellant all his life. he was renteria. at approximately 9:00 p.m. on april 19, 20house. appellant, his brother charles, their grandmother, and ricardo and alfred renteria were present. ricardo renteria gave methamphetamine to appellant who was drinking beer. briones, appellant, and alfred renteria left to go to a party and returned at 13 they watched television and drank beer. appellant was ill and vomiting at 5:00 a.m. when briones left to go home. appellant vomiting when she got up at 6:00 a.m. on april 20, 2008. at noon he left to get gatorade and returned within five to 10 minutes. charles lemus was sitting at his computer in the living room. when esther left at 12:45 p.m. to take flowers to the cemetery, appel 2008 she left for the gym at approximately 12:20 p.m. and returned at approximately 1:40 g parked in the driveway on either claudia rodriguez hosted a barbecue at her home on 127th street on april 20, 2008. ricardo and daniel renteria arrived for the party at approximately 10:30 a.m. she spent most of the time in the kitchen and could not see people coming in and going out of the house. margaret mendenhall, a contract attorney, was hired to take notes during ricardo appellant. he said that he used cocaine the following day at the barbecue party. he thought his brother daniel left the party once. 14 discussion i. miranda issue a. contention appellant contends the trial court erred in denying his motion to exclude the statements he made to lieutenant katz and detective seymour.10 appellant contends the entire interview must be suppressed because it was the product of a custodial interrogation during which the detectives posed questions that were designed to elicit incriminating information before issuing the miranda admonition. he contends that the statement that he was at church all day was obtained prior to the miranda warnings and his subsequent repetitions of that alibi after being mirandized were tainted by his pre-miranda statement. appellant further contends that the detectives ignored his invocation of the right to counsel. we disagree. b. background 10:00 p.m. on april 20, 2008, and was interrogated by lieutenant katz and detective seymour. both officers were dressed in plainclothes. the interview lasted approximately 25 to 30 minutes and was audiotaped. his jacket. lieutenant katz asked if appellant had any tattoos besides the ones visible on his arms. appellant was asked to unbutton his shirt. lieutenant katz then told appellant series of questions related to exchange occurred: 10 al testimony. 15 . . [sigh] why are you here? in, sir. i [inaudible]. lve. detective seymour advised appellant of his miranda rights including the fact that an attorney would be provided to appellant at no cost if he could not afford one. z stated, understood his rights. when detective seymour inquired what time the pastor would say that appellant got to the interview continued and appellant responded to the detectives questions and provided information regarding the pastor and other witnesses that would confirm his presence in the church. appellant was taken into custody at the conclusion of the interview. during the hearing on the motion to suppress, the court indicated that it had ranscript. 16 lieutenant katz testified that it was his practice to ask biographical questions that were used to complete the booking slip prior to advising interviewees of their miranda rights. he did not believe appellant was requesting an attorney when he asked about a public defender but instead was clarifying whether one would have to be paid for or provided free through the court process. his son should surrender because he was wanted for questioning. carlos and his wife questioning. (1) miranda was triggered at the outset of the interview because appellant was subjected to elicit incriminating responses; (3) appellant was confused and was not physically or mentally capable of waiving his miranda rights; (4) appellant made three separate -miranda statements were inadmissible and anything he said thereafter was tainted. the court found that the were involuntary and ruled that he knowingly and intelligently waived his constitutional the court ruled that the entire statement was admissible. c. analysis it should be noted that despite tadmissible, the portion of the interview after appellant asked to wait for his lawyer was not introduced at trial. the transcript of the interview that was admitted ended when detective seymour asked athe remaining statements that appellant made after stating that he wanted to wait for his attorney were not heard by the jury. 17 1. standard of review miranda cases (where a defendant is interviewed before and after the giving of miranda generally admissible if the prewarning statements and the postwarning statements were people v. camino (2010) 188 cal.app.4th 1359, 1363incriminating, so long as the first statement was voluntary a subsequent voluntary confession ordinarily is not tainted simply because it was procured after a miranda miranda violationeven one resulting in process that a subsequent voluntary and informed waiver is ineffective for some inculpatory statement, though technically in violation of miranda, was voluntary. the relevant inquiry is whether, in fact, the second statement people v. scott (2011) 52 cal.4th 452, 477.) e prosecution has the burden of establishing voluntariness by a preponderance of the evidence. whether a confession was voluntary depends upon the totality of the substantial evidence, but we independently review the ultimate legal question. people v. scott, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 480.) 2. custodial interrogation during the hearing on the motion to suppress, the prosecution essentially conceded that appellant was in custody when he was interviewed. the court instructed counsel that it was inclined to find the interview was custodial and that they need not address the custody issue. some of the factors we examine to determine whether a custodial interrogation has taken place include the site of the interrogation, whether the person is aware that he or she is the focus of the investigation, whether objective indicia of arrest 18 are present, and the length and form of the questioning. (people v. milham (1984) 159 cal.app.3d 487, 500.) no one factor is dispositive and the relevant inquiry is whether a tantamount to a formal arrest. (berkemer v. mccarty (1984) 468 u.s. 420, 441442.) the officers were informed that appellant had been driving his mustang around that appellant should given the objective circumstances of this case, we conclude no reasonable person 3. routine booking questions d by the detectives and the people v. quiroga (1993) 16 cal.app.4th 961, 971.) in pennsylvania v. muniz (1990) 496 u.s. 582 a four-routine exception which exempts from coverage questions to id. at p. 601, plur. opn. of brennan, j.) lieutenant katz testified that it was his practice at the beginning of an interview to obtain basic information in order to open up a rapport with the interviewee. a review of the record indicates that appellant was asked for his name, age, address, phone numbers, and employment history. none of these questions was likely to elicit incriminating responses from appellant and all can be classified as routine booking questions. we also reject appelunbutton his shirt to display his gang tattoos was a miranda violation. when appellant removed his jacket lieutenant katz observed tattoos on his body. lieutenant katz asked 19 if appellant had gangs, lieutenant katz would have been concerned about jail security and in particular might alert lieutenant katz to the possibility of gang-related violence and so aided lieutenant katz in the booking process. booking questions asked for administrative purposes of ensuring institutional security or the safety or health of inmates and staff have survived miranda challenges. (see united states v. washington (9th cir. 2006) 462 f.3d 1124, 1132booking question asked to ensure prisoner safety].) while it can be implied that appellant had tattoos on his body, there is nothing in the transcript of the interview to indicate that the tattoos indicated gang membership and were incriminating. 4. post-miranda statements the detectives were not required to advise appellant of his miranda rights at the beginning of the interview because not all statements obtained by the police from a suspect who is confined are the product of interrogation. (people v. ray (1996) 13 compelling miranda, supra, 384 u.s. at p. 478.) ibid.) ails because of voluntariness. in oregon v. elstad (1985) 470 u.s. 298 (elstad), an officer arrested the defendant at his house for burglary. the officer did not advise the defendant of his miranda rights and asked him if he knew why the officer was there, and if he knew certain burglary victims. the defendant gave an incriminating response. the defendant was later transported to the police station, advised of his miranda rights, waived them, and gave a full statement. (elstad, supra, at pp. 300302.) the court held that the miranda warnings did not taint the statements the defendant made after proper advisement and waiver of his miranda rights. the court 20 miranda whether, in fact, the second statement was also voluntaelstad, supra, at p. 318.) the court in elstad held that the admissibility of a subsequent post-miranda (elstad, suprasuch inquiry, the finder of fact must examine the surrounding circumstances and the entire course of police conduct with respect to the suspect in evaluating the voluntariness of his statements. the fact that a suspect chooses to speak after being informed of his rights is, of course, highly idlater statements as being the tainted fruit of the first non-mirandized admission. (elstad, supra, at pp. 305308.) thus, we minitial pre-miranda confession was involuntary or coerced, and whether it tainted his subsequent, post-miranda confession. response to lieutenant katz asking him why he was there. lieutenant katz asked appellant a series of biographical questions to obtain information to complete the booking slip. there is no evidence that lieutenant katz or detective seymour pressured or coerced appellant. appellant could have responded that he came in because he was aware that the police wanted to question him, or could have denied any knowledge of involvement in the crimes. instead, appellant volunteered an alibi. lito indicate they were made involuntarily. further, appellant had been detained for a relatively short time. he had been brought to the police station sometime after 10:00 statements to lieutenant katz and detective seymour were voluntarily given. 21 after appellant waived his miranda rights, detective seymour asked him if he was willing to talk about what was going on. throughout the post-miranda interview, appellant proceeded to explain how he got to church, when he got to church, and who would have seen him there. given the foregoing evidence and circumstances, we -miranda statements were also voluntary. since all the statements were voluntary, the trial court did not err by admitting the post-miranda statements into evidence. 5. pre-miranda statements the foregoing evidence reflects that appellant made the same statements about being in church after waiving his miranda rights, that he made prior to waiving his miranda rights. thus, the jury would have heard that appellant claimed to have arrived at the church around noon, having gotten a ride there with jose vasquez, jr., and proceeded to spend the rest of the day there until his parents picked him up around 10:00 p.m. that night. accordingly, any error related to admitting the pre-miranda statements is harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24.) 6. no statements were admitted after appellant asserted his right to counsel appellant contends that the detectives ignored his invocation of counsel after he was read his miranda rights when he stated, rendered moot when the subsequent statements by appellant were not admitted into evidence. ii. prosecutorial misconduct appellant contends the prosecutor committed the following instances of misconduct during closing argument: (1) repeatedly shifted the burden of proof to the defense; (2) argued that the defense function was to confuse the jury; (3) accused the 22 defense of falsifying evidence; and (4) vouched for the credibility of a key witness. we disagree. a. waiver the people assert that appellant waived or forfeited any claim of prosecutorial misconduct. a defendant alleging prosecutorial misconduct is required to make a timely objection, state his reason for the objection, and request the jury be admonished. (people v. brown (2003) 31 cal.4th 518, 553.) the admonishment requirement is subject to an exception for futility. (people v. cole people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 820 (hill).) also, failure to object does not preclude arguing on appeal deprivation of constitutional rights. (people v. vera (1997) 15 cal.4th 269, 277.) appellant acknowledges his trial attorney did not object and request an admonition as to every instance of prosecutorial misconduct asserted on appeal. nevertheless, appellant argues that his objections should be deemed preserved and addressed on the merits, because the acts of misconduct individually and collectively violated his fundamental federal constitutional rights to due process, a fair trial, and confrontation. (people v. vera, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 277.) we agree that defense counsel failed to object on grounds of prosecutorial misconduct and/or seek a curative admonition, and therefore forfeited the objections on appeal. (people v. stanley (2006) 39 cal.4th 913, 952.) nevertheless, we address these the merits. in every instance cited, misconduct either did not occur or was harmless. b. applicable law on prosecutorial misconduct . . intemperate behavior violates the federal conduct by a prosecutor that does not render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair is 23 (people v. samayoa when the claim focuses upon comments made by the prosecutor before the jury, the question is whether there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury construed or applied any of the complained-of remarks in an objibid.) violates state law unless it is reasonably probable that a result more favorable to the defendant would have been reached without the misconduct. (people v. wallace (2008) 44 cal.4th 1032, 1071.) c. shifting the burden of proof it was improper for the prosecutor to argue in rebuttal that the defense was unable to point to any evidence that was inconsistent with appellant being involved in a double murder. the evidence presented at trial included testimony from eyewitnesses linking interview with lieutenant katz and detective seymour. the prosecutorpresented it. this is permissible argument as prosecutors may commfailure to introduce evidence or to call logical witnesses. (people v. cornwell (2005) 37 cal.4th 50, 90, disapproved on other grounds in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22.) the prosecutor did not argue that appellant was required to present any evidence. immediately followed up with the s 24 defendant has not produced any evidence, and on the other hand an improper statement that a defendant has a duty or burden to produce evidence, or a duty or burden to prove people v. bradford (1997) 15 cal.4th 1229, 1340.) we are d. confusing the jury appellant complains berger v. united states (1935) 295 u.s. 78, 88 (berger); people v. reyes (1974) 12 cal.3d 486, 505506 (reyes); and people v. coulter (1989) 209 cal.app.3d 506, 514515 (coulter), appellant contends that the prosecutor committed misconduct in this portion of her argument because a prosecutor may not argue that the function of the defense is to confuse the jury and equate the hill, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 819.) attempting to confuse the issues and urges the jury to focus on what the prosecution people v. cummings (1993) 4 cal.4th 1233, 1302, fn. 47.) statements as a denigration of counsel but rather of a defense theory, something the id not exceed the bounds of people v. sanders (1995) 11 cal.4th 475, 527.) appellant cites a specific example when the prosecutor equated the defense strategy to that of a squid that into make his escape. the jury could certainly understand it to be nothing more than urging the jury not to be misled by the defense. (see people v. cummings, supra, 4 25 cal.4th at p. 1302 [prosecutopeople v. marquez (1992) 1 cal.4th 553, 575, 576 the cases appellant relies on are distinguishable. berger is inapposite. the prosecutor in berger committed numerous acts of misconduct including: misstating the facts on cross-questions that statements had been made to him outside of court; pretending to understand that a witness had said something that he had not said and persistently cross-examining the witness on that point; assuming prejudicial facts not in evidence; bullying and arguing with witnesses; and making an argument thintemperate, containing improper insinuations and assertions calculated to mislead the berger, supra, 295 u.s. at pp. 84, 85 88.) while the court in berger lists these examples of prosecutorial misconduct, it does not address the specific point raised here. likewise, reyes coulter, the third case misconduct during closing argument by arguing [that] defense counsel had a duty to coulter, supra, 209 cal.app.3d at p. 514.) finally appellant cites people v. woods (2006) 146 cal.app.4th 106 (woods), and osecutorial misconduct there for the proposition that the in woods, the prosecutor committed misconduct by arguing that the defendant was woods, supra, 146 cal.app.4th at p. 113.) the court found additional instances of serious prosecutorial misconduct in several other arguments id. at p. 116.) the court considered the cumulative effect of the prosecutorial misconduct and determined that the respondent had easonable doubt that the error did not 26 contribute to the verdict. (chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 . . . id. at p. 117.) here, unlike woods, the prosecutor did not assert that the defense had the obligation to present evidence. her argument was factually supported and was a fair comment on the evidence. e. falsifying evidence when referring to photographs presented by the defense to attack the credibility of a prosecution witness implied that the defense falsified evidence. charles lemus testified that he could look out the front window by turning around when he was seated at the computer in the living room. he testified regarding the movement of the mustgomez were based in part on his observations through the front window. his testimony was corroborated by that of gomez with respect to the conversation, and by daniel renteria who admitted moving before irma lemus testified at trial. ms. lemus owned a 1996 ford mustang. ms. lemus testified that she and defense counsel parked the vehicle, then took some it was not from the computer desk in counsel attempted to recreate events that occurred more than two years earlier. the people v. willingham (1969) 271 cal.app.2d 562, 574.) a prosecutor is given wide latitude in closing argument, and her argument may be vigorous as long as it amounts to a fair comment on the evidence. (people v. farnam (2002) 28 cal.4th 107, 200.) 27 f. vouching for the credibility of a witness appellant contends that the prosecutor committed misconduct by vouching for the credibility appellant introduced evidence that at one point charles lemus was institutionalized in a mental hospital. his aunt, irma lemus, testified that he was during closing argument, the prosecutor was commenting on how the defense dealt with unfavorable evidence. she argued ththis context that the prosecutor asked the jury to judge for themselves whether charles was mentally ill and the weight that should be accorded to his testimony based on their observations of him when he testified during the trial and the recorded interviews with the police which were played for the jury. facts contained in the record, and any reasonable inferences that can be drawn from them, but may not vouch for the credibility of a witness based on personal belief or by referring to people v. martinez (2010) 47 cal.4th 911, credibility. ewed as a personal assurance -responsibility to make that determination. to the extent the comment was error, we find low-instruction to the jury to determine the credibility of witnesses itself, based solely on facts presented at trial, rendered any error harmless. (calcrim nos. 105, 200, 220, 222, 318.) 28 iii. substantial evidence supports the convictions appellant contends the evidence was insufficient to sustain the convictions. specifically, he argues that the prosecution failed to prove that the only reasonable conclusion supported by the circumstantial evidence was that appellant was guilty. we disagree. when an appellant challenges the sufficiency of the evidence to support a determine whether it discloses evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable people v. bolin judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the people v. davis (1995) 10 cal.4th 463, 509.) we draw all reasonable inferences in support of the judgment. (people v. pensinger (1991) 52 cal.3d 1210, people v. holt (1997) 15 cal.4th 619, 669.) the same standard applies when the conviction rests primarily on circumstantial evidence. (people v. perez to acquit a defendant if it finds the circumstantial evidence susceptible of two reasonable interpretations, one of which suggests guilt and the other innocence, it is the jury, not the doubt. (ibid. opinion of the reviewing court that the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled (people v. thomas argument fails to persuade us that reversal of the convictions is warranted. appellant, a 19-year-old hispanic with very short hair was seen leaving his home in his distinctive mustang, prior to the time the murders were committed. appellant was the murders. carlos cruz described the occupants of the mustang as latinos with shaved 29 heads between 18 and 20 years of age. sharice royal described the shooter as a hispanic sweater. seconds after the murders were reported, a vehicle fitting the description of scene. witnesses told detective kirste that the mustang turned onto 127th street, which is the street where appellant lived. when appellant returned home he was seen by his brother removing an outer layer of clothing which was black. a black hoodie was found on the back seat of the mustang. gunshot residue was found on a los angeles dodgers windbreaker that was recovered from the washing machine of the house next to appellant, where his grandparents and aunt irma lived. people v. thompson ard that after the murders, appellant pulled into his driveway so fast he scraped the bottom of the mustang on the ground. he to move their vehicles into his driveway behind the mustang to obscure the mustang from being observed from the street. hours later, jose vasquez, jr., at the church. appellant was a documented largo 36 gang member and the drive-by murders were committed in the territory of a rival gang. the gang expert opined that the crimes were committed for the benefit of and in association with the largo 36 gang. while by placing gang graffiti on his jail issued shower sandals. (see people v. vu his whereabouts on april 20, 2008. at first, he told lieutenant katz and detective 30 would attest to his presence in the church. sometime between 1:30 and 2:00 p.m. as george gomez and his family were phone. cell phone records showed that at 1:39 p.m. and at 1:44 p.m. that afternoon, towers located by the church. jose vasquez, sr., the pastor, saw appellant in the church at 2:40 p.m. jose vasquez, jr., testified that he did not give appellant a ride to the church. reviewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the judgment, we are iv. gun enhancements in section 12022.53 do not violate constitutional norms appellant contends that the twenty-five years to life sentences imposed for the gun enhancements under section 12022.53 violate equal protection because they punish aiders and abettors of crimes committed for the benefit of street gangs more severely than aiders and abettors of non-gang crimes. he also argues the enhancements imposed under section 12022.53 violate due process by not requiring that the aider and abettor knew or intended that the perpetrator would commit a homicide in discharging a firearm. section 12022.53 provides for a 20-year enhancement, or 25 years if the victim suffers great bodily injury or dies, for anyone who personally and intentionally discharges a firearm in the commission or attempted commission of certain felonies, including murder, and these enhancements extend to aiders and abettors if the offense is committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang.11 11 law, any person who, in the commission of [murder, or other crimes] personally and intentionally discharges a firearm and proximately causes . . . death, to any person other than an accomplice, shall be punished by an additional and consecutive term of 31 people v. gonzales (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 1, 1214 (gonzales).) in gonzales, the court of appeal upheld this sentencing scheme against a claim that it unreasonably discriminated between aiders and abettors of gang crimes and other aiders and abettors. (id. at pp. 1213.) the court held defendants had failed to meet a prerequisite for an equal protection analysisa showing the two groups being compared are sufficiently similar with respect to the purpose of the law in question to trigger an inquiry into whether their disparate treatment is justified. (idwho have encouraged the commission of a target offense resulting in a murder, defendants committed their crime with the purpose of promoting and furthering their id. at p. 13.) appellant is mistaken when he contends that the liberty interest at stake in avoiding a lengthy enhancement requires review under the strict scrutiny standard. a people v. wilkinson (2004) 33 cal.4th 821, 838.) thus, people v. hernandez (2005) 134 cal.app.4th 474, 482.) applying the natural and probable consequences doctrine to aiders and abettors does not violate due process. (gonzales, supra, 87 cal.app.4th at p. 15.) under aider and abettor aider and abettor intend ents provided in this section shall apply to any person who is a principal in the commission of an offense if both of the following are pled and proved: [] (a) the person violated subdivision (b) of section 186.22 [i.e., committed the offense for the benefit of a criminal street gang and with the specific intent to promote, further or assist in any criminal conduct by gang members]. [] (b) any principal in the offense committed any act specified in 32 to facilitate the target offense and that the offense ultimately committed is the natural and ibid.) nor is there any due process issue of vagueness or ambiguity in whether the legislature intended section 12022.53 to apply to aiders and abettors to extend the enhancement for gun use in any enumerated serious felony to gang members who aid and abet that offense gonzalez, supra, at p. 15.) due process challenge. v. calcrim no. 372flight instruction appellant contends the trial court erred in instructing the jury with calcrim no. 37212 because there was no substantial evidence that he fled the crime scene. appellant contends it violated his due process burden of proof. appellant also contends the instruction is unconstitutional. the people argue that appellant forfeited his right to appellate review and that there was no error. on the issue of forfeiture the instruction and failed to raise any objection. but, ascertaining whether claimed instructional error affected the substantial rights of appellant necessarily requires an examination of the merits of the claim to ascertain whether the asserted error would result in prejudice. (people v. ramos (2008) 163 cal.app.4th 1082, 1087.) errors in jury instructions are questions of law which we review de novo. (people v. guiuan (1998) 18 cal.4th 558, 569570.) generally, a flight instruction is proper where the evidence shows that the defendant departed the crime scene under circumstances suggesting that his movement was motivated by a consciousness of guilt. (people v. bonilla (2007) 41 cal.4th 313, 328.) a defpurpose to avoid observation or arrest. (ibid 12 was committed, that conduct may show that he was aware of his guilt. if you conclude that the defendant fled, it is up to you to decide the meaning and importance of that 33 need not prove the defendant in fact fled, i.e., departed the scene to avoid arrest, only that a jury could find the defendant fled and permissibly infer a consciousness of guilt from ibid.) giving the flight instruction was not error because the evidence permits the reasonable inference that appellant departed the crime scene to avoid being arrested for the drive-by double murders. appellant, who did not testify at trial, argues in his opening mustang travelling at twice the posted speed limit. shortly after the murders, appellant observed or burden of proof. (people v. paysinger (2009) 174 cal.app.4th 26, 3031 (paysinger).) paysinger, supra, at pp. determination. (people v. crandell (1988) 46 cal.3d 833, 870, overruled on other grounds in people v. crayton (2002) 28 cal.4th 346, 365.) a whole and assume the jurors are intelligent persons capable of understanding and people v. hernandez (2010) 183 cal.app.4th 1327, 1332.) here, the court instructed the jury on the elements of the offense and that the prosecution was required to prove each element of the crime. the court also instructed the jury that it had to find appellant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. 34 appellant acknowledges this precise issue was raised and rejected in paysinger, supra, 174 cal.app.4th at pp. 3031. he asserts, however, paysinger was wrongly decided as the paysinger court began its analysis by recognizing that appellate courts review jury instructions as a whole, in light of the trial record, to determine whether it is reasonably likely the jury understood a challenged instruction in the manner claimed. (paysinger, suprafter the ibid.) furthermore, the language of other jury instructions had presumed to be innocent. this presumption requires that the people prove a defendant defendant of any crime unless you are convinced that each fact essential to the conclusion (ibid.) the court noted that there was no dispute whether a crime occurred. the only issue was whether the defendant was one of the perpetrators. consequently, the court concluded it was not reasonably likely the jury would have interpreted the calcrim no. 372 instruction in a manner that undermined the presumption of innocence or paysinger, supra, at p. 31.) we agree with the paysinger ly applicable in the instruction constitutionally infirm. 35 vi. juror contact information appellant contends the trial court erred by denying his motion to disclose juror identifying information necessary to assist the defense in their preparation of a new trial motion. a. background 1. the release of confidential juror information pursuant to code of civil procedure sections 206, subdivision (g), and 237, subdivision (b). in support of the petition were attached declarations from two defense witnesses, maricela razo, and elizabeth garcia.13 razo and garcia each stated they had heard the foreperson of the jury say that the case was taking too long, and that it did not matter what the defense presented because her mind was made up and could not be changed. these statements were allegedly made in the hallway outside the courtroom. 2. supporting declarations failed to make a prima facie showing of good cause for the release of the information as required by code of civil procedure section 237, jury misconduct people v. rhodes (1989) 212 cal.app.3d 541, 552 (rhodes) was not established. the prosecution also arsection 1150, subdivision (a). the prosecution argued that the evidence suggested the jurors followed the law because they asked for read back of testimony, deliberated over the course of three days, and deadlocked on the non-murder charges. 13 argo 36 gang member, anthony testimony related to counts 3 through 6 and was not relevant to any issues on appeal. 36 3. hearing and ruling information, whatever was conveyed, was deemed benign by defense counsel and, simply, they did not share expression ocounsel would not testify on the issue unless appellant agreed to waive the attorney-client privilege. the court denied the motion finding that appellant had failed to show good cause. b. applicable legal principles after a jury verdict in a criminal case, record of personal juror identification information (names, addresses, and telephone numbers) is sealed. (code civ. proc.,  237, subd. (a)(2).) on a petition filed by a defendant or his or her counsel, a trial court may in its discretion grant access to such information when necessary to the  206, subd. (g).) the applicable test for good cause in this context is set forth in rhodes, supra, 212 cal.app.3d 541. the psupport a reasonable belief that jury misconduct occurred, that diligent efforts were made to contact the juror[] through other means, and that further investigation is necessary to provide the couid. at 37 p. 552.)14 there is no good cause where allegations of jury misconduct are speculative, as is see rhodes, supra, at pp. 553554.) personal contact information (townsel v. superior court (1999) 20 cal.4th 1084, 1091), and we review the denial of a petition filed pursuant to code of civil procedure section 237 for an abuse of discretion (people v. jones (1998) 17 cal.4th 279, 317). c. analysis we conclude the court did not abuse its discrefor release of the sealed juror contact information because his motion and the supporting information as required by code of civil procedure section 237, subdivision (b). the claim of juror misconduct was wholly speculative. the accusations of friend and fellow largo 36 gang member anthony martinez, who had testified on behalf whatever was conveyedlemus said he overheard the foreperson state that the trial was taking too long and that admonished early in the proceedings 14 although rhodes was decided before the revision of section 206 and the enactment of section 237 of the code of civil procedure, the rhodes test remains applicable. (see people v. carrasco (2008) 163 cal.app.4th 978, 990.) 38 conclusory, and failed to set forth a sufficient showing to support a reasonable belief that jury misconduct occurred. (rhodes, supra, 212 cal.app.3d at pp. 553554.) vii. the parole revocation fine must be stricken the trial court imposed a $10,000 parole revocation fine (pen. code,  1202.45) which was stayed pending successful completion of parole. the people concede, and we agree, that because appellant was sentenced to life terms without the possibility of parole, no parole revocation fine could be imposed. (people v. petznick (2003) 114 cal.app.4th parole revocation fine shall be stricken. disposition the judgment is modified as follows: the parole revocation fine of $10,000 is stricken. the trial court is directed to amend the abstract of judgment to reflect this modification and to forward certified copies of the amended abstracts to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. (pen. code,  1213, 1216.) the judgment is affirmed as modified. not to be published in the official reports. _______________________, acting p. j. doi todd we concur: _______________________, j. ashmann-gerst _______________________, j. chavez 