filed 7/16/12 p. v. lexington nat. ins. corp. ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. lexington national insurance corporation, defendant and appellant. b231134 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sj003530) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. karla kerlin, judge. affirmed. e. alan nunez for defendant and appellant. andrea sheridan ordin, county counsel, rubin baeza, assistant county counsel, and william birnie, associate county counsel for plaintiff and respondent. 2 in this bail forfeiture action, lexington national insurance corporation exoneration period for the bail bond it posted.1 we affirm the judgment. background lexington posted a bail bond in the amount of $30,000 to secure the release from custody of criminal defendant sergio rodriguez (rodriguez) on october 17, 2009, in criminal case no. la063330.2 rodriguez failed to appear at a hearing in that case held on ordered bail forfeited. notice of forfeiture of the bail bond was mailed to lexington on nd the exoneration period on the bond until august 9, 2010. rodriguez appeared in court in san fernando on the unrelated criminal matter, case no. 6gf00059, on july 8, 2010 as a result of a bench warrant having issued due to his earlier failure to appear. the court in that case reinstated probation, ordered rodriguez to serve 90 days in los angeles county jail, and exonerated the bail bond. on august 9, 2010, lexington filed a second motion to extend the exoneration period on the bond posted in case no. la063330. the trial court denied the motion, and summary judgment was entered on august 10, 2010. lexington contends its bond was exonerated as a matter of law under section 1305, subdivision (c)(2) when rodriguez was arrested and placed in custody on the unrelated criminal matter in san fernando. lexington further contends the trial court erred by denying its second motion to extend the exoneration period on the bond. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 on the same day the lexington agent posted another bond for rodriguez in case no. 6gf00059. 3 discussion i. applicable legal principles and standard of review appearance in court and adherence to court orders. (people v. fairmont specialty group (2009) 173 cal.app.4th 146, 151 (fairmont).) a bail bond is a contract between the court and a surety whereby the surety promises that a defendant released from custody will appear in court when ordered. if the defendant fails to appear, the surety becomes a debtor for the bond amount. (ibid.) bail is forfeited when a defendant fails to appear as ordered before judgment is pronounced. ( 1305, subd. (a).) if a defendant fails to appear as ordered, a forfeiture of the bail bond may be declared, and a notice of forfeiture must be mailed to the surety. ( 1305, subd. (b).) after notice of forfeiture has been mailed, the surety has 180 days to secure the presence of the criminal defendant in court. ( 1305, subds. (b)-(c).) under section 1305, if the defendant appears, voluntarily or in custody, within the 180-day period, the court must direct the order of forfeiture to be vacated and the bond exonerated. ( 1305, case is located, the defendant is surrendered to custody by the bail or is arrested in the underlying case within the 180-day period, and is subsequently released from custody 3 without or in excess of its jubonding company seeking to set aside the forfeiture to establish by competent evidence (fairmont, supra, 173 cal.app.4th at p. 152.) 3 a bail located, the defendant is surrendered to custody by the bail or is arrested in the underlying case within the 180- 4 an order denying a motion to vacate or set aside a forfeiture and exonerate the bail is generally reviewed under the abuse of discretion standard. (fairmont, supra, 173 cal.app.4th at p. 151.) in the instant case, howewas exonerated as a matter of law under section 1305, subdivision (c)(2) presents an issue of statutory interpretation that we review de novo. (fairmont, at p. 151.) we -day exoneration period under the abuse of discretion standard. (people v. alistar ins. co. (2003) 115 cal.app.4th 122, 127.) ii. section 1305, subdivision (c)(2) section 1305, subdivision (c)(2) requires the court to vacate an order of forfeiture defendant is surrendered to custody by the bail or is arrested in the underlying case within the 180-day period, and is subsequently released from custody prior to an appearance in the interrelationship between subdivision (c)(2) and subdivision (h) of section 1305 was the issue considered by division four in fairmont. in fairmont, the defendant failed to appear in a los angeles county criminal case in the city of inglewood, and the court in that case declared a bail forfeiture and issued an arrest warrant. (fairmont, supra, 173 cal.app.4th at p. 150.) approximately one month later, the defendant was arrested on a new charge in culver city. while the defendant was in custody, the culver city booking officer learned of the bench warrant in the inglewood case, called the inglewood police department, and was told to release the defendant on that warrant due to medical concerns. (ibid.) the court in fairmont concluded that although the defendant was never formally arrested for failure to appear in the inglewood case, from the time the culver city booking officer learned of the outstanding inglewood warrant 5 ibid.) the fairmont court explained that its construction of the statute did not render the phrabecause had the culver city booking officer remained ignorant of the outstanding casefairmont, suprabooking officer] was aware of the warrant, and there is no suggestion she intended to do anything but honor it until advised otherwise . . . . in contrast, where an arresting agency remains ignorant of an outstanding warrant, it cannot be said that the defendant is subject ibid.) there is no evidence that officers that placed rodriguez in custody in case no. 6gf00059 had any knowledge of an outstanding warrant for his arrest in case no. within the meaning of section 1305, subdivision (h). (fairmont, supra, 173 cal.app.4th at p. 153.) notwithstanding deemed to be a hold in case no. la063330 because the officers had a duty to check for other warrants. no statute or case authority imposes such a duty. section 850, part of arresting officers and authorities, does not require officers to check for the existence of other wartelegraphic warrant or abstract of warrant is in custody on another charge, the custodial officer shall, immediately upon receipt of information as to the existence of any such warrant or abstract, obtain and deliver a written copy of the warrant or abstract to the subject and shall inform him of his rights under section 1381, where applicable, to 6 subd. (c).) no court has construed section 850, subdivision (c) to require authorities to check for other outstanding warrants when placing a person in custody. the cases cited by lexington to support its position are inapposite. people v. surety insurance co. authority to post its bail bonds before the clerk accepted an appeal bond for filing. the clerk also failed to notice that the appeal bond itself was defective on its face because the attached power of attorney bore an expired date. (id. at p. 562.) after the defective bond was declared forfeited, the surety successfully moved for exoneration of the bond on the of attorney had expired. (ibid.) people v. surety insurance co. had nothing to do with . people v. far west ins. co. (2001) 93 cal.app.4th 791, on which lexington also relies, is equally inapposite. in that case, a defendant charged with multiple violent ated the defendant in georgia, contacted authorities in the california county where the georgia law enforcement authorities. the california law enforcement authorities failed id. at pp. 793-led a motion seeking vacation of the court ordered the bond exonerated, concluding that because the california e authorities rather than the surety should bear the consequences of that error. (id. at pp. 797-798.) no similar error occurred in the instant case. section 1305, subdivision (c)(2) did not require the trial court to vacate the order of forfeiture or t 7 iii. request to extend exoneration period under section 1305.4, a surety may file a motion, based on good cause, for an order extending the 180-day exoneration period specified in section 1305. the reasons establishing good cause must be set forth in a declaration or affidavit. ( 1305.4.) upon a showing of good cause, a trial court may extend the 180-period by up to an additional 180 days. (ibid.) on to extend the for an extension at the august 9, 2010 hearing. lexington failed to sustain its burden of establishing an abuse of discretion by the trial court in deonly evidence lexington offered to support its request for a second extension was the declaration of its bail agent, chris cox. in his declaration, cox describes ongoing efforts to locate rodriguez in the united states and in mexico, suggests that rodriguez was return from mexico. rodriguez was not in mexico at the time but was in custody in los angeles. the record discloses no abuse of discretion by the trial court. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. ____________________________, j. chavez we concur: _____________________________, acting p. j. doi todd _____________________________, j. ashmann-gerst 