filed 10/30/12 p. v. ramirez ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jessie d. ramirez et al., defendants and appellants. b231842 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va107800) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, dewey lawes falcone, judge. reversed in part and remanded for resentencing, otherwise affirmed. jeffrey s. kross, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant jessie d. ramirez. gary v. crooks, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant lance gonzalez. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and michael j. wise, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury found defendants and appellants jessie d. ramirez and lance gonzalez guilty of three counts of attempted murder and found true gun and gang allegations.1 on appeal, defendants contend they were prejudiced by the erroneous admission of insufficient evidence the tagging crew to which they belonged was a criminal street gang within the meaning of penal code section 186.22;2 that the jury should have been instructed on voluntary intoxication and on voluntary manslaughter under a heat of passion theory; and that there was prejudicial prosecutorial and judicial misconduct. we agree that there was insufficient evidence to support the true findings on the gang allegations and reverse and remand for resentencing on that ground alone. factual and procedural background i. factual background. a. prosecution case: the shootings on october 5, 2008. on the evening of october 5, 2008, george padilla hosted a party at his house on cecilia street in bell gardens. a band played and around 60 people were there, including hector corrales, jimmy maynard, glicero bravo, daniel perez, and betty lopez. although ramirez and gonzales were not invited to the party, somebody let them in. corrales did not know ramirez and gonzalez, but he asked gonzalez, who was smoking, to move, because the smoke was bothering a pregnant friend. neither gonzalez nor ramirez responded, even when corrales repeated his request a second and third time, although ramirez tapped gonzalez on the shoulder and they walked away.3 1 gonzalez was also convicted of assault with a deadly weapon. 2 all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 macias, saw corrales talking to gonzalez. perez also saw corrales arguing with gonzalez. 3 stayed. ramirez and gonzalez were still in the backyard, and padilla testified that he thanked gonzalez for coming but told him it was time to leave. gonzalez asked if padilla was kicking him out, but ramirez said they should leave. gonzalez asked padilla where sked what was going on. gonzalez shoved jeff, who told gonzalez to relax and that corrales, who was still at the party, worked for the crew and where he was from. gonzalez said he was from l.p.k. (low profile kings or letting punks know), and perez said he knew some of the guys from there, although he used to belong to killing city streets (kcs), a tag banging crew. when gonzalez eferring to nhc (natural high crews). maynard overheard gonzalez and perez having a heated conversation about a tagging crew, but he did not see perez do anything physically aggressive to gonzalez. bravo also overheard gonzalez and perez arguing about a rival bravo, who knew ramirez and gonzalez from high school, spoke to gonzalez. d been bothered by the gonzalez struck perez in the face with a bottle. gonzalez ran, but people pushed him toward perez, who tried to fight him.4 gonzalez was pushed out of the party, and people were hitting and kicking him and throwing beer bottles. gonzalez freed himself 4 macias testified that a crowd of 10 to 15 people converged on gonzalez. 4 by wrestling out of his dodgers jacket. according to bravo, about five people, including perez, punched and kicked gonzalez and pushed him towards the driveway. according to padilla, people chased ramirez, and a few people struggled with corrales, and tony walked toward the street as ramirez and gonzalez walked backwards. ramirez pointed a gun at the crowd, and while facing the crowd, he walked backwards out of the party with the gun pointed at them. gonzalez yelled obscenities and into the air before pointing the gun in front of him and firing. before ramirez fired his gun the first time, maynard did not see anybody run towards ramirez or gonzalez or physically threaten them. on his right side. bravo saw betty lopez fall in front of him. corrales threw himself onto the grass as 10 to 15 rounds were fired. seeing a woman on the ground, corrales chest and, when corrales turned to run, his back. corrales fell, but ramirez continued to in addition to corrales, bravo and lopez were shot. corrales was paralyzed from the waist down as a result of his injuries. when officer benson contacted gonzalez on october 8, 2008, gonzalez did not have any obvious injuries. three live nine-millimeter rounds were found on the driveway. nine casings, all of which were fired from the same nine-millimeter gun, were also found at the scene. 5 b. city of bell gardens police officer brett benson testified as the investigating position to indicate l.p.k. l.p.k. had about 25 members. it started as a tagging crew but progressed into ties of graffiti, assaults, and possession of firearms. they associate with the l.a. symbol, was in l.p.k. territory. based on speaking to other investigators, documentation in police reports, and member of l.p.k. ramirez admitted his membership to the officer and identified himself physical altercation, including getting shot and killed. from a hypothetical based on the facts of the case, officer benson said it was his opinion that the assault and the shooting were committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang. c. defense case. ramirez testified that, on the evening of the shooting, from about 6:00 p.m. to 8:30 p.m., he and gonzalez were at a bar, where he and four others shared five pitchers of nd gonzalez, 6 he problems. 10 people were throwing bottles at gonzalez and holding and punching him. ramirez tried to help but he got hit. he pulled out his gun, and he and gonzalez started to run down the driveway. to try and scare the people who were beating up gonzalez and get them to stop, ramirez, pointing the gun down, racked it three times while walking backwards and facing the partygoers. bottles were hitting him as he backed out to the were chasing them. ramirez shot his gun into the air to scare them into moving back. then he saw miguel with a gun. ramirez shot at a low angle towards the people chasing d to protect himself. oscar ramirez, who was at the party that night, saw the fight break out in the out of the party. a large man stood in the middle of the street with a gun, and another man stood about four feet from him. after the first round was fired, the nonshooter said, ii. procedural background. on october 8, 2010, a jury found ramirez and gonzalez guilty of counts 1, 2, and 3, the willful, deliberate, and premeditated attempted murders of corrales, lopez, and bravo ( 187, subd. (a), 664). the jury also found gonzalez guilty of count 4, assault with a deadly weapon on perez ( 245, subd. (a)(1)). as to ramirez, the jury found true gun-use allegations under section 12022.53, subdivisions (b), (c), and (d), and gang allegations under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c), as to all three counts. as to gonzalez and counts 1, 2, and 3, the jury found true gun-use allegations under section 12022.53, subdivisions (b), (c), and (e)(1)a principal personally used a firearmand 7 gang allegations under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c). as to count 4, the jury also found true a gang allegation under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(b), and a great bodily injury allegation under section 12022.7, subdivision (a). on march 8, 2011, the trial court sentenced ramirez on counts 1, 2, and 3, to three consecutive life terms with the possibility of parole and imposed three 15-year minimum parole eligibility terms, plus three 25-years-to-life terms under section 12022.53, subdivision (d), for a total 120 years to life. also on march 8, 2011, the trial court sentenced gonzalez on counts 1, 2, and 3 to three consecutive life terms with the possibility of parole and imposed three 7-year minimum parole eligibility terms, plus three 25-years-to-life terms under section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) through (e)(1), for a total 96 years to life. the court imposed a concurrent sentence on count 4 of 11 years.5 discussion6 iii. d gonzalez now contend that the prejudicial error in allowing this question to be asked requires a reversal of the judgment and a new trial. we disagree. a. additional facts. st7 rosas, made to officer benson four o see if we 5 hearing. 6 7 8 have any good faith belief by the people whether they have ms. rosas on subpoena, question is asked, my client denies, and then the people do not have the means of actually proving that this statement was made by ms. rosas. [] . . . . so, perhaps, if [the prosecutor] could make a record as to what efforts they have made or that they are going to make, in case there is a denial, how they can go about proving that evidence to the the prosecutor responded that rosas was on probation and, that afternoon, officer throughout this entire action that she could possibly be called as a witness, and it was made abundantly clear to her when i took the plea and when i also took a copy of the report and took a factual basis plea asking her to initial the bottom right-hand corner of each page of the report and certifying that the report and its contents were true. this was done in the presence of not only detective benson, but in the presence of her attorney, and she has known that when trial was coming that she was a potential witness. [] in addition to that, at the outset of this case in jury selection, ms. rosas was present in court representation that i have, and that is my understanding, and i am confident that, if and when ms. rosas is needed as a witness, she will respond to a subpoena served by statement, which was in a police report. according to the report, rosas asked ramirez party-declarant objection was well-introduced unilaterally. it would only be introduced provided that the proper foundation is laid and d 9 later that day, ramirez testified that he first fired the gun in the air to scare away the attackers, and he then fired the gun toward the gun in self-pod was satisfied, and the court indicated that the statement was not double hearsay. had shot the person? no. the record. ion? did you tell estela, when she asked you why you had shot the person, you no. [] . . . [] the prosecutor then asked whether a couple of days following the shooting ramirez told that because of the trouble you were in; 10 ell has been rung with regards to the statements by jesse ramirez of the prior inconsistent statements, is there any proffer that we actually have estela rosas going to be testifying n to the court that ms. rosas is not in court today, and, depending on how the court is feeling, i am obviously going to endeavor to try to procure her presence in court, and if the court would allow me to get her into court tomorrowbenson. and so, after my questioning of officer benson, i could rest my rebuttal. if the court is so inclined, or if the court wants me to or is going to allow me to give me more time to attempt to get her into courtyou know, the people are sort of, i guess, asking for the prosecutor did not call rosas as a rebuttal witness. officer benson was the sole rebuttal witness, and no questions were asked of him relating to the statement. since ramirez denied making the statement to rosas, his counsel then asked for a special instruction that any question by counsel is jurors to assume that that statement is actually true even though my client denied it. i question was not here in court. she was never even placed on the witness liminds, and i understand the court is going to admonish them. i know that [the prosecutor] cannot argue that in his closing argument, but that bell has been rung, and i by this court that can protect mr. gonzalez in this matter, and for that, your honor, i am ined in the motion. 11 the prosecutor responded that the question was within the confines of appropriate cross-examination and that a special instruction was unnecessary. he had a good faith belief ramirez made the statement, because it was memorialized in a police report that evaded service. the prosecutor argued that it therefore was the people who suffered prejudice by the inability to call rosas as a witness. thoughave a good faith belief that they could produce and prove up the prior inconsistent the trial court denied the [to] assume to be true any insinuation suggested by a question asked a witness. a question is not evidence and may be considered only as it helps you to understand the answer, and do not consider for any purpose any offer of evidence that was rejected or the jury retired for deliberations on october 7, 2010, at 10:18 a.m. at 2:04 p.m., the jury submitted -receiving the read back, and the next morning, october 8, the trial court informed counsel that the jury had come back with a verdict on count 4, assault with a deadly weapon, as to gonzalez. the jury had also reached a verdict on counts 1, 2, and 3 as to one of the defendants. 12 tor asked the question of ramirez, everyone was under the impression rosas would be called as a witness. but she was not called. counsel therefore asked the court to strike the think jurors will still nevertheless believe that statement was made by my client to question for the jurors is whether my client shot because of self-defense or because lance told him to. and if that statement comes in, even though pointed out that the statement went to self-defense, but the court found that there was a basis for the question and the prosecutor did not have to call rosas. the court therefore refused to strike the question and the answer8 and said it would allow the read back but answers are. the jury, however, reached verdicts as to both defendants before receiving the read back. gonzalez made a motion for new trial on the ground that the statement was inadmissible hearsay. ramirez made an oral motion for a new trial on the same ground. both motions were denied. b. any error in allowing ramirez to be questioned about his statement to rosas was harmless. defen- 8 13 statement, as to him, was inadmissible double hearsay; the trial court should have given a limiting instruction; his trial counsel provided ineffective assistance by failing to request such an instruction; and admission of the statement violated his constitutional right to confront witnesses under crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36. we begin with the multiple hearsay issue gonzalez raises. these are the two nt to the police officer (contained in a police report) that ramirez told her he shot because gonzalez told him to. to admit multiple levels of hearsay, an exception must apply to each level. (see, e.g., people v. zapien (1993) 4 cal.4th 929, 951-952; evid. code,  1201.) we need not decide whether and what exceptions apply, because hearsay is not the introduced at trial. the jury was never informed that rosas made this statement to the police. rather, the questions in dispute that the prosecutor asked ramirez were: why you had shot the person, you said, trouble you were in; that she needed to pack him a bag of personal items? did you ever 9 9 time after that date [october 5, 2008], did you ever tell estela that lance told you to fire that gun? at any time after that 14 ramirez was asked only whether he told rosas that gonzalez told him to shoot, therefore, although the source hearsay statement itself was not introduced at trial. to confront and cross-examine witnesses were violated, either under crawford v. washington, supra, 541 u.s. 36 or otherwise, fails.10 ramirez was asked if he told rosas he shot because gonzalez told him to. in other words, he was asked about his statement. aside from the fact that a indicating that rosas made a statement to police incriminating ramirez and gonzalez. ramirez was asked about his statement only, and he was subject to cross-examination. no confrontation violation occurred. the problem therefore is not one of the admissibility of hearsay or of confrontation. the problem is the prosecutor based this line of questioning on an ramirez told her. this concerns the issue ramirez raises, namely, whether the prosecutor had a good faith basis for asking the questions. it is improper to ask questions which clearly suggest the existence of facts harmful to the defendant, in the absence of the ppeople v. lo cigno (1961) 193 cal.app.2d 360, 388; see also people v. hughes (2002) 27 cal.4th 287, 386-389 (hughes); people v. mickle (1991) 54 cal.3d 140, 191 & fn. 38; people v. bittaker (1989) 48 cal.3d 1046, 1098 [prosecutor asked witness whether the defendant wrote to him about a rape and murder; witness denied receiving a letter and the prosecutor did not mention it again].) the issue turns on the bittaker, at p. 1098.) 10 the attorney general argues that the issue has been forfeited. we nonetheless address the issue. 15 in hughes, for example, the defendant was on trial for murder, and there was evidence defendant was intoxicated before killing the female victim. over defense hughes, supra, 27 cal.4th at p. 386.) the prosecutor similarly drank. both witnesses denied making such statements. by the close of evidence, no evidence was introduced to support thcaljic no. 1.02.11 (hughes, at pp. 387-388.) the appellate court found no bad faith on the part of the prosecutor. (idimplied they were based on information available to the defense, and therefore they were not baseless or unfounded. (ibid.) the record also showed that the prosecutor had a tactical reason not to pursue impeaching evidence, rather than a reason based in misconduct. officer and were in a police report available to the defense. the prosecutor had rosas review counsel conceded that the prosecutor had a good faith basis to ask the question, and the trial court found that the prosecutor had a good faith basis to ask the question. lacked a good faith belief he could prove them, ramirez argues. when defense counsel asked for an offer of proof before ramirez testified, the prosecutor represented that rosas knew she was a potential witness, had been present in court for some of the proceedings, 11 witness. a question is not evidence and may be considered only as it [enables] you to understand the answer, and do not consider for any purpose any offer of evidence that was rejected or any evidence that was stricken by the court. treat it as though you had 16 izazaga v. superior court rosas was also never placed under subpoena. rather, the prosecutor indicated, after ramirez testified and was cross-examined, that rosas was evading officeattempts to subpoena her. procure her attendance. in any event, the representations, and the record supports them. given the record, we cannot find that the prosecutor acted in bad faith.12 ramirez next contends that either the trial court should have given a limiting instruction (see, e.g., calcrim no. 319 or caljic no. 2.09)13 or his counsel was ineffective for failing to request one. similar to the supposed hearsay problem, the 12 decisirebuttal witness. we do not agree it tends to show bad faith, because it is not clear that officer benson could give any admissible evidence on that issue, namely, that he could testimony in his closing argument, and he did not do so. thus, this case is unlike cases ramirez cites in which a prosecutor referenced during closing argument facts not in evidence. (see, e.g., people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 828; people v. zurinaga (2007) 148 cal.app.4th 1248, 1259; people v. woods (2006) 146 cal.app.4th 106, 115, 118-119; people v. hall (2000) 82 cal.app.4th 813, 817.) 13 calcrim no. 319 informs the jury that evidence of a statement made by a person who did not testify may be considered only in a specified, limited way and not as proof that the information contained in the statement is true. [] at the time this evidence was admitted you were instructed that it could not be considered by you for any purpose other than the limited purpose for which it was admitted. [] do not consider this evidence for any purpose except the limited purpose 17 admitted. the questions specific issue. defense counsel therefore cannot be faulted for failing to request an irrelevant limiting instruction or the trial court for not giving one. additionally, the court had no sua sponte duty to give the instructions. (caljic no. 2.09, use note.) instruction for the tactical reason he did not want to draw more attention to the statement. el remained silent, but we can certainly attribute a similar tactical motive to his failure to ask for such an instruction. (see generally, strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668; people v. hinton (2006) 37 cal.4th 839, 876 [reviewing courts defer t people v. mendoza tello (1997) 15 cal.4th 264, 266 [if the record on appeal sheds no light on why counsel acted or failed to act in the manner challenged, an appellate claim of ineffective assistance of counsel must be rejected unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or there simply could be no satisfactory explanation].) although we conclude that the record does not support a finding of bad faith on the part of the prosecutor or a finding of error on the other grounds defendants raise, we acknowledge the troubling nature of what occurred. once it became clear that the people would present no evidence to substantiate its questions to ramirez, defense counsel, moved for a mistrial. later, when the jury requested read back of the pr-examination of ramirez, defense counsel asked that the questions and answers be stricken from the transcript to help dispel any insinuation arising from the mere question about what ramirez told rosas. because there was no evidence to support the question, the motion to strike should have been granted.14 (see hughes, supra, 27 cal.4th at 14 the jury rendered its verdict before the transcript could be read back. 18 pp. 387-no evidence was introduced to substantiate them].) still, we cannot conclude ramirez was prejudiced by the failure to strike the question asked a witness, and that a question is not evidence. (caljic no. 1.02.) ramirez said to rosas as evidence. we assume the jury followed this instruction. (people v. mooc (2001) 26 cal.4th 1216, 1234.) ramirez, however, makes much of the fact the jury was also instructed with inconsistent or consistent with his or her testimony in this trial[,] may be considered by you not only for the purpose of testing the credibility of that witness, but also [a]s statement. under caljic no. gonzalez told him to shoot, there was only a question about it. -cross-examination of ramirez, not re-cross examination. during re-cross examination of ramirez, the only questions the prosecutor asked concerning rosas were whether, when ramirez fled to mexico, he was there with rosas. the trial court did ask, after the prosecutor finished his re-cross examination, whether ramirez ever told rosas that gonzalez told him to fire the gun. it is therefore not clear that the jury was asking for read back on whether ramirez fled to mexico with rosas or what ramirez told rosas about the shooting. but if the jury was interested in the statement about the shooting, then it seems to us that the jury would have cross-examination, which more concerned that 19 contested line of questioning, rather than the re-cross examination. in any event, the jury never heard the read back, rendering its verdict before receiving it. nor do we agree that the questions were so devastating that they would have caused the jury to reject self-defense. the jury was instructed, for example, that it is lawful for a person being assaulted to defend himself from attack if he reasonably believes that bodily injury is about to be inflicted on him. (caljic no. 5.30.) the jury was also instructed on imperfect self-defense, which iactual belief he is in imminent danger of being killed or of suffering great bodily injury. (caljic no. 5.17; calcrim no. 604.)15 an imperfect self-defense reduces an attempted murder to attempted voluntary manslaughter. there was evidence that gonzalez instigated the confrontation with perez, and that ramirez tried to get gonzalez to leave. there was also evidence that members of the party threw bottles at gonzalez and ramirez and fought with them and chased them out of the backyard. ramirez testified that he racked his gun16 and fired it into the air to scare the crowd back. he also defendants were guilty, at most, of attempted voluntary manslaughter. of questions compelled the jury to reject that outcome. there was no dispute that ramirez shot the victims. the dispute was why he did so. ramireshot because gonzalez told him to was ambiguous, in that it could support self-defense or undermine it.17 it could have been interpreted to support self-defense because there was 15 the jury was also instructed that an assailed person need not retreat (caljic no. 5.50) and that actual danger is not necessary to justify self-defense, if a reasonable person has an actual belief and fear he is about to suffer bodily injury (caljic no. 5.51). 16 three unexpended nine-millimeter rounds were found on the driveway, potentially 17 there was evidence that gonzalez made such a statement and that he did not. several witnesses (corrales, maynard, and padilla) heard gonzalez tell ramirez to 20 evidence that party goers had attacked the defendants and were pursuing them; therefore, imminent danger of great bodily injury. alternatively, the statement could undermine the defense because there was evidence that by the time ramirez and gonzalez were on the street, they were not being pursued or in imminent danger. the jury could have believed that gonzalez told ramirez to shoot even though they were not in imminent danger. given the conflicting testimony and the equivocal nature of the statement when placed in context, we cannot say that the failure to strike the questions and answers prejudiced defendants. iv. voluntary intoxication and voluntary manslaughter instructions. ramirez and gonzalez make separate contentions regarding the jury instructions. ramirez contends that his trial counsel provided ineffective assistance by failing to request a voluntary intoxication instruction. to the extent relevant, gonzalez joins. gonzalez separately contends that the trial court erred by not instructing, sua sponte, on voluntary manslaughter under a sudden quarrel/heat of passion theory, and ramirez joins. we disagree with both contentions. a. failing to request a voluntary intoxication instruction. (2) . . . there is a reasodetermination more favorable to defendant would have resulted. [citations.] if the defendant makes an insufficient showing on either one of these components, the ineffective assistance cl people v. holt (1997) 15 cal.4th 619, 703, italics omitted; see also strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 687; people v. lopez ez testified that gonzalez did not say that, and instead told ramirez they should go. bravo testified that ramirez was alone while he was shooting the gun. 21 acted or failed to act in the manner challenged, an appellate claim of ineffective assistance of counsel must be rejected unless counsel was asked for an explanation and (people v. gamache cois, the defendant must overcome the presumption that, under the circumstances, the countless ways to provide effective assistance in any given case. even the best criminal (people v. duncan (1991) 53 cal.3d 955, 966.) to show ineffective assistance of probability, that is, a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome. people v. gray (2005) 37 cal.4th 168, 207; see also people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 333.) a trial court must instruct the jury, sua sponte, on the general principles of law understanding of the case. (people v. moye (2009) 47 cal.4th 537, 548; people v. abilez (2007) 41 cal.4th 472, 517; people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 154.) a trial court is not obligated, however, to instruct sua sponte on voluntary intoxication. nt [after diminished capacity was abolished as a defense] only to the extent that it bears on the question of whether the defendant actually instructions . . . to which a defendant is entitled upon request. such instructions relate case . . . . they are required to be given upon request when there is evidence supportive of the theory, but tpeople v. saille (1991) 54 cal.3d 1103, 1119; see also hughes, supra, 27 cal.4th at p. 342; calcrim no. 625; 22  22.) a defendant is entitled to a voluntary intoxication instruction only when there is substantaffected his actual formation of specific intent. (people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 635, 677.) here, defense counsel had at least one tactical reason for not requesting a voluntary intoxication instruction: there was insufficient evidence to support such a request. ramirez testified that on the evening of the shooting, from about 6:00 p.m. to 8:30 p.m., he and gonzalez were at a bar, where he and four others shared five pitchers of ramirez had four beers. the evidence on intoxication thus amounted to how much ramirez, and to some extent, gonzalez, drank over the course of about six hours. absent was evidence of the intent. (see, e.g., people v. marshall (1996) 13 cal.4th 799, 848 [evidence that defendant had an unspecified number of drinks over a period of hours and seemed to kill].) the evidence did not show that ramirez was, for example, incoherent, slurring his speech, or otherwise not in control of himself. to the contrary, ramirez gave a people v. ramirez (1990) 50 cal.3d 1158, to give a detailed account of all of the events of the night in question indicated that his alcohol consumption had no effect on his memory and conduct]; people v. ivans (1992) 2 cal.app.4th 1654, 1662 [where relevant events, the evidence was insufficient to show that his drug use affected his mental state].) according to him, after gonzalez hit perez, ramirez tried to leave the party without 23 fired it into the air to scare them, a fact supported by other witnesses. only when he saw miguel with a gun did he fire his gun in self-defense. mdefense was incompatible with self-defense. (see people v. jones (1991) 53 cal.3d 1115, 1138-1139 [noting in the context of conflict of interest between a client and his counsel tha-the alleged attack. adding an argument that ramirez was so intoxicated he could not have formed any intent might have undercut the argument based on self-defense. request a voluntary intoxication instruction.18 b. the trial court did not err by failing to instruct on voluntary manslaughter under a heat of passion theory. the trial court instructed the jury on attempted voluntary manslaughter under an imperfect self-defense theonot request, instruction on voluntary manslaughter under a sudden quarrel/heat of passion theory. defendants now contend that the trial court should have, sua sponte, instructed the jury on that theory. as we said, a trial court must instruct the jury, sua sponte, on the general principles of law that are closely and openly connected to the facts and that are necessary people v. moye, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 548; people v. abilez, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 517; people v. breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 154.) instructions on a lesser included offense must be given when there is substantial evidence from which the jury could conclude the defendant is guilty of the lesser offense, 18 well-taken. although gonzalez joins in the issue to the extent applicable, we cannot address this issue as to him because of his failure to brief it and address any evidence unique to him. 24 but not the charged offense. (people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 584; people v. cook (2006) 39 cal.4th 566, 596.) substantial evidence is evidence that a reasonable jury could find persuasive. (manriquez, at p. 584.) in deciding whether there is substantial evidence of a lesser included offense, we do not evaluate the credibility of the witnesses, a task for the trier of fact. (id. at p. 585.) we independently review the question of whether the trial court erred by failing to instruct on a lesser included offense. (id. at p. 587; people v. oropeza (2007) 151 cal.app.4th 73, 78.) murder is the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought. ( 187, subd. (a); people v. manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 583.) voluntary manslaughter is the intentional but nonmalicious killing of a human being. (people v. moye, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 549;  192, subd. (a).) voluntary manslaughter is a lesser included offense of murder. (people v. lee (1999) 20 cal.4th 47, 59; manriquez, at p. 583.) a killing may thus be reduced from murder to voluntary manslaughter if there is evidence negating malice, for example, where the defendant kills upon a sudden quarrel or in the heat of passion on sufficient provocation. (manriquez, at p. 583.) was obscured or disturbed by passion to such an extent as would cause the ordinarily reasonable person of average disposition to act rashly and without deliberation and people v. barton (1995) 12 cal.4th 186, 201.) the provocation that incites the defendant to homicidal conduct must be caused by the victim or be conduct reasonably believed by the defendant to have been engaged in by the victim. (people v. manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 583.) it may be physical or verbal, but it must be sufficiently provocative to cause an ordinary person of average disposition to act rashly or without due deliberation and reflection. (ibid.; people v. lee, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 59.) thus, the defendant must actually, subjectively, kill under the heat of passion. [citation.] but the (manriquez, at p. 584.) a defendant may not set up his own standard of conduct and 25 justify or excuse himself because in fact his passions were aroused, unless the facts and circumstances were sufficient to arouse the passions of the ordinarily reasonable person. (ibid.aforethought requires that the perpetrastrong passion aroused by a provocation sufficient to cause an ordinary person of average disposition to act rashly or without due deliberation and reflection, and from this passion rather than judgment. (people v. lasko (2000) 23 cal.4th 101, 108.) no specific type of provocation is required, and the passion aroused need not be anger or rage, but can be any violent, intense, high-wrought or enthusiastic emotion other than revenge. (ibid.) here, defeand they liken the case to people v. breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th 142. in breverman, with a group of men escalated into a fight. (id. at p. 150.) defendant was present but stayed in the backyard. the next night, the two young men returned with friends, armed slasheand called to defendant that they wanted an even fight. defendant fired shots from the house, killing one victim. defendant told police it looked to him like the group was coming at him and rushing the door, and he was afraid they would kill him. (id. at p. 151.) breverman held that this evidence supported instructing the jury on a heat of passion theory of voluntary manslaughter. (id. at pp. 163-164.) defendants argue that this case is similar to breverman because people at the party hit and threw bottles at them. but this ignores what happened before the partygoers allegedly converged on ramirez and gonzalez. there was evidence that gonzalez asked perez and padilla where they were from or whether they belonged to a tagging crew. and/or padilla, however, was insufficient to provoke gonzalez or ramirez. (see, e.g., people v. avila (2009) 46 26 evidence showed that ramirez was not provoked by the exchange between his friend and perez, because he repeatedly told gonzalez they should leave. moreover, after exchanging words with perez, gonzalez hit him with a bottle. a person who instigates a fight cannot then assert he was provoked when the challenge is accepted. (people v. johnston (2003) 113 cal.app.4th 1299, 1313.) there was also no evidence that ramirez acted in a heat of passion, rashly or without due deliberation and reflection. (people v. manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 583.) rather, he tried to get gonzalez to leave. when gonzalez instigated the attack on himself and ramirez by hitting perez, ramirez, according to his own testimony, work, ramirez, according to himself and other witnesses, fired warning shots into the air. but even if the jury should have been instructed on voluntary manslaughter under a heat of passion theory, defendants were not prejudiced by the error. if the factual question posed by the omitted instruction was necessarily resolved against the defendant under other, properly given instructions, then the failure to instruct on a lesser included offense is harmless. (see people v. wharton defendant was guilty of first degree murder, the jury necessarily found defendant premeditated and deliberated the killing. this state of mind, involving planning and deliberate action, is manifestly inconsistent with having acted under the heat of ed in counts 1 through 3 that the crime of attempted murder was willful, deliberate and premeditated. if you should find the defendant guilty of attempted murder, you must determine whether this allegation is true or not. that is, whether or not it was willful, deliberate and thinks, and means formed or arrived at or determined upon as a result of careful thought and weighing of considerations for and against the [] a person premeditates by deliberating before taking action. [] if you find that the 27 attempted murder was preceded and accompanied by a clear, deliberate intent to kill, which was the result of deliberation and premeditation, so that it must have been formed upon pre-existing reflection and not under a sudden heat of passion or other condition precluding . . . the idea of deliberation, it is attempt to commit willful, deliberate, and the jury found true the allegations that the attempted murders were willful, premeditated and deliberate. it is therefore not reasonably probable that defendants would have obtained a more favorable outcome had the heat of passion instruction been given. (see people v. breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 149 [a failure to instruct on a lesser included offense is reviewed under the standard in people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836, namely, whether, upon an examination of the entire record, it appears reasonably probable the defendant would have obtained a more favorable result had the error not occurred].) v. sufficiency of the evidence to support the true finding on the gang allegation. the jury found true gang-enhancement allegations as to all counts against both defendants, who now contend there was insufficient evidence to show either that l.p.k. was a criminal street gang or that gonzalez was a was insufficient evidence that l.p.k. was a criminal street gang. three or more persons, whether formal or informal, having as one of its primary activities the commission of one or more of the criminal acts enumerated in paragraphs (1) to (25), inclusive, or (31) to (33), inclusive, of subdivision (e), having a common name or common identifying sign or symbol, and whose members individually or collectively see also people v. sengpadychith (2001) 26 cal.4th 316, 319-320, 323.) these acts include, murder, attempted murder, and felony vandalism. a statutorily enumerated offenses. ( 186.22, subd. (e).) 28 present, charged offenses, as well as past offenses. (people v. sengpadychith, supra, 26 ibid.consistently and repeatedly have committed id. at p. 324.) the testimony of a gang ibid.; people v. gardeley (1996) 14 cal.4th 605; see also in re alexander l. (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 605, 611 [isolated criminal conduct is not enough]; people v. perez (2004) 118 cal.app.4th 151, 160 [evidence of retaliatory shootings of a few individuals over a period of less than a week plus a beating six years earlier was insufficient to establish the gang statute].) in re alexander l., supra, testimony was insufficient to establish the primary activities element of the gang id. at p. were elicited as to the circumstances of these crimes, or where, when, or how [the expert] had obtained the information. he did not directly testify that criminal activities -examination, [he] testified that the vast majority oid. at pp. 611-612, fn. omitted.) alexander l. le for investigating gang-related crimes in the city. a gang investigator since 2007, officer 29 benson was involved in search warrants related to gangs; he collected evidence and apprehended suspects; and he spoke to hundreds of gang members and members of the public over the past nine years. he described l.p.k. as a tagging crew that progressed and constantly writing graffiti. he vaguely said l.p.k. was well known in bell gardens violent acts, . . . numerous members have been arrested for weapons charges, meaning guns, and they have been involved in acts of violence for the reasons alexander l., is we cannot ascertain s based on highly reliable sources, such as court records of convictions, or on entirely unreliable hearsay. (in re alexander l., supra, 149 cal.app.4th at p. 612.) in people v. gardeley, supra,14 cal.4th at page 612, for example, the gang expert testifigang primarily sold narcotics and intimidated witnesses, and he based his opinion on personal investigations into hundreds of gang-related offenses, conversations with the defendant and other gang members, and information from fellow officers and law enforcement agencies. (ibid.; see also in re alexander l., at p. 613.) although officer benson here was a gang investigator who had spoken to gang members over the years, he did not connect any of his knowledge specifically to l.p.k. rather, his testimony was conclusory and vague. (see in re nathaniel c. (1991) 228 to one l.p.k. member, joseph alfonso mesa, who pled guilty, in 2007, to possession of a firearm by a felon and was sentenced to 16 months in prison. the officer also referred to a jesus gutierrez who was involved in a shooting-related crime, but he offered no other 30 details. it was also not clear to what extent and how the officer was familiar with either mesa or gutierrez. the gang expert did not testify, for example, that he personally investigated any l.p.k.-related crimes, other than the ones involving ramirez and people v. sengpadychith, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 324, italics omitted; see also people v. perez, supra, 118 cal.app.4th at p. 160.) we therefore must conclude that there is insufficient evidence to support the true findings on the gang-enhancement allegations. (in re alexander l., supra, 149 from which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable defendants and all counts.19 vi. prosecutorial misconduct. defendants raise numerous alleged incidents of prosecutorial misconduct committed during cross-examination of ramirez and closing argument. we conclude that any misconduct was not prejudicial. well e ons.] conduct by a prosecutor that does not render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair is reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade either the court or the jury as a general rule a defendant may not complain on appeal of prosecutorial misconduct 19 because reach this conclusion, we need not address whether there was sufficient evidence gonzalez was an lpk member. 31 unless in a timely fashionand on the same groundthe defendant made an assignment of misconduct and requested that the jury be admonished to disregard the impropriety. [citation.] additionally, when the claim focuses upon comments made by the prosecutor before the jury, the question is whether there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury construed or applied any of the complained-of remarks in an objectionable fashion. people v. samayoa (1997) 15 cal.4th 795, 841; see also darden v. wainwright (1986) 477 u.s. 168, 181; people v. wallace (2008) 44 cal.4th 1032, 1070-uss and draw people v. dennis (1998) 17 cal.4th 468, 522.) nt must make a timely objection and, unless an admonition would not have cured the harm, ask the trial (people v. martinez (2010) 47 cal.4th 911, 955-956.) defendants contend that the prosecutor committed misconduct by (a) asking argumentative questions and misstating facts while cross-examining ramirez; (b) misstating facts and arguing facts not in evidence during closing argument; (c) to testify; and (d) disparaging defense counsel. a. argumentative questions and misstatement of facts during cross-examination of ramirez. defendants first contend that the prosecutor repeatedly misstated the evidence and asked argumentative questions while cross-examining ramirez. a prosecutor commits misconduct where he or she misstates or mischaracterizes the evidence or asserts facts not in evidence. (people v. davis (2005) 36 cal.4th 510, 550; people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 827-828 [vigorous presentation of facts does not excuse deliberate or mistaken misstatements of fact].) the line between permissible and impermissible argument is, however, not always clear. (hill, at p. 823.) 32 ading as a question. the questioner is not seeking to elicit relevant testimony. often it is apparent that the questioner does not even expect an answer. the question may, indeed, be people v. chatman (2006) 38 cal.4th 344, 384 [question whether the should not be allowed when argumentative or designed to elicit irrelevant or speculative hom they are addressed has personal knowledge that allows him to provide competent testimony that may ibid.) 1. whether bottles were thrown. bravo testified that bottles were thrown in the direction of the fight, but he did not see a bottle hit gonzalez. the prosecutor later appeared to misstate this testimony when being thrown in your dhim, defense counsel objected again, but ramirez answered that witnesses testified bjection. it is not clear that the prosecutor misstated the evidence. certainly, there was evidence that bottles were thrown and that ramirez was in or near the area at which the bottles were being directed. but bravo did not testify he saw bottles hitting gonzalez or at ramirez was accurate. we therefore cannot conclude that this line of questioning constituted misconduct. in any event, the objection was sustained, and we assume that any possible prejudice was abated. (people v. dykes (2009) 46 cal.4th 731, 764.) 33 2. racking the gun. the prosecutor cross-examined ramirez about racking the gun several times to scare the crowd. although ramirez testified that a cartridge came out while he was argumentative because it implied ramirez was lying about when he first racked the gun. he racked the gun near the white pole but the criminalist found no cartridge near the pole, discharged cartridge could have been moved by people in the backyard was something the defense could argue, but ipursuing this line of questioning. 3. argumentative objection was sustained. in fsaw the gun, while in the driveway or on the street. it is not clear to us that these questions rose to the level of misconduct. ramirez may have testified he saw the gun while being followed by the crowd, but the prosecutor story by focusing on at what point defendant saw someone in the crowd with a gun, namely, while on the driveway or on the street. this is a proper cross-credibility. (see generally, people v. chatman, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 384.) 34 4. miguel. -leading seven other people with a gun, trying to get you out of a party that they already sustained, and the trial court told the prosecutor to reframe the question, which he did: there was no objection, but defendants contend that the second question was equally argumentative, in light of evidence defendants were forcibly pushed out of the party. an argumentative question talks past the witness and makes an argument to the jury. (people v. chatman, supra, because it does not seek to elicit relevant, competent testimony, or often any testimony at ibid.) although the question was certainly framed in an argumentative way, it did out of the party. we therefore do not agree that the question constituted misconduct. later, ramirez testified that he shot at miguel, who continued to run towards him. someone three timbecause the objection was sustained, we assume that any possible prejudice was abated. (people v. dykes, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 764.) 5. gonzalez. ramirez testified that when he shot the gun, gonzalez was not standing next to of them testified. mr. corrales; right? mr. padilla? they all testified about seeing 35 listen to me carefully, mr. ramirez. the question is do you remember that type of testimony. if you do, say, you to guess as understood. the prosecutor continued: now, mr. padilla, he saw you out there with a gun and he saw mr. in other words, is that the testimony? that was his testimony; correct? do you recall that testimony? defendants contend that the original question misstated facts, because not all witnesses testified that they saw someone standing next to ramirez while he was shooting. perez and bravo testified that nobody stood next to ramirez. the question does not necessarily misstate the facts. although somewhat vague, the question could be interpreted to ask whether padilla and corrales said someone stood next to ramirez which would imply gonzalez was standing near ramirez. misconduct, because it improperly interpreted the question to ask whether ramirez recalled the specific testimony. as to estions were argumentative, such questions may be allowed where, as here, the witness had personal knowledge that allows him to provide competent testimony that may assist the trier of fact in resolving credibility questions. (people v. chatman, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 384.) 36 b. misstating and arguing facts not in evidence during closing argument. defendants next contend that the prosecutor misstated the evidence and gave his unsworn testimony during his closing arguments. (see generally, people v. valdez (2004) 32 cal.4th 73, 133.) we again disagree that prejudicial prosecutorial misconduct occurred. defendants first focus on statements the prosecutor made while arguing, in essence, that there was no evidence they were attacked and that is why ramirez shot his of the party; and there was no evidence that defendants were chased out of the party or that anyone touched or grabbed them or pursued them with a weapon.20 the prosecutor ut where he was when he racked the gun21 and that no witness testified miguel was outside the party.22 as we have said, prosecutors have wide latitude to discuss and draw inferences inferences are reasonable. (people v. dennis, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 522.) a prosecutor may therefore evidence. (ibid.) here, there was evidence gonzalez was punched or kicked and that 20 after the prosecutor said there was no evidence someone came after defendants 21 court saidall heard it differently. the bottom line is, once again, you people determine what you 22 corrales testified that miguel, along with others, was outside the party when ramirez and gonzalez were leaving. 37 defendants were pushed or chased out of the party. but there was also evidence to ed that when defendants were on the street, nobody came after or threatened them. in any event, to the extent the prosecutor misstated the evidence, it was not prejudicial, as we discuss below. next, the prosecutor argued that when ramirez fired his gun, defendants were across the street from the party and therefore in no danger. defendants contend that this contradicts physical evidence showing that ramirez was in the middle of the street when he fired the gun, and therefore the argument that ramirez was not in danger when he fired the gun misstated the facts. it did not. this was a proper inference from the evidence. (see people v. dennis, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 522.) c. griffin error. gonzalez contends that the prosecutor inappropriately commented on his right to remain silent, so-called griffin error. (griffin v. california (1965) 380 u.s. 609.) we disagree. griffin holds that it is error for a prosecutor to comment, directly or indirectly, on the failure of the defendant to testify. (hughes, supra, 27 cal.4th at pp. 371-372.) a id. at p. 372.) this does not preclude a prosecutor from, e evidence or on the failure of the defense to people v. hovey (1988) 44 cal.3d 543, 572.) to determine whether griffin error occurred, we ask whether there is a reasonable likelihood that jurpeople v. clair (1992) 2 cal.4th 629, 663.) still, an inference of guilt be drawn therefrom, are uniformly held to constitute harmless people v. turner (2004) 34 cal.4th 406, 419-420.) 38 here, the prosecutor said, in the context of arguing that there was no evidence of no evidence even of people chasing them out of this driveway. please tell me there was one person sprinting after them. please tell me that there was someone with a weapon coming after them, testimony. no evidence of that on the ground the prosecutor misstated the testimony, the trial court told the jurors they were the final arbiters of the evidence. the prosecutor continued to argue that there was no evidence gowhile he might have been grabbed and maybe physically pushed in the direction of the physical evidence of that. please tell me that we heard someone testify to that, and all ) testify. (see, e.g., people v. sanders (1995) 11 cal.4th 475, 527-528 [no griffin error explanatio people v. medina (1995) 11 cal.4th 694, 755- evidence was explained. . . . [t]he defense attorney did not explain this evidence and not griffin defense to provide an innocent explanation as to why defendant was armed . . . at the time similarly, the prosecutor here was commenting on the absence of evidence that gonzalez was being chased out of the party or was injured. these remarks contained no (people v. medina, supra, 11 cal.4th at p. 756.) in addition, neither gonzalez nor s. griffin error 39 occurs when a prosecutor argues that certain evidence was uncontradicted, if such contradiction or denial could be provided only by the defendant. (people v. bradford (1997) 15 cal.4th 1229, 1339.) where, as here, witnesses other than the defendant could have taken the stand to provide contrary evidence, there is no griffin error.23 (ibid.) d. disparaging counsel. gonzalez also contends that the prosecutor disparaged defense counsel. we disagree. a prosecutor may not attack defense coundefense counsel. (people v. hill, supra, given wide latitude during argument. the argument may be vigorous as long as it amounts to fair comment on the evidence, which can include reasonable inferences, or id. at p. 819.) thus, a prosecutor may give his or her opinion on the state of the evidence, vigorously attack the defense (people v. redd (2010) 48 cal.4th 691, 735; see also people v. wharton, supra, 53 cal.3d at p. 567.) the challenged comments the prosecutor made here were a vigorous attack on the defense case within the wide latitude afforded prosecutors. during rebuttal closing a locos. p.k. is not a gang. 23 because we conclude that no griffin assistance of counsel claim, based on a failure to object, fails. 40 g. i mean it is such an added.) the prosecutor then addressed self-defensefor over an hour about how reasonable mr. ramirez was acting, about how reasonable mr. gonzalez was acting, i think mr. aval said if there was a handbook, if there was a playbook of reasonableness, mr. ramirez followed it step by step. i think he gave 13 reasons about how and why mr. ramirez is being reasonable. but what does he do at the end of his argument? he goes from was it reasonable, was mr. ramirez reasonably believing that he was in imminent danger and needed to use force orthis is what he did at the endwas it that he unreasonably believed that he was in imminent danger and needed to use force? at the very end of his argument, he says, okay, well, maybe he voluntary manslaughter. does this make sense to you? this is untenable. this is absolutely untenable. in fear for his life he was that he acted reasonably. you listened to an hour of that, . . . maybe position. it was either self- all of the evidence in this case, ladies and gentlemen, if you look at all of the witness testimony and not hand-the evidence, not disregarding pieces of testimony or highlighting, you know, pieces of evidence in the street, when you consider everything, ladies and gentlemen, you can only 41 murder, plain and simple. this is untenable. you cannot go from saying that mr. ramirez acted reasonably to then attempted voluntary manslaughter. it simply does not make sense, and you are not given ics added.) these comments amounted to nothing more than a colorful way in which to counsel or their integrity. the prosecutor, for example, said it was inconsistent for defendants to argue both that they acted reasonably in self-defense and that they had an unreasonable but actual belief they needed to defend themselves. referring to these referring (see, e.g., people v. zambrano (2007) 41 cal.4th 1082, 1154-1155 [prosecutor calling other grounds in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22; people v. stitely people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1193 [characterizing defense counselpeople v. gionis (1995) 9 cal.4th 1196, 1215- the facts, it just makes them 42 e. prejudice and cumulative error. to the extent there were a few instances of misconduct, no prejudice resulted, even considering their cumulative effect. we have reviewed the prosecut-examination of ramirez and his closing arguments, and we are satisfied that the -examination was detailed, vigorous, intense, and argumentative at times. his closing statement was similarly vigorous, containing occasional misstatements about what the state of the evidence was. we cannot, however, rely on words, phrases or even sentences to establish misconduct. rather, we must view the challenged statements in the context of the argument as a whole. (people v. dennis, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 522.) when we do so, we conclude that neither the questions individually or in combination nor any misstatements in the closing argument rose to the level of conduct that was egregious, deceptive or reprehensible such that the trial was infected with such unfairness as to make the convictions a denial or due process or render it fundamentally unfair. (cf. people v. hill, supra, 17 cal.4th 819--reversal of the conviction.) the trial court also told the jury that they were the final arbiters of fact and instructed that statements by attorneys are not evidence. moreover, the trial court did sustain some of the objections, and we therefore assume that any prejudice was abated.24 (people v. dykes (2009) 46 cal.4th 731, 764; people v. alfaro (2007) 41 cal.4th 1277, 1329.) 24 to a question, do not guess what the answer might have been, and do not speculate as to the 43 f. ineffective assistance of counsel. because we have concluded prejudice did not result from any prosecutorial to this we add thadmonition is a strategic one, and the failure to do either seldom establishes constitutionally ineffective assistance of counsel. (see, e.g., people v. castaneda (2011) 51 cal.4th 1292, 1335; people v. collins facing counsel in the midst of trial over whether to object to comments made by the second-guess defense counsel. (people v. padilla (1995) 11 cal.4th 891, 942, overruled on other grounds by people v. hill, suprathe record on appeal fails to show why counsel acted or failed to act in the instance asserted to be ineffective, unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or unless there simply could be no satisfactory explanation, the claim must people v. huggins (2006) 38 cal.4th 175, 206.) defense counsel here could have concluded that additional objections would have drawn closer attention to any misstatements, causing more harm. (see people v. castaneda, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 1335; people v. collins, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 233.) counsel also might the final deciders of fact was a sufficient admonition. thus, because there are possible reasonable explanations for counsel not taking additional steps to address any factual misstate(people v. huggins, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 206.) vii. judicial misconduct. gonzalez contends that the trial court committed misconduct, first, by aligning itself with the pmisconduct. no judicial misconduct occurred. 44 a trial court may not persistently make discourteous and disparaging remarks that discredit the defense or create the impression the court is aligning itself with the prosecution. (people v. sturm (2006) 37 cal.4th 1218, 1233.) no such remarks were argument there was no evidence people chased defendants out of the party with weapons 25 the trial court was not allying itself with the prosecutor. the court was simply saying that next, gonzalez argues that the trial court failed to control the allegedly pervasive prosecutorial misconduct. as we have explained above, there was no such pervasive prosecutor misconduct. the trial court did sustain many defense objections, there was no griffin error, and the prosecutor did not disparage defense counsel. moreover, the trial -to prosecutorial people v. riggs (2008) 44 cal.4th 248, 298; see also people v. ervine (2009) 47 cal.4th 745, 806-807.) 25 preserved for appellate review if no objections wer(people v. sturm, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 1237.) 45 disposition the true findings on the gang-enhancement allegations as to all counts and as to both defendants are reversed. the matter is remanded for resentencing only. the judgment is otherwise affirmed. not to be published in the official reports aldrich, j. we concur: klein, p. j. kitching, j. 