filed 6/11/12 p. v. hays ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. blair odel hays, defendant and appellant. b231901 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta108689) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. allen j. webster, jr., judge. affirmed. kim malcheski, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and louis w. karlin, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________________ 2 blair odel hays appeals from a judgment entered after a jury found him guilty of first degree murder, willful, deliberate and premeditated attempted murder and shooting at an occupied motor vehicle. the jury also found firearm enhancement allegations to be true. the trial court sentenced him to 70 years to life. hays contends that the trial court erred (1) in instructing the jury on flight because there was insufficient evidence supporting the instruction, (2) in denying his motion to continue the trial, made on the last day of testimony, (3) in denying his motion for a new trial, and (4) in imposing a consecutive sentence on the attempted murder count. we affirm. background evidence at trial the shooting at issue occurred in compton on november 18, 2007. at that time robert huggins, the attempted murder victim, was working as a pimp in compton. the she stopped working for him in or about may 2007 when huggins refused to allow her to move into a position where she would oversee the other prostitutes and the money they brought in. on november 17, 2007, huggins ran into g.g. at a club and they agreed to meet the next night. g.g. was going to call huggins on november 18, 2007, when she was ready for him to pick her up for their meeting. huggins did not receive a call from g.g. on november 18. on the evening of november 18, 2007, huggins had three prostitutes working for him on the streets in compton. he received a call on his cell phone from one of the prostitutes, amanda pettaway.1 pettaway told huggins that a police officer had ordered her and her two associates to leave the area. she also indicated that two men dressed in 1 pettaway did not testify at trial. in a motion for new trial, hays argued that his counsel rendered ineffective assistance in failing to call her as a witness, as discussed more fully below. 3 black were following her and the other prostitutes, and she was concerned that the men were going to rob her. when huggins received the call from pettaway, he was driving his van near the area where the prostitutes were working. he decided to pick them up. huggins had two passengers in his van at the time. his friend, avery dunn, was in the front passenger seat as huggins was driving north on poinsettia avenue toward the corner of myrrh street, he saw g.g. and a man he later identified as hays. g.g. and hays were wearing black hooded sweatshirts. they were walking north on poinsettia avenue, on the side of was sufficient light together on multiple prior occasions during the time that g.g. worked for him. huggins had never spoken to hays. huggins stopped his van next to g.g. and hays. he rolled down the passenger window, leaned over dunn and called out to g.g. he called her name twice. hays was standing on the curb, about 13 feet away from huggins. hays pulled a gun out of his huggins thought he heard more than one shot, but he was not sure how many shots hays fired. a bullet went through the front passenger side window, cracked the front driver side window, and exited the van on the driver side. huggins and his passengers were unarmed at the time of the shooting. according to huggins, pettaway was about to climb into the driver side door of the van at the time the shooting started. huggins drove away before any of the three women could get into the van. hamilton heard huggins call out to g.g. through the passenger side window, and then she heard multiple gunshots. she saw that the driver side window of the van was shattered. hamilton could not see outside from her seat in the back of the van, so she did not see the shooter. 4 the three prostitutes, amanda pettaway, shenarie cain, and danielle perry, were waiting for huggins to pick them up when the shooting occurred. they were standing near the corner of poinsettia avenue and myrrh street, north of the spot where huggins van stop next to two people that cain and perry later identified as g.g. and hays. within 30 minutes of the shooting, cain and perry had seen g.g. and hays on multiple occasions walking around the area where the prostitutes were working. cain felt nervous the first time she saw g.g. and hays walking near her. they were wearing black hooded sweatshirts and cain thought that they were men who might cause trouble for her and the other prostitutes. then cain recognized one of the two as g.g., a woman who used to work for huggins. ped next to g.g. and hays, cain walked into the middle of poinsettia avenue and headed toward the van. she was about 60 feet away from the van when she heard the gunshots, but she did not see them being fired. perry was about 15 feet away from hays when she saw hays open fire on the van. cain, perry and pettaway started running north on poinsettia avenue when they heard the gunshots. they left their shoes behind on the street as they ran.2 huggins picked them up in his van two blocks away at compton boulevard and poinsettia avenue. dunn indicated that he had been shot, so huggins drove straight to a hospital. neither huggins nor hamilton was hit by the gunfire. dunn was pronounced dead at the hospital. he died as a result of a gunshot wound to the to 2 based on the locations in the street where the three pairs of shoes were later found, hays argues that the women would not have been able to identify him as the man stand because the women were standing too far away. shoes were found about 111 feet north of the south curb line of myrrh street on poinsettia yrrh street on poinsettia avenue. 5 sergeant mitchell loman and his partner sergeant rubino arrived at the crime scene at about 2:00 a.m. on november 19, 2007. they recovered one expended nine-millimeter shell casing in a grassy area between the curb and the sidewalk near a brick house at 500 poinsettia avenue, which is located south of myrrh street. the same morning, the officers spoke to huggins and he provided a general description of the suspect. huggins pointed out the brick house at 500 poinsettia avenue and told the officers that he believed the suspect lived there. huggins also told them that g. at about 1:00 p.m. on november 19, 2007, the officers canvassed the area of the crime scene, looking for witnesses to the shooting. they saw two men walking on myrrh street just west of the crime scene. the officers approached the men and asked for their names. the officers were wearing plain clothes, but their identification badges and firearms were displayed. a man later identified as hays told the officers that his name was anthony smith and he provided a date of birth. the other man identified himself as ernest singleton.3 hays told the officers that he lived in the brick house at 500 poinsettia avenue with his grandmother. he also pointed out a car that he said belonged to him. the officers wrote down the license plate number of the car. the officers asked hays if he was around the night before, and if he had heard anything. hays stated that he was home but did not hear anything. the officers did not detain the men. using law enforcement databases and the birth date provided by hays, sergeant conducted a search through the department of motor vehicles on the car parked at 500 3 ernest singleton testified at trial. he recalled that hays gave the officers a fake name on november 19, 2007. singleton was familiar with the woman known as g.g. at about 8:00 p.m. on the night of the shooting, singleton saw hays and g.g. together at a house down the street from myrrh and poinsettia. singleton saw hays and g.g. leave the house together. 6 serg-pack photo line-up. in the evening on november 19, 2007, huggins looked at the six-pack and identified hays as the man who shot into his van. on november 23, 2007, the officers showed the six-pack to cain. she d-pack to perry and she identified hays as the man who shot dunn. on january 3, 2008, while cain was in custody on an unrelated charge, the officers showed her the six-pack again. cain identified hays as the man who was with g.g. when cain heard the gunshots. at trial, huggins, cain and perry stated that they did not talk to each other about their identifications or their testimony.4 after huggins identified hays as the shooter, sergeant loman obtained a warrant hays was wanted for murder. on december 13, 2007, loman created a special law murder. loman disseminated the bulletin to law enforcement agencies and to the media. on july 8, 2009, police officers in phoenix, arizona saw a man later identified as hays when they served a search warrant at a motel in phoenix. hays was not the target of the search warrant, but he was present in the motel room. hays told one of the officers his name was dijon mack and he provided a date of birth. when the officer asked for his social security number, hays said that he did not know it. hays told the officer that he ays did not provide a the officer released him. 4 at the time of the shooting, huggins, pettaway and cain were living together. perry was not living with them and she did not stay in contact with huggins or cain after the shooting. at trial, cain testified that she and huggins had a child together and they still had a relationship. 7 on july 11, 2009, hays was pulled over for a traffic stop in surprise, arizona, which is located about 26 miles from phoenix. a police officer who was following a car driven by hays activated the lights on his marked patrol car and then turned on the siren, but hays did not stop right away. he drove for about one-third of a mile before turning into a gated community and pulling into a driveway. hays got out of the car and started walking to the front door of a residence. the officer ordered hays to stop and asked for house five miles away. hays told the officer his name was dijon mack and he provided a date of birth. when the officer could not verify his identity in arizona, hays told the either. the officer called for back-up and others arrived. a sergeant informed hays that -quarter of a mile and apprehended him. at in california. verdicts and sentence the jury found hays guilty of the first degree murder of dunn (pen. code,5  187, subd. (a); count 1), and found special firearm enhancement allegations to be true as to the murder count ( 12022.53, subds. (b), (c) & (d)). the jury also found hays guilty of the willful, deliberate and premeditated attempted murder of huggins ( 187, subd. (a), 664; count 2), and found special firearm enhancement allegations to be true as to the attempted murder count ( 12022.53, subds. (b) & (c)). the jury further found hays guilty of shooting at an occupied motor vehicle ( 246; count 3). cuss below, the trial court sentenced hays to 70 years to life in prison. on count 1, the court sentenced hays to 25 years to life for first degree murder, plus a consecutive term of 25 years to life for 5 all statutory references are to the penal code. 8 the firearm enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (d). on count 2, the court sentenced hays to a consecutive life term for the willful, deliberate and premeditated attempted murder, plus a consecutive term of 20 years for the firearm enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (c). pursuant to section 654, the court stayed the sentence on the other firearm enhancement allegations found true on counts 1 and 2. the court also stayed the sentence on count 3 for shooting at an occupied vehicle. discussion i. flight instruction hays contends the trial court committed reversible error in instructing on flight because there was insufficient evidence supporting the instruction. hays did not object to the instruction below, but argues that this court may review his claim because the instruction areview any instruction given, refused or modified, even though no objection was made thereto in the lower court, if the substantial rights of the defendant were affected constitutes ineffective assistance of counsel. accordingly, we review the merits of his claim. the trial court must instruct on flight when the prosecution relies on evidence of flee immediately after the crime was committed or after he was accused of committing the crime, that conduct may show that he was aware of his guilt. if you conclude that the defendant fled or tried to flee, it is up to you to decide the meaning and importance of that conduct. however, evidence that the defendant fled or tried to flee cannot prove record contains evidence which, if believed, supports the inference. (people v. hart (1999) 20 cal.4th 546, 620.) 9 there is no requirempeople v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th immediately following the charpeople v. howard (2008) 42 cal.4th 1000, there is substantial evidence in the record supporting the flight instruction. at the time of the shooting, hays lived at 500 poinsettia avenue in compton with his grandmother. the day after the shooting, officers were investigating the shooting in the area where hays lived. they contacted hays and asked him if he heard anything the night before. hays gave the officers a fake name. shortly thereafter, the officers obtained a warrant for grandmother and sister that he was wanted for murder. they disseminated a bulletin with his picture indicating that he was wanted for murder. still they could not locate him. about a year and a half later, they learned that he had been arrested in arizona and was using a fake name. a reasonable inference from this evidence is that hays fled to arizona and concealed his true identity from arizona law enforcement because he did not want to be arrested for the murder in california. people v. carter, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 1182.) there was no error. ii. motion to continue trial hays contends the trial court committed reversible error in denying his motion to continue the trial, a motion he made on the last day of trial testimony. proceedings below the trial started on march 1, 2010. at the beginning of the morning trial session 10 he needed to make arrangements to bring the witness in right awfor the people to close and for you to put on your case-in-this was the first time counsel had informed the court about this witness. phone conversation with a gentleman. my understanding his name is william blalock . . . . i -reasked blalock if he could appear in court at 1:30 p.m., but blalock was unsure. according to counsel, blalock stated that hays was with him from 8:30 p.m. on the night of the shooting until about 1:00 or 1:30 a.m. the following morwould ask the court to be able to let me interview this person and call him this afternoon witness. the trial court noted that the case originally was set for trial in january 2010, and counsel was mentioning this witness for the first time on march 4, 2010. the court know where this person has been. but this incident occurred in 2007. it seems to the court that if this particular person was with mr. hays in 2007, certainly the court should be knowing about it and, you too, long before this morning at a quarter to 10 the trial court agreed to put the matter over until 1:30 p.m. that day. the court about his doctor appointment and industrial injury. the court stated that it would call the after the deputy medical examiner testified for the prosecution, discussions about 11 mr. blalock briefly, probably more than an hour ago. i have not since been able to reach and i know the court in chambers tried to make a call to him and left a message with the physical therapist or chiropractor. counsel also learned that blalock had a felony person and determine if he i the prosecutor argued that blalock did not appear credible, based on defense d information about the doctor, the this person five days a week for his work-related injury. when defense counsel asked blalock if he could speak with the person who was driving blalock to the appointment, blalock indicated that he could no longer hear counsel on his cell phone. counsel was using a landline in the courtroom, and could hear blalock clearly before the line disconnected. the prosecutor also noted that the trial court had been unable to find a parties argued the case to the jury. analysis cumulative, that the testimony could be obtained within a reasonable time, and that the 12 (people v. roybal (1998) 19 cal.4th 481, 504.) continuance. (people v. jenkins been denied, the burden is on appellant to establish an abuse of dis(people v. strozier uance was so arbitrary as to violate people v. froehlig absence of a showing of an abuse of discretion and prejudice to the defendant, a denial of people v. samayoa (1997) 15 cal.4th 795, 840.) hays cannot demonstrate that the trial court abused its discretion in declining to continue the trial. at the time the court ruled, it was not clear (1) if hays wanted to call blalock as a witness, (2) if blalock was willing to testify, and (3) if and when blalock would be available to testify. by declining to return phone calls from defense counsel and the court, blalock indicated that he did not want to testify. it appeared that a continuance would be fruitless because blalock was not cooperating. the trial court did not exceed the bounds of reason by declining to give defense counsel additional time to attempt to interview this witness. the trial originally was scheduled for january 2010. yet hays did not mention this potential alibi witness until march 4, 2010, the last day of trial testimony, more than two years after the incident. hays had sufficient time to secure this witness.6 6 people v. samayoa, supra, 15 cal.4th at pp. 840-841.) 13 iii. motions for new trial hays contends he was entitled to a new trial based on newly discovered evidence witness at trial. he argues that the trial court committed reversible error in denying his motions for new trial. proceedings below hays filed two motions for new trial. his trial counsel filed the first motion on to obtain the necessary continuance to call then-just-discovered alibi witness william blalock. attached to this motion were (1) an appointment card showing that blalock had an appointment with someone named dr. patel on october 15, 2009, several months m.d., who had an office located in whittier, and (3) pharmacy receipts for medications prescribed by dr. donahue and filled a few weeks before trial started in february 2010. who met with the defense investigator on april 8, 2010. in the declaration, blalock and other neighborhood friends to get together when everyone was in the area visiting their families. we would often go to the house next-ock stated that hays was with him at a bonfire party from 8:30 p.m. on november 18, 2007, until about 1:00 or 1:30 a.m. on november 19, 2007. counsel for his appointed trial counsel. on january 4, 2011, hays filed his second motion for new trial. he argued that he was entitled to a new trial based on newly discovered evidence. in support of this argument, he attached the declaration from william blalock that was attached to his first motion and described above. he also attached a declaration from his trial counsel, who explained that he had been working 14 identifying and locating alibi witnesses. in december 2009, hays told counsel for the first time that he was with a man named william on the night of the shooting, but he did trina hays, told counsel th in this second motion hays also argued that his counsel rendered ineffective assistance by failing to call amanda pettaway as a witness at trial. he asserted that she pretrial interview with pettaway. according to the investigator, pettaway stated, in were about a block north from where the shooting occurred when they got the call from mr. huggins. moments later mr. huggins said he saw gigi [sic] and then shots were heard. mr. huggins called as the shots ended and told the girls to run and he would pick them up. ms. pettaway ran out of her shoes to hide. when she saw the van pulling up she and ms. cain ran up and entered the back of . . . the car. the third girl did not ever get into the van. ms. pettaway was immediately informed by mr. huggins tnot close enough to the crime scene to have identified the shooter and that the hays also attached to his second motion a declaration from his trial counsel, rodriguez [the investigator] interviewed her, she did not contradict the other witnesses. she maintained that she did not see much before the shooting and that she did not witness hays argued that the cumulative effect of the errors discussed in his second motion for new trial required reversal, even if each error by itself did not require reversal. on the claim of newly discovered evidence, the court found it incredible that hays could 15 -court also noted that blalock never returned the calls from counsel and the court, so the court could not confirm if blalock was willing to testify and if he would be available to testify. the court did not believe that the outcome would have been different if blalock had testified. on the ineffective assistance of counsel claim, the trial court did not believe the outcome would have been different if pettaway had testified. the court found the newly discovered evidence a defendant is entitled to a new trial based on newly discovered evidence where discovered; 2. that the evidence be not cumulative merely; 3. that it be such as to render a different result probable on a retrial of the cause; 4. that the party could not with reasonable diligence have discovered and produced it at the trial; and 5. that these facts be shown by the best evidence of which the case admitspeople v. martinez (1984) 36 cal.3d 816, 821, quoting people v. sutton (1887) 73 cal. 243, 247-248.) we review the denial of a motion for new trial based on newly discovered evidence for abuse of discretion. (people v. delgado (1993) 5 cal.4th 312, 328.) in his motions, hays did not demonstrate that he was entitled to a new trial based on newly discovered evidence. in his declaration, william blalock stated that he grew up with hays and often associated with hays and his family members. blalock claimed to hence, hays knew about this alibi witness in november 2007. yet he did not mention this witness to the trial court until march 4, 2010. hays wanted the trial court to believe morning of the last day of trial testimony. 16 the trial court did nbased on newly discovered evidence. hays did not demonstrate that he exercised ineffective assistance of counsel people v. smith to effective assistance of counsel, a defendant must show both that his counsel's performance was deficient when measured against the standard of a reasonably process that the tr(people v. thompson (2010) 49 cal.4th 79, 122.) claim of ineffective assistance of counsel [citatipeople v. lucas (1995) 12 cal.4th 415, 436-reverse convictions on the ground of inadequate counsel only if the record on appeal affirmatively discloses that counsel had no rational tactical purpose for his act or people v. zapien (1993) 4 cal.4th 929, 980.) hays did not submit a declaration from pettaway with his new trial motion. trial that she did not see much before the shooting ancounsel did not believe that her testimony would contradict that of the prosecution witnesses, nor did he believe that her testimony would be helpful to the case. counsel made a tactical decision not to call pettaway as a witness. even if hays had demonstrated deficient performance, which he has not, he cannot demonstrate that the decision not to call pettaway resulted in prejudice. huggins and perry both identified hays as the shooter in a six-pack photo lineup, at the preliminary 17 hearing and at trial, and they were positive about their identifications. to the extent on. there is no evidence indicating that perry or cain heard huggins say that to pettaway. were too far away from the scene to identify hays. pettaway told the investigator that she and the other woman were a block north of the scene when pettaway was on the phone with huggins. it was sometime shortly thereafter that she heard the shots. the ward it. the jury heard the testimony from huggins, cain and perry about where the women were when the shots were fired. although their testimony differed on this point, the jury nonetheless convicted hays. hays cannot demonstrate prejudice based on the merit. iv. consecutive sentencing hays contends the trial court abused its discretion in imposing a consecutive sentence on count 2 for attempted murder. he argues (1) that the court did not consecutive sentence was not are not supported by the record. at the sentencing hearing, hays did not ask the trial court to impose a concurrent term for the attempted murder count.7 the only request he made was that the court stay ent i would 7 notwithstanding that, the people do not argue on appeal that hays has forfeited this claim by failing to object below to the imposition of consecutive terms on counts 1 and 2. (people v. scott trial court exercises its sentencing discretion and articulates its supporting reasons cannot 18 make for the record, is going to be that the special allegation on count 2 of 12022.53(c), i understand that the allegation should run consecutive. my argument is that it should be explained that it did not would have no problems entertaining that as an issue hays cites this exchange between counsel and the trial court in support of his and required by disingenuous given that counsel and the court did not discuss the propriety of running the sentence on count 2 consecutively with the sentence on count 1. there is nothing in the record indicating that the court failed to understand its sentencing discretion. when the trial court imposed sentence, it explained that the sentence on count 2 is proper ground for imposing consecutive terms. (see people v. caesar (2008) 167 cal.app.4th 1050, 1061, disapproved on other grounds in people v. superior court (sparks) (2010) 48 cal.circumstance on which a trial court may properly rely to impose consecutive was only a single sfound at the scene. substantial evidence in the record indicates that more than one shot was fired. the bullet that killed dunn remained inside his body. at least one more shot must have been fired because the evidence showed that a bullet struck the driver side window after the shooter fired into the car through the passenger side window. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in imposing a consecutive sentence on count 2. 19 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. chaney, j. we concur: mallano, p. j. rothschild, j. 