filed 10/30/12 p. v. clark ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. gregory dee clark defendant and appellant. b231034 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va114972) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. john a. torribio, judge. affirmed as modified. benjamin adam owens, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and peggy z. huang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________ 2 gregory dee clark appeals from his convictions for inflicting corporal injury upon a cohabitant, assault with a deadly weapon, and making criminal threats. he contends admission of evidence of his gang membership was prejudicial error and he is entitled to three additional days of presentence custody. we conclude he is entitled to the three days but otherwise affirm. background appellant, a gang member, has a history of violence and has served several terms in prison, including for spousal battery and three counts of gang-related voluntary manslaughter. diane reeves lived with appellant from 2005 to 2006. in 2007, he was incarcerated for possession of a deadly weapon. after appellant was released in 2009, he and reeves again lived together. on january 23, 2010, appellant struck reeves in the ear with his fist, causing her to require hospital treatment and stitches. reeves told police appellant had pushed her into a door, but refused to file a report because appellant had previously threatened to kill her and her family. on february 18, 2010, appellant left a nearly three-minute message on the all mother fuckers are gonna be collecting some money . . . to bury her and to about the voicemail message but urged her to remain calm the next time she and appellant argued because he knew appellant was a gang member and previously had beaten his wife. during an argument in march 2010, appellant brandished an aluminum bat and threatened to kill both reeves and bennett if reeves did not stop yelling at him. he had previously threatened that if anything happened to him and he went bennett placed his hand over reev 3 t the incident to the authorities because appellant was affiliated with a gang and had a history of violence, and she believed he would follow through on his threats. on april 16, 2010, appellant accused reeves of being unfaithful to him. he pushed and shoved her, struck her with a dumbbell, threatened to kill her, and blocked the doorway so she could not exit the room. reeves suffered a large bump on her forehead and bruising on her face, neck, and chest as a result of the attack. on july 7, 2010, the information charging appellant with inflicting corporal injury on a cohabitant (pen. code,  273.5, subd. (a); counts 1 & 4),1 assault with a deadly weapon ( 245, subd. (a)(1); count 2), and making criminal threats ( 422; counts 3, 5, 6, & 7). appellant pled not guilty and denied all the allegations. at trial, reeves and bennett testified that appellant threatened them both and attacked reeves on several occasions. appellant testified he never assaulted or injured reeves or threatened her or were caused by a fall. he had never done anything to hurt her. appellant testified he did not mean his voicemail message to be taken as a serious threat, he was simply venting his anger. the jury found appellant guilty on counts one, two, four, six, and seven, and guilty on count three (making criminal threats) of the lesser included offense of attempted criminal threats. the jury also found him guilty on count five (making criminal threats) of the lesser included offense of attempted criminal threats, but the court dismissed the count because it had failed to read the guilty 1 unless otherwise stated, all statutory references are to the penal code. 4 verdict in the presence of the jury. probation was denied and appellant was sentenced to 22 years in state prison. discussion a. admission of gang-related evidence ellant was a gang member. he argues the evidence was inadmissible under evidence code section 352 because its probative value was substantially outweighed by its unduly prejudicial impact. we disagree. discretion may exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misconcerning the admission of gang evidence to prove the issues in a criminal case criminal propensity. (evid. code,  1101, subd. (b); people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 193; people v. champion (1995) 9 cal.4th 879, 922.) we review the admissibility of evidence for abuse of discretion. (people v. guerra (2006) 37 cal.4th 1067, 1113.) to prove appellant guilty of making criminal threats, the prosecution was required to establish, among other things, that the threats caused reeves and their family. ( 422; in re george t. (2004) 33 cal.4th 620, 630.)2 as our 2 any person who willfully threatens to commit a crime which will result in death or great bodily injury to another person, with the specific intent that the statement . . . is to be taken as a threat . . . which, on its face and under the circumstances in which it is made, is so unequivocal, unconditional, immediate, and specific as to convey to the person threatened, a gravity of purpose and an immediate prospect of execution of the threat, and thereby causes that 5 and practices, criminal enterprises, rivalries, and the likecan help prove identity, motive, modus operandi, specific intent, means of applying force or fear, or other people v. hernandez (2004) 33 cal.4th 1040, 1049, italics added.) for example, in people v. mendoza, (2000) 24 cal.4th 130, the defendant was charged with kidnapping and robbery. during the id. at p. 163.) one of the ang affiliation. (ibid.) the court held this testimony was directly relevant to establish the element of fear and was probative because fear was an element of robbery. (id. at p. 178.) bennett testified he also feared appellant because of his gang affiliation. this evidence established one of the means by which appellant applied fear to his victims. this testimony was also relevant to rehabilitate reeves by explaining her reticence to call the police. similar to the victim in mendoza, reeves and bennett understood appellant to be part of a gang. reeves testified she was afraid of appellant because he was affiliated with a gang. because of this fear, she refused to call the police or tell anyone about his violent behavior. appellant argues the evidence was nevertheless inadmissible under evidence code section 352 because it would tend to inflame the jury, and other evidence, such as his prior prison term for beating his ex-wife, was all that was penal code section 422. we disagree. there was no indication in the record that the gang-related evidence would unduly influence the jury. the prosecutor elicited only neutral and brief responses person reasonably to be in sustained fear for his or her own safety or for his or her immediate family's safety, shall be punished by imprisonment in the county jail 6 and the court instructed liation for the are presumed able to understand and correlate instructions and are further people v. sanchez (2001) 26 callimiting instructions. even if admission of the testimony was error, the error was harmless because there was no reasonable chance a more favorable result to appellant would have been reached had the evidence not been admitted. favora(people v. watson mean more likely than not, but merely a reasonable chance, more than an abstract possibility. [college hospital, inc. v. superior court (1994) 8 cal.4th 704, 715.) as noted, appellant was convicted of assault with a deadly weapon, inflicting corporal injury upon reeves, and making criminal threats. the non-gang evidencevoicemail message, in which appellant stated that if reeves shouted at him one money . . . 7 nt the gang evidence. no and found his threats to be credible did so simply because he was a gang member. therefore, no reasonable probability exists that the jury would have returned a different verdict had they been ignorant of his gang membership. b. presentence custody credits appellant contends he is entitled to three additional days of presentence custody credit. the attorney general concedes the point, and we agree. appellant was arrested on april 16, 2010 and sentenced on february 15, 2011. including the day of arrest and the day of sentencing (people v. smith (1989) 211 cal.app.3d 523, 526), appellant was entitled to 306 days of actual custody credit, three more abstract of the judgment must be amended to reflect a total of 351 days of presentence custody credit, comprising 306 days of actual custody and 45 days of conduct credit. disposition the judgment is modified to reflect a total of 351 days of presentence custody credit. in all other respects the judgment is affirmed. the superior court is directed to prepare an amended abstract of judgment to reflect the judgment as modified and forward a copy thereof to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published chaney, j. we concur: rothschild, acting, p. j. johnson, j. 