filed 5/14/12 p. v. viesca ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. juan martin viesca, defendant and appellant. b231281 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na085125) appeal from judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, tomson t. ong, judge. affirmed. christopher love, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii, and marc a. kohm, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________ 2 juan martin viesca appeals from the judgment entered following his conviction by a jury of assault with a deadly weapon with special findings by the court in a bifurcated proceeding that he had suffered one prior serious or violent felony conviction within the 1 viesca contends the trial court erred in denying his motion for judgment of acquittal for insufficient evi factual and procedural background after completing an unrelated traffic stop shortly after midnight on march 20, 2010, long beach police officer alfredo chairez saw viesca and another man chasing a third man. viesca was holding a golf club in his left hand and, as he ran, gestured with his right hand toward his waistband as if he had a gun. viesca, a member of the barrio being chased then disappeared from view. chairez did not see viesca get closer than 25 feet to the individual he was pursing. as officer chairez approached viesca, he dropped the golf club. chairez then detained viesca and his companion, also a member of the barrio small town gang. in or three members of longos. (viesca had been shot by a longos gang member several years earlier.) when the rival gang members saw viesca pick up the golf club, they fled; and viesca gave chase. he admitted he intended to strike the man he was chasing with the club. viesca was charged by information filed on april 22, 2010 with a single count of assault with a deadly weapon ( 245, subd. (a)(1)). the information specially alleged the offense had been committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)) and viesca had one prior serious or violent felony conviction (for making a criminal threat) within the meaning of both the three strikes law ( 667, 1 statutory references are to the penal code. 3 subds. (b)-(i); 1170.12, subd. (a)-(d)) and section 667, subdivision (a)(1).2 viesca pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. the court bifurcated trial of the prior convictions. at the conclusion of the 1118.1, ntified victim because he had never been closer than 25 feet to him. the motion was denied. the jury found viesca guilty of aggravated assault and found the gang enhancement allegation not true. viesca then waived his constitutional rights and admitted the truth of prior, the court sentenced him to 13 years in state prison.3 discussion a ( 245, subd. (a)(1).) assault is a general intent crime (people v. chance (2008) 44 cal.4th 1164, 1167 (chance); people v. williams (2001) 26 cal.4th 779, 782, 784-785), although chasing with the golf club. (see people v. colantuono (1994) 7 cal.4th 206, 214 [assault is a general 2 it was also specially alleged viesca had served a prison term for a prior felony conviction. ( 667.5, subd. (b).) the court struck this additional enhancement at sentencing. 3 viesca was sentenced to the upper term of four years for aggravated assault, doubled under the three strikes law, plus five years pursuant to section 667, presentence custody credits, raised in his opening brief, has now been resolved in the trial court. 4 nature will probably and directly result in injury to another, 4 cannot be guilty of aggravated assault because the people failed to prove he had the argument reflects a fundamental misunderstanding of this element of the crime of assault. crime of assault in chance, supra, 44 cal.4th 1164, in which the defendant, like viesca, had argued he lacked the present ability to commit assault because his conduct did not immediately precede a battery. (id. at p. 1167.) after being pursued by police officers, the defendant had taken cover behind a trailer. one of the officers approached from the back of the trailer and saw defendant facing the front end, holding a gun in his right hand, extended forward and supported by his left hand. the officer trained his own gun on the defendant and told him to drop his weapon. after some hesitation the defendant complied, flipping the gun behind him, but again attempted to flee. he was apprehended after he fell. upon examining thloaded with 15 rounds in the magazine, but no round in the firing chamber. (id. at pp. 1168-1169.) (chance, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 1171.) the court explained its statements in earlier cases distinguishimmediately people v williams, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 786; people v. colantuono, supra 4 viesca does not dispute the golf club he was carrying qualifies as a deadly weapon. 5 not transform the traditional understanding of assault to insulate defendants from liability until the last instant before a battery is completed. although temporal and spatial he ability to inflict injury on the present occasion that is determinative, not whether injury chance, at p. ut a battery, he given occasion, even if some steps remain to be taken, and even if the victim or the surrounding circumstances thwart the infliction of the injuid. at p. 1172.) as an example of the proper application of this rule, the chance court cited and discussed people v. yslas yslas, the defendant approached within seven or eight feet of the victim with a raised hatchet, but the victim escaped injury by running to the next room and locking the door. yslas committed assault, even though he never closed the distance between himself and the victim, or swung the hatchet. (yslas, [supra, 27 cal.] at pp. 631, 633-chance, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 1174.) yslas is squarely on point. viesca committed assault even though he never closed the distance some steps remained to complete the battery and even though the victim thwarted the attack by outrunning his assailant. disposition the judgment is affirmed. perluss, p. j. we concur: woods, j. jackson, j. 