 filed 7/10/12 p. v. thomas ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. derrick wayne thomas, defendant and appellant. b231174 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba368831) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, carol h. rehm, jr., judge. reversed and remanded with directions. jeanine g. strong, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr. and margaret e. maxwell, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 derrick thomas appeals the judgment entered following his conviction by jury of sale of a controlled substance and possession of a controlled substance. (health & saf. code,  11352, subd. (a); 11350, subd. (a).) thomas contends the trial court erred in finding he failed to demonstrate good cause for discovery of police personnel records pursuant to pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531 (pitchess). we agree and conditionally reverse the judgment. (see people v. gaines (2009) 46 cal.4th 172, 180-182.) facts and procedural background prior to trial, thomas filed a motion seeking discovery of the personnel records of los angeles police detectives miller and kitzmiller. the police report attached to the motion indicated that on march 8, 2010, the detectives were street, an area plagued by blatant narcotics us[]observed one kenneth brown approach thomas and extend his hand holding paper currency. thomas accepted the currency and placed it in his right side pocket. thomas then appeared to select a small item from his hand which he dropped into -white solid consistent with cocaine base. brown closed his hand and walked away. police officers stopped brown at the direction of detective miller and recovered an off-white solid consistent with cocaine base from his left hand. while brown was onto the lap of one walter williams, who was seated in a wheelchair, and then walked slowly southbound. police officers who arrested thomas recovered a glass cocaine pipe and $87 from his person (1x$50 in his right sock; 5x$5 and 12x$1 in his right front pants pocket). detective baley recovered a white tissue bindle containing six to 10 off-white solids consistent with cocaine base from the lap of williams who 3 questioned and released. in a booking search, officers found $400 (2x$100; pocket. the pitchess motion sought citizen complaints relating to acts of violence, excessive force, fabrication of charges, fabrication of evidence, false arrest, perjury, t to the materiality of the requested discovery. defense counsel filed an unredacted motion under seal.1 the los angeles city attorney, appearing on behalf of the real party in narcotics. he denies tossing off white solids onto the lap of a man seated in a 1 garcia v. superior court (2007) 42 cal.4th 63, held a trial court may permit a defendant to file a pitchess motion under seal and outlined the procedure to be followed. (garcia, supra, at pp. 72-73.) if defense counsel believes a filing under seal is necessary to protect a claim of privilege, the defense must give timely notice of the claim of e affidavit the defense seeks to file under seal, along with a proposed redacted version. the proposed redacted version should be served on opposing counsel. the trial court must then conduct an in camera hearing on the request to file under seal. at that hearing, counsel should explain how the information proposed for redaction would risk disclosure of privileged material if revealed, and demonstrate why that information is required to support the motion. . . . if the court concludes that parts of the affidavit do pose a risk of revealing privileged information, and that filing under seal is the only feasible way to protect that required information, the court may id. at p. 73.) the record before us does not incldeclaration or an order permitting the unredacted motion be filed under seal. (see garcia v. superior court, supra, 42 cal.4th at p. 72; cal. rules of court, rule 8.46(c).) nonetheless, for the purpose of this appeal, we presume the necessary procedural steps were taken. we have reviewed the sealed declaration in garcia v. superior court, supra, at p. 77.) 4 wheelchair. he avers that the substantial sum of money he possessed was from tips how close [thomas] was to the man in the wheel chair or describe the nature of the at the hearing on the motion, defense counsel indicated the basis for the in the wheelchair. he was not aware . . . what the gentleman in the wheelchair was doing nsel admitted thomas saw the man in the wheelchair selling narcotics earlier in the day he boug counsel for real party in interest argued there were a number of people in the se there just are [brown] and what their interaction was and the nature and extent of their cond brown or that he was aware brown had been arrested. i be in possession of] all this money, all these $1 bills. [] i think it very well could be . . . a case of mistaken identity rather than police misconduct. [] also, the 5 court denied the motion without conducting an in camera hearing. discussion of relevant documents or information in the confidential personnel records of a peace officer accused of misconduct against the defendant. (evid. code,  1043, of goopeople v. gaines, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 179.) the threshold for establishing good warrick v. superior court (2005) 35 cal.4th 1011, 1019.) in order to satisfy the good cause misconduct that is plausible when read in light (id. at p. 1025.) value of the evidence . . . presented [or] which should have been presented. [citations.] indeed, a defendant is entitled to discover relevant information under pitchess even in the absence of any judicial determination that the potential defense people v. gaines, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 182.defendant establishes good cause, the court must review the requested records in (id. at p. 179.) pitchess motion is reviewed for abuse of discretion. (people v. cruz (2008) 44 cal.4th 636, 670; alford v. superior court (2003) 29 cal.4th 1033, 1039; people v. hughes (2002) 27 cal.4th 287, 330.) 6 the people argue police misconduct in that it did not explain the observed interaction with brown, the or the thomas did not provide a non-culpable explanation for his presence at the scene, or contradict or explain the claim he walked from the scene after he saw brown being detained. the people conclude the trial court properly denied the motion. we find the facts presented in this case similar to those under consideration in warrick, a leading case in the area. in warrick, the defendant was charged with possessing cocaine base for sale. according to the police report, police officers noticed the defendant standing next to a wall looking at a clear plastic baggie containing off-white solids. when the officers approached, the defendant fled and discarded what appeared to be numerous lumps of rock cocaine. one officer retrieved the lumps while others pursued and arrested the defendant who possessed an empty baggie and a small amount of cash. (warrick v. superior court, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 1016.) pitchess sale on the date of his warrick v. superior court, supra, 35 ed because he had an outstanding parole warrant and feared arrest. (id. at pp. 1022-1023.) as he fled, people pushed and fought as they collected cocaine from the ground. two officers retrieved some of the cocaine and one officer told the defendant he must have had discarded the rocks of cocaine and they falsely accused defendant of having done so, or they knew who had discarded the cocaine but falsely accused id. at p. 1023.) 7 warrick the police report that he possessed and discarded the cocaine defendant warrick v. superior court, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 1023.) warrick rejected the notion the defendant was required to establish a factual id. at pp. 1025-factual scenario of officer misconduct that is plausible when read in light of the id. officer misconduct is one that might or could have occurred. such a scenario is plausible because it presents an assertion of specific police misconduct that is both (id. at p. 1026.) warrick held that, in some caswarrick v. superior court, supra, 35 cal.4th at pp. 1024-1025.) as an example of a case in which the defense declaration adequately had alleged officer misconduct, warrick cited people v. hustead (1999) 74 cal.app.4th 410. in hustead, the defendant was charged with officer made material misstatements [in the police report] with respect to his people v. hustead, supra, at p. 416.) counsel also stated the defendant asserted he did not drive in the manner described in the police report and the route he actually drove was different than the route described in the report. (id. at pp. 416-417.) hustead foundfactual foundation for an allegation that the officer made false accusations in his the manner suggested by the police report and therefore the charges against him 8 people v. hustead, supra, 74 cal.app.4th at p. 417.) warrick approved the determination in hustead stating: declaration in hustead the police repwarrick v. superior court, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 1025.) applying these principles to the facts before it, warrick concluded the consistent. the defense to the charge of possessing cocaine for sale. thus, defendant has outlined a defense raising the issue of the practice of the arresting officers to make false arrests, plant evidence, commit perjury, and falsify police reports or probable cause. [citations.] defendant has established the relevance of such information to his pending trial [citation], and having advanced a basis for admitting it into evidence at warrick v. superior court, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 1027.) we conclude warrick is controlling here. the declaration submitted by thomas tossed a bindle into the lap of williams and asserted williams, not thomas, had been selling narcotics. counsel indicated thomas was loitering in the area and explained he was present in the area to purchase narcotics, which was consistent with his possession of a glass cocaine pipe. thomas further claimed the money in his possession had been earned at the barbershop where he worked. the people assert thomas failed to explain his lap. however, at the hearing on the motion, defense counsel represented thomas had no contact with brown or williams. finally, unlike the defendant in warrick, thomas did not flee the scene but, according to the police report, walked slowly from williams. as this conduct is consistent with loitering, no explanation was required. 9 thus, c declaration proposed an alternate factual scenario and suggested the detectives falsely had stated they observed thomas sell cocaine base lap. thomas was not required to eliminate the possibility the arrest had been based on misidentification. rather, his burden, which is relatively low, was to demonstrate a plausible factual scenario in which the honesty of the detectives was material to his defense. thomas establishing good cause for discovery applicable in the pitchess context. (warrick v. superior court, supra, 35 cal.4th at pp. 1023, 1026.) people v. thompson (2006) 141 cal.app.4th 1312, relied upon by the people, thompson, an undercover officer purchased cocaine base from the defendant with two pre-recorded $5 bills. two detectives monitored the transaction via a wire worn by the undercover officer and six police officers witnessed the purchase. uniformed officers arrested the defendant and found the pre-recorded $5 bills on his person. the defendant sought pitchess discovery against the 11 officers involved in his arrest, asserting they planted evidence, acted dishonestly and committed other misconduct. (id. at p. 1317.) defense counsany buy money from the defendant and the defendant did not offer or sell drugs to the undercover officer. instead, the defendant was arrested in an area where officers were making arrests and, when the officer realized the defendant had a criminal history, they fabricated the account of the transaction and attributed to him drugs already in their possession. (id. at p. 1317.) 10 thompson concluded the account of the scope of the alleged police misconduct, and [did] not explain [the (people v. thompson, supra, 141 cal.app.4th at p. 1317.) thompson stated: defendant] is not asserting that officers planted evidence and falsified a police report. he is asserting that, because he was standing at a particular location, 11 police officers conspired to plant narcotics and recorded money in his possession, and to fabricate virtually all the events preceding and following his id. at p. 1318.) thompson concluded the defendant had failed to show it what they saw and heard as percipient witnessid. at p. 1318.) thus, in thompson, the proposed factual scenario, that 11 police officers had conspired to arrest the defendant for drug sales because he had a criminal record, was not plausible. here, given warrick, it cannot be concluded the factual scenario observations claimed by the officers and explained he was present in the area was to purchase drugs, as did the defendant in warrick. further, the scope of the misconduct alleged by the defendant in thompson was significantly broader than that alleged by thomas or the defendant in warrick. neither this case nor warrick involved undercover officers purchasing narcotics with pre-recorded bills from the defendant in a transaction monitored by detectives and witnessed by multiple officers, with two additional officers recovering key evidence. thompson is therefore factually distinguishable. the people also rely on people v. sanderson (2010) 181 cal.app.4th 1334, which held a defendant being prosecuted for making criminal threats had failed to show good cause for discovery of the personnel records of police officers who heard the defendant make threats over a speaker phone. declaration stated the police report had been falsified and the defendant denied making the statements attributed to him. (id. at p. 1338.) sanderson affirmed the 11 not deny making the phone call or engaging in a telephonic conversation with [the victims] at the time id. at pp. 1340-1341, fn. omitted.) sanderson the (id. at p. 1341.) however, the factual scenario posited by thomas was plausible and thus sufficient to meet the materiality requirement of evidence code section 1043, subdivision (b). (warrick v. superior court, supra, 35 cal. 4th at p. 1026.) as a result, the trial court was obliged to conduct an in-chambers review of the reports or probable cause, and committing perjury. in other words, thomas entitling him to a determination of relevance under the provisions of section 1045. warrick v. superior court, supra, at p. 1027.) we therefore conditionally reverse the judgment with directions to review the requested documents in chambers on remand. (people v. gaines, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. trial court may determine that the requested personnel records contain no relevant id. at p. 181.) if so, the trial court shall reinstate the judgment. (ibid.) if the in camera review reveals relevant information, the defendant must ifferent outcome had the evidence id. at p. 182.) if the defendant demonstrates such a probability, the trial court must order a new trial; if it does not, the judgment shall be reinstated. (id. at pp. 181-182.) 12 disposition the judgment is conditionally reversed and remanded with directions to review the relevant personnel records in chambers. if the in chambers review reveals no relevant information, the trial court shall reinstate the judgment. if the in chambers review reveals relevant information, the trial court shall determine whether thomas can demonstrate a reasonable probability of a different outcome had the evidence been disclosed and, if so, order a new trial. otherwise, the trial court shall reinstate the judgment. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: croskey, j. kitching j. 