filed 7/16/12 p. v. hernandez ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose hernandez, defendant and appellant. b231493 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba358705) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, sam ohta, judge. affirmed as modified. emry j. allen, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, linda c. johnson and robert m. snider, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________ 2 the jury found defendant jose hernandez guilty of first degree murder of roberto alcazar (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)).1 the jury also found defendant personally and intentionally discharged a handgun causing death ( 12022.53, subds. (b)-(d)) and committed the murder for the benefit of a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)). on march 3, 2011, defendant was sentenced to 50 years to life in state prison.2 in this timely appeal, defendant contends the trial court abused its discretion in (1) declining to bifurcate the gang allegation, (2) admitting evidence of text messages, a prior act of domestic violence, and a hearsay statement made by sandra lopez (sandra), and (3) overruling forfeited the contention concerning the evidence of a prior act of domestic violence by abuse of discretion. as suggested by the attorney general, we order the abstract of respects, we affirm the judgment. statement of facts prosecution case defendant was a member of the state street gang, with numerous gang tattoos on his body. his gang moniker was mad or enojado, in spanish. he lived in a known state street gang hangout with his mother and nephew ivan, a state street gang member. his nephew sammy was a member of 1 all statutory references will be to the penal code, unless otherwise indicated. 2 the sentence consisted of 25 years to life for the murder, plus a consecutive term of 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement ( 12022.53, subd. (d)). the trial court imposed and stayed the 10- and 20-year prison terms, respectively, pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (c). no additional punishment was imposed for the gang allegation. 3 street gang member is expected to murder or inflict violence on any member of a rival gang who is found in state street territory or who shows disrespect to the state street member by, for example, having sex with a former sexual partner. on the night of july 5, 2009, sandra, mother of sammy and common-law wife of partner of defendant. sandra and five of her children lin state street territory. juanita met alcazar at the bar. alcazar, nicknamed green eyes, was a tattoo bearing member of the tiny boys gang, a rival to state street. juanita brought alcazar home in the early morning hours of april 6 to smoke crystal methamphetamine and have sex in her bedroom. sandra smoked with them briefly and then left them alone in the bedroom. the three of them went out onto the porch, but juanita sent alcazar back in because she realized his tattoos were visible to people on the street and that could bring trouble because this was state street territory. sandra called defendant oand told him to come over. defendant arrived, carrying a gunbedroom, where he saw juanita and alcazar having sex. pointing the gun at alcazar and room. defendant returned, saw juanita and alcazar having sex again, pointed the gun, and told juanita to leave. alcazar did not have a gun. juanita left. defendant asked alcazar he was lying and shot him, firing three times from a distance of at least two feet. as alcazar lay dying on the bedroom floor of a gunshot wound to the chest, sandra told juanita not to call an ambulance or the police because defendant had two bullets left in the gun and could return. sandra staged the room to look as though a burglary had taken place and packed up everything connected to alcazar. she and 4 tell the police to hide the identity of the killer, sandra reported the shooting to the police. defendant bragged about the shooting in text messages afterward. defense case alcazar ingested enough methamphetamine on the night of the killing to be under the influence. asked defendant where he was from, and jumped at defendant. defendant got possession of the gun and fired in self-defense. she testified that alcazar was shot because he was from the wrong gang and in the wrong territory. gina loved her uncle. defendant and her brother sammy were state street gang members. discussion order denying bifurcation of trial of gang allegations defendant contends he was deprived of a fair trial by the denial of his motion to try the gang allegation separately from the murder charge, in that the evidence of state commit crimes whether or not he committed this one and had nothing to do with defendant or the charged offense. the trial court did not abuse its discretion. defendant moved to sever the gang enhancement allegation on the grounds there was little evidence the murder was gang-primary activities would be highly prejudicial in the trial of the murder charge. the trial gang enhancement if there is good cause for doing so. i also understand that, when gang evidence is inextricably intertwined with the presentation of the pros 5 must also prove that . . . there was an intent to kill, and it seems to me that the reference to gang in the statements ascribed to . . . defendant goes to proving that malice aforethought. it also proves motive. while motive is not necessary to be proved by the prosecution, the jury instruction says the existence of motive may tend to prove the defendant is guilty. the absence of it may tend to prove defendant is not guilty. [] so it is certainly relevant in proving up the case, and when i analyze it from that perspective, it seems to me that gang issues will be inextricably intertwined with the presentation of e i understand that gang evidence can have a prejudicial impact, i do not see that in this case where it is the explanation of what happened, at least by prejudice. i do not believe it is. and so for that reason the motion to bifurcate . . . is the jury was instructed in modified language of caljic no. 17.24.3 as follows: gang activities, and of criminal acts by gang members, other than the crime for which defendant is on trial. [] this evidence, if believed, may not be considered by you to prove that defendant is a person of bad character or that he has a disposition to commit crimes. it may be considered by you for the limited purpose of determining if it tends to show that the crime or crimes charged were committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang members. you may also use it on the question of whether or not a motive existed for the commission of the alleged crime. [] for the limited purpose for which you may consider this evidence, you must weigh it in the same manner as you do all other evidence in the case. [] you are not permitted to consider state with deadly weapons, and robberies, and historically, the state street gang has responded 6 to a rival gang member entering state street territory with murder or other acts of violence. duty of the judge to control all proceedings during the trial . . . with a view to the people v. hernandez (2004) 33 cal.4th 1040, 1048 (hernandez).) whether to bifurcate a gang allegation from the substantive offense charged is a matter for the trial ibid.) the trial court considers the relevance of the gang enhancement evidence to the substantive charge and the degree to which it risks inflaming the jury. (hernandez, supra, 43 cal.4th at pp. 1048-[t]he criminal street gang enhancement is attached to the charged offense and is, by definition, inextricably intertwined with that offense.(idome of the . . . gang evidence, even as it relates to the defendant, may be so extraordinarily prejudicial, and of so little relevance to guilt, that it threatens to id. at p. 1049.) l rule, evidence of gang membership and activity is admissible if it is logically relevant to some material issue in the case, other than character evidence, is not more prejudicial than probative and is not cumulative. [citation.] consequently, gang eviconcerning the charged offenses other than criminal propensity as long as the probative value of the evidence outweighs its prejudicial effect. (people v. williams (1997) 16 caaffiliationbeliefs and practices, criminal enterprises, rivalries, and the likecan help prove identity, motive, modus operandi, specific intent, means of applying force or fear, or other issues people v. hernandez, supra, 33 people v. albarran (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 214, 223-224.) 7 the prosecution argued to the jury that defendant shot alcazar because alcazar belonged to a rival gang and was acting disrespectfully to the state street gang by being -in-ex- the evidence that members of state street are expected to respond to a rival gang y murdering or assaulting the rival gangster is -defense. the evidence of gang rivalry and the high value placed on enforcing respect for the gang was relevant to show that this murder was a logical and natural response by defendant after learning the rival gang member was in state street territory having sex with his former girlfriend. the jury was instructed it must not consider the gang evidence bifurcation of the gang al3 evidentiary rulings review to any ruling by a trial court on the admissibility of evidence.people v. guerra (2006) 37 cal.4th 1067, people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 714.) 3 to the extent defendant contends the gang enhancement allegation should have been bifurcated because, under people v. lopez (2005) 34 cal.4th 1002, 1004 [no additional time is added to sentences of 25 years to life], he was sentenced to no additional time for it, we disagree with the contention. if the jury had found defendant guilty of the lesser offense of voluntary manslaughter, as defendant sought, additional time would have been added to the sentence. ( 193, subd. (a), 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c).) 8 admissible unless excluded under the federal or california constitution or by statute. [citations.] relevant evidence is defined in evidence code section 210 as evidence conseetermining the people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1114, 11661167.) section outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of . . (people v. ledesma people v. richardson (2008) 43 cal.4th 959, 1000-evidence code section 352 applies to evidence which uniquely tends to evoke an emotional bias against the defendant as an individual and which has very little effect on the issues. in applying section 352people v. karis (1988) 46 cal.3d 612, 638; see also people v. kipp (2001) 26 cal.4th 1100, 11section 352 is left to the sound discretion of the trial court and will not be disturbed people v. siripongs (1988) 45 cal.3d 548, 574.) a. text messages defendant contends it was an abuse of discretion to admit text messages from the cell phone number subscribed to by ivan, because in the absence of proof defendant was the author, the messages were irrelevant and prejudicial. as substantial evidence 9 supports the conclusion defendant was the author, admission of the messages was not an abuse of discretion. at a hearing under evidence code section 402, the trial court ruled: (1) the text niker would be admissible under evidence code section 1220 [admission of party opponent] upon proof of a relationship between ivan and defendant; (2) messages lacking a sign-off, but linked to defendant so that it appeared defendant was the author, might be admissible, depending on the content and context of the messages; and (3) for each text, if the probative value is substantially outweighed by its prejudicial value, the message would not be admitted. admitting the messages into evidence did not mean there was no reasonable doubt defendant wrote to decide whether somebody else wrote it or [defendant] wrote it. but there has to be a sufficient link to [defe the trial court then made rulings admitting the specific text messages that defendant objects to in the appeal. unsigned messages, if shown to be by defendant, 4to past conduct.5 the messages in the sequence - boxers,[6were sufficiently linked to raise an inference that defendant wrote them all, but the jury was not required to draw 4 state street members showed disrespect to tiny boys members by referring to them as taco bells. 5 the portion of a message by defendant bragging he killed other taco bells was inadmissible because its reference to a murder defendant committed in the past was more prejudicial than probative under evidence code section 352. 6 this referred to alcazar, because he was in his boxer shorts when defendant shot him. 10 are gone for right now, my probative than prejudicial under evidence code section 352. counsel stated defendant 7 authenticity, that the information that they have obtained through the document purported to be a business record is what it purports to be, which is a text message sent by somebody who has the phone number 323-671-9993; then the prosecution then must establish preliminarily that the person who texted is your client, to establish that it is an admission by a party opponent. [] . . . [] and so i looked at the information that the witness [from metro p.c.s.] testified to and found preliminarily that the authentication aspect of it has been met.[8] [] now, i have said that it relates to the connection part, that the prosecution must establish that ivan . . . is connected to your client in some manner which would establish that your client potentially has access to that phone. [] defendant did not argue to the jury that he was not the author of the texts. defendant argued he was bragging, trying to increase his own reputation, but, in actuality, the shooting was in self-defense.9 he also acknowledged that sandra called 7 as defendant had no objection to this message, he forfeited his challenge to it in the appeal. (people v. kennedy (2005) 36 cal.4th 595, 612.) 8 defendant does not challenge the ruling the cell phone compa 9 them. . . . [] . . . [defendant] bragged about [the shooting]. he told his homies that he . 11 nt characterized the phone to the jury as his phone. 10 there is evidence defendant and the cell phone subscriber were close relatives, lived together, and were members of the same gang. defendant was a hardcore member and the only member whose moniker was mad (enojado). text messages signed by enojado reflect an animosity toward tiny boys. it is reasonable to infer the author of the texts signed defendant to the police as the shoote(enojado) referred to in that text message is defendant. substantial evidence supports finding defendant wrote the unsigned messages, as well. using his moniker, he wrote almost all the messages during the three-week period prior to the incident and virtually all the messages on july 5, 6, and 7.11 in his signed text similarity sufficiently links both messages to the same author. links this message to defendant as the author, because its author identifies himself as a taco bell killer. moreover, this unsigned message is the third in a sequence of unsigned y i 10 the signed message that defendant singles out in the appeal was sent on july 6, 11 cell phone june 15, 2009, through july 6, 2009, were signed enojado, and 61 of the 62 messages sent on july 5 through 7 were signed enojado. 12 the taco bell killing referred to is a recent killing. the july 6th message stating defendant indicates the recent sic] that on straight boxers, haha lame reflects animosity toward tiny boys, such as state street members harbored, and knowledge of a detail of the killing (alcazar was wearing his boxer shorts) that would be known by someone who was there. defendant, the shooter, was there. moreover, this substantial evidence supports the conclusion defendant authored the signed and unsigned messages. admission of the text messages as a party admission was not an abuse of discretion.12 b. prior acts of domestic violence defendant contends evidence he had beaten juanita in the past was more prejudicial than probative. he forfeited the contention by failing to object below. (people v. fuiava (2012) 53 cal.4th 622, 670 (fuiavaspecific objection on the ground sough juanita testified the reason she believed defendant when he threatened to kill her and her family if she called the po 12 defendant cites no authority to support his contention that it was an abuse of discretion to allow the jury to make the factual finding of authorship after the court decided there was enough evidence to admit the messages. 13 the incident of domestic violence, but did object to juanita testifying to the details of the domestic violencinto the details of the incident, her testimony would be more prejudicial than probative. prosecution to ask leading questions. juanita then testified, without going into any detail, before. that defendant beat her, and did not object to it, we deem his contention on appeal forfeited, and we will not review it. c. 13 out-of-court statement defendant contends the trial court violated the confrontation clause to admit hearsay grounds at trial and asked it be stricken as in violation of people v. aranda (1965) 63 cal.2d 518 (aranda) and bruton v. united states (bruton) (1968) 391 u.s. 123. the e: for its effect on juanita, in that it explained why she did not call the police and why she complied with what sandra told her to do. the court ruled the statement was admissible or the truth that true or 13 pleaded no contest to involuntary manslaughter ( 192, subd. (a)). 14 the trial. [] the purpose is to show the impact on the . . . the person who hears the relevant, not whether or not there were two bullets in the gun. . . . the issue is: how did purposes. you may only consider that statement for the limited purpose for which it has been allowed, which is the state of mind of the recipient of the statement, how it impacted instruction and would follow the instruction. juanita testified the statement made her so fearful that she did not call 911. in crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36 (crawfordsupreme court held . . . that the confrontation clause of the sixth amendment of the federal constitut14against a defendant in a criminal trial unless (1) the declarant is unavailable as a witness and the defendant has had a prior opportunity to cross-examine him or her, or (2) the declarant appears for cross-examination at trial. (crawford, at pp. 53, 59 & fn. 9.) . . . aranda and bruton extrajudicial self-incriminating statement that inculpates the other defendant is generally 14 ex parte in-court testimony or its functional equivalent--that is, material such as affidavits, custodial examinations, prior testimony that the defendant was unable to cross-examine, or similar pretrial statements that declarants would reasonably expect to be used testimonial objective witness reasonably to believe that the statement would be available for use at a later tcrawford, supra, 541 u.s. at pp. 51-52.) 15 and cross-examination, even if a limiting instruction is given.[15people v. jennings (2010) 50 cal.4th 616, 651.) ar the use of testimonial statements for purposes other than establishing the truth of the matter asserted. see tennessee v. street, 471 u.s. 409, crawford, supra, 541 u.s. at p. 59, fn. 9.) s because the statement was not testimonial under crawford. moreover, it was admitted for the nonhearsay purposes of hooting by staging the crime scene to look telling the police the shooter wore a mask. juanita explained she complied because . when first questioned, juanita gave the police the cover-up story. in a second statement to the police and at trial, she identified defendant as the shooter and stated defendant came into the bedroom with a gun. as also relevant to assessing the credibility of her trial testimony. the trial court instructed the jury it must not consider the statement for its truth, the court confirmed each member of the testimony was so prejudicial the jury could not be expected to follow the limiting admonition to the jury was clear and easy to understand, united states v. olano (1993) 507 u.s. 725, 740.) 15 the limiting instruction referred to is an instruction directing the jury that the extrajudicial statement may only be used against the codefendant. 16 d. immediately before opening statements, the trial court twice admonished the jury that statements made by the attorneys are not evidence. in her opening statement, the prosecutor stated to the jury that sandra told juanita they must fabricate evidence.16 defendant did not object. in her opening statement, defense counsel reminded the jury that what the prosecutor said is not evidence. after the conclusion of the opening statements, defendant objected on hearsay grounds. the court ruled the objection was made too late, as the opening statements had already been given. at the conclusion of rruling of his objection violates his right to objection was forfeited, to which defendant replies, if the error was forfeited, counsel was ineffective for failing to timely object. we agree that, as no timely objection was made on the ground sought to be urged in the appeal, the contention is forfeited. (fuiava, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 670.) we further hold that the contention has no merit. the out-of-court statements are not testimonial under crawford, having been admitted for nonhearsay purposes. (see crawford, supra, 541 u.s. at pp. 51-52.) in any event, defendant does not argue the error is prejudicial standing alone. defendant contends the error only requires reversal in light of other errors. as we have found no other errors,17 reversal is not required even if error occurred. 16 defendant objects to two statements the prosecutor stated sandra made to juanita: 17 for the same reason, there is no cumulative error that requires reversal. 17 presentence custody credits respondent points out the abstract of judgment incorrectly states defendant had presentence custody credits of 1,094 days, instead of the 547 days of presentence custody credit contained in the oral pronouncement of judgment. defendant does not disagree. we order the abstract of judgment corrected to reflect total credits of 547 days. disposition item 14 of the abstract of judgment is amended to reflect presentence credits of 547 days. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. kriegler, j. we concur: turner, p. j. mosk, j. 