 filed 4/24/12 p. v. ortega ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. arthur vincent ortega, defendant and appellant. b231182 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka086121) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. tia g. fisher, judge. affirmed. law office of christopher nalls and christopher nalls, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, linda c. johnson and scott a. taryle, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 appellant arthur vincent ortega appeals from the judgment of conviction following a jury trial. the jury acquitted him of murder and found him guilty of involuntary manslaughter (pen. code,  192, subd. (b)).1 the jury also found true the allegation that he used a deadly weapon, a knife ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)). the trial court sentenced appellant to five years in state prison, based on the upper term of four years, plus one year for the deadly weapon enhancement. appellant received 1,089 days of presentence credit, based on 727 actual days in custody plus 362 days of conduct credit. appellant contends the trial court relied on improper factors in sentencing him to the upper term of four years for involuntary manslaughter. because we find the trial court relied on at least one valid factor, we affirm the judgment. facts prosecution case on the night of february 25, 2009, appellant went out drinking with his good friend carlos gallardo (age 26), whom he had known since elementary school. around with appellant. about 12:45 p.m., michael rodriguez, a resident of baldwin park, saw a red kia house. when rodriguez approached the car about ten minutes later, he saw gallardo rodriguez that appellant and gallardo were drunk or on drugs. rodriguez reached into the car, turned off the engine, and called 9-1-1. rodriguez did not see a knife. 1 all statutory references are to the penal code, unless otherwise noted. 3 rodriguez and other neighbors stayed near the car, waiting for the police to arrive. durinpresence, and did not make any attempt to get out of the car or move in any way. officer michael ford of the baldwin park police department arrived about 10 minutes later. he was trained in traffic investigation and did not see any skid marks. he opined that the kia had been travelling very slowly and that the driver did not slam on the brakes before the car rolled onto the sidewalk and stopped. when officer ford approached ears and shook his shoulders, but gallardo did not respond. ford summoned paramedics. hands in the air. when officer ford asked appellant a question and shook his shoulder, appellant did not respond or move. at that point, officer ford saw the handle of a knife left hand. when ford and other officers removed appellant from the car and laid him on some grass near the sidewalk, he remained unresponsive. gallardo died from a single knife wound, three and three-fourths inches deep, that entered just above his right shoulder bone and penetrated his lungs. the deputy medical examiner testifgallardo had a blood alcohol level of .15 percent. his blood tested negative for other drugs. appellant had cuts on his fingers, but no other injuries. tests showed the blood defense case they were unaware of any problems or conflicts between appellant and gallardo, who had 4 been close friends for many years. on the morning he died, gallardo called the mutual friend and said that he and appellant had been hanging out and drinking together the previous night. he did not mention any problems or arguments with appellant. paramedics took appellant from the crime scene to the hospital, arriving about 1:45 p.m. baldwin park police department officer norman gonzalez rode with appellant in the ambulance to the hospital, remained with him at the hospital for three hours, and then transported him to jail. appellant was unresponsive throughout the trip and when he arrived at the hospital. he was assessed on the glasgow coma scale, a standard measure of alertness, and received the lowest measurement possible, indicating on blood drawn at 2:15 p.m., was .184 percent. he tested negative for any drugs. nd become responsive and alert until 3:45 p.m. because he had no other medical problems, appellant was discharged about an hour later and taken to jail. dr. hy malinek, a clinical and forensic psychologist, testified as an expert witness. he reviewed polbackground, interviewed appellant and his parents, and conducted standardized testing on appellant. the testing indicated appellant was passive, dependent, depressed, had low self-esteem and elevated anxiety, was not a sociopath, and did not have violent tendencies. according to the history obtained by dr. malinek, appellant suffered from depression in 2005, for which he was treated with paxil. appellant also had a history of alcohol abuse, beginning at age 11 or 12. dr. malinek diagnosed appellant with dysthymic disorder, a form of depression, and either alcohol dependence or significant alcohol addiction. dr. malinek opined that appellant was intoxicated with alcohol at the time oability to process and understand what is happening. according to dr. malinek, while it is unlikely that a person could kill another person while in an alcohol-induced blackout, it 5 is possible for a person intoxicated with alcohol to enter a blackout after killing a person, due to the trauma of the event. dr. ari kalechstein, a neuropsychologist, testified as an expert on the effects of judgment, planning, impulse control and inhibitions, and can make someone more likely to engage in arguments. according to dr. kalechstein, a person experiencing an alcohol-induced blackout would be so intoxicated that it would be highly unlikely the person could understand the implications of his or her behavior or be able to process information normally during that period. such a person could stab someone and have a clouded memory about the incident afterward. an alcohol-induced delirium is an altered mental state with fluctuating states of consciousness, such that the person appears conscious at some points and unconscious at others. one symptom of alcohol-induced delirium is non-responsiveness to others. it is possible for a person experiencing an alcohol-induced delirium to perceive a threat which does not exist. dr. kalechstein interviewed appellant and reviewed the police reports and and of alcohol-induced blackouts. dr. kalechstein found several indicators that appellant was intoxicated from alcohol during the stabbing, including the presence of empty when found in the car, and being passed out on the way to the hospital. based on a reported blood alcohol level of .184 percent 60 to 90 minutes after appellant was between .205 percent and .22 percent when he was removed from the car. dr. kalechstein opined that appellant was experiencing an alcohol-induced delirium at the time he was apprehended. 6 rebuttal case according to criminalist warren best, frequent drinkers can have higher alcohol tolerance levels, rendering them less impaired than other drinkers at the same blood alcohol level. dependiblood alcohol level as high as .30 percent to drive, care for himself, and not experience a blackout. conversely, it is possible for a person with a .17 percent blood alcohol level to be unable to take care of himself. according to a study conducted by best from 1988 to 1989, the average blood alcohol level of people arrested for driving under the influence in 1988-1989 was .17 percent. the emergency room physician who treated appellant was unable to determine the -responsiveness. the physician testified that alcohol-induced unconsciousness is more typically seen at a .30 percent blood alcohol level, whereas discussion i. contentions and forfeiture. appellant contends the trial court relied on improper factors in sentencing him to the upper term of four years for involuntary manslaughter. first, he argues the court improperly relied on the fact that the victim was killed, an element of manslaughter. second, he argues the court relied on facts suggesting appellant was conscious at the time of the crime, which violated the double jeopardy clause of the fifth amendment because it was inconsistent with an implied jury finding of unconsciousness. did not object to either of these factors at sentencing or raise a claim of double jeopardy. sentencing discretion and articulates its supporting reasons cannot be raised for the first time on people v. scott (1994) 9 cal.4th 331, 356; people v. de soto (1997) 54 cal.app.4th 1, 78; people v. erdelen (1996) 46 cal.app.4th 86, 9091.) moreover, the 7 defense of double jeopardy cannot usually be raised for the first time on appeal. (people v. scott (1997) 15 cal.4th 1188, 1201.) the people argue that by failing to raise these issues at sentencing, appellant deprived the trial court of the ability to further explain and clarify its reasoning. we agree with the people. but in order to forestall a claim of people v. mattson (1990) 50 cal.3d 826, 854; people v. scaffidi (1992) 11 cal.app.4th 145, 151; people v. norwood (1972) 26 cal.app.3d 148, 153.) ii. relevant law and standard of review. when a trial court must choose among three possible terms of imprisonment, it ibid.; people v. moberly (2009) 176 cal.app.4th 1191, 11951196.) the court must state its reasons for the record. ( 1170, subd. (b); cal. rules of court, rule 4.420(e).) but the court need not cite facts that support its decision or weigh aggravating and mitigating circumstances. (people v. sandoval (2007) 41 cal.4th 825, 846rial court is free to base an upper term sentence upon any aggravating id. at p. limited oibid.) people v. moberly, supra, 176 cal.app.4th at p. 1197 [a trial court cannot use an element of the crime or a fact found as an enhancement as a factor in aggravation]; cal. rules of court, rule 4.420(d).) aggravating circumstances are not limited to the factors listed in california rules of court, rule 4.421. an aggravating circumstance may be broadly 8 that people v. black (2007) 41 cal.4th id. at p. 813.) when challenging a discretionary sentencing choice on appeal, the burden is on the party attacking the sentence to clearly show that the sentencing decision was irrational or arbitrary. (people v. carmony (2004) 33 cal.4th 367, 376; people v. weaver (2007) 149 upon circumstances that are not relevant to the decision or that otherwise constitute an people v. sandoval, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 847.) when court to conjure the reasons the trial court could have recited to support its sentencing decision from the many options listed in the statutes and court rules. we review the trial people v. cardenas (2007) 155 omitted or misapplied by the trial court, nor can it reweigh valid factors bearing on the people v. scott, supra, 9 cal.4th at p. 355.) remand is required unless ibid.; people v. davis (1995) 10 cal.4th 463, 552; people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) iii. the trial court did not abuse its discretion. death, an element of involuntary manslaughter, as a factor supporting the upper term.2 assessment is evaluating the low term, midterm, high term. and i select the high term. 2 is the unlawful killing of a human being 9 i in terms of why this is not a probationary case. that knife use could make a commercial burglary a nonprobationary but there was a killing. so the killing is whatknife use, non-probation could apply across a panoply of different kinds of felonies. this is a case where a person was killed. and so the court selects the high term of four years relative to that assessm people note that just after the court made these statements, it launched into a colloquy with the prosecutor regarding whether the use of a knife could properly serve as a basis for both denying probation and imposing a one-year weapons enhancement. we canusing an element of the crime to choose the upper term. it can be plausibly argued from the quoted statements that the trial court might have done so. this is precisely why defendants are required to raise timely objections at sentencing and to seek clarification people v. scott, supra, 9 cal.4th at pp. 354355.) but this was not the only reason given by the trial court. appellant argues the trianot unconscious of the nature of his by drs. malinek and kalechstein not shown to the jury that contained statements made by clear from the reports of malinek as well as the neuropsychiatrist, that the statements the defendant made to them there was a lot more to what was going on prior to the fatal act 10 tension, anger, disputethat culminated in the fatal blow. so i want to state that for the appellant was conscious, its reliance violated the double jeopardy clause of the fifth amendment to the beyond a reasonable doubt that appellant was unconscious at the time of the offense. the people note the jury was instructed that involuntary manslaughter required, among other [a]s a result of voluntary intoxication, the defendant was not conscious of his actions or e jury could have found appellant was conscious of his basic actions, but not conscious of the upper statements whether the trial court was relying on an invalid reason in choosing the upper term. however, even assuming the trial court applied invalid factors in reaching its decision, appellant does not focus on a third reason given by the trial court for imposing even bringingi recognize the presumptive term is the midterm, but under these circumstancesprosecutions or convictions or not, and in his case primarily it has not, [appellant] has been building up to a level that culminated in this very tragic circumstance. so four years appellant was convicted in 2006 of misdemeanor vehicle code counts of driving on the wrong side of a divided highway and driving without lights in the dark. in 11 matter before the court, it appears the defendant may have ongoing and escalating issues with substance abuse that have gone unchecked. as a direct result of this is the instant matter before the court, which alleges the defendant violently attacked the victim with a substance abuse and aggressive behwhat happened to him when alcoholism or mental health as mitigating factors. earlier in the sentencing hearing when denying probation, the trial court stated that avily than alcoholism or out in a way that really significantly impacts the public . . . . but i put significance on that in looking at public safety particularly when here we have another incident where we apeople v. sandoval, supra, 41 cal.4th at psentencing choice. (see people v. reyes (1987) 195 cal.app.3d 957, 960964 [finding substance abuse can be an aggravating factor]; people v. regalado (1980) 108 cal.app.3d 531, 539540 [same]; cal. rules of court, rule 4.421 [the defendant has engaged in violent conduct that indicates a serious danger to society].) as noted above, defendanpeople v. black, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 813; people v. lashley (1991) 1 cal.app.4th 938, 952953 [erroneous application of certain 12 factors does not entitle defendant to remand where at least one factor is sufficient to support the upper term]; people v. dreas (1984) 153 cal.app.3d 623, 636.) accordingly, we find the trial court did not abuse its discretion in selecting the upper term. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. _____________________, j. doi todd we concur: ____________________________, p. j. boren ____________________________, j. ashmann-gerst 