filed 2/15/13 p. v. pineda ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. carlos pineda, defendant and appellant. b231037 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka088612) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mike camacho, judge. affirmed as modified. william l. heyman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, lawrence m. daniels, michael c. keller and alene m. games, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant, carlos pineda, appeals his conviction for assault with a semiautomatic firearm (2 counts) with enhancements for firearm use, great bodily injury and a prior serious felony conviction (pen. code,  245, subd. (b), 12022.53, 12022.5, 12022.7, 667, subds. (a)-(i)).1 he was sentenced to state prison for a term of 44 years 4 months. the judgment is affirmed as modified. background viewed in accordance with the usual rule of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established the following. 1. prosecution evidence. a. the shootings at the bar. on the night of october 17, 2009, defendant pineda was at the around the corner bar and grill in west covina with a small group of people, which included leo velasco and angel palencia. pineda was wearing an oakland raiders football jersey. he had prominent gang tattoos on his face, his neck and the back of his shaved head. on his just before the bar closed, pineda and his friends walked out the back door and sat had walked outside with a drink in his hand. santoya asked pineda to bring the drink back inside, which was in accord with bar policy that all drinks were to be consumed on the premises. pineda initially refused and an argument between the two of them ensued. santoya testi . . came closer towards me aggressively. . . . i stood my ground, just told them that i needed the drinks back inside these guys were staserious. . . . [t]he only thing i was worried about was . . three 1 all further references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 3 2 the women in then turned around and walked back toward the bar. when it appeared the argument between pineda and santoya was not winding down, velasco turned around and started walking to his car. filipo nafanua, a regular customer at the bar, saw santoya and pineda arguing about the drink. then nafanua saw pineda walk away and disappear around a corner. but pineda reappeared with a gun and started shooting. nafanua heard two gunshots and he was hit in the right knee. santoya testified he was still walking back toward the bar when he heard several gunshots go off behind him. he ran into an alley and hid in a dumpster until he heard sirens. then he realized he had been shot in the leg. velasco testified he heard gunshots while walking to his car. he got scared and st velasco jumped a fence and hid in some bushes. a week or so after the incident, velasco received a telephone call from palencia, warned him not to testify against pineda.3 2 3 velasco not necessary; that i was not involved in this and to try . . . not to testify against . 4 b. in the aftermath of the shooting. santoya was treated by dr. edmund nichter at queen of the valley medical bullet grazed the skin, causing [an] abrasion and then it lodged just subcutaneously in the right thigh. so i made an incision [using a local anesthetic] . . . and extracted the bullet us. now, it is . . nafanua told police the gunman was a hispanic man, 19 to 21 years old, who was wearing a black oakland raiders football jersey with the number 34 on it, and who had a 34. shown a six-pack photo array, nafanua said two of the men looked similar to the gunman; one of the two was pineda. police found four .25 caliber bullet casings at the shooting scene, but the gun was never recovered. tracy peck, a firearms examiner, testified a semiautomatic pistol used a magazine, fired one bullet with each pull of the trigger, would shoot as fast as the trigger auto m the same commonly loaded in .25 . officer avila testified he has known pineda and his twin brother, mauricio, for about 10 his he . . area and a teardrop on his right . . . side . . . 5 while pineda was in jail on this case, he made some telephone calls which could be interpreted as asking various people to contact prosecution witnesses. c. prior incident at dodger stadium. on september 2, 2009, six weeks before the bar shooting, pineda was involved in an altercation at dodger stadium. mark hubert, an off-duty police officer, was working up into the stands, saw pineda sitting with a group of eight men, and asked him to come downstairs. hubert told pineda he was being ejected from the ballpark because of his bad removed his shirt and took a fighting stance with his fists raised. hubert handcuffed him. arrested several times. and he had seen me around there several times. he referred to . . he said something about you see who point up in the stands where he had previously been sitting? . stadium job. d. gang evidence. azusa police officer rocky wenrick worked in the gang unit and was familiar azusa 13 gang. wenrick had known pineda and his brother, mauricio, for about six years. in general, a member of the barrio azusa 13 gang would have the following body ck. on his chest it says . 6 one way to gain sshows they are not a coward [sicwenrick knew about the dodger stadium incident and he had an opinion about why pineda had threatened hubert: casecurity guard. so . . . to let him know, he shows tattoos. he advises of his gang know . d hopefully get the security guard to back down. [] . . . [] pineda about a glass being taken out of a bar, would that also have any affect [sic] on how mr. pineda would react when confronted by that security guard? re messing with? that type of 2. defense evidence. jessica esparza had known pineda for more than five years, and she knew velasco pineda was doing. velasco also telephoned her several times. velasco never said 7 he called her cell phone at least three times, but she never spoke to him. contentions 2. there was insufficient evidence to sustain the assault convictions and the great bodily injury enhancement as to santoya. 3. the trial court improperly admitted evidence about the dodger stadium 4. the trial court failed to properly instruct the jury on the definition of 5. penal code section 245, subdivision (b) (assault with a semiautomatic firearm) violates equal protection. 6. there was cumulative error. 7. the trial court made a series of sentencing errors: a. the trial court improperly imposed upper terms for count 3 and the attached firearm use enhancement. b. the trial court improperly imposed a firearm use enhancement on count 4. c. the trial court improperly imposed a full-term consecutive enhancement for the great bodily injury enhancement on count 4. d. the trial court improperly imposed a consecutive term on count 4. e. the sentence on count 3 constituted cruel and unusual punishment. discussion 1. juror misconduct did not warrant a mistrial. pineda contends the trial court erred by denying his motion for a mistrial based on jury misconduct. this claim is meritless. a. background. during deliberations, the jury sent out a note which the trial court subsequently 8 . would like to note, came up ipossible gesture directly at the jury. we are not threatened, but just wanted it to go on the no. 12, who i a after the court confirmed juror no. 12 was indeed the foreperson, the following colloquy occurred: . . [] the communication indicates that this issue came up during conversation. do you mean that it came up during deliberations or during conversation outside of deliberations? juror or more than one juror? s one juror. deliberating jurors, was it discussed at that point? concerned you, or perhaps more members of the jury, enough to where you had to alert the court that it was an issue; correct? you, or perhaps anyone else, with respect to their ability to focus simply on the evidence in this case and to remain fair and impartial? and like the instructions have already mentioned from the start, your decision must be 9 based solely upon the evidence and not by any other source, in other words, information outside the evidence, whether or not it occurred in the courtroom or outside the even been addressed during not evidence . . . . [] so juror no. 12, do you feel that this jury can continue deliberations and focus simply on the evidence that ha after juror no. individually if they felt the same or differently, and each juror agreed that what happened would not interfere with deliberations. inquire as to the details of the gesture that was made and who made it, that type of thing, because my fear is that it highlights the issue once again and kind of makes it a subject for the jurconsider it at all, and they seem to be all in agreement. so was my inquiry adequately [sic] . . since it was brought up in the deliberation room and unless the court . further for the reasons that the court has indicated, but perhaps at the conclusion, whenever we do release this jury, just to determine whether or not there was something that we should consider as far as tampering with [the] jury and intimidation of the jury, but not at this point. [] the court: he jurors to continue their deliberations . . . while the jury continued to deliberate, defense counsel argued for a mistrial based . 10 motion, agreeing the jury should not have discussed the incident during deliberations, but saying all the jurors appeared to understand they could not consider the conduct of b. legal principles. an impartial jury is one in which no member has been improperly influenced [citations] in re hamilton (1999) 20 cal.4th 273, 293-presumption of prejudice [arising from juror misconduct] is rebutted, and the verdict will not be disturbed, if the entire record in the particular case, including the nature of the misconduct or other event, and the surrounding circumstances, indicates there is no reasonable probability of prejudice, i.e., no substantial likelihood that one or more jurors id. at p. 296.) . . examination for probable prejudice. such situations may include attempts by nonjurors to tamper with the jury, as communication substantial like prejudice is rebutted, and the verdict will not be disturbed, if the entire record in the particular case, including the nature of the misconduct or other event, and the surrounding circumstances, indicates there is no reasonable probability of prejudice, i.e., no substantial likelihood that one or more jurors were actually biased against the a rpeople v. harris (2008) 43 cal.4th 1269, 1303-1304.) 11 c. discussion. that the jury was exposed to events outside the trial evidence, namely, an attempt by . . vicinity showed that the jurors acturelated matters . . . gang members and were violent, and at least one of the jurors must have been influenced the presumption of prejudice was not rebutted . . . we disagree. the jury did not report any written or verbal communication with the assumed family members, let alone any actual written or verbal threats. the reported conduct consisted of an ambiguous gesture which did not scare the jurors, according to their note to the trial court, which we are not threatened, but just wanted it to go on the record. a few of us live within the in people v. panah while it was assembling on breaks. against this backdrop, the trial court reported a juror particularly his mother. the bailiff noted that he had also overheard a male juror express id. at p. 480.) based on these facts, panah held nce the jury was biased against defendant, his mother, or his supporters, much less that such bias infected its deliberations. what the record seems to indicate is spectator misconduct on the part of 12 themselves conspicuous to the understandable concern does not amount to misconduct, and there is nothing on the ibid.) the facts here were even less alarming than in panah. pineda has failed to prove by a demonstrable reality that one of the jurors was actually biased against him. et, we question whether a convicted person can ever overturn the verdict on grounds that persons acting in his behalf deliberately sought to influence the jury. certainly no such claim could ever be valid where the accused himself had instigated the incident; a party cannot profit by his or her own wrongdoing. but even where, as here, there is no evidence petitioner was directly involved,[4] recognition of such a claim suggests tempting opportunities for (in re hamilton (1999) 20 cal.4th 273, 305, fn. omitted.) we conclude the trial court did not err by refusing to declare a mistrial based on 2. there was sufficient evidence to support pinedsemiautomatic firearm and the accompanying great bodily injury enhancement as to santoya. pineda contends there was insufficient evidence to sustain his convictions for assaulting santoya and nafanua, as well as the great bodily injury enhancement finding as to santoya. these claims are meritless. a. legal principles. review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidence that is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of 4 in hamiltonthem. 13 solid value such that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the federal standard of review is to the same effect: under principles of federal due process, review for sufficiency of evidence entails not the determination whether the reviewing court itself believes the evidence at trial establishes guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, but, instead, whether, after viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the standard of review is the same in cases in which the prosecution relies mainly on circumstantial that circumstantial evidence is susceptible of two interpretations, one of which suggests guilt and the other innocence [citations], it is the jury, not the appellate court[,] which court that the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 11.) the reviewing court is to presume the existence of every fact the trier of fact could reasonably deduce from the evidence. (people v. ochoa, supra, 6 cal.4th at p. 1206.) even if the reviewing court believes the circumstantial evidence might be reasonably cence, this alone does not warrant interference with people v. towler (1982) 31 cal.3d 105, 118.) it does not matter that contrary inferences could have been reasonably derived from the evidence. as our supreme court said in people v. rodriguez, supra, 20 cal.4th 1, while reversing an insufficient evidence finding because the reviewing court had rejected contrary, but reasoning . . . amounted to nothing more than a different weighing of the evidence, one from the evidence were no more inherently speculative 14 the majority (id. at p. 12, italics added.) b. there was sufficient evidence pineda was the gunman. pineda contends there was insufficient evidence to show he was the person who shot nafanua and santoya. this claim is meritless. santoya, who did not see the gunman, testified the man he had been arguing with his head, and had other tattoos on his face. a photograph of pineda confirms he had these tattoos. velasco, who was acquainted with pineda, testified it was pineda who argued with santoya that night. velasco testified pineda tapped his pants pocket and said something which referred to the gun he was carrying. velasco also testified that, after he refused to drive pineda and palencia away from the shooting scene, he heard palencia evidence showing pineda had the gun. finally, nafanua testified he saw pineda fire the gun. e.g., there was a dispute as to how many shots had been fired;5 nafanua would have had a hard time identifying anyone because it was 1:30 a.m. and the gunman was 50 feet nafanua could have mistaken palencia or mauricio for pineda because they both looked pineda argues nafanua acknowledged having testified at the preliminary hearing that he did not know who fired the shots, he never saw anyone with a gun, and his memory was fresher at the time of the preliminary hearing than it was at the time of trial. 5 nafanua testified he only heard two shots, while velasco testified there were about thr 15 testimony was contradictory, he did testify he could identify the gunman and that it was the same person who had been arguing with santoya.6 nafanua also testified his memory was even fresher on the night of the shooting, when he identified pineda to the police, than it had been at the timidentification of him was inherently improbable and not credible is meritless. there was more than sufficient evidence to prove pineda had been the gunman. c. there was sufficient evidence the weapon used was a semiautomatic. pineda contends that, even if the evidence proved he had been the gunman, there was insufficient evidence to prove he used a semiautomatic weapon. this claim is meritless. pineda points out the gun was never recovargues the only evidence showing what kind of gun it was came from the firearms examiner, peck, who testified the bullet extracted come from a semiautomatic firing .25-auto caliber cartridges. pineda argues peck acknowledged there did exist some revolvers that could fire .25-auto caliber ammunition. 6 at the preliminary hearing, nafanua initially testified he had not seen anyone with a gun, although he did remember telling the police he saw pineda with a gun in his hand. nafanua then again denied having seen pineda with a gun, but subsequently reversed himself and testified the gunman had the same facial tattoos as pineda. on cross-examination, nafanua indicated he was only identifying pineda as the gunman because pineda was sitting at the defense table, but on redirect nafanua reversed himself yet defendant in court today as the person you saw in the bar on october 18, she was asking you, did you do that because you actually remembered him from that date or because accurate, that you remember him from that date or you just pointed to whoever was here? [] a. i remembat trial, nafanua confirmed that at the that night within minutes of the shooting, and that the person he identified that night as 16 we are not persuaded. although peck testified there were .25-auto caliber revolvers, she also testified that so far as she could determine none of them possessed the following colloquy occurred: nion that this was a semiautomatic pistol, correct? . . [] -caliber revolvers? i believe there are a few out there. as far as ones manufactured that have the same general rifling characteristics as the bullet in this case, i did not locate any. auto caliber firearms. refer to is all of the firearms that are known to -caliber revolvers; true? ome, yes. . . [] when d. there was sufficient evidence santoya suffered great bodily injury. pineda contends there was insufficient evidence to sustain the great bodily injury enhancement as to santoya because the evidence showed he had suffered merely a 17 great bodily injury is a question of fact for the jury. [citation.] if there is sufficient even though the circumstances might reasonably be reconciled with a contrary people v. escobar (1992) 3 cal.4th 740, 750.) great bodily injury means a significant or substantial injury. (id. at p. 746.) it does not require that the victim suffer functioid. at p. 750.) the following injuries have been held to constitute great bodily injury: bruising, scrapes, and abrasions accompanied by neck and vaginal pain (people v. escobar, supra, 3 cal.4th at p. 744, 749-people v. jung (1999) 71 cal.app.4th 1036, 1042); swollen jaw, bruises to the head and neck, and sore ribs (people v. corona (1989) 213 cal.app.3d 589, 592); multiple contusions causing painful swelling and discoloration (people v. jaramillo (1979) 98 cal.app.3d 830, 836). penetrating gunshot wounds have been found sufficient to sustain great bodily people v. wolcott (1983) 34 cal.3d 92, 106-108 [victim shot in calf, but bullet fragments lodged in arms; doctor removed one fragment but left others to work themselves out; victim lost little blood, required no sutures and went to work next day]; people v. mendias (1993) 17 cal.app.4th 195, 205-206 [victim shot in thigh treated at hospital, but bullet not removed]; people v. lopez thigh, but no evidence wound was more than superficial because no evidence victim sought or received medical treatment].) santoya testified he had to use a cane for a month and had a limp for a longer period of time. there was sufficient evidence santoya had suffered great bodily injury. 18 3. gang evidence and the dodger stadium incident were properly admitted. pineda contends the trial court erred by admitting evidence of his gang affiliation and the dodger stadium altercation to show his motive for having committed the bar shooting. this claim is meritless. a. background. while acknowledging there were no gang allegations ( 186.22) in this case, the 13 gang and about the dodger stadium incident was admissible to prove motive. the trial court concluded that, ow he would have had a motive for shooting santoya. that is, evidence showing pineda would have considered the otherwise innocuous encounter with santoya, who was merely enforcing -drinks-outside policy, as a serious act of disrespect and humiliation was was taken from him against his will by this large person, and what compounded that situation is the allegation that the defendant was disrespected in front of his friends, possible fellow gang members, including a couple of female companions. a gangster the dodgefront of his fellow gang members by a person of authority. he cannot allow that to go unpunished. that is why he put up the fight. that is why he made credible threats. when you disrespect a gang member in front of fellow gang members, that is a recipe for theory outside that bar. . . . even under [evidence code section] 352, the probative value . . without this evidence . . . b. legal principles. the admission of gang evidence always carries a risk of prejudice. by the prosecution, we have condemned the introduction of evidence of gang 19 (people v. cox (1991) 53 cal.3d 618, 660, disapproved on another ground in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. often relevant to, and admissible regarding, the charged offense. evidence of the , signs, symbols, beliefs and practices, criminal enterprises, rivalries, and the like can help prove identity, motive, modus operandi, specific intent, means of applying force or fear, or other issues pertinent to guilt of the charged crime. [citationspeople v. hernandez (2004) 33 cal.4th 1040, 1049; see also people v. ruiz (1998) 62 cal.app.4th 234, 239 [notwithstanding potential prejudicial effect of gang evidence, such evidence ]; people v. martin evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b) expressly allows evidence of uncharged crfact[ ]such as motive. . . pineda acknowledges, we have previously explained that evidence a defendant had a common motive for committing the same type of misconduct other crimes evidence is admissible to establish two different types or [citmotive, but the act does not supply the motive. . . . [t]he motive is the cause, and both the charged and uncharged acts are effects. both crimes are explainable as a result of the same motivepeople v. spector (2011) 194 cal.app.4th 1335, 1381.) ng the admissibility of the evidence for abuse of discretion. (see, e.g., people v. thornton (2007) 41 cal.4th 391, 444-445) a trial court has broad discretion to determine the relevance of evidence, 20 although it lacks discretion to admit irrelevant evidence. (people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1114, 1166-1167; people v. memory (2010) 182 cal.app.4th 835, 858.) c. discussion. pineda acknowledges these general principles, but argues they were inapplicable the motive evidence was weak and the pineda asserts his case is similar to people v. memory, supra, cal.app.4th 835, which reversed convictions arising out of a bar parking lot fight because evidence was whose members are committed to never backing down in a fight. but the problem in memory he jus brothers motorcycle club, was actually a criminal gang.7 here, on the other hand, it was clear pineda did belong to a criminal street gang. . . gang specialist officer is to follow up on gang crimes, gather gang intelligence out in the field by contacting gang was a member of the barrio azusa makes the threats of his past criminal . . done to 7 evidence of a connection between the two groups was that some individual members of the jus brothers wore patches in support of the hells angels, usually in memory of a friend, members of the jus brothers attended functions put on by the hells angels, and the jus brothers web site people v. memory, supra, 182 cal.app.4th at p. 861.) 21 done to intimidate and hopefully get the security guard to on cross-examination, wenrick testified the gangs who were active in west covina included the west covina mob, the west covina 13, and walnut street. these gangs do not get along with azusa 13, and if anyone from one of those gangs saw pineda the following colloquy occurred: member . . e down for the cause and not back down; true? . . even if they lose the fight, the fact that they took on that person defense counsel confirmed wenrick had not been part of the original investigation into the bar shooting, and that he was not testifying as a gang expert to help prove up a gang enhancement. rather, he was giving an expert opinion regarding the azusa 13 gang 13, -cross, defense counsel asked: the expectation to represent or to be down for the cause, that would be true of not just azusa 13. that would be true of any gang member; true? hence, unlike the situation in memory, it was clear in this case that azusa 13 was 22 members. hence, the trial court did not abuse its discretion by admitting the gang shooting.8 d. the dodger stadium incident was properly admitted. pineda asserts the dodger stadium incident was too dissimilar to the bar shooting to no one . . . testified that appellant threatened santoya during the argument. appellant did not cause a commotion in the bar and was not ejected from the bar. his argument with the bouncer concerned a technicality relating to a drink. the only elements that the disagree. pineda did cause a commotion at the bar and he was ejected; santoya testified he told pineda he would not be allowed back into the bar. there was evidence pineda, palencia and velasco were surrounding santoya, and that pineda threatened santoya with drink outside the bar, then so did the dodger stadium incident, i.e., using obscene words and gestures during the ball game. in both instances pineda reacted to a very mild assertion of authority in an outrageously aggressive manner. pineda argues that, because his ultimate altercation with hubert occurred outside the stands, he could not have been motivated by a desire to save face since his friends could not have witnessed what was going on. but apart from the fact this is really s part, the evidence showed he had been motivated by the humiliation he suffered in front of his friends when hubert made him leave the stands. 8 shows appellant in a room with his twin brother, mauricio, who is pointing and apparently has his finger on the trigger of what appears to be an assault weapon, and which invited the jury to find guilt by association . . . parthis brother holding a gun could have been very prejudicial, particularly since mauricio was never implicated in the bar shooting. 23 and during their subsequent altercation, pineda gestured toward the stands and said, to see or hear his altercation with hubert. er stadium. looking at the evidence that was before the trial court at the time, appellant referred only to his dodger stadium evidence was put on during trial, there was no testimony that appellant invoked his gang affiliation. furthermore, there was no evidence that the people disagree. the gang expert testified pineda was implicitly invoking his gang affiliation by flaunting his tattoos, boasting of his prior arrests, and threatening that he and his friends to someone from the same neighborhood, it pineda also argues the evidence did not show he invoked his gang affiliation during the bar incident. we again disagree. santoya testified he told police pineda had reference; common sense indicates pineda was not purporting to represent the azusa chamber of commerce. the trial court did not abuse its discretion by admitting the dodger stadium incident into evidence.9 9 pineda also argues, in passing, that the trial court should have precluded the gang required 30-day notice that a gang expert would be called by the prosecution and a lack of discovery of appellant as a witness is not an appropriate discovery sanction in a criminal case absent a showing of people v. gonzales (1994) 22 cal.app.4th 1744, 1747.) here there was neither. although pineda complained about an alleged lack 24 4. pineda contends his convictions must be reversed because the trial court erred by failing to instruct a. background. during discussions with counsel about proposed jury instructions, the trial court announced it was going to give calcrim no. 875 on the elements of assault with a semiautomatic firearm ( 245, subd. (b)). but the court said it had not included that 10 however, the enhancement instruction projectile is discharged or expelled through a barrel by the force of an explosion or other semiautomatic pistol extracts a fired cartridge and chambers a fresh cartridge with each b. legal principles. not necessarily render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair or an unreliable vehicle for people v. scott (2001) 91 cal.app.4th 1197, 1210; see neder v. united states (1999) 527 u.s. 1, 9, 18 [144 l.ed.2d 35], [applying harmless error standard to instructional error omitting element of an offense]; people v. avila (1995) 35 cal.app.4th 642, 660-662 [failure to instruct on asportation element of aggravated kidnapping was harmless error]; see also people v. catlin (2001) 26 cal.4th 81, 154 [even if instruction had omitted element of special circumstance the trial court this case, [just] not necessarily exactly what witness would testify as to such gang 10 hence, the jury was instructed pineda had been charged in counts 3 and 4 with assault 25 charge, under the evidence presented any error would be harmless beyond reasonable doubt].) an appellate court will examine the jury instructions as a whole, along with the to the jury, to determine if the instructions sufficiently conveyed the correct legal principles. (see people v. kelly (1992) 1 cal.4th 495, 524-527 [although trial court erroneously instructed jury it was legally possible to rape a dead body, it was not reasonably likely jury misunderstood correct law regarding felony argument]; see also people v. visciotti (1992) 2 cal.4th 1, 58-59 [improper intent instructions were harmless error where closing arguments made jury aware specific intent to kill was element of attempted murder].) c. discussion. for the jury, although pineda has cited no specific authority to that effect, we conclude the error was harmless because this case is governed by people v. flood (1998) 18 cal.4th 470. that case involved a conviction for violating vehicle code section 2800.3 (unsafe driving while fleeing peace officer resulting in serious bodily 11 flood held the error was not prejudicial whether measured by the state (watson) or the federal (chapman) harmless error standard.12 11 flight or attempt to elude a pursuing peace officer in violation of section 2800.1 proximately causes death or serious bodily injury to any person . . . by a peace officer, as defined in [penal code sections 830 through 832.9], and that peace 2800.1, subd. (a)(4).) penal code section 830.1, subdivision employed in that capacity and appointed by the chief of police . . . people v. flood, supra, 18 cal.4th at p. 482.) 12 people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836; chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18 [17 l.ed.2d 705]. 26 constitutional error under the watson standard, we find no reasonable probability that the instructed the jury to determine whether officers bridgeman and gurney were peace officers. the prosecution presented unremarkable and uncontradicted evidence that they were employed as police officers by the city of richmond. in addition, throughout the trial these officers and other witnesses corroborated that evidence in the course of testifying regarding other issues. at no point during the trial did defendant contest or even refer to the peace officer component of the distinctive uniform element of the people v. flood, supra, 18 cal.4th at p. 490.) the same result was reached under chapmanconcedes or admits that element. [citations.] . . . defendant never referred to this element of the crime during the trial and did not argue to the jury that the prosecution had failed to prove this element beyond a reasonable doubt; indeed, he did not ask that the people v. flood, at pp. 504-505, footnotes omitted.) pineda argues flood nothing peripheral about whether the firearm . . . was a semiautomatic firearm; that was same as flood: they both involve undisputed evidence regarding a peripheral element. what kind of gun had been used in the bar shooting because he was not the gunman. during closing argument defense counsel that if the jury was persuaded pineda had been the gunman, it then just had to decide if pineda were guilty of attempted murder or assault.13 13 you that think [pineda] is the trigger puller. he is the guy that shot the gun. what you then have to decide is, is it attempted 27 what a semiautomatic firearm was except for the testimony of [peck] and the related exhibit,[14] which may not have been correct; or the jurors may not have given that aspect pineda ol extracts (calcrim no. both parts of this definition.15 and as instructed that the four cartridge casings and the bullet taken from santbeen a semiautomatic. her explanation of how a semiautomatic firearm operates was simply a statement of scientific fact. pineda does not assert there was anything inaccurate in her explanation. gunman, there is certainly not evidence by proof beyond a reasonable doubt he did it with 14 - 15 chamber of the pistol to fire it, the shooter would pull the slide, which is the top most component of the pistol. the shooter would pull the slide to the rear. and that slide is under heavy spring tension. so, when it is released, it will automatically return forward on its own and, when it does so, it will push the cartridge at the very top of the magazine into the chamber of the pistol, ready to fire. rear as well. the cartridge case is then automatically ejected from the pistol. and now all those gases have escaped and the pressures have gone down and that slide, because it is still under spring tension, will again return forward on its own. and, when it does so, it will push the next cartridge in the top of the magazine, into the chamber of the pistol, ready to fire. an(italics added.) 28 hence, any error in failing to instruct the jury on the definition contained in calcrim no. 875 was harmless. 5. section 245, subdivision (b) does not violate equal protection. pineda contends his convictions must be reversed because section 245, subdivision (b), the statute prohibiting assault with a semiautomatic firearm, violates equal protection. this claim is meritless. a. legal principles. protection clause, [a defendant] first must show that the state has adopted a classification considering whether state legislation violates the equal protection clause of the fourteenth amendment . . . we apply different levels of scrutiny to different types of classifications. at a minimum, a statutory classification must be rationally related to a legitimate governmental purpose. [citations.] classifications based on race or national origin . . . and classifications affecting fundamental rights . . . are given the most exacting scrutiny. between these extremes of rational basis review and strict scrutiny lies a level of intermediate scrutiny, which generally has been applied to discriminatory classifications people v. wilkinson (2004) 33 cal.4th 821, 836-837.) a showing that the state has adopted a classification that affects two or more similarly situated people v. hofsheier (2006) 37 persons are similarly situated for all purposes, b id. at pp. 1199- persons are not similarly situated for purposes of the law, an equal protection claim fails at the people v. buffington (1999) 74 cal.app.4th 1149, 1155.) 29 b. discussion. pineda contends section 245, subdivision (b) violates equal protection because it carries a punishment greater than that for violating section 245, subdivision (a)(2), the crime of simple assault with one cartridge with each pull of the trigger. but that is also true of double action . . . revolvers, which were the standard-issue sidearm of countless police departments for many decades. most modern revolvers are traditional double-action. . . . while it is true that . . . a semiautomatic handgun extracts a fired cartridge with each pull of the trigger, that benefits law enforcement in many instances by allowing recovery of evidence, as happened in this case. [] there is no compelling state interest in treating a person who assaults someone with a double action . . . revolver much more leniently than a person who assaults the same person with a semiautomatic handgun under the same circumstances, causing the same injury . . . citing people v. olivas (1976) 17 cal.3d 236, pineda asserts we must apply the prison sentence, must be examined under the involves a fundamental right people v. wilkinson, supra, 33 cal.4th at pp. 837-olivas could be interpreted to require application of the strict scrutiny standard whenever one challenges upon equal protection grounds a penal statute or statutes that authorize different sentences for comparable crimes, because such statutes always implicaffected individuals. nevertheless, olivas properly has not been read so broadly. . . . [a] broad reading of olivas ] too heavily on the police power and the legi olivas protection grounds a penal statute or statutes that authorize different sentences for 30 rational basis test appli(people v. ward (2008) 167 cal.app.4th 252, 258.) in this case, there is no reason not to apply the general rule that persons convicted of different crimes are not similarly situated for equal protection purposes. (see people v. barrera olivas, the court reviewed a statutory scheme in which youthful misdemeanants were punished more severely than adults who committed the same crime. the court applied the strict scrutiny test, and found the classification constitutionally infirm. [] but the fact that liberty interests are involved in criminal punishment does not mean that every criminal law imposing punishment is subject to strict scrutiny. [citaolivas, that persons convicted of the same crime cannot be treated differently. it is quite another to hold that persons convicted of different crimes must be treated equally. the latter are not similarly situapeople v. kilborn (1996) 41 cal.app.4th 1325, 1330.) semiautomatic firearm is potentially more lethal than a non-automatic firearm. . . . in light of this difference, [pineda] is not similarly situated to a defendant who uses a non-without citation to authority, about what the legislature could reasonably find with the record discussing .25-caliber double-action revolvers. in any event, surely the legislature could have reasonably concluded semiautomatic handguns are inherently more lethal than revolvers because, by virtue of their magazines, they are capable of holding more bullets than revolvers, and thus their potential firepower is much greater. there was no equal protection violation. 6. there was no cumulative error. pineda contends his convictions must be reversed for cumulative error. however, one 31 semiautomatic firearm], the claim of cumulative error is without meritpeople v. vieira (2005) 35 cal.4th 264, 305; see also people v. richie (1994) 28 cal.app.4th 1347, 1364, fn. 6 [ 7. sentencing errors. pineda contends the trial court made a series of sentencing errors. with one exception, we find these claims to be meritless. a. background. as part of imposing a total term of 44 years 4 months,16 the trial court sentenced pineda as follows: 3. this is a violation of penal code section 245, subdivision (b). the court selects high term for the following reasons: the crime involved great violence, great bodily harm, a threat of bodily harm and other acts disclosing a high degree of cruelty, viciousness, and callousness. the defendant threatened witnesses, unlawfully prevented or dissuaded witnesses from testifying, which the court can consider [as] factors relating to the defendant himself. he has engaged in violent conduct that indicates a serious danger to society. his prior conviction[s] as an adult are numerous and increasing in seriousness. the defendant was on probation at the time the present offense was committed, and his prior performance on probation is certainly unsatisfactory. the offense for any basis relating to the defendant. so he has certainly earned the high term as indicated. 18 years. 16 this included a two-year sentence for violating section 422 (making criminal threats), a conviction arising out of a separate prosecution based on the dodger stadium incident. 32 additional ten years pursuant to 12022.5, subdivision (a)(1). specifically because the defendant removed [sic] a loaded firearm and fired not only at his intended target but also in the direction of unintended targets, striking both intended and unintended targets. that was an extremely dangerous move on his behalf and it threatened the life of not only the person he had a quarrel with but also other innocent individuals in the area. so he has -year term under section 667, subdivision (a) (prior serious felony conviction). the trial court then imposed a consecutive term for the second assault conviction: -third of the six-year mid term, which is two years. this is pertaining to count 4, a violation of penal code section 245, subdivision (b). that two-year [term] must be doubled pursuant to [the three strikes law] for a total of four years. [] in addition and consecutive to that term, the court will select one-third of the four-year mid term which is 1 year 4 months pursuant to 12022.5, subdivision (a), . . finally, the trial court added two consecutive three-year terms (on count 3 and count 4, respectively) for the great bodily injury enhancements. b. upper terms for count 3 and attached firearm enhancement were properly imposed. pineda contends that, by imposing an upper term on count 3 and a consecutive upper term on the related firearm use enhancement, the trial court violated cunningham v. california (2007) 549 u.s. 270 [166 l.ed.2d 856], as well as the rule against dual use of sentencing factors. this claim is meritless. pineda contends the trial court violated cunningham because the jury did not make california legislature amended penal code section 1170, subdivision (b) of the imposed and the statute specifies three possible terms, the choice of the appropriate term 33 july 2007 in people v. sandoval (2007) 41 cal.4th 825 . . . , our supreme court judicially prohibition on ex post facto laws applies only to statutory enactments, not to judicial entence based on facts found by the court. [citations.] in light of section 1170 as construed by sandoval-term sentence in 2010, after the amendment to section 1170 and publication of sandoval in 2007, is lawfulpeople v. frandsen (2011) 196 cal.app.4th 266, 278-279; see also people v. jones (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 853, 866-sandoval . . . our supreme court held it is constitutionally appropriate to apply the amended version of the dsl in all sentencing proceedings conducted after the effective date of the amendments, regardless of whether both an upper term on the base count and an upper term on the section 12022.5 enhancement, this is incorrect. (see people v. moberly (2009) 176 cal.app.4th 1191, enhanpeople v. velasquez people v. forster (1994) 29 cal.app.4th 1746, 1758, is also misplaced because there, the issue was use of the same sentencing factor to impose both an enhancement and an upper term on the substantive count. the issue here is using the same factor to impose an upper term on the substantive count and an upper term on the enhancement. c. firearm use enhancement on count 4 was properly imposed. pineda contends the firearm use enhancement ( 12022.5) imposed in connection with count 4 must be stricken because it was not alleged in the information. this claim is meritless. section 1170.1, subdivision the accusatory pleading and either admitted by the defendant in open court or found to be 34 enhancements alleged against him. (people v. hernandez (1988) 46 cal.3d 194, 208, disapproved on other grounds in people v. king (1993) 5 cal.4th 59, 78, fn. 5.) consequently, if the charging document entirely fails to plead an enhancement, the defendant receives no notice the prosecution is seeking an enhanced sentence and due process is violated. enhancement will be sought, and further notifies him of the facts supporting the alleged enhancement, modification of the judgment for a misstatement of the underlying enhancement statute is required only where the defendant has been misled to his prejudice people v. thomas (1987) 43 cal.3d 818, 830-language of the pleading itself irrespective of the statutory specification should have id. at p. 831; see also people v. wandick (1991) 227 cal.app.3d 918, 926-927 [where defendant notified four-year enhancement would be sought, because he was personally armed with a gun, he here, it is clear from the information pineda was being charged with having personally used a firearm to commit the assaults against both santoya and nafanua. the count 2 allegation arising from the same bar shooting incident, i.e., the attempted murder of nafanua, did charge an enhancement for personal use of a firearm. therefore, imposition of a firearm use enhancement on both count 3 and count 4 did not prejudice pineda, although the information failed to charge the count 4 enhancement, because his defense to both counts and allegations was the same. d. trial court improperly imposed a full-term consecutive enhancement on the great bodily injury enhancement attached to count 4. pineda contends, and the attorney general properly concedes, that the trial court erred by sentencing him to a full-term three-year great bodily injury enhancement on count 4 because the punishment on that count was consecutive to the punishment on count 3 and, therefore, the proper enhancement was only one-third the midterm. as 35 section 1170.1, subdivision (a) providconsist of the greatest term of imprisonment imposed by the court for any of the crimes, including any term imposed for applicable specific enhancements. the subordinate term for each consecutive offense shall consist of one-third of the middle term of imprisonment prescribed for each other felony conviction for which a consecutive term of imprisonment is imposed, and shall include one-third of the term imposed for any specific enhancements applicable to those subordinate offenses hence, the consecutive enhancement term on count 4 should have been for only one year. we will order the judgment modified to reflect this correction. e. trial court properly imposed a consecutive term on count 4. pineda contends the trial court improperly imposed a consecutive term on his count 4 conviction (for assault with a semiautomatic firearm on nafanua), either because a consecutive term was unwarranted or because the court was unaware it had discretion to impose a concurrent term. this claim is meritless. section more crimes, whether in the same proceeding or court or in different proceedings or courts, and whether by judgment rendered by the same judge or by different judges, the second or other subsequent judgment upon which sentence is ordered to be executed shall direct whether the terms of imprisonment or any of them to which he or she is sentenced shall run concurrently o sentences are to run concurrently or consecutively. [citations.] in the absence of a clear pect is not to be disturbed on appeal. [citation.] discretion is abused when the court exceeds the bounds of reason, all people v. bradford (1976) 17 cal.3d 8, 20.) sentencing decision was arbitrary or irrational, a trial court should be presumed to have acted to achieve legitimate sentencing objectives and, accordingly, its discretionary determination to impose consecutive 36 (people v. giminez (1975) 14 cal.3d 68, 72.) pineda argues it is unclear why the trial court declined to impose concurrent terms occasion and arose from the same set of orecord the trial court did not understand it had discretion to impose a concurrent sentence on count sentencing indicated it intended crimes. the trial court noted eight or more aggravating factors and found there were no mitigating factors. the court also noted that just a few weeks before committing the shootings, pineda had been granted probation after pleading guilty to a felony arising out of the dodger stadium incident. although the trial court should have given a statement of reasons for imposing this consecutive term, no remand is necessary if it is not reasonably probable the court would have chosen a lesser sentence. (see people v. heishman (1988) 45 cal.3d 147, 201 g circumstances outweighed the mitigating circumstances was so overwhelming that there is no people v. may (1990) 221 cal.app.3d 836, 839-consecutive sentence would reveal reversible error, because the record clearly shows at least one factor supporting that sentencing choice. . . . [] likewise, there is no reasonable possibility the sentencing court would alter its conclusion if required to state here, it is not reasonably probable the trial court would have imposed a lesser sentence if asked to state its reasons. 37 f. ntence on count 3 did not constitute cruel and unusual punishment. pineda contends his sentence of 31 years on count 3 amounted to cruel and unusual punishment under both the california and the united states constitutions. this claim is meritless. the length of this sentence alone does not warrant relief. (see harmelin v. michigan (1991) 501 u.s. 957 [115 l.ed.2d 836] [mandatory lwop sentence for possessing more than 650 grams of cocaine did not violate eighth amendment].) pineda has not demonstrated his sentence was disproportionate to his crime or to his individual culpability, or excessive when compared to the punishment imposed for more serious offenses. (see people v. dillon (1983) 34 cal.3d 441, 477-482; in re lynch (1972) 8 cal.3d 410, 423-42burden a defendant must overcome in challenging a penalty as cruel or unusual. the doctrine of separation of powers is firmly entrenched in the law of california, and a court should not lightly encroach on matters which are uniquely in the domain of the legislature. perhaps foremost among these are the definition of crime and the determination of punishment. [citations.] while these intrinsically legislative functions are circumscribed by the constitutional limits of article i, section 17, the validity of people v. wingo (1975) 14 cal.3d 169, 174, fn. omitted.) in dillon, an immature 17-year-old killed a man who had been guarding a marijuana crop that defendant and his friends were trying to steal; as the victim advanced on him with a shotgun, dillon fired his .22-caliber rifle out of fear and panic. (people v. dillon, supra, 34 cal.3d at p. 487.) pineda argues his case can be reasonably compared to dillon [pineda] had a razor- . . feeling the effects of the 38 liquor, which . . larities are entirely unpersuasive and there is no comparison to be made between the two cases. dillon thought he was about to be killed when he fired on the victim in fear and panic. the evidence here showed pineda carefully walked away from the much-larger santoya, to insure santoya would not disarm him, before drawing his weapon and firing from some distance away. pineda argues the punishment on count 3 was grossly disproportionate when compared with the punishment for other, more serious california crimes. but the offenses he cites are all obviously distinguishable: stabbing a victim in the leg and inflicting great bodily injury; committing mayhem with a knife and inflicting great bodily injury; and committing gross vehicular manslaughter. sentence on count 3 did not constitute cruel and unusual punishment.17 disposition the judgment is affirmed as modified. the sentence on the count 4 great bodily injury enhancement must be reduced from three years to one year. in all other respects, the judgment stands. the trial court is directed to prepare and forward to the department of corrections and rehabilitation an amended abstract of judgment. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: kitching, j. aldrich, j. 17 in his opening brief, pineda also claimed the trial court violated the rule against multiple punishment ( 654) by imposing enhancements for both firearm use and great bodily injury on counts 3 and 4. however, in his reply brief, pineda has withdrawn this claim. 