filed 6/8/12 p. v. galloway ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jayvion t. galloway et al., defendants and appellants. b232165 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya071844) appeal from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county. steven r. vansicklen, judge. judgments affirmed as modified. donald r. tickle, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant jayvion t. galloway. susan k. shaler, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant zecorey t. marcus. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and michael c. keller, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________________________________ 2 a jury convicted jayvion galloway and zecorey marcus of one count of special circumstance murder and the court sentenced them to life without possibility of parole. galloway and marcus were also convicted of various other crimes and given a variety of sentences. we affirm the convictions and modify the sentences. facts and proceedings below a. the robbery of pedro guerrero anna sanchez, a friend of defendants galloway and marcus, testified that she drove defendants to a convenience store in gardena and waited for them in her car while they went into the store to buy rolling papers for marijuana and orange juice. after a short time, galloway came out of the store and told sanchez to park her car across the street because he was going to rob a man he had seen in the store cashing a check. moments after sanchez moved her car, defendants came running toward her. galloway gun to marcus in video shot from within the store. pedro guerrero testified that he went to a store in gardena to cash a check for $450.00. as he sat in his car, putting away his money, two men walked up. one man ed. guerrero gave the money to the man with the handgun. he did not report the robbery to police because he was afraid but he told the storekeeper about it. a week later the police located guerrero and showed him photographic lineups and he identified a photograph of galloway as the man who robbed him with a handgun. 3 b. the murder of hae sook roh five days after the guerrero robbery, at approximately 6:45 p.m., arthenia thomas heard gunfire coming from the direction of a t-shirt shop in gardena and saw two men running from the shop and down the street toward a restaurant where she lost sight of them. her only description of the two men was that they were wearing black -door car thomas could not tell how many people were in the car. thomas testified that the car g lot. when the police responded to the shooting, they found the body of hae sook roh, who had worked at the t-shirt shop, lying dead behind the counter near the cash register. the prosecution showed the jury an audio and video recording from a surveillance camera in the t-shirt shop. the video showed a black male with a gun in his left hand entering the area in front of the cash register. the man wore white pants, a long white t-shirt and an open waist-length jacket. he had a white cloth tied across his face below his eyes. the bottom left hand portion of the video showed the pant leg and shoe of a second person. the audio portion of the tape contained the voice of the man with the gun voice said he the register and ran. the gun was not recovered. the take from the robbery-murder was approximately $35. into basketball shorts, a white t-shirt and waist-length jacket. he then began waiting in front of the house. a gray chevrolet impala with tinted windows pulled up in front of the house. someone inside the car opened the back door, and as galloway got in, sanchez saw marcus lean over. sanchez identified the car 4 later and galloway got out. sanchez observed that galloway was breathing heavily, his -shirt and galloway why he shot the lady and galloway replied that he was mad because he wanted a few days later galloway showed sanchez a youtube video of the murder and robbery at the t-shirt shop. he laughed again while he watched it. sanchez recognized galloway on the video because he was wearing the same clothes he wore when he left his the gun galloway had used in the robbery of pedro guerrero. c. after defendants were arrested, they were seated next to each other on a bench in a hall of the jail. the bench had a hidden recording device. the prosecution played the marcus that the police showed him a picture of marcus inside the store just before the guerrero robbery. marcus acknowledges he will have to serve 15 years for the robbery worry because he admitted the robbery and told the police marcus had nothing to do with galloway admitted his involvement in the murder. marcus also admitted being at the scene of the murder, noting that the video showed him wearing the same shoes that he was wearing when he was arrested. 5 d. the credibility of sanchez sanchez admitted she played a role in the robbery of guerrero, that she pleaded guilty to that crime, that she was in custody at the time of her trial testimony and that she was receiving lenient treatment in her sentencing in exchange for her testimony against defendants. she also admitted that she had previously been convicted of forgery and the unlawful taking of a motor vehicle. sanchez further admitted that she had been a regular user of marijuana for six to f the drug. in addition to smoking marijuana, sanchez stated that on weekends she used ecstasy. (we take judicial notice that the t-shirt robbery and murder were not committed on a weekend.) she testified that she stopped using any drugs after may 12, 2008, the date of the robbery-murder. the defense called a forensic toxicologist who testified that in his opinion someone who smoked chronic every day over a six- to nine-month period would suffer e. the gang evidence after testifying that the shotgun crips met the definition of a criminal street gang under penal code section 186.22, subdivision (f) and that galloway and marcus were active members of that gang, deputy cuff testified that he was familiar with the facts of the guerrero robbery and the roh murder, and that in his opinion, both crimes were at both angeles between el segundo boulevard on the north and rosecrans boulevard on the south and between crenshaw boulevard on the west and western avenue on the east. 6 cuff further stated that both crimes enhanced the reputations of the perpetrators and the gang. he also testified that it was typical for gang members to commit crimes together to build trust between themselves and if they obtained money through crimes such as there was sufficient evidence to support this element of the gang enhancement. f. the verdicts and sentences a jury convicted defendants of the robbery and murder of roh with the special circumstance that the murder was committed in the course of the robbery1 and found true the gun use and gang enhancement allegations. defendants were also convicted of the robbery of guerrero with true findings of gun use and gang enhancement allegations. finally the jury found galloway guilty of being a felon in possession of a firearm. after a bench trial the court found that galloway had one prior serious felony conviction for the murder of roh, the court sentenced each defendant to life in prison without possibility of parole, plus a term of 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement and stayed the gang enhancement. for the robbery of roh, the court imposed and stayed an upper term sentence of five years. with respect to the robbery of guerrero, the court sentenced galloway to a term of six years (three years doubled under the three strikes law) plus 10 years for the gang enhancement and 10 years for the gun enhancement and sentenced marcus to three years plus 10 years for the gun enhancement and stayed the gang enhancement. finally, the court imposed and stayed a sentence of eight months for the defendants filed timely appeals. 1 death or life without parole are the punishments for a murder committed while the defendant is engaged in first degree robbery. (pen. code  190.2, subd (a)(17).) 7 discussion i. the court did not err in refusing to instruct the jury seeking to capitalize on the testimony of the forensic toxicologist regarding rug addict must be examined and weighed by the jury with greater care than the testimony of a witness who does not abuse drugs. [] the jury must determine whether the testimony of the drug addict has been affected by the drug use or by the need to obtain instruction for several reasons. may be required to give a requested jury instruction that pinpoints a defense theory of the case.people v. hartsch (2010) 49 cal.4th 472, 500.) but a trial court need not give a pinpoint instruction if it is argumentative, merely duplicates other instructions or is not supported by substantial evidence. (ibid.) the proposed instruction is not supported by the testimony of the toxicologist pertaining to drug addicts. sanchez admitted to being a regular user of marijuana at the time of the crimes but neither she nor the toxicologist testified that she was a people v. victor (1965) 62 cal.2d 280, 301), usually established by expert opinion (see e.g. people v. chacon (1967) 253 cal.app.2d 1056, 1058-1059) and involves much more than just repeated use (people v. victor, supra, 62 cal.2d at pp. 301-302 [listing eight stages in the process of addiction].) for united states v. ochoa-sanchez (9th cir. 1982) 676 f.2d 1283, 1289that in some cases an instruction on evaluating the testimony of a heroin addict would be appropriateis misplaced. furthermore, the instruction is argumentative because it calls for the jury to -drug-using witness 8 galloway was wearing when he left her house the evening of the murder and how he was acting when he returned. there is no rational reason for the testimony of a drug user or addict to be examined with greater caution than any other witness despite the other provided the jury with comprehensive, commonsense standards for evaluating the credibility of the witnesses, including sanchez. the instructions told the jury to consider, things about which the witness testified? [] how well was the witness able to remember we conclude, therefore, that the instructions the court gave in this case served to sufficiently instruct the jury on how to evaluate santhe pinpoint instruction on her drug use did not deprive the defendants of a fair trial. ii. the gang enhancements for the guerrero robbery and the robbery-murder of roh are not supported by substantial evidence. there are two prongs to a gang enhancement under penal code section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1). under the first prong the people have to prove that the defendant benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminathe his opinion defendants committed the robbery of guerrero and the robbery-murder of ies and crips. there is insufficient evidence to satisfy the first prong under either theory so we do not reach the second prong. 9 a. the guerrero robbery opinion that the robbery was committed for the benefit of the gang organization . . . true but, as our supreme court held in people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 60, in not every opinion that the robbery was committed for the benefit of the gang such that the crime was gang related. although it is undisputed that galloway and marcus were members of the shotgun crips at the time they robbed guerrero and that the robbery occurred in the during the offense, wore gang colors or made gang signs or that guerrero knew that galloway or marcus was a gang member. moreover, no evidence indicates that a member of the shotgun crips drove the defendants to and from the crimes.2 finally, no evidence establishes that the defendants shared the proceeds of the robbery with any other members of the gang. rather, the evidence shows that this was a crime of opportunity. defendants went to the store to buy rolling papers for marijuana and orange juice and happened to see guerrero cash a check for a large amount of money. they quickly arranged the robbery telling sanchez to move her car and then waited for guerrero in the parking lot and robbed him at gunpoint. defendants split the proceeds from the robbery and galloway used his share to buy marijuana and clothes for himself and presents for sanchez. the evidence thus demonstrates that the crime benefitted 2 deputy cuff testified that sanchez was not a member of the shotgun crips. 10 b. the robbery-murder of roh with respect to the robbery and murder of roh, deputy cuff testified that the crimes were committed for the benefit of the shotgun crips because they would enhance committing crimes in general enhanced his reputation in the gang and with marcus. for his conclusion. (people v. lawley opinion rests upon the facts and reasoning from which the opinion is formed].) reputation in the gang and with marcus, those are personal benefits to galloway, not to shotgun crips by enhancing their reputation for violence assumes that people in the community knew that the crimes were committed by members of the gang. the evidence does not support that coverage linked the murder to the shotgun crips or to any gang. furthermore, there is no evidence that marcus and galloway were wearing distinctive gang attire or that they called out the name of their gang before, during or after killing roh. in summary, there the shotgun crips and there was no evidence from which deputy cuff could discern whether marcus and galloway were acting on behalf of the shotgun crips when they killed roh or acting on their own behalf as in the guerrero robbery. n crips also fails for lack of sufficient evidence. the enhancement applies to felonies member of a criminal street gang. thus, evidence that marcus and galloway associated 11 in the car were gang members.3 iii. the remaining issues raise no controversy galloway contends the trial court erred in finding that his juvenile adjudication for robbery was a strike under the three strikes law. he concedes, however, that our supreme court rejected this contention in people v. nguyen (2009) 46 cal.4th 1007 and that we are bound by that decision. (auto equity sales, inc. v. superior court (1962) 57 cal.2d 450, 455.) the people concede that the trial court erred in imposing a parole revocation fine on the defendants since they were sentenced to life without the possibility of parole (people v. mcwhorter (2009) 47 cal.4th 318, 380) and that galloway is entitled to an additional 55 days of presentence credit. we will modify the judgments accordingly. disposition the judgments are modified to strike the gang enhancements as to both imposition of parole revocation fines as to both defendants and to award defendant galloway an additional 55 days of presentence credit. in all other respects the judgments are affirmed. the trial court is directed to forward a corrected abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published. rothschild, j. we concur: mallano, p. j. chaney. j. 3 our reversal of the gang enhancements does not require resentencing of the section 12022.53, subdivision (e)(1)(a). 