filed 11/2/12 p. v. mcclain ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. alex marquis mcclain, defendant and appellant. b232125 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na086245) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, richard r. romero, judge. affirmed. michael norris; mark bernheim for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, linda c. johnson, supervising deputy attorney general, michael katz, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury convicted defendant and appellant alex marquis mcclain of four counts of first degree robbery (pen. code,  2111), six counts of assault with a firearm ( 245, subd. (a)(2)), and one count of possession of a firearm by a felon (former  12021, subd. (a)(1), now section 29800, subd. (a).) the jury found true the allegation that defendant personally used a firearm in the commission of the robberies ( 12022.53, subd. (b)) and the assaults ( 12022.5).2 the trial court sentenced defendant to state prison for 35 years and four months. on appeal, defendant contends that insufficient evidence supports his convictions for assault with a firearm; the trial court erred in denying his motion for mistrial concerning comments the prosecutor made in her opening statement; the trial court improperly used a lottery system to select an alternate juror; the trial court repeatedly took a proactive role in the trial, in effect becoming a second prosecutor; the trial court abused its discretion with respect to certain evidentiary rulings; the trial court erred in failing to instruct on simple assault as a lesser included offense to assault with a firearm; and the trial court erred in sentencing him. we affirm. background about 4:00 p.m., on july 1, 2010, vincent hollis and his sister sarah hollis went 3 around 6:30 to 6:45 p.m., vazquez noticed some men hanging around his front lawn. vincedillard arrived about 7:00 p.m. dillard prepared a plate of food for himself. about three 1 all statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 2 the jury found true the allegation that defendant personally used a firearm in commission of the offense of possession of a firearm by a felon. that enhancement was not alleged in the information and the trial court did not sentence defendant on the enhancement. 3 because vincent and sarah share the same last name, we will use their first names for clarity. 3 minutes later, vincent saw an african-american man jog up the stairs and enter dillard arrived. vincent described the man who entered the apartment as between five feet nine inches and six feet tall and weighing between 180 and 200 pounds. the man was dressed in red, black, ; wore a hat and sunglasses; and carried a silver semiautomatic handgun with a skinny barrel. the man appeared to be in head. about 15 to 20 seconds later, vincent saw a second african-american man enter and weighing 220 or 230 pounds. the second man was dressed in the same basketball attire as the first man, including basketball shorts, and was carrying a black semiautomatic handgun with a brown handle. like the first man, the second man door. he said to the occupants something to the effecwe will use them if you vazquez told the intruders to take whatever they wanted, but not to hurt anyone. phone was taken from a coffee table. one of the intruders ordered vazquez to get up from the floor and took him into another room. one of the intruders asked vazquez, intruders that his girlfriend (shanon patterson) was in the bedroom. vazquez asked them did not hurt them. minute to a minute and a half. after the intruders left, vazquez called the police who 4 arrived about three minutes later. while the police were there, dilall of the officers and just a little too relaxed. maybe that was his defense mechanism, i victims gave. dillard said that one of the intruders was six feet five inches tall and weighed between 250 and 260 pounds. accorddillard for 10 or 12 years. after the incident, vincent had little contact with dillard. on july 7, los angeles police department officer andrew gonzalez met vincent at the police station. officer gonzalez showed vincent a photographic lineup. vincent was unable to identify anyone in the lineup. at trial, vincent was unable to identify or exclude defendant as one of the intruders intruder used, but he could not say for sure that it was the handgun. the handgun the say whether they appeared similar to the sunglasses either intruder wore. -american men mullen could not descrimullen and his friends were told to get on the floor. as mullen was on the floor, the second intruder took his wallet. mullen could not say whether either of the intruders was in the courtroom. sarah testified that two armed african-apartment through an open door. prior to the intrusion, dillard had been the last person 5 to enter through that door. the first intruder to enter appeared to be about 25 years old. second intruder was taller and bigger. sarah saw the second intruder for 30 seconds. the with a black handle. he cocked his gun and told everybody to get down. he told dillard was calm. heard the second intruder call vazquez by got up, and the intruders took him into the back left bedroom. vazquez told the intruders to take whatever they wanted, but asked that they not hurt anyone. the intruders left bedroom. the intruders then took vazquez to the back right bedroom. sarah could living room. once there, vazquez again told the intruders to take what they wanted, and her purse. vazquez called 911, and the police arrived a short while later. sarah testified that victims began to argue. the police asked dillard to calm down. after the incident, sarah officer gonzalez showed sarah a photographic lineup. she was unable to make an identification. she did not know if either of the intruders was in the courtroom. sarah denied that she told the police that the first intruder was six feet one inch to six feet three inches tall and the second intruder was five feet nine inches tall. 6 african-american, stood about five feet nine inches tall, weighed about 165 to 175 pounds, and had a might havheight at six feet five inches. los angeles police department officer jamie hogg testified that when the police the confusion, everyone around dillard agreed with him, so the police recorded a general description. dillard told officer hogg that he recognized the second intruder from the san the first intruder ordered dillard to close the blinds. neither of the suspects took anything from dillard even though he had a wallet and was wearing a watch. dillard thought that was odd. on july 2, officer gonzalez asked dillard to come to the police station to look at a photographic lineup. dillard did not go because he did not want anybody to recognize him and think he was up to something. he was afraid and did not want to be identified as a witness. instead, officer gonzalez went to dillardphotographic lineup. dillard was unable to identify anyone from the lineup. dillard testified that if one of the suspects was in court, he would not be able to recognize him. 7 vazquez testified that at some point during the barbecue he noticed two men in his downstairs and checked the courtyard but not the apartment and told him that nothing was wrong. vazquez had a feeling that something was not right and went downstairs to the alley where he saw defendant and another man. when defendant and his companion noticed that vazquez was looking at them, defendant immediately knelt down and acted as if he was looking for something in a car and his companion acted as if he was looking for someone. vazquez looked at the two men in the alley for about two minutes. vazquez returned to his apartment. around 7:50 or 8:00 p.m., vazquez called dillard and invited him over. there was too much food, and dillard had been calling immediately prepared a plate of food for himself. just as dillard began to eat, the man silver gun at vincent. vazquez described the man as six feet three or six feet four inches tall and skinny. everyone to get on the floor. vazquez immediately recognized defendant as the person quez identified at some point, vazquez told defendant and his companion to take what they one of the bedrooms. defendant remained in the living room about five to six feet from vthereafter, defendant and his companion left. vazquez testified that defendant and his companion took a laptop computer and a watch worth $10,000. ` 8 according to vazquez, after the police arrived, dillard acted in an odd manner. comments of what the suswere five feet eight inches or five feet nine inches when they were not; they were six feet five and a half inches. prior to the incident, vazquez considered dillard to be a vazquez had not seen or heard from dillard. on july 5, los angeles police department detective walter mcmahon showed vazquez a photographic lineup. vazquez identified defendant from the lineup. vazquez identified defendant at trial as one of the intruders, and was 100 percent sure of his identification. vazquez stated that when he was taken into the bedroom, he and defendant were within three feet of one another for about a minute and a half to two wyatt velazquez lived near vazquez. about 3:00 or 3:30 p.m., on july 1, velazquez went outside to an alley to work on his car. about 30 minutes later, he noticed something unusuala white 2007 or 2008 ford expedition with large chrome wheels drove in and out of the alley two to three times over a two or three hour period. on july 1, velazquez told two officers that the car looked like a ford explorer, but had changed his mind by the time of trial because he thought the suv was bigger than an explorer. a blue 2006 chevrolet malibu following right behind the expedition. velazquez saw the malibu about two times. an african-american male drove each of the cars. apparently surprising defense counsel, velazquez testified on cross-examination that he recognized the driver of the white car, and the driver was in the courtroom. velazquez testified that he saw defendant during a prior court date and recognized him as somebody with whom he went to elementary school. after that court date, velazquez told officer gonzalez that he recognized defendant from school. officer gonzalez asked velazquez if he could identify the driver. velazquez said that he could not. velazquez testified that he could not identify defendant as the driver at that time. when velazquez 9 spoke with officer brimberry in july, he told the officer that he did not recognize the driver of the car. on redirect examination, velazquez identified defendant as the driver of the white ford expedition. velazquez testified that he came to identify defendant by thinking more that if he was unsure of his identification of defendant as the driver, he would tell the jury. on july 8, detective mcmahon went to a residence at 22821 van deene, in torrance to look for defendant and evidence. defendant was at the residence, sitting on a couch in the garage. defendant told the detective that he lived in one of the bedrooms. bedroom. a .40 caliber semiautomatic glock handgun was recovered from under the mattress. detective mcmahon, who had worked with handguns for 16 years, testified that the handgun appeared to be operablethat is, it appeared to be capable of firing a bullet out of the chamber. the car were three pairwas six feet five inches tall and weighed 250 pounds. in his defense, defendant called dr. scott fraser, an expert on eyewitness memory cause a witness to identify someone incorrectly. according to dr. fraser, when a person make a full description of a person, the chance that the witness would omit a distinctive identifying feature such as a tattoo is almost zero. under that circumstance, the chance that the witness identified the correct person is one in 500 or one in 1,000. defendant called victoria casillas, a tatattoos. casillas tattooed defendant at the end of 2009 or early 2010. at that time, 10 length of his left arm in large script letters. defendant also had tattoos on the inside of his left arm and on his right leg. discussion i. assault with a firearm defendant contends that there is insufficient evidence to support his convictions firearm that by its nature would directly and probably result in the application of force to 4 the prosecutor had to prove, defendant argues, that he did more than merely brandish a firearm. defendant further contends that the prosecution failed to prove that the gun was operable or loaded. conviction, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendanpeople v. avila (2009) 46 (people v. medina people v. zamudio 4 in his reply brief, defendant improperly attempts to recast his insufficient evidence argument as an instructional error argument. issues may not be raised for the first time on appeal in a reply brief without a demonstration of good cause. (people v. senior (1995) 33 cal.app.4th 531, 537; people v. adams (1990) 216 cal.app.3d 1431, 1441, fn. 2.) in his opening brief, in support of his insufficient evidence argument, defendant noted that the trial court did not instruct the jury on an alternative theory that a defendant commits an assault when he threatens an act that may amount to an assault, even though the threat is conditional or qualified. defendant did not contend that the trial court erred in instructing the jury on assault. 11 people v. ugalino (2009) 174 dpeople v. zamudio, supra, 43 cal.4th at pp. 357people v. valdez (2004) 32 cal.4th 73, 104.) in people v. escobar (1992) 11 cal.app.4th 502, the court held that there was sufficient evidence to support a conviction for assault with a firearm when the defendant stood in front of the victim and the victim heard the defendant cock a gun the defendant was holding inside a briefcase. (id. unlawful attempt, coupled with a present ability, to commit a violent injury on the person ed that [the defendant] had the intent to wilfully commit an act which, if completed, had as its direct, natural and possible consequences an injury to [the victim]. [citations.] [] [the defendant] argues that there was no attempt to use the weapon to inflict injury because he did not exhibit the weapon, or point or fire the weapon, but merely cocked it. we would not use so inflicting injury on [the victim] with the cocked, loaded gun, the evidence showed that [the victim] was aware that [the defendant] was holding the gun inside the leather purse and that [the defendant] had the present ability to commit a violent injury. [citation.] this evidence establishes something more than mere preparation. [the victim] did not have to see the gun. he could use his sense of hearing to perceive the intent to commit a id. at p. 505.) people v. escobar, supra, 11 cal.app.4th 502. the evidence demonstrated that ns for assault with a firearm. (id. at pp. 503, 505.) 12 operable and loaded, vazquez identified the handgun that detective mcmahon recovered rm defendant used in the robberies and assaults. detective mcmahon, who had worked with handguns for 16 years, testified that the handgun appeared to be operablethat is, it appeared to be capable of firing a bullet out of the chamber. moreover, during the commission of the assaults, defendant cocked the gun, suggesting both that the handgun was operable and that it was loaded. based on such evidence, a reasonable juror could find that defendant used a handgun that was operable and loaded in committing the assaults. (people v. avila, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 701; people v. medina, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 919; people v. zamudio, supra, 43 cal.4th at pp. 357358; people v. ugalino, supra, 174 cal.app.4th at p. 1064 .) ii. defendant argues that the trial court erred in denying his motion for mistrial based on predicted testimony the prosecutor addressed in opening argument and evidence adduced at trial related to that predicted testimony. although the trial court admonished defendant contends that he suffered prejudice. a. background that neda, who is a former girlfriend of the defendant, told the police that she had actually told the defendant a few months prioractually, about seven months prior to this crime happening that she actually told the defendant where tommy lived and that he was growing marijuana, that he had a lot of cash at his house, in total, about $26,000 worth of neda talkhooncheh testified that she dated defendant for about three years around 2007 to 2010. she admitted that she told an officer that defendant lived with his mother in torrance on july 1. talkhooncheh knew vazquez. she had been to his apartment two 13 conversation with the police on july 6, the trial court had the jurors and talkhooncheh step out of the courtroom. the prosecutor argued that there was no fifth amendment issue because talkhooncheh did not face criminal culpability as there was no evidence that she had any knowledge that defense counsel argued that the prosecutor should have informed him if she knew that talkhooncheh was going to exercise her right to remain silent. further, defense counsel argued that if the prosecutor knew that talkhooncheh was going to assert her fifth amendment rights, it was improper to ask talkhooncheh about her relationship with defendant. the prosecutor denied any prior knowledge that talkhooncheh would assert her fifth amendment rights. the trial court appointed counsel for talkhooncheh. at a subsequent hearing, the did not implicate her fifth amendment rights. in light of that ruling, the prosecutor stated that the people would grant talkhooncheh use immunity, bcourt stated that it could not order talkhooncheh to testify. when the prosecutor subsequently informed the trial court that she would not re-call talkhooncheh, the trial court offered defense counsel the opportunity to cross-examine talkhooncheh about her limited testimony. defense counsel declined and decision not to cross-anticipated testimony. 14 last name [talkhooncheh]. that ended abruptly, as you will recall. you are to disregard all of that consider anything she said here in court. [] in addition, the prosecutor, in her opening statement, referred to some anticipated testimony of that witness. opening statements b. application of relevant principles a trial court should declare a mistpeople v. lewis (2008) 4to disregard improper evidence particularly where there is an absence of bad faith. a ch(people v. allen (1978) 77 cal.app.3d 924, 934935.) mistrial because the prosecut(people v. dement (2011) case, the trial court instrunot to consider anything she said in court. it further instructed the jury that opening reference to tidentification of defendant as one of the intruders, it is not reasonably probable that defendant w 15 people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 749-750.) iii. selection of the alternate juror defendant contends that tfollowed section 1089 in selecting the alternate juror. a. background after a jury was impaneled, the parties turned to the selection of alternate jurors. at the time, there were only two prospective jurors remaining on the panelnumbers 17 and 18. outside the presence of the jurors, the trial court stated that the parties could use peremptory challenges or they could agree to select prospective jurors numbers 17 and 18 as the alternates. defense counsel and the prosecutor stipulated to select prospective jurors numbers 17 and 18 as the alternate jurors. -in-chief, the trial court excused juror number 5 for cause. the trial court then used a procedure to select the alternate juror to replace juror the record, it appears that the clerk paper and then selected an alternate juror by drawing one of the pieces of paper. alternate is the first one that goes ineither one necessarily, but why did we do a lottery approach when we already stipulated that alternate no. 1 was going to be alternate no. 1 and alternate no. 2 was the other ated that it always followed the same procedure in selecting alternate jurors. lot 16 rt stated that it just two alternates, and they happen to be whatever number they were before, 13, 15, or a courtroom in which the e terms, but the clerk used those speaking for himself. she had been before the trial c defense counsel again stated that during three days of jury selection, each opening on the jury was filled by the prospective juror with the lowest number; the trial court used later in the trial, after defense counsel finished his closing argument, the trial falling asleep in court. the trial court asked if there was evidence that juror number 5 was asleep at any other time. defense counsel said there was not. the trial court denied the request to excuse juror number 5. 17 b. application of relevant principles in people v. thornton (2007) 41 cal.4th 391, the california supreme court approved the procedure the trial court used in this case for selecting an alternate juror. following the mandate of section 1089. as any time, whether before or after the final submission of the case to the jury, a juror dies or becomes ill, or upon other good cause shown to the court is found to be unable to perform his or her duty, or if a juror requests a discharge and good cause appears therefor, the court may order the juror to be discharged and draw the name of an alternate, who shall then take a place in the jury box, and be subject to the same rules and regulations as though the alterid. at p. 462.) ddress the to cases in which a alternate juror selection procedure applies in all cases regardless of the procedure the trial court used to select the original jurors. moreover, when the trial court addressed the selection of prospective jurors numbers 17 and 18 as the alternate jurors, it said nothing about designating them as alternate jurors numbers 1 and 2, respectively. instead, it simply referred to them as prospect defendant argues that the provision in section 1089 that an alternate juror ition that alternate jurors should be selected in the same manner as primary jurors. the provision on which selected to serve as a juror, and not to the selection of that alternate juror as a juror. 18 defendant argues, because the alternate juror fell asleep during a critical part of his closing argument. the trial court estimated that the juror fell asleep for about five seconds. defense counsel paused during that brief period. there was no prejudice. iv. of the prosecution defendant claims that the trial court repeatedly took a proactive role in the trial, in effect becoming a second prosecutor. according to defendant, the trial court acted improperly when it prompted the prosecutor to have defendant stand up so that vincent it failed to protect him from the unwarranted implication that velazquez had a reason to fear him; and when it attempted to bias the jury against dillard, a witness whose testimony was favorable to defendant. a. t 1. background after defense counsel cross-examined vincent about his physical descriptions of the suspects, the trial court informed defense counsel and the prosecutor at sidebar that it believed the jurors would be interested in whether vincent could height and weight.5 the trial court stated its intention to have defendant stand so that vincent could give his estimate. defense counsel objected that the trial court was es described the second intruder as five feet nine inches tall and weighing 250 pounds. defense counsel intended to have a man of that height and weight stand next to defendant so the jury could compare their relative heights and weights. the trial court permitted the prosecutor to reopen her examination of vincent to 5 height and not his weight. 19 stand. vincent estimate that defendant was six feet three inches tall and weighed 225 or 235 pounds. accurately, vincent should have been asked to estimate the height of something in the courtroom the exact height of which the parties knew. allowing vincent to estimate s estimates of and weight accurately. 2. application of relevant principles provided this is done in an effort to elicit material facts or to clarify confusing or unclear testimony. [citations.] the court may not, however, assume the role of either the people v. cook (2006) 39 cal.4th 566, 597; evid. code,  7756.) trial. vincent was unable to identify the intruders from a photographic lineup and was unable to identify defendant at trial as one of the intruders. vincent explained that he their guns and his sister. vincent was, however, able to give a general description of the 6 the court, on its own motion or on the motion of any party, may call witnesses and interrogate them the same as if they had been produced by a party to the action, and the parties may object to the questions asked and the evidence adduced the same as if such witnesses were called and examined by an adverse party. such witnesses may be cross-examined by all parties to the action in such order as the court directs. 20 second intruder whom he described as an african-american man standing six feet two inches tall and whether it matched his description of the second intruder, tending to inculpate defendant or varied from his description of the intruder, tending to exculpate defendantwas material evidence. the trial court acted within its discretion in directing defendant to stand so that vincent could estimate his height and weight. (evid. code,  775; people v. cook, supra, 39 cal.4th at p. 597.) the trial mited role before the jurydirecting defendant to standdid not convey in any people v. cook, supra, 39 cal.4th at p. 597.) b. 1. background believing that velazquez was not forthcoming in answering her questions, the prosecutor asked him if he did not want to testify. velazquez responded that he did not want to testify because it was too time consuming. the prosecutor then asked if velazquez earlier told officer gonzalez that he was afraid to testify because he was the objection, and defense counsel requested a sidebar conference. at sidebar, defense counsel argued that the trial court previously ruled that the witnesses were permitted only to testify that they were in fear of the suspects who came the house can say they were in fear of the scourt responded that velazquez had not testified that he was afraid of defendant. defense ot relevant. i mean, there is nobody else on trial but the prosecutor stated that she was not asking velazquez if he was afraid of for his safety in general and from retaliation from anyone in this case because people 21 declared velazquez to be a hostile witness. it ruled that velazquez would be permitted to testify about his fear in general, but would not be permitted to testify that he was afraid of defendant. defense counsel requested the trial court to instruct the jury that any fear velazquez felt should not be attributed to defendant. the trial court agreed, and attributed to the defendant in any way. the jury is not to, in deliberations, consider it in demeanor and told officer gonzalez that he was afraid of coming to court because he was afraid of ter, after velazquez identified defendant as the person who drove the white ford expedition, the prosecutor asked that it was not. the prosecutor asked velazquez if he was afraid that something would 2. application of relevant principles a witness is afraid to testify or fears retaliation for testifying is relevant to the credibility of that witness and is therefore admissible. [citations.] an people v. gonzalez (2006) 38 cal.4th 932, 946.) accordingly, the trial court did not err in permitting velazquez to testify about whether he told officer gonzalez he was afraid to testify and the reason for that fear. (ibid.) moreover, the trial court instructed the jury that jurors are presumed to understand and follow instructions. (people v. holt (1997) 22 15 cal.4th 619, 662.) additionally, notwithstanding his prior statement to officer gonzalez that he was afraid to testify, velazquez testified at trial that he was not afraid that he or his family would be retaliated against because he identified defendant as the driver of the white ford expedition; velazquez stated that he was not afraid of anything. because velazquez was not in fear, there was no fear for the jury to attribute to defendant improperly. c. bias against dillard 1. background when speaking with the police, his description of the intruders in variance with the other and the other victims, the trial court found there was probable cause to believe that dillard was an accomplice. accordingly, the trial court appointed counsel to advise dillard of his fifth amendment rights.7 testimony, the trial court asked mullen, just likethey signaled for everybody to be quiet and to close the window and close the blinds. i rah whether she sarah responded that she really focused on the arm that held the gun, which she believed ked sarah to describe the 7 after consulting with counsel, dillard waived his fifth amendment rights and agreed to answer any question asked of him. 23 2. application of relevant principles defendant contends that the trial court tried to bias the jury against dillard when it asked questions of mullen and sarah that suggested to the jury that the trial court signaled its belief that dillard was an accomplice who should not be trusted and thereby diminished the force of dillnine inches to six feet tall and weighing from 250 to 300 pounds. as defendant argues, dillard gave a description of the second intruder that differed issue in the trial. whether dillard was an accomplice and therefore had a reason to credibility. the trial court did not assume the role of the prosecutor and its questions were temperate, nonargumentative, and scrupulously fair. accordingly, the trial court acted within its discretion when it examined mullen and sarah. (evid. code,  775; people v. cook, supra, 39 cal.4th at p. 597.) moreover, because neither mullen nor an accomplice to the crimes, thereby damaging his credibility and lessening any exculpatory impact of his were not prejudicial. (people v. cook, supra, 39 cal.4th at p. 599.) v. evidentiary rulings defendant contends that the trial court erred when it failed to order a gang reference redacted f-admitted statements defendant made in custody. 24 a. gang reference evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, oclearly is outweighed by [its] purposes of evidence code section 352 means evidence that tends to evoke an emotional bias against the defendant with very little effect on issues, not evidence that is probative of a defendapeople v. valdez (2012) 55 cal.4th 82, 133.) in his 911 call, vazquez described the two intruders to the operator saying, including the gang reference in the 911 call. the trial court excluded gang evidence except for the gang reference in the 911 call, and ruled that the prosecutor would not argue that defendant was a gang member. the trial court found the gang reference in the 911 call relevant and its probative value not outweighed by undue prejudice. it reasoned that vazquez did not accuse the intruders of being gang members. instead, vazquez used focused on the color red because that was the chosen color of a particular gang. the trial court did not abuse its discretion when it declined to order the gang reference in the 911 call redacted. (people v. valdez, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 133.) ability to see and describe the intruders, as demonstrated in his 911 call, was relevant. members of the bloods gang was an integral part of that description. thus, the evidence 25 effect. (ibid.) although gang evidence may, under other circumstances, evoke an emotional bias against a defendant, the fleeting gang reference in this case concerned a and thus was unlikely to evoke an emotional bias against defendant. moreover, the prosecutor did not argue that defendant was a gang member. even if the trial court erred, however, in not ordering the gang evidence redacted, any error was harmless because it is not reasonably probable that defendant would have received a more favorable outcome if ident identification of one of the guns used in the offenses. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836; people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 439.) b. cell phone photographs of currency and a bb gun abuse of discretion standard of review applies to any ruling by a trial court on the admissibility of evidence. (people v. rowland (1992) 4 cal.4th 238, 264 [14 cal.rptr.2d 377, 841 p.2d 897].) . . . under disturbed, and reversal of the judgment is not required, unless the trial court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage of justice. (people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 9-10 [82 people v. guerrra (2006) 37 cal.4th 1067, 1113, overruled on another point by people v. rundle (2008) 43 cal.4th 76, 151.) cell phone that showed a black hand holding seven $100 bills fanned out. the trial court n a motive for the offenses. defendant argues that the trial court erred in admitting the photograph of the currency because it was time-stamped two months before the offenses in this case and thus had no connection to this case and no probative value. the photograph was prejudicial, defendant contends, because it suggested that he had an unusual fascination with money. 26 a gun that the prosecutor argued had been identified as the gun defendant used in the offenses, a chrome gun that was ould not excise the image of the bb gun from the photograph, but would make no argument with respect to the gun. the trial court admitted the photograph on the ground that it was relevant because it showed two guns that appeared to have been described by witnesses. defendant argues that the photograph had no probative value and was prejudicial because there was no evidence that the bb gun was used in the offenses, the bb gun appeared to be a more significant weapon than it was, and the image of the chrome gun suggested that he possessed the second firearm used in the offenses. assuming, without deciding, that the trial court erred in admitting the photographs, any error was harmless because it is not reasonably probable that defendant would have received a more favorable outcome if the trial court had excluded the offenses. (people v. watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836; people v. partida, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 439.) the photograph of the currency had no discernable prejudicial impact. as for the photograph of the bb gun, the jury heard that defendant used a handgun in the offenses. a handgun that vazquez identified as the gun used in the offenses was found that defendant used in the offenses, it is unlikely the jury held against defendant the fact that he also may have owned a bb gun, no matter how menacing its appearance. to the used in the offenses tended to implicate defendant, defendant was otherwise identified as 27 c. -custody statements an appellate court applies the independent or de novo standard of review to a trial suppress a statement under miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 (miranda(people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 730.) questions of law pertaining to this issue are reviewed de novo, and questions of fact are reviewed under the substantial evidence standard. (id. at pp. 730-731.) in miranda, supra, 384 u.s. at page 474, the united states supreme court held -incrimination require that custodial interrogation be preceded by advice to the accused of the right to remain silent and the right to have counsel present during questioning. after initially being advised of his or her miranda rights, an accused may validly waive these rights and respond to interrogation, so long as the waiver is voluntary, knowing and intelligent. (north carolina v. butler (1979) 441 u.s. 369, 372-376.) an express waiver moran v. burbine (1986) 475 u.s. 412, 421-423; people v. riva (2003) 112 cal.app.4th 981, 988-circumstances surrounding that case, including the background, experience, and conduct of the acnorth carolina v. butler, supra, at pp. 374-375.) defendant contends that the trial court erred in admitting his statement to detective mcmahon that he lived in the bedroom at the van deene residence where the gun was found under the mattress. the statement was inadmissible, defendant contends, because it was taken in violation of his miranda rights. before trial, defendant brought a motion to suppress statements made to the police interrogation. the prosecutor stated that the people did not then intend to use any statement defendant made to detective mcmahon or officer gonzalez during questioning. the trial court told the prosecutor to inform the court if she changed her mind, and 28 during trial, detective mcmahon testified that he went to the van deene residence to look for defendant and evidence. according to detective mcmahon, upon arriving at the residencthat bedroom. at sidebar, defendant objected that he previously brought a motion to suppress s statements to the police and the prosecutor stating that she was not going to concerned unconstitutional and unlawful interrogation at the police station. the prosecutor runconstitutional and unlawful interrogation. [] interrogation is really a term of art, and normally when there is a search warrant execution of the house and the people are asked thmiranda violation and overruled citing people v. ochoa (1998) 19 cal.4th 353, 401, respondent argues that miranda, supra, 384 u.s. 436, does not apply when the defendant is out of custody. mcmahon about what took place upon his arrival at the van deene residence. the he made the statement identifying which bedroom was his. notwithstanding defendantcustodial status at the time he identified which bedroom was his,8 the record does not 8 onversation between an officer and a suspect constitutes interrogation. the police may speak to a suspect in custody as long as the speech would 29 address whether defendant was advised of his miranda rights before he identified which bedroom was his and whether he made the statement voluntarilyi.e., whether he waived his miranda rights. lived in a particular bedroom was taken in violation of his miranda rights, any violation was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt under chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 23-24. (people v. thomas (2011) 51 cal.4th 449, 498.) other evidence established that defendant lived in the room where the gun was found. defendant was sitting on a he bedroom where the gun e lived in the bedroom that was searched. moreover, putting aside the evidence that defendant was found in possession of one of the guns used in the offenses, vazquez was 100 percent certain that defendant was one of the intruders. vi. lesser included instructions defendant claims that the trial court erred in failing to instruct the jury on being 022.5 and 12022.53, subdivision (b). defendant also claims that the trial court erred in failing to instruct the jury on simple assault as a lesser included offense of assault with a firearm. a. section 12022, subdivision (a)(1) in people v. majors (1998) 18 cal.4th 385, the california supreme court declined lesser included offenses to so-id. at pp. 410-411 (people v. dement, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 26.) 30 disapproving people v. turner (1983) 145 cal.app.3d 658, 683-884 to the extent that it factfinding process that is created when the jury is forced into an all-or-nothing choice ly absent with respect to enhancements, which a jury does not even consider unless it has already id. at p. 410.) defendant states that people v. majors, supra, 18 cal.4th 485 was decided before, apprendi v. new jersey (2000) 530 u.s. 466, 490 (apprendi) and blakely v. washington (2004) 542 u.s. 296, 303 (blakely), which held that a defendant is entitled to have a jury, and not a apprendi and blakely, defendant argues, the court was required to instruct the jury on section 12022, subdivision (a)(1) as apprendi nor blakely addresses a trial people v. majors on sentence enhancements. consistent with apprendi and blakelynot the trial court made the factual findings that defendant personally used a handgun in committing the first degree robberies and assaults with a firearm. under people v. majors, the trial court had no sua sponte duty to instruct the jury on section 12022, f the personal use of a firearm enhancements under sections 12022.5 and 12022.53, subdivision (b). (people v. majors, supra, 18 cal.4th at pp. 410-411.) 31 b. simple assault law relevant to the issues raised by the evidence, whether or not the defendant makes a formal request. [citations.] that obligation encompasses instructions on lesser included offenses if there is evidence that, if accepted by the trier of fact, would absolve the defendant of guilt of the greater offense but not of the lesser. [citations.] to justify a lesser included offense instruction, the evidence supporting the instruction must be substantialthat is, it must be evidence from which a jury composed of reasonable persons could conclude that the facts underlying the particular instruction exist. people v. blair (2005) 36 cal.4th 686, 744745.) the existence of any evidence, no matter how weak, will not give rise to a sua sponte duty to instruct on a lesser included offense. (people v. taylor (2010) 48 cal.4th 574, 623.) defendant contends that the evidence supported in two ways a jury finding that he committed simple assault and not assault with a firearm. first, defendant contends, there was no evidence that the gun was operable and capable of firing a projectile. we resolved this contention against defendant above in our discussion of his claim that there was insufficient evidence to support his convictions for assault with a firearm. second, defendant contends, the jury could have found him guilty of simple assault by finding would probably and directly result in the application of physical evidence from which a reasonable juror could conclude that defendant used the gun in a manner other than as would probably and directly result in the application of force. in cocking his handgun and placing it at the back each victiman assault with a firearm. (people v. escobar, supra, 11 cal.app.4th at pp. 503, 505.) the only evidence in this case concerning the assault offenses was that defendant assaulted his victims with a firearm. there was no evidence that defendant assaulted his victims other than with a firearm. accordingly, the trial court did not err when it did not instruct on simple assault. (people v. blair, supra, 36 cal.4th at pp. 744745.) 32 vii. sentencing defendant contends that the trial court erred when it imposed the upper term on his conviction for the first degree robbery of vazquez and imposed consecutive terms for the subordinate offenses. defendant further contends that his sentence of 35 years and four months is cruel and unusual punishment. a. upper term discretion. (people v. castellano (1983) 140 cal.app.3d 608, 614-nner that is not arbitrary and capricious, that is consistent with the letter and spirit of the law, and that is based upon an people v. sandoval (2007) 4party attacking the sentence to clearly show that the sentencing decision was irrational or arbitrary. [citation.] in the absence of such a showing, the trial court is presumed to have acted to achieve legitimate sentencing objectives, and its discretionary people v. superior court (alvarez ) (1997) 14 cal.4th 968, 977978.) a single aggravating factor will support the imposition of an upper term. (people v. cruz (1995) 38 cal.app.4th 427, 433.) is appropriate in this matter on count 1 because the defendant did rack the weapon, causing more viciousness and fear. a high degree of cruelty is therefore shown. he verbally threatened the victims. so, great violence, cruelty, viciousness, threat of great harm was demonstrated. there was planning and some sophistication. he apparently did case the area, sought to disguise himself with the hats and glasses, gloves, did steal an 33 the court acted within its discretion in imposing the upper term. an upper term sentence is justified by just one aggravating factor. here, there were multiple act that threatened great bodily harm and involved a high degree of cruelty, viciousness, or callousness. (cal. rules of court, rule 4.421(a)(1)9.) defendant and his companion cased the crime scene before entering, conduct that demonstrated planning and professionalism. (rule 4.421(a)(8).) vazquez testified that his $10,000 watch was taken in the robbery, thus the crime involved the taking of property of great monetary value. (rule 4.421(a)(9).) b. consecutive terms f discretion. (people v. leon trial court broad discretion to impose consecutive sentences when a person is convicted people v. shaw (2004) 122 cal.app.4th 453, 458, in aggravation or mitigation may be considered in deciding whether to impose consecutive rather than concurrent sentences, except: [] (1) a fact used to impose the [] (3) a fact that is an element of the crime may not be used to impose consecutive id. at p. 467, fn. omitted.) in imposing consecutive toffenses, although not of the most serious kind, the 415 misdemeanor, 594(a) conviction, a dui misdemeanor, an 11359 which is before the court, and the 246.3 misdemeanor. he was on probation when this offensediversion when this offense was committed, and his 9 all rules citations are to the california rules of court. 34 defendant argues that the trial court abused its discretion in imposing consecutive there is no rational justification for the plainly excessive sentence in this case. defendant was convicted of numerous prior offenses for which he was granted probation. despite present criminal offenses, the trial court acted within its discretion in imposing consecutive terms. c. cruel and unusual punishment defendant contends that his sentence of 35 years and four months is cruel and unusual punishment because it is disproportionate to the magnitude of his offenses and his culpability. defendant forfeited this issue by failing to raise it in the trial court. (people v. norman (2003) 109 cal.app.4th 221, 229; people v. kelley (1997) 52 cal.app.4th 568, 583; people v. dejesus (1995) 38 cal.app.4th 1, 27.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. mosk, j. we concur: turner, p. j. kriegler, j. 