filed 9/17/12 p. v. outing ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. husie outing, defendant and appellant. b232225 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba365299) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. carol h. rehm, jr., judge. affirmed. gerald peters, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and eric j. kohm, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ 2 husie outing was convicted of assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury (pen. code,  245, former subd. (a)(1), now subd. (a)(4)). although he was found competent to stand trial, he claims that his conviction should be reversed because the trial court did not order a second competency hearing when substantial evidence emerged that he was not competent to stand trial. we affirm the judgment. factual and procedural background after outing attacked and beat frederick crissey in december 2009, he was charged with assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury, with associated enhancement allegations. a. commencement of case through competency proceedings remove his handcuffs, preferring to remain handcuffed during court proceedings. after stand trial. the court suspended the criminal proceedings and ordered outing to be evaluated by mental health experts. when one psychiatrist, joseph simpson, attempted to evaluate outing, outing refused to see him. in court, upon hearing of these events, the uting that it had not asked for his comments, and outing began to speak again, causing the court to instruct outing to be silent. ultimately simpson and another doctor evaluated outing and submitted reports to the court. both concluded that outing was mentally ill. one expert concluded outing was competent, the other that he was incompetent to stand trial. simpson specifically 3 repeated statements to the effect that he does not like white people and does not want from with, he understands the role of [defense counsel], he understands the nature of the court proceedings, he understands even what a plea bargain is, and he knows, in his mind, what he thought he was facing in court. [] he was able to respond appropriately to all questions asked by both doctors. he did not at any point appear to either doctor to be hallucinating. he did not appear to be overtly psychotic at any left with is a gentleman who at some point chose not to speak with his lawyer, who may be depressed and anxious, who in the past may have suffered from some psychiatric illness that may be depression, that he believes that there are racial issues involved in his life. and frankly, in the county jail, i think we all know that he may be right, that we do have many racial incidents in the county jail between african-americans and hispanics and others. [] so at all times he seemed to be able to understand everything that he needs to understand in order to be competent in the case. [] so my finding is that the b. pretrial proceedings the following month, at the next court hearing, defense counsel asked the trial court to reopen the issue of competency and to conduct a trial on that issue. defense trial on this matter without an additional report from a doctor or a doctor available to 4 what is real and what is not real, and we need a psychiatrist to at least lay out that illness appoint a new doctor. at the next court hearing, outing requested that new counsel be appointed for him pursuant to people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 (marsden). the court denied the motion. at court the following day, the trial court led discussions about a possible plea bargain; and after first refusing to come into court, outing spoke extensively on the the motions, jury selection and all of thatthat is going to play no role or part in helping my defense just based on the likelihood of the suggestion you made yesterst based on experiences and dealing with the white folks that is going to be involved in this case, they are going to be racist. and the black issue they going to whatever you going to give me, give me now and i just . . . move onto the next phase and w because i result in a 19-year prison term, and asked if that was what outing desired. outing responded, 19 years, but i am just saying whatever. you take your decision, you know, you feel effective to give to me the time you feel accordingly making a righteous judgment do it, 5 over the situation and you the court tried to express to outing the aspects of the proceedings over which he situation, dealing with the individual over there and the decision you made yesterday [on the marsden motion] when you trying to railroad somebody the way you perceive like to see that i was going to get a fair trial, i stipulated the reason why the attorney over here could be fired and you know i can get some new counsel, but you see whetake it upon yourself to do thati am not stupid, you know. one thing leads to another sed on a lot of issues that are not components of the trial in this were going to be requesting some sort of a lenient offer from this court, your behavior in this courtroom and your remarks are not demonstrating that you are a gentleman who on your comments today, i see you rolling your eyes and rolling your headcastic the court again tried to discuss the plea bargain offer made by the people. outing rejected the 7-court a 6 likelihood i tried to fire this gentleman for incompetence, when i see something like that judgment where i can get another attorney in his absence, just based on what he told me ood judgment asked outing. the court attempted to ascertain whether outing understood the plea bargain being offered, but outing apparently responded by shaking his head. when the court admonished him to answer verbally, outing complainurt addressed outing at length about his everything to do with the control of a courtroom. and let me make it clear to you in case i did not yesterday. you are not in control of this courtroom. [] you have been acting up, not coming out to court and then coming out and demonstrating to all of us what your this is all a waste of time so just let it pass and let me pursue my appeal rights. that seems to be your position. [] i want to make it clear to you. you are not in control of seven yeaand had discussed it with his counsel, and he declined the offer. c. conduct during trial the case went to trial, and outing testified on his own behalf. out of the presence of the jurors, while the attorneys were conferring about a jury instruction pertaining to a counsel and the court discussed the evidence to determine which statement items outing 7 had denied for the purposes of the propriety of that instruction, outing interjected, est with you. i am just trying to be honest with you. i am not trying to cover up. [] i have ng on [calcrim no.] 361, according to mr. outing, the court just wants him to lie. the court asked outing if he wished to waive his presence in the courtroom for the conference being honest. you want me being honest and truthful. that is all i have been doing the whole time. it is not respect, so why spurposes of discussing jury instructions, repeating in the process several times that the court did not care. later that day, outing refused to reenter the courtroom for the afternoon session. the court you walking back and forth in here in lockup. i want to explain to you, you have a right to be outokay. you are bouncing your hands on the floor. mr. outing, do you even want court explained that if he wanted to absent himself from the proceedings he could follow ear what outing did not respond. the court found that outing had voluntarily absented himself essed up. look at my hand. look at my hand. the white dude is strong enough to do push-ups and everything, you know, to get himself strong enough. i am disabled, too. i have all kinds of stuff. it is garbage what you are staying. look at my hand. you can see it is 8 when the court tried to speak, outing again interrup-ups and to do things physical to heal himself, because my hand is messed up too. my hand was just like that. i work out and i do all kinds of things, you know, to heal myself. but you want to take it personal with me because you are white, he is white, and he is not strong enough to heal himself and repair. [] so, you know, you are defending his side. and you are white. that is nothing but working out to get yourself strong the court continued to address outing about listening to court proceedings, but mr. outing is flushing the because i am black. i explained i am innocent of the whole thing. you are just trying to before closing arguments, defense counsel told the court that he wished to read a letter to the jury that outing had written, perhaps, counsel noted, in anticipation of his election to absent himself from the proceedings. counsel represented that the letter contained no inflammatory language or criticism of the purposes of the prosecution or the c-counsel to read the letter to the jury. outing declined to attend court for closing arguments. r. outing is not with us today. the record should reflect that mr. outing personally told 9 counsel and the court yesterday that he did not want to come into the courtroom for further proceedings. we conducted the basic jury instructions and closing arguments of instructions, we could hear mr. outing, who was in lock up, screaming. this morning mr. outing again was returned to lock up and has been in a fight with another defendant. mr. outing has been taken to the hospital[.] that other defendant was not taken to the outing was convicted of assault by means likely to cause great bodily injury. after the presentation of evidence concerning the prior conviction allegations, the jury outing to 11 years in state prison. outing appeals. discussion i. even after a court has found a defendant competent to stand trial, as here, the court incompetency. (people v. mixon (1990) 225 cal.app.3d 1471, 1485.) a second competency hearing must be held when the court is presented with a substantial change competency. (people v. jones observations may be taken into account in determining whether there has been a ibid.) because the trial court has the opportunity to observe a defendant during court proceedings, its decision whether to hold a competency hearing is entitled to deference. (people v. rogers (2006) 39 cal.4th 826, people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 31.) 10 outing contends that the trial court erred in not declaring a second doubt and institscreaming in lockup could be heard in the courtroom. outing asserts that he displayed irrational thinking, failure to understand the judicial process, and an inability to act in his own best interest when he urged the court to skip the trial and simply sentence him. he at marsden about the plea bargain irrationally. outing characterizes his outburst in conjunction with the jury ssist his attorney in presenting a defense if he could not rationally understand the proceeding in which he was distressed and, as a result, was unable to prepare his defense or consult with his counsel. accordingly, outing asserts that the failure to declare a doubt and hold new competency proceedings was reversible error. we conclude that the trial court did not err by failing to institute additional disruptive, contentious, manipulative and suspicious, was consistent with his behavior prior to the competency hearing. well before the competency hearing, outing had remained aloof or unavailable whenever he could exercise any control over the course of events: for instance, he had refused to assist the court in pronouncing his name properly and would not meet with the evaluator who came to interview him. from the earliest to him or his motivations, as when he in 11 assessment that he was playing games by refusing to meet with the psychiatrist sent to evaluate him. before the competency proceedings, he had also made known his view that white people were conspiring against him and that he would be unable to obtain a fair trial, and his refusal to assist the court with pronunciation and his election to remain handcuffed are consistent with his belief that the trial was a sham. the trial court was lness, knew that he was uncooperative and had strong views that he was being subjected to racial injustice, and concluded that outing nonetheless plea bargain was. after the competency hearing outing continued to engage in similar behavior. he continued to express his belief that the legal proceedings were a fundamentally unfair charade and that the trial was a mere formality before punishment, first challenging the court to forego the trial and to sentence him right away; later refusing the plea offer so o allege that the trial was a racist conspiracy. he expressed contempt for the proceedings by rolling his proceedings whenever they touched on his character or his motivations, as evidenced by his interjected comments when he misunderstood a jury instruction concerning a courtroom by refusing to come to court, asking to leave court proceedings, and even to control the proceedings by refusing to participate failed, he tried to disrupt the trial by ore intensely angry, disrespectful and disruptive, but it did not evidence a substantial change in circumstances; nor did it cast serious doubt upon the validity of the earlier competency determination. outing, however, contends that his behavior actually demonstrated that he was unable to make rational decisions and that he was therefore incompetent. the record 12 does not demonstrate that outing was unable to behave rationally. he requested new counsel and presented to the trial court his reasons for his dissatisfaction with his attorney. he testified on direct examination and on cross-examination uneventfully, demonstrating that he was able to follow and participate in the proceedings. he wrote a of invective and criticism of the proceedings, in order to attempt to present argument to the jury. although he misunderstood calcrim no. 361 and the colloquy about that instruction, believing the court to be instructing the jury that he had lied or conveying a desire that he lie, his objection to a jury instruction and articulation of a basis for his view evince a misunderstanding of a specific legal point and a strong feeling of personal outrage rather than an inability to follow or participate in the proceedings. outing claims his refusal to accept a plea bargain offering seven years in prison and his challenge to the trial court to sentence him to 19 years without a trial was evidence that he was unable to make rational decisions. it is not irrational conduct to have been justified, as outing apparently did; and it is not irrational to refuse to negotiate with a prosecutor and trial court one believes to be racially biased as a means of proteskip trial and proceed to sentencing was, he said, based on his belief that a trial was a sham and a waste of his time; he preferred to proceed directly to sentencing and then to appeal. one might reasonably be willing to forego trial if one believes, as outing did, that the outcome was a foregone conclusion and that immediate sentencing will hasten onstrate that he was incompetent. the trial court was not required to conduct further competency proceedings. ii. ineffective assistance of counsel outing contends that his trial counsel provided ineffective assistance by failing to reassert a doubt as 13 circumstances or new evidence casting a serious doubt on the finding of competency (people v. jones, supra, 53 cal.3d at p. 1153), it is not reasonably probable that he was not mentally competent at the time of trial and counsel was not ineffective for failing to people v. deere (1991) 53 cal.3d 705, 714 [counsel is not ineffective for failing to raise issue of competency where the trial court had not erred in failing to conduct a competency hearing earlier in the trial and ad declined].) disposition the judgment is affirmed. zelon, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. jackson, j. 