filed 10/16/12 p. v. smith ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. howard smith, defendant and appellant. b232030 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta115256) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. michael shultz, temporary judge. (pursuant to cal. const., art. vi,  21.) affirmed. gail ganaja, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, mary sanchez and esther p. kim, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________ 2 a jury convicted defendant howard dwayne smith of one count of possession for sale of cocaine base (health & saf. code,  11351.5) (count 1); false imprisonment (pen. code,  236)1 (count 2); first degree burglary ( 459) (count 4); and sale of a controlled substance (health & saf. code,  11352, subd. (a)) (counts 5-11). in count 1 and counts 5 through 11, the jury found that defendant suffered a prior conviction for possession for sale of a controlled substance within the meaning of health and safety code section 11370.2, subdivision (b). in count 1 and counts 4 through 11, the jury found that defendant had suffered a prior conviction for a serious or violent felony within the meaning of sections 1170.12, subdivisions (a) through (d) and 667, subdivisions (b) through (i) (the three strikes law). the jury found true a gang allegation under section 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c) in count 4. the jury found true a gang allegation under section 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(a) in counts 1 and 5 through 11. the trial court sentenced defendant to a total term of 27 years in state prison. in count 4, the first degree burglary, the court imposed a principal upper term of six years, doubled to 12 years for the gang allegation under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c) for a total of 22 years in count 4. the court imposed and stayed a sentence of 14 years for possession of cocaine base for sale in count 1. for the misdemeanor false imprisonment in count 2, the trial court imposed a concurrent sentence of one year. the trial court added a consecutive five-r conviction of a serious felony. in all of the remaining counts (5-11), the trial court struck the allegation under the three strikes law. the trial court imposed the upper term of five years in each of counts 5 through 11 to be served concurrently to each other and the principal term. the trial court struck the allegation that defendant had a prior conviction for possession 1 all further references to statutes are to the penal code unless stated otherwise. 3 for sale of a controlled substance and the allegations of a prior prison term under section 667.5, subdivision (b). defendant appeals on the grounds that: (1) the trial court erred in its instruction on the defense of consent to burglary; and (2) the evidence was insufficient to support the gang enhancements in counts 1, 4, and 5 through 11. facts prosecution evidence on august 3, 2010, detective jeffrey heller was assigned to the narcotics enforcement detail of the los angeles police department (lapd). he was conducting surveillance from an observation post in the avalon gardens housing project prior to the execution of a searactivity at 633 caliburn drive, apartment 36 within the project. during the two hours he observed defendant, detective heller saw approximately seven people approach defendant and hand him what appeared to be united states currency. after receiving the money, defendant walked over to a parked beige buick. defendant would lean into the car and extract a long key chain. he would then walk over to the rear door of 633 caliburn drive, apartment 36, and unlock the back door. after one to three minutes inside, defendant would come out, lock the door, and hand the person an object. the recipient would look down at the object and walk away. it was the same pattern every time. in addition to the persons who appeared to be narcotics buyers, detective heller saw approximately three other persons with defendant during these two hours of observation. approximately 15 officers were involved in the execution of the search warrant at location. four officers searched apartment 36 after forcing their way into the residence when there was no response to their knock. officers found off-white solids resembling rock cocaine, $64 in different denominations, and several pictures of defendant. each item was booked into evidence along with a key to the residence that -white 4 substance was cocaine in the form of cocaine base with a net weight of 1.2 grams. defendant, along with three other individualsdavid watson, justin clayton, and takar smithwere taken into custody. police detained an older black male who was in the back bedroom. he was later identified as houston carcamo. a water bottle containing urine was found inside the bedroom. carcamo was 70 years old and had been living at 633 caliburn drive, apartment 36, since april 2008. he had never lived in public housing before and at first was not aware that it was known for drug dealing. carcamo had been taking medication for many years for several illnesses, including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (copd), which required him to take albuterol by means of an inhaler. he used a motorized chair as a result of back surgery. he also used oxygen and a mobile oxygen tank. soon after moving to avalon gardens, carcamo met defendant, whom he knew carcamo did not give him permission. a couple of days later, defendant demanded a key. carcamo believed he had no choice. he heard there were gangs and he saw many member called fish had done the same thing to carcamo before defendant. carcamo realized the work solo referred to was selling cocaine because of the some come inside selling drugs off his porch. he asked for a transfer. at one point defendant moved out and carcamo changed his lock. defendant later demanded another key. carcamo attitude of gang-banging and threatening or whatever and i cannot resist against these 5 heck, but carcamo was sometimes forced to pay for things he was told were missing. carcamo used an empty gallon bottle to urinate in his room. as watched wherever he went. if he went to the housing office, they would want to know why he went there. carcamo spoke with the housing authority twice. they said they would get in touch with higher authority, but carcamo never heard anything from them. on the day of the search, carcamo went to the bank in the morning. when he carcamo took a shower and was back in his bedroom when the police kicked in his door. defendant was arrested that day and carcamo did not see him again. where his money was. johnson searcheremove his clothing, and he searched him. carcamo gave johnson the $90 he had hidden. them [sico go to the atm in the liquor store and get around november 30, 2010, carcamo testified at a preliminary hearing in the rlfriend, ebony avery, threatened him, request with the housing authority and was relocated by the lapd. detective patrick foreman participated in execution of the search warrant on august 3, 2010. detective foreman had extensive knowledge of the housing projects and 6 of avalon gardens. he knew that the avalon gangster crips (agc) controlled the avalon gardens housing project. he had worked there as an undercover or uniformed officer on over 100 occasions. he had spoken with gang members in the avalon gardens housing project on over 100 occasions and made over 15 arrests inside the project for sale and possession of narcotics. on several occasionsover 10 timeshe had arrested individuals who had taken over residences in order to sell narcotics. drug paraphernalia was not found during the police search of apartment 36. officer armando leyva testified as a gang expert. one of the gangs assigned to him was agc. he monitored the area of the avalon gardens housing project and conducted field identification interviews of agc members. officer leyva explained that agc was a predominantly black gang that was nd their rivals are most blood gangs. agc claims the housing project of avalon gardens as their territory, along with some territory on the outskirts of the project. the primary activities of the gang include assault with a deadly weapon, shootings, homicides, robberies, burglaries, narcotic sales, and possession of firearms. officer leyva testified regarding convictions suffered by agc members. officer leyva stated that he knew defendant to be a self-admitted agc member, who went by in response to a hypothetical question assuming certain facts that corresponded to of and in direct association with the gang. officer leyva believed also that the first degree burglary was committed for the benefit of agc. was working an undercover narcotics buy/bust operation in the area of avalon boulevard 7 and 89th street on december 30, 2009. officer mccauley met with a mr. cleveland and asked for his help in purchasing $20 of rock cocaine. cleveland led officer mccauley into the avalon gardens housing project. officer mccauley handed cleveland a $20 bill, and cleveland walked away and returned a few moments later with two off-white solids resembling rock cocaine. officers rudy gonzalez and jose calderon were also working the buy/bust and saw cleveland enter avalon gardens and meet defendant. officer calderon observed defendant walk away from cleveland and enter apartment 30. a minute later, defendant came out of apartment 30 and engaged in a brief hand-to-hand exchange with cleveland, who walked back to officer mccauley. officer gonzalez directed officers to detain cleveland and defendant. defendant stipulated to his prior conviction for possession for sale of cocaine on january 21, 2010, which was the offense described by officer mccauley. defense evidence defendant took the stand and admitted that he had prior felony convictions for possession for sales of cocaine and assault with a firearm. he also admitted having served a prison term for assault with a firearm. he completed his sentence on december 22, 2009, after a parole violation in that case. defendant admitted to selling drugs from 633 caliburn drive, apartment 36, on august 3, 2010. defendant admitted that his prior conviction of possession for sale of cocaine was based on his selling drugs out of an abandoned unit, no. 30, in the avalon gardens housing project. defendant joined the agc gang in 1995. defendant admitted he would probably always be an agc member. he had been selling drugs on the streets since 1997. on august 3, 2010, he was with clayton, watson, and smith, who are members of agc, but defendant denied that the three were helping him sell drugs. from appellant, and he wanted defendant to provide him with protection. defendant believed he had a reputation due to his having been around the project for so long. other 8 gang members and people in general listened to him. avalon gardens was a secure territory for defendant to sell drugs. defendant denied that he and other gang members held carcamo hostage in his gone his girlfriend. carcamo let him move back. defendant stated that carcamo used crack cocaine on a daily basis, and defendant had seen him smoking it. carcamo only wore the oxygen mask when he went out. defendant believed carcamo was attempting to appear sympathetic to the jury by looking like an old man with an oxygen tank and a wheelchair. carcamo owed a lot of people money for drugs before defendant began supplying him. defendant said that carcamo used the bottle for urinating by choice. defendant believed carcamo testified against him hat she worked for carcamo doing odd jobs such as cleaning and running errands in the summer of 2008 for approximately two months. lasheeka saw carcamo smoking cocaine through a clear pipe. his fingers were crusty and burned. lasheeka never saw defendant or anyone else sell or give drugs to carcamo. lasheeka was not a member of agc but was affiliated with them. when during the period when her brother was selling drugs out of the residence she saw other agc members in the apartment. she did not know if they were helping her brother sell. nything to carcamo at the preliminary hearing on november 30, 2010. she was arrested for threatening a witness and pleaded no contest to a witness intimidation charge. she was in custody for around 9 to plead no contest. rebuttal evidence based on his background, training, and experience in the area of recognizing people under the influence of cocaine or cocaine base, officer darren stauffer was of the opinion that, on august 3, 2010, carcamo did not exhibit any signs of someone under the influence of cocaine. officer stauffer saw carcamo on numerous occasions when he brought him to court and during interviews, and he had not once suspected that carcamo was under the influence of cocaine. officer stauffer conducted a thorough search of cocaine there. discussion i. jury instruction on consent to burglary defendant contends that the jury was incorrectly instructed on the standard of communicate to the jury that defendant needed only to raise a reasonable doubt as to whether carcamo actively invited defendant into his apartment, knowing that defendant intended to possess cocaine base for sale, and that defendant was aware that carcamo interfered with his federal constitutional rights to a jury trial under the sixth amendment and to due process under the fifth and fourteenth amendments. b. proceedings below at a discussion of jury instructions, defense counsel stated that, having read people v. felix (1994) 23 cal.app.4th 1385, he believed the trial court needed to instruct 10 defense to . . . language came from the use notes, the trial court did not think it necessary, since it was an explanation for the bench and counsel. (see calcrim no. 1700.) the trial court instructed the jury with the standard burglary instruction that a commit the crime of possession for sale of a controlled substance. (calcrim no. clearly and expressly gave the defendant consent to enter the premises in order to possess cocaine base for purposes of sales and you find that mr. carcamo knew of the c. relevant authority any person who enters a house or building with the intent to commit a felony or theft is guilty of burglary. ( 459.) there are circumstances in which consent by the owner of property will constitute a defense to a burglary charge. one such circumstance actively invites the accused to enter, knowing the illegal, felonious intention in the mind of the invitee. [citation.] but the invitation by the owner must be express and clear; merely standing by or passively permitting the entry will not do. [citation.] . . . t]he owner-possessor must know the felonious intention of the coupled with the people v. felix, supra, 23 cal.app.4th at pp. 1397-1398; see also people v. sherow (2011) 196 cal.app.4th 1296, 1302; people v. salemme (1992) 2 cal.app.4th 775, 777-778.) instruct the jury as to which party bears the burden of proof on each issue and as to whether that burden requires that a party raise a reasonable doubt concerning the existence or nonexistence of a fact or that he establish the existence or nonexistence of a 11 fact by a preponderance of the evidence, by clear and convincing proof, or by proof to the und . . (people v. mower (2002) 28 cal. 4th 457, 479 (mower), fn. omitted.) evidence code raising a reasonable doubt as to their existence or nonexistence. (mowertrial court must instruct the jury on the allocation and weight of the burden of proof [citations], and, of course, must do so correctly. it must give such an instruction even in the absence of a request [citation], inasmuch as the allocation and weight of the burden of and . . . id. at pp. 483-484; accord, people v. tewksbury (1976) 15 cal.3d 953, 963 [when raising defense ].) the consent defense is material to defendant has the burden to raise a reasonable doubt as to the facts underlying the defense. (people v. sherow, supra, 196 cal.app.4th at pp. 1308-1309.) we review a claim of instructional error de novo. (people v. alvarez (1996) 14 understood the instruction in a manner that violated twe determine the correctness of the jury instructions from the entire charge of the court, not from considering only parts of an instruction or one particular instruction. [citation.] . . . [citation.] . . . [i]n examining the entire charge we assume that jurors are people v. smith (2008) 168 cal.app.4th 7, 13.) 12 d. harmless error under mower, the trial court has a duty to instruct specifically on the allocation of constituted error. (mower, supra, 28 cal.4th at pp. 483-484.) the error in failing to instruct the jury that defendant needed only to raise a reasonable doubt as to whether he had consent was, however, harmless on this record. even assuming that defendant is correct in his position that the standard of prejudice is harmless beyond a reasonable doubt (chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24), we find no prejudice. the trial court correctly instructed the jury on the exact nature of the consent that carcamo had to give defendant in order to find defendant not guilty of burglary. the jury had to find that carcamo clearly and expressly consented to defendant entering the home. the trial court properly instructed the jury on with calcrim no. 220, which defines reasonable doubt and correctly states that defendant is presumed to be innocent, and respondent bears the burden of proving guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. ( 1096.) additional instructions provided to the jury amplified or supported the general principle that the burden of proof remained with the prosecution as to all essential elements, such as calcrim nos. 224 (circumstantial evidence), 225 (circumstantial evidence: intent or mental state), and 251 (union of act and intent). calcrim no. 301 told the jury that the testimony of any one witness could prove a fact, and calcrim no. 302 instructed the jury that it must decide what evidence to believe among conflicting evidence. calcrim no. 200 instructed the jury that it must consider the instructions together. moreover, in pre-instructing the jury at the outset of the trial, the court also admonished the jury about the presumption of innocence l essential elements beyond a reasonable doubt. our review of the jury instructions in their totality leads us to conclude that a reasonable jury would not have been confused or misled, but would have understood that the burden of proof remained with the prosecution as to all essential elements of the 13 to them. (people v. delgado (1993) 5 cal.4th 312, 331; see also francis v. franklin (1985) 471 u.s. 307, 324, fn. 9.) moreover, unlike mower and other cases cited by defendant, the trial court gave e. the error in mower was not failure to give a sua sponte instruction but rather an erroneous instruction that the defendant bore the burden of proving the underlying facts by a preponderance of the evidence. (mower, supra, 28 cal.4th at pp. 483-484.) likewise, in people v. sherow, supra, 196 cal.app.4th 1296, the trial court erred by instructing the jury that the defendant had the burden to prove the consent defense to burglary by a preponderance of the evidence. (id also unlike people v. simon (1995) 9 cal.4th 493, disapproved on another point in people v. salas (2006) 37 cal.4th 967, 982, where reversible instructional error was found because the trial court read an instruction stating that the defendant bore the burden of proving his exemption defense in a securities case, but failed to explain that the defendant needed only to present some evidence showing a reasonable doubt that he sold nonexempt securities. (people v. simon, at pp. 500-501.) in the instant case, there was no misinstruction. defendant was required to affirmatively prove the elements of the consent defense rather than merely raise a reasonable doubt as to its underlying facts. we disagree. the prosecutor told the jury he surmised the defense would argue defendant was not guilty of burglary and guilty only of drug sales because carcamo is a drug addict, and carcamo let defendant stay in his home and sell drugs out of therof reasonable doubt. . . . the essence of this argument is that de 14 in addition, the defense argument discussed the burden of proof when arguing the burglary. with regard to the burglary, defense counsel told the jury that consent was a defense to burglary, and that there was no burglary if carcamo was complicit in the drug salesif he knew what was going on and allowed it to happen. defense counsel questioned testimony and that of his sister and girlfriend and ask if any of the evidence caused them to have a reasonable doubt about the truth of the charges. if the doubts they had were reasonable, they had a duty to acquit. defense was harmless on this record even under the standard of chapman v. california, supra, 386 u.s. at page 24 (harmless only if it is beyond a reasonable doubt the error did trial cour ii. sufficiency of the evidence for the gang enhancements defendant contends that there was no evidence presented at trial that the crimes charged in counts 1, 4, and 5 through 11 were committed in association with or for the inspire confidence, since the premises upon which officer leyva based his opinion were either without evidentiary support or were illogical. there was no substantial evidence of association with agc members because there was no evidence defendant committed the burglary and drug offenses in concert with other agc members on august 3, 2010, the day of his arrest. defendant also contends that there was a lack of substantial evidence that he committed the burglary and drug offenses with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist any criminal conduct by agc members. according to defendant, the evidence showed only that defendant was a gang member who committed crimes. 15 b. relevant authority to obtain a true finding on an allegation of a criminal street gang enhancement, nefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang members . . . subd. (b)(1).) in evaluating these claims we must determine whether, on the entire record viewed in the light most favorable to the people, any rational trier of fact could find the gang enhancement allegation true beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 331; see people v. kraft (2000) 23 cal.4th 978, 1053-1054 [if substantial acquit a criminal defendant if it finds the evidence susceptible of two reasonable interpretations, one of which favors guilt and the other innocence, it is the jury, not the (people v. millwee (1998) 18 cal.4th 96, 132; see people v. bolin c. evidence sufficient we disagree with defendant. at the outset, defendant himself admitted membership in the gang and expressed his loyalty to the gang, of which he had been a member for approximately 16 years. the avalon gardens housing project was known as being the territory of the agc gang. the evidence at trial established that defendant was arrested in the company of three gang members (clayton, watson, and smith) outside the place where defendant transacted the business of dealing cocaine. they were with him the entire time he was being watched by detective heller, and selling cocaine from the apartment and there were other agc members in the apartment. 16 defendant. carcamo said there were numerous persons whom he identified as gang members in and out of his unit all day. habits is the type of evidence a jury may rely on to reach . . . a finding on a gang people v. ferraez (2003) 112 cal.app.4th 925, 930.) although a gang expert may not testify as to whether a particular defendant committed the crime . . . express an opinion, based on hypothetical questions that tracked the evidence, whether the [crime], if the jury found it people v. vang (2011) 52 cal.4th 1038, 1048.) as stated in vangt to support the . . . ibid.) ine base was committed for the benefit of the agc gang. officer leyva explained that defendant was conducting the drug sales in a manner very open to the public, where the residents of avalon gardens could see them occurring every day. the sales created an atmosphere of fear and intimidation among the citizens. the residents were too scared to call the police if a crime occurred. this atmosphere allowed the gang members to engage in other illegal activities with little or no police presence. also, there was the obvious benefit of monetary gain. the more drugs sold, the more money the gang had for buying weapons and facilitating their crimes, such as street robberies and home invasion robberies, or retaliatory acts against rival gangs. officer leyva explained that gangs require money and violence to be successful, and the money is made by selling drugs. the individual seller also benefits because his reputation within the gang is enhanced, and reputation and respect are everything for a gang member. 17 enhanced was illogical, because this would only benefit the member and not the gang. it is true that defendant testified he sold drugs for his own personal benefit. since he apparently had no employment, drug sales probably supplied most of his income. however, there is nothing in the statute that requires the underlying crime to be committed exclusively for the benefit of a gang. otherwise, a jury could never find true a gang enhancement allegation in any case where the defendant obtained any kind of personal benefit. as for the burglary charged in count 4, officer leyva testified that the burglary in this case was committed by defendant in concert with other gang members in order to commit the felony of drug sales in a place where they had no right to be. the gang members are involved in many residential burglaries inside their own housing projects, and they benefitted by instilling fear to the degree that victims, especially an elderly man, would not report the burglary to the police. the housing project of avalon gardens is their turf. therefore, residential burglaries in avalon gardens benefit the gang. officer leyva was personally aware of many instances where the residents of avalon gardens told him they were victims of crimes but did not call the police. agc members often work in concert with two, three, or four members at a time, creating and enforcing the intimidation. as stated in people v. albillar that particular criminal conduct benefited a gang by enhancing its reputation for viciousness can be sufficient to raise the inference that the cothe benefit of . . . presented at trial. the hypothetical the prosecutor posed was based on facts that were not objected to by the defensefacts brought out by the testimony. considered as a whole, 18 specific intent element of the gang allegation as well. (see people v. gardeley (1996) 605, 619.) under these circumstances, the jury reasonably could have found that the offenses in counts 1, 4, and 5 through 11 were committed for the benefit of and/or in association on the gang enhancement in these counts. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. ___________________, p. j. boren we concur: ___________________, j. doi todd ___________________, j. ashmann-gerst 