filed 2/28/12 p. v. williams ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. joel lee williams, defendant and appellant. b232978 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta088861) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. paul a. bacigalupo, judge. affirmed as modified. sylvia whatley beckham, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and tasha g. timbadia, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________________ 2 a jury found joel lee williams guilty of burglary, attempted robbery and assault with a firearm. the jury found true allegations that williams committed the offenses for the benefit of a criminal street gang (pen. code,  186.22)1 and personally used a firearm in the commission of the offenses. the trial court sentenced him to 28 years in prison. in a prior appeal,2 this court reversed the gang enhancements based on insufficient evidence, and concluded that the trial court should have imposed a firearm enhancement for the burglary count under section 12022.5 instead of section 12022.53. williams challenged the 22-year sentence the trial court imposed on remand. in a subsequent prior appeal,3 we concluded that the trial court abused its discretion in using the same fact (use of a firearm) to impose both a firearm enhancement and the upper term on the burglary conviction. we vacated the sentence and remanded the matter for resentencing. on remand the trial court again sentenced williams to 22 years, including the six-year upper term on the burglary conviction. in the present appeal, williams contends that the court once again abused its discretion in imposing the upper term based on impermissible factors. his counsel did not object below, so the claim is forfeited. williams asserts that his counsel rendered ineffective assistance. although we agree that the court based the upper term sentence on improper factors, we rineffective assistance of counsel claim because other factors not used by the trial court supported imposition of the upper term sentence. williams also contends, and the people agree, that the court facilities assessment fee should be stricken and the amount of the court security fee reduced. we order the trial court to modify the judgment accordingly. 1 further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 people v. williams (mar. 11, 2009, b202540) [nonpub. opn.]. 3 people v. williams (may 26, 2010, b218441) [nonpub. opn.]. 3 background i. trial and initial sentencing4 an information charged williams with first degree burglary ( 459; count 1), attempted first degree robbery ( 211, 664; count 2) and assault with a firearm ( 245, subd. (a)(2); count 3). the information alleged that williams committed the offenses for the benefit of, at the direction of, and in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further and assist in criminal conduct by gang members ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)), and that williams personally used a firearm in the commission of the offenses ( 12022.53, subd. (b), on counts 1 and 2;  12022.5 on count 3). the information also alleged that williams suffered a prior juvenile adjudication for robbery. ( 667, 1170.12). in the first appeal in case number b202540, this court stated the evidence presented at trial, in pertinent part, as follows: 25, 2006, troyell wideman, a college student, was talking with his girlfriend on the porch of her home, located within the jordan downs housing project (jordan downs) in los angeles. defendant [williams] walked by wideman and his girlfriend and returned 15 minutes later demanding that wideman relinquish a gold 5] wideman refused, and defendant followed him inside. when they were approximately five feet apart, defendant pointed a semi-automatic handgun directly at wideman and told wideman he had 10 seconds to give defendant the necklace. as wideman stalled for more time, sabrina riend and an occupant of the home) entered the 4 (b202540 and b218441). 5 4 room.[6] bradford attempted to wrestle the gun from defendant, and wideman joined in the ground. defendant picked up the gun and ran away. no one was injured. wideman provided the officers with a physical description of defendant. approximately 10 minutes later, the officers detained defendant at jordan downs. when the officers asked wideman to identify defendant as the assailant, wideman stated to one of the later, at his home, wideman identified defendant as the assailant from a six-pack photographic display. wideman had known defendant, who was also a resident of jordan downs, for at least six years and occasionally spoke with him. wideman identified defendant as a member of the grape street crips, a gang that operates within jordan people v. williams, supra, b202540, pp. 2-3.)7 the jury found williams guilty of the charged offenses and found the gang and firearm special allegations to be true. the trial court found that williams had suffered a prior juvenile adjudication that qualified as a felony strike offense. on count 1 for first degree burglary, the court sentenced williams to the middle term of four years, doubled to eight years based on the prior strike, and imposed a 10-year gang enhancement and a 10-year firearm enhancement, for a total of 28 years. on count 2 for attempted first degree robbery, the court selected the middle term of two years, doubled to four years based on the prior strike, and imposed a 10-year gang enhancement and a 10-year firearm enhancement, for a total of 24 years. on count 3 for assault with a firearm, the court selected the middle term of three years, doubled to six years based on the prior strike, and 6 --respected member of the grape street crips. robert lived with bradford in her home and 7 the prosecution also presented evidence in support of the gang enhancement, which we do not recite because it is not pertinent to the issues on appeal. 5 imposed a 10-year gang enhancement and a four-year firearm enhancement, for a total of s20 years. the court stayed the sentences on counts 2 and 3. ii. first appeal and resentencing williams appealed. as set forth above, this court concluded that the gang enhancements were not supported by substantial evidence and the firearm enhancement on the burglary count should have been imposed under section 12022.5 instead of section 12022.53. burglary is not one of the enumerated felonies to which section 12022.53 juvenile adjudication cannot qualify as a prior strike. the matter was remanded to the trial court with directions. on remand, the trial court sentenced williams to the upper term of six years on count 1 for first degree burglary, doubled to 12 years based on the prior strike, and imposed a 10-year firearm enhancement under section 12022.5, subdivision (a), for a total of 22 years. on count 2 for attempted first degree robbery, the court selected the middle term of two years, doubled to four years based on the prior strike, and imposed a 10-year firearm enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (b), for a total of 14 years. on count 3 for assault with a firearm, the court selected the middle term of three years, doubled to six years based on the prior strike, and imposed a four-year firearm enhancement under section 12022.5, subdivision (a), for a total of 10 years. the court stayed the sentences on counts 2 and 3. iii. second appeal and resentencing williams appealed again. as set forth above, we concluded that the trial court abused its discretion in using the same fact (use of a firearm) to impose both a firearm enhancement and the upper term on the burglary conviction. we vacated the sentence and remanded the matter for resentencing.8 8 we also remanded the matter for correction of clerical errors, which have since been corrected. 6 mitigation that williams was only 19 years old when he committed these crimes. williams only had one other adult conviction, which was for possession for sale of marijuana. the prosecutor noted that williams was arrested for possession for sale of marijuana after he a prior either the prosecutor argued there were three factors in aggravation that supported was that williams was on probation for the juvenile robbery adjudication when he committed these crimes (cal. rules of court, rule 4.421(b)(4)). the trial court imposed the same sentence it had imposed after the first appeal and remand: the upper term of six years on count 1 for first degree burglary, doubled to 12 years based on the prior strike, plus a 10-year term for the firearm enhancement under section 12022.5, subdivision (a), for a total of 22 years. the court imposed and stayed the sentence on counts 2 and 3 (the same sentences it had imposed after the first appeal and remand). the court stated two reasons for its imposition of the upper term on the burglary monetary 7 court, rule 4.421(b)(1)).9 discussion i. upper term on burglary conviction williams contends that the trial court abused its discretion in imposing the upper term sentence on the burglary conviction. he argues that the reasons the court stated for imposing the upper term are improper. the people argue that williams has forfeited this claim by failing to object below (see people v. scott the trial court exercises its sentencing discretion and articulates its supporting reasons either of the two circumstances in aggravation to impose the upper term. he nonetheless ineffective assistance of counsel. because he argues ineffective assistance of counsel, we review his claim. under section 1170, subdivision (b), a trial court has broad discretion in selecting the base term for an offense. (people v. sandoval (2007) 41 cal.4th 825, 847.) the consider the record in the case, the probatireports received pursuant to section 1203.03 and statements in aggravation or mitigation submitted by the prosecution, the defendant, or the victim, or the family of the victim if the victim is deceased, and any further evidence introduced at the sentencing hearing. 9 as the reason for imposing the upper term on the firearm enhancement, the trial court referenced the factor in aggravation set forth in california rules of court, rule and the juvenile delinquent 8 justice. the court shall set forth on the record the reasons for imposing the term selected and the court may not impose an upper term by using the fact of any enhancement upon 1170, subd. (c).) as set forth above, the trial court gave the following courtreasons discussed below, we conclude that neither of these circumstances in aggravation is a proper basis for imposition of the upper term, based on the record before us. attempted taking of great monetary value the evidence presented at trial showed that williams attempted to take a chain from the victim (wideman). the prosecution did not introduce into evidence the chain or a photograph of the chain. at trial, the victim testified as follows regarding the chain: okay. did you have anything around your neck? my rolex chain. okay. can you describe for us what a rolex chain is? its a gold chain. okay. and why do you call it a rolex chain? okay. is it like the band from a watch? yes. all the way around? me 9 the evidence does not demonstrate that williams attempted to take something of 10 the prosecutor did not present any evidence about the value of the chain or evidence tending to show that the chain was real gold or made by the rolex company. the fact that the chain may have had the same type of links as an authentic rolex watch does not show that this particular chain had great monetary value. while there is a possibility this chain had great monetary value, there is also a possibility that this chain was not real gold, but merely gold in color, and had a nominal value. the evidence does not tend to support one possibility over the other. based on the record, the trial court could not properly rely on this factor in imposing the upper term on the burglary conviction. violent conduct the other factor the trial court stated for imposition of the upper term on the olent conduct that indicates conduct that williams engaged inthat is not inherent in the offenses of which he was convictedis the gun use. because the trial court imposed a firearm enhancement based on the gun use, it was improper to impose the upper term on the burglary count based on that same fact. (pen. code,  1170, subd. (b); cal. rules of court, rule 4.420(c).) the people point out that the victim ran into the home and williams followed him inside. the evidence presented at trial indicates that the victim opened the screen door and closed it behind him as he ran inside. then williams opened the screen door and ran inside after the victim. 10 this factor in aggravation. williams points out that, at the time he committed these offenses, section 12022.6, subdivision (a)(1), permitted imposition of a one-year sentence enhancement if the loss of property taken, damaged or destroyed during the commission or attempted commission of a felony exceeded $50,000. the current version of section 12022.6, subdivision (a)(1), requires a loss exceeding $65,000 for imposition of the enhancement. 10 the people assert of first degree bursubd. (a).) a trial court cannot impose an upper term based on conduct inherent in every of the crime upon which punishment is being imposed may not be used to impose a potential for violence but the forcible, open and notorious entry into the home carried with it an entirely additional, separate and different potential and threat for bodily harm potential for violence and the threat of great bodily harm are not the court, rule 4.421(b)(1).) in any event, we note that with regard to the threat of great wideman into the house after wideman ran does not by itself indicate that this crime involved a threat of great bodily injury. the threat of great bodily injury was that williams revealed he had a gun. (see people v. bennett (1981) 128 cal.app.3d 354, 359 people v. alvarado (1982) 133 cal.app.3d 1003, 1028 [great violence/threat of great bodily people v. williams, supra, b218441, pp. 8-9.) as set forth above, the only violent conduct that williams engaged inthat is not inherent in the offenses of which he was convictedis the gun use. that williams chased the victim into the home, opening and closing a screen door as he went, does not 11 conviction. the trial court abused its discretion in imposing a firearm enhancement based on the gun use and also imposing the upper term on the burglary conviction based on that same fact. ineffective assistance of counsel reasrepresentation subjected the [defendant] to prejudice, i.e., there is a reasonable the [din re jones (1996) 13 cal.4th 552, 561.) an informed tactical choice within the range of reasonable competence, the [judgment] must be people v. pope inaction, we reverse. (id. at p. 426.) as discussed above, the circumstances in aggravation that the trial court cited in imposing the upper term on the burglary conviction are not supported by the record. we o object to the use of these factors to impose the upper term constitutes ineffective assistance of counsel. there were other factors the court could have used in imposing the upper term sentence. for example, the people pointed out at the second resentencing hearing that williams was on probation for the juvenile robbery adjudication when he committed the offenses in this case. this is a factor in aggravation supporting imposition of the upper term on the burglary conviction. (cal. rules of court, rule 4.421(b)(4)). in addition, the parties noted at the second resentencing hearing that williams had a subsequent conviction for possession for sale of marijuana, as discussed above. moreover, the trial court imposed the upper term on the firearm enhancement based on a factor which williams does not challenge on appeal 12 that his convictions were numerous or of increasing seriousness. (cal. rules of court, rule 4.421(b)(2).) improper factors would have been futile. we have no reason to believe that an objection conviction. consequently, williams is unable to establish prejudice. williams has not established deficient representation or resulting prejudice. accordingly we reject his ineffective assistance of counsel claim. ii. fees trial court imposed under government code section 7037311 must be stricken.12 williams was convicted of these offenses in 2007. government code section 70373 (added by stats. 2008, ch. 311,  6.5.) became effective on january 1, 2009. the assessment does not apply in cases in which the defendant was convicted before the effective date of the statute. (people v. davis (2010) 185 cal.app.4th 998, 1000-1001.) security fee the trial court imposed under section 1465.8 must be reduced. at the time williams was convicted of these offenses, section 1465.8, subdivision (a)(1), provided for a mandatory $20 fee to be imposed on every criminal conviction to maintain funding for court security. by the time williams was resentenced for the second time in may 2011, the fee had been increased to $40. the trial court imposed a total court security fee of $120 ($40 for each of the three convictions). the fee must be reduced to $60 ($20 for 11 for court facilities, as assessment shall be imposed on every conviction for a criminal offense . . . . the assessment shall be imposed in the amount of thirty dollars ($30) for each misdemeanor or felony and in the amount of thirty-five dollars ($35) for each 12 s transcript, the trial court imposed a $40 fee. the minute order and abstract of judgment state that the court imposed a $30 fee. 13 each of the three convictions) to reflect the correct amount provided for under the statute at the time williams was convicted of these offenses. disposition the court facilities assessment imposed under government code section 70373 is stricken. the court security fee imposed under penal code section 1465.8 is reduced to $60 ($20 for each of the three convictions). as so modified, the judgment is affirmed. the clerk of the superior court is directed to prepare an amended abstract of judgment and to forward it to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published. chaney, j. we concur: mallano, p. j. rothschild, j. 