 filed 1/15/13 p. v. romero ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. fernando romero et al., defendants and appellants. b232533 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya074783) appeal from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, james r. brandlin, judge. affirmed. joseph shipp, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant fernando romero. john steinberg, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant eric de la cruz. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and herbert s. tetef, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendants and appellants, fernando romero and eric de la cruz, appeal their convictions for first degree murder and conspiracy to commit murder, with a principal-armed firearm enhancement (pen. code,  187, 182, 12022).1 they were each sentenced to prison terms of 26 years to life. the judgments are affirmed. background viewed in accordance with the usual rule of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established the following. 1. overview. sonia rios riskin married earl bourdeau, a u.s. naval officer serving in the philippines, and they moved to lomita, california. when bourdeau later said he wanted a divorce, sonia asked him to go to the philippines and talk to her family. bourdeau sonia subsequently married larry riskin, another u.s. naval officer. when riskin later said he wanted a divorce, sonia asked him to go to the philippines and talk to her family. sonia was suspected of involvement in both murders, she was never charged. the media referred to her as the black widow of lomita. sonia operated a beauty salon in lomita. in april 2007, a man tried to force his way into her salon. two days after that, the man returned and shot at her, but the gun bourdeau, inside in her lomita home. she had been shot once in the head. bourdeau was initially the prime suspect, but police then discovered that defendant de la cruz, investigators eventually theorized de la cruz and codefendant romero, a fellow navy sailor, had murdered sonia in the hope of benefitting from her will. 1 all further references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 3 the evidence against the defendants was entirely circumstantial, but very powerful. highlights included the following. a bank account intended for the deposit of d, maria perez. the cell phone used to call sonia just before the man tried to force his way into her salon belonged to romero. de la cruz and romero were on leave from the aircraft carrier u.s.s. ronald reagan when sonia was killed, and cell phone records showed they made numerous calls to each other the night of her death from locations very close to her house. both defendants lied to investigators on numerous occasions and de la cruz tried to provide a false alibi for romero. 2. the extortion attempt. 2006, his sister, sherry jackson, tried to have his ashes returned to the united states for burial. she was told by the embassy that family tried, without success, to obtain his remains. then, on january 6, 2007, jackson received an e- into a request for $35,000 to be deposited into an account at washington mutual bank. there followed other e- paid for on credit.2 jackson forwarded all these e-mails to the fbi. -mail from the same -mail address. jackson was instruname. it turned out this e--mail -mails from de la cruz ou responsible for the death of sonia? my name is eric, 2 this last e-will kill her fi 4 -mails asserted that: john bourdeau was responsible remains could be obtained if and, the sum could be reduced to $52,300 because de la cruz had now raised most of the money himself. jackson never sent him any money. 3. . on april 19, 2007, los angeles county deputy sheriff jeffrey farmar responded a.m. a clean-cut, light-skinned hispanic man with a military-style haircut, who was five eight or nine, 140-150 pounds and 24-26 years old, had walked into the salon and pointed a gun at her face. physical appearance. sonia told farmar she recognized this man from an incident on the day before. (it was subsequently established the first incident had actually taken place two days earlier, on april 17.) sonia received a phone call at the salon from a man who said his name was frank and that he had been referred to her shop for a haircut. sonia told him the shop was closed. a few minutes later a man arrived at the salon, pulled on the locked door and pounded on the glass. sonia did not open the door and the man left. she thought cut and he was clean--i.d. function. she had written the number down on a piece of cardboard and she gave this john bourdeau testified he found sonia in her home, lying face down on the living room floor in a pool of blood. homicide detective michael rodriguez examined the crime scene. there were no signs of burglary or forced entry. sonia had been shot once in the back of the head. there was a nine-millimeter shell casing on the living room rug and a nine-millimeter bullet in a door. the house was neat and nothing seemed to have 5 been disturbed. sonia was wearing jewelry and there was $1,700 in her purse. on a shelf in the bedroom was an empty gun case for a nine-millimeter semiautomatic beretta. the parties stipulated sonia had been killed on the evening of april 26. the monday morning following the thursday night on which sonia had been killed, de la cruz and maria perez were waiting outside in the hall. de la cruz asked if sonia had a will and if she had left anything to him. when stone said he did not think sonia had a will, de la cruz 4. the investigation. criminal investigation service their investigation revealed the following. the account used to send the e-mails to jackson beginning on january 6, 2007, had been created by de la cruz in the name of john bourdeau. these e-mails were sent by someone onboard a navy ship that was part of the pacific fleet, and the u.s.s. ronald reagan was operating in the pacific fleet at the time. on multiple occasions de la -mail account was used to access the yahoo e-mail account he had created supposed to deposit $35,000 to obtain his remains, belonged to maria perez, de la -girlfriend whom he subsequently married. cell phones cannot be used on navy ships in the middle of the ocean because there is no reception, so the navy provides onboard pay phones which can be used with calling cards. from april 13 until april 20, 2007, de la cruz was at sea. on april 20, the u.s.s. ronald reagan returned to san diego. on april 19, a military calling card 6 port. theapril 17 and 19. on the morning of april salon in lomita. this call was placed from a location less than one mile from the salon, and it was made shortly before the man showed up and banged on the window. on the de 26, multiple calls p.m., both p.m., there was a call from de before 9 p.m. on the night she was murdered, and then moving away from her house shortly thereafter. 5. police interviews with de la cruz and romero. when detectives first interviewed de la cruz on may 2, 2007, john bourdeau family member who might provide helpful background information. de la cruz said sonia owned a nine-millimeter beretta. he said sonia and john bourdeau argued about bourdeau using drugs and that sonia did not trust him. de la cruz had arrived in los angeles a few days before sonia was killed, but he did not see her before she died. on the following sunday, bourdeau and de la cruz went to her house. bourdeau took off bourdeau asked de la cruz if was located, or the identity of her attorney. that night, bourdeau called de la cruz and said sonia had given him her nine-millimeter gun. he asked de la cruz to take the gun to san diego, but he later called back and said he was going to keep it. 7 on july 3, 2007, detectives interviewed de la cruz again. he was now a suspect, but they pretended otherwise. de la cruz said he believed bourdeau had sent the e-said he had spoken to sonia when he was in hawaii about the salon shooting incident, but the detectives knew this was impossible.3 de la cruz was interviewed for a third time on may 14, 2008. detectives showed him a photograph of romero and said they believed this man had been involved in given him the phone number of the person who shot at her in the salon. de la cruz said he called the number and discovered it belonged to romero, a friend of his from the navy. romero told de la cruz he had called the salon because he wanted a haircut and because he was looking for de la cruz. de la cruz told the detectives romero could not have been the person who tried to shoot sonia at the salon because romero had been on a ship with him in hawaii at the time. in fact, however, romero was on shore leave at the time of the salon incidents and had flown from hawaii to los angeles on april 10. the detectives also interviewed romero on may 14, 2008. they told him there had been a shooting in lomita and that his phone number had been recorded by the caller-i.d. system at the shooting location. romero said he had never been to lomita. luis marquez was in the navy with the defendants and was close friends with de la cruz. while at sea with de la cruz in early 2007, marquez mentioned he hated his ex-wife and sometimes wished she would die. de la cruz said he could arrange to have her killed, he knew someone who could kill her, and he would even loan marquez the money to pay for it. marquez declined the offer. when marquez made similar remarks on another occasion, de la cruz repeated the offer. marquez did not believe de la cruz was joking because he had a very serious look on his face. 3 at trial, the parties stipulated the u.s.s. ronald reagan departed hawaii on april 13 and arrived in san diego on april happened after de la cruz had already left hawaii. 8 on may 16, detectives interviewed romero a second time. they told him phone records showed he had been in lomita on april 17, 19 and 26. romero denied it. detectives showed him a police sketch based on his denied he was the person depicted in the sketch. in an interview with naval investigators, romero falsely said he had been at sea between april 13 and 20, 2007. on february 3, 2009, de la cruz was interviewed a final time. detectives said they knew he had sent the e--mails had enied sending the e-mails. he denied having killed sonia, but he also said he could not tell detectives the truth because he was concerned about his family. 6. . detectives interviewed perez on two occasions and she testified at the preliminary hearing. she did not testify at trial, but her preliminary hearing testimony was admitted into evidence. perez said that when sonia died, de la cruz and perez were living in carson with de la cruz and sonia were very close; he saw her about 11:00 p.m. and they left early the next morning. they went to the salon and then to arrived at the house, and de la cruz started crying before the police informed them sonia had been shot in the head. police interview, detectives asked her what de la cruz had told celestina happened at hearather, de la cruz was just informing celestina that the police considered him a suspect in her death. 9 regarding the washington mutual bank account referenced in the e-mails sent to her account information and used it in the e-mails. the defendants did not put on any evidence. contentions 1. there was insufficient evidence to sustain romer 3. the trial court gave an erroneous accomplice liability instruction. 4. the prosecutor committed misconduct during closing argument. 5. the trial court gave an erroneous reasonable doubt instruction. 6. there was cumulative error. discussion 1. romero contends there was insufficient evidence for the jury to have found him guilty in this case. this claim is meritless. a. legal principles. review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidence that is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the federal standard of review is to the same effect: under principles of federal due process, review for sufficiency of evidence entails not the determination whether the reviewing court itself believes the evidence at trial establishes guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, but, instead, whether, after viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the standard of review is the same in cases in which the prosecution relies mainly on circumstantial 10 that circumstantial evidence is susceptible of two interpretations, one of which suggests guilt and the other innocence [citations], it is the jury, not the appellate court[,] which court that the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 11.) the reviewing court is to presume the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably deduce from the evidence. (people v. ochoa, supra, 6 cal.4th at p. 1206.) even if the reviewing court believes the circumstantial evidence might be reasonably s alone does not warrant interference with people v. towler (1982) 31 cal.3d 105, 118.) as our supreme court said in people v. rodriguez, supra, 20 cal.4th 1, while reversing an insufficient evidence finding because the reviewing court had rejected contrary, but equally logical, inferences . . amounted to nothing more than a different weighing of the evidence, one the jury might well have considered and rejectedno more inherently speculative id. at p. 12, italics added.) b. discussion. romero argues there was insufficient evidence he entered into an agreement with de la cruz to murder sonia. he argues the evidence showed no real motive for his ained the defendants planned to murder sonia in the hope de la cruz would inherent from her estate, and romero obviously expected to be compensated for his part in this plot. the prosecution theory was that de la cruz wanted romero to kill sonia while de la cruz was at sea so he would have an alibi and could blame the murder on john 11 bourdeau. however, when the shooting at the salon went awry de la cruz came home and, together with romero, murdered sonia at her house. during closing argument, the her firearms. . . that. someone who is a part of the family, knows where that gun is, and then takes it with them. [] . . . [] the reasonable inference, based on the phone conversations between mr. de la cruz and mr. romero while he is at sea, [is that] fernando romero the circumstantial evidence of rooverwhelming. he and de la cruz were friends in the navy and they served together on the u.s.s. ronald reagan. about a week before sonia was murdered, a man entered her beauty salon, pointed a gun at her and apparently tried to shoot her. when he departed, the man uttered a death threat. the evidence showed this man was romero. his cell -i.d. system and phone records showed his close proximity to her salon. de la cruz made five phone calls to romero that day from the u.s.s. ronald reagan. telephone records demonstrated that, on the night sonia was murdered, the defendants started out from different locations, traveled miles of it, and then traveled away from it in different directions. during the ensuing investigation, romero lied to detectives about never having been to lomita and he lied to naval investigators about having been at sea during the salon incidents. de la cruz gave detectives a false alibi for romero regarding the salon incidents. juan h. v. allen (9th cir. 2005) 408 f.3d 1262, is evidence the minor intended to facilitate the shootings or even knew his brother intended does no more than establish that a rational trier of fact could conclude that juan h. knew 12 his brother was armed and ready to confront magdelano and ramirez if the family and home of juan h. were again threatened. that juan h. stood behind his older brother after the family home had been attacked, even if he knew his brother was armed, does not permit the rational inference that he knew his brother would, without provocation, assault id. at p. 1278, fn. omitted.) as the attorney general points out: juan h.suddenly shot the victim without provocation, the evidence in the instant case strongly suggested a party for [her] murder before she was killed, a prior unsuccessful attempt to kill [her], and an execution-style murder . . 2. romero contends the trial court improperly allowed the jury to learn from de la was the person who tried to kill her. romero argues this evidence was inadmissible hearsay and violated his confrontation clause rights. these claims are meritless. a. background. . . gone preliminary hearing. [aranda-bruton4 defense attorney prosecutor was referring to hearsay statements made by de la cruz that incriminated romero and implicated aranda-bruton. the prosecutor pointed out the issue had already 4 bruton v. united states (1968) 391 u.s. 123 [88 s.ct. 1620]; people v. aranda (1965) 63 cal.2d 518. 13 been discussed, and argued there was no aranda-bruton problem because both defendants had denied culpability when they spoke to the police, and the statements were not being offered for their truth. the trial court would give a limiting instruction if appropriate. statements, romero objected to this portion: detectives told de la cruz there had been a break in the case and showed him a photograph of romero, saying this person might have number of the person who tried to shoot her at the salon, that when de la cruz called the number he discovered it was romero, and that romero said he had called the salon because he was trying to get a haircut and also because he was trying to get in touch with de la cruz. the prosecutor argued this evidence was not being offered for its truth, but rather to show de la cruz had been lying to detectives.5 aranda-bruton objection was untimely, because it had not been made pretrial, and overruled his hearsay objection. mr. statements the victim had allegedly made to him. [] those statements attributed to the victim were not admitted to prove the content of what she allegedly said was true, but instead, were admitted for use in determining the credibility or lack of credibility of mr. b. legal principles. as our supreme court explained in people v. lewis (2008) 43 cal.4th 415: criminal defendant has a right, guaranteed by the confrontation clause of the sixth amendment to the united states constitution, to confront adverse witnesses. the right 5 year before he said anything to the police. 14 to confrontation includes the right to cross-examination. [citation.] a problem arises their joint trial. if the declarant codefendant invokes the fifth amendment right against self-incrimination and declines to testify, the implicated defendant is unable to cross-examine the declarant codefendant regarding the content of the confession. bruton [v. united states (1968) 391 u.s. 123 [88 s.ct. 1620], the united states supreme court held that the admission into evidence at a joint trial of a right to cross-examination guaranteed by the confrontation clause, even if the jury is instructed to disregard the confession in determining the guilt or innocence of the defendant. [citation.] the high court reasoned that although juries ordinarily can and contexts in which the risk that the jury will not, or cannot, follow instructions is so great, and the consequences of failure so vital to the defendant, that the practical and human ext is presented accused side-by-side with the defendant, are deliberately spread before the jury in a joint bruton, we had come to a similar conclusion on state law grounds [in people v. aranda (1965) 63 cal.2d 518], but we also concluded that the eliminate references to the defendant without prejudice to the confessing codefendant. [citation.] if not, and the prosecution insists on introducing the confession, the trial court must sever the trials. [citation.] bruton rule in richardson v. marsh (1987) 481 u.s. 200 [95 l. ed. 2d 176,107 s. ct. 1702] . . . . there, defendant marsh into evidence, but it was edited to remove any reference to marsh. the high court held 15 bruton recognized a narrow exception to the general rule that juries are presumed to follow limiting instructions, and this narrow exception should not apply to confessions that are not incriminating on their people v. lewis, supra, 43 cal.4th at pp. 453-454.) ourt decisions on the bruton rule, and most of the state decisions on the issue, concern extrajudicial confessions by a nontestifying codefendant. and both bruton and aranda i.e., a complete and express acknowledgment of intentional participation in a crime. however, both cases statements inculpating the declarant codefendant and the other defendant appear to fall within the rationale of the rule. accordingly, the california supreme court has found the rule applicable to any statement that incriminates a nondeclarant defendant as well as the trial,  432, p. 691.) c. discussion. her. the statement did not violate aranda-bruton because it facially incriminated neither the declarant-codefendant, de la cruz, nor the nondeclarant-codefendant, romero, in richardson v. marsh, supra, 481 u.s. at p. 211 [accomplice statement that incriminates defendant only when considered in conjunction with other evidence does not violate confrontation clause].) as confessed to the crime and in doing so implicated appellant romero as his partner in the crime. . . not a confession and he did not state incriminated romero in the april 19 shooting 16 romero in the charged conspiracy and murder only when linked to other evidence produced at trial. moreover, far from this evidence being powerfully incriminating, de la cruz tried to exculpate his codefendant by insisting to detectives that he could not believe romero had tried to shoot sonia.6 (see, e.g., people v. garcia (2008) 168 cal.app.4th ent . . powerfully incriminating because it facially incriminates ojito only by showing that he and garcia were looking for barajas; it is not direct evidence that ojito intended barajas would be matters asserted; -of-court statements that are not offered for their truth are not hearsay under california law [citations], nor do they run people v. ervine (2009) 47 cal.4th 745, 775-776.) even assuming arguendo this evidence was inadmissible, it was cumulative and therefore harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (see people v. burney (2009) 47 cal.4th aranda/bruton error is not reversible per se, but rather is scrutinized under the harmless-beyond-a-reasonable-because officer farmar testified sonia had told him the same thing, had given him a -i.d. system. in these circumstances, we 6 romero acknowledginvolved because they worked together and [romero] was a family man; maybe his 17 cannot believe the jury would have convicted romero even if this portion of de la 7 in sum, we conclude there was no error in admitting this evidence, and even had there been error it would have been harmless. 3. the trial court did not err by giving calcrim no. 400 on accomplice liability. both defendants contend the trial court erred by instructing the jury with calcrim no. 400 regarding accomplice liability. this claim is meritless. a. legal principles. a person aids and abets the commission of a crime when he or she, (i) with knowledge of the unlawful purpose of the perpetrator, (ii) and with the intent or purpose of committing, facilitating or encouraging commission of the crime, (iii) by act or advice, aids, promotes, encourages or instigates the commisspeople v. cooper (1991) 53 cal.3d 1158, 1164when the crime at issue requires a specific people v. lee (2003) 31 cal.4th 613, 624.) as it goes. but, as we explain, the aider and ab 7 see, e.g., people v. arceo (2011) 195 calcumulative and harmless beyond a reasonable doubt [citation omitted] . . . [because] the jury heard properly admitted testimony that arceo himself told both david and adan that he shot one of the victims, and that sergio told both david and adan the same story. under these circumstances, it is inconceivable that the jury would not have convicted tatement that mejorado told him the same 18 own acts and own people v. mccoy (2001) 25 cal.4th der and abettor liability is . . . vicarious only in the says in essenc . . . . own acts are id. at p. 1118.) in people v. nero (2010) 181 cal.app.4th 504, this court pointed out that in mccoy of greater homicide-related offenses than those the actual perpetrator committed. extending that holding, we conclude that an aider and abettor may be found guilty of lesser homicide-nero, at p. 507.) we found error in nero because the jury asked for clarification of this issue and she can be. the trial court, however, by twice rereading caljic no. 3.00 [predecessor instruction to calcrim no. id. at p. 518.) b. discussion. in the case at bar, the trial court instructed the jury with calcrim no. 400, as guilty of a crime in two ways. one, he or she may have directly committed the crime. i will call that person the perpetrator. [] two, he or she may have aided and abetted a perpetrator who directly committed the crime. [] a person is equally guilty of the crime whether he or she committed it personally, or aided 8 8 calcrim no. she committed it personally or aided an 19 defendants contend this instruction was erroneous because it failed to explain an aider and abettor could be guilty of either a greater or a lesser crime than the direct -instructed that each principal, regardless of the extent or manner of participation is equally guilty. applying this erroneous and misleading instruction, once the jury concluded that romero was the killer and that he was guilty of first-degree murder, appellant was also guilty of first-degree been the triggerman, but neither defendant was charged with personal use of a firearm; and in arguing aiding and abetting, however, it is well-recognized that calcrim no. 400 is, in almost all situations, people v. lopez (2011) 198 cal.app.4th 1106, 1118 . . . , citing  31 and 1 witkin & epstein, cal. criminal law (3d ed. 2000) introduction to crimes,  77, pp. 122-123.) because it is generally true that an aider and abettor is as equally guilty as the direct perpetrator of a crime, the instruction that the court gave was generally accurate. [citation.] given that the instruction was generally accurate, but potentially incomplete in this case since there was evidence from which the jury could have concluded that jeanne had a mental sshe thought that the general instruction would be misleading under the circumstances of this case. by failing to request a modified instruction, jeanne has forfeited this claim. people v. loza (2012) 207 cal.app.4th 332, 349-350.) hence, if romero and de la cruz believed the instruction was inappropriate to the facts of their case, they were obliged to ask for a modification. in any event, it is clear that in the circumstances of this case calcrim no. 400 was not incomplete. as the attorney general points out, the jury necessarily found the defendants possessed the requisite mental state for first degree murder under other 20 instructions. for example, the jury was instructed the prosecution had to prove an aider and abettor knowingly intended 9 members of the alleged conspiracy had an agreement and intent to commit murder.convicting defendants of first degree murder and conspiracy under these instructions, the jury necessarily found they both acted with the requisite mental state for first degree murder. this is not at all a case like people v. samaniego (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 1148, 1162, relied on by defendants, which found calcrim no. 400 inappropriate where the prosecution theorized the defendants had intended to kill victim no. 1, but not finding him at home killed victim no. 2 instead, and there were no eyewitnesses and thus no evidence showing which defendant had been the direct perpetrator. in the case at bar, the jury found the defendants had conspired together to murder sonia and then carried out their plan. the trial court did not err by giving calcrim no. 400. 4. there was no prosecutorial misconduct. defendants contend the prosecutor committed misconduct during closing argument by commenting on their failure to present alibi witnesses. this claim is meritless. a. legal principles. nia law, a prosecutor commits reversible misconduct if he or she the trial court or the jury, and it is reasonably probable that without such misconduct, an outcome more favorable to the defendant would have resulted. [citation.] under the federal constitution, conduct by a prosecutor that does not result in the denial of the invocation of the right to remain silent but is otherwise worthy of condemnation, is not 9 aid, facilitate, promote, encourage, or instigate the 21 in unless in a timely fashion and on the same ground the defendant made an assignment of misconduct and requested that the jury be admonished to disregard the impropriety. people v. dykes (2009) 46 cal.4th 731, 760.) e examine whether there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury would have understood the people v. osband (1996) 13 cal.4th 622, 689.) griffin [v. california (1965) 380 u.s. 609 [85 s.ct. 1229]] forbids argument that people v. avena (1996) 13 cal.4th 394, 443.) prosecutor may not directly or indirectly in his or her own defense. [citation.] but the prosecutor may comment on the state of the evidence, including the failure of the defense to introduce material evidence or to call people v. mincey (1992) 2 cal.4th 408, 446; see, e.g., people v. medina (1995) 11 cal.4th 694, 756 [no griffin directed to the general failure of the defense to provide an innocent explanation as to why defendant was armed . . . b. discussion. prior to closing argument, the trial court sustained a defense objection to the the trial court reasoned this woul-door comment on the assertion of a complicated. in the end, you can walk back there, and you can say oh, my gosh, 22 [de la cruz] set this up in advance. said he was going to kill her as john bourdeau. [] set the deal up with romero. romero is there on all the days that count. sonia gives them the phone number. gives them his physical description. [] they match up on the night of the murder. they lie afterwards. neither one of them has an alibi. neither one think that there would hav despite having made no objection to these remarks at trial, the defendants now his wife as an alibi witness, in view of her assertion of a marital prithe prosecutor did not mention mrs. hearing testimony when he argued that both defendants failed to call alibi witnesses, leaving the unmistakable implication that the defendants failed to call their wives as alibi sses, and the accompanying reference to unmistakably signaled toward eliminating any alibi from a we are not persuaded. as the attorney general rightly asserts, although the trial 23 we find rather far-de ly likely (see people v. osband, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 689) the jury would have gleaned that meaning when the y explained he had interviewed her pursuant to his usual investigative protocol of locking potential witnesses into their statements as early as possible. there was no defense objection to this testimony, and we do not think it reasonable to conclude the jury would have made a subliminal connection between failure of perez to testify at trial, de la cruz does not even try to suggest what would marital privilege at trial.10 rather, it appears that, given the weakness of her preliminary hearing testimony, de la cruz decided it would be counter-productive to call her at trial. there was nothing wrong with the prosecutor commenting on this. t prohibit the prosecution from commenting on the state of the evidence presented at trial, or on the people v. taylor cutor is permitted 10 18, was going to assert the privilege, not de la c 24 . . presented evidence that he was somewhere else when the crime was committed, the people v. brown (2003) 31 cal.4th 518, 554.) people v. gaines (1997) 54 cal.app.4th 821, is gaines did not hold it was improper to alibi defense. rather, in that case comments regarding the failure to produce a particular defense witness were held improper because the prosecutor referred to matters not in evidence, essentially informing the jury what the missing witness would have said on the basis of no evidence whatsoever. (see id. at p. 825.) here, the prosecutor did not refer to produce alibi witnesses. there was no prosecutorial misconduct. 5. the reasonable doubt instruction was not erroneous. this claim is meritless. the trial court gave the jury calcrim no. has been filed against the defendants is not evidence that the charge is true. [] you must not be biased against the defendants just because they have been arrested, charged with a crime, or brought to trial. [] a defendant in a criminal case is presumed to be innocent. this presumption requires that the people prove a defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [] whenever i tell you the people must prove something, i mean they must prove it beyond a reasonable doubt. [] proof beyond a reasonable doubt is proof that leaves you with an abiding conviction that the charge is true. [] the evidence need not eliminate all possible doubt, because everything in life is open to some possible or imaginary doubt. [] in deciding whether the people have proved their case beyond a 25 reasonable doubt, you must impartially compare and consider all the evidence that was received throughout the entire trial. [] unless the evidence proves the defendants guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, they are entitled to an acquittal, and you must find ics added.) romero contends this instruction was erroneous for two reasons. first, by telling of evidence, not however, both of these claims have been repeatedly rejected by other courts, with whose reasoning we agree. the people may not meet their burden of proof based on evidence other than that offered at trial. the instruction does not tell the jury that it may not consider any perceived lack (people v. westbrooks (2007) 151 cal.app.4th 1500, 1509; accord people v. garelick (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 1107, 1117; people v. campos (2007) 156 cal.app.4th 1228, 1238; people v. flores (2007) 153 cal.app.4th 1088, 1093; people v. hernandez rios (2007) 151 cal.app.4th 1154, 1157.) apeople v. stone (2008) 160 cal.app.4th 323, 334; accord, people v. zepeda (2008) 167 cal.app.4th 25, 31, fn. equal force to the language of calcrim no. people v. carillo (2008) 26 163 y of the instruction . . 6. there was no cumulative error. romero contends the cumulative prejudicial effect of the various trial errors he has raised on appeal requires the reversal of his convictions. however, we have found at fundamentally unfair. (see people v. vieira identified only one harmless error . . people v. jenkins prejudicial effect of the various errors he has raised on appeal requires reversal of the guilt and penalty judgments. we have rejected his assignments of error, with limited exceptions in which we found the error to be nonprejudicial. considered together, any fundamentally unfair, even if we consider the cumulative impact of the few errors that occurred. 27 disposition the judgments are affirmed. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: kitching, j. aldrich, j. 