filed 4/26/12 p. v. jackson ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. charles allen jackson, defendant and appellant. b232278 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma045723) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, thomas r. white, judge. affirmed. suzann e. papagoda, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, taylor nguyen and michael j. wise, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________ 2 after the trial court denied his motion to suppress evidence under penal code section 1538.5,1 defendant and appellant charles a. jackson entered a plea of no contest to counterfeiting a state of california seal in violation of section 472 and admitted suffering a prior conviction under the three strikes law ( 1170.12, subds. (a)(d), 667, subds. (b)(i)). a misdemeanor charge was dismissed under the case settlement. the court imposed a sentence of the low term of 16 months in state prison doubled, pursuant to the three strikes law, for a total of 32 months. execution of sentence was suspended and defendant was placed on formal probation for a period of three years. in this timely appeal from the judgment, defendant contends the evidence of the offense was the product of a warrantless search that violated the fourth amendment. we affirm. proceedings on the motion to suppress defendant filed a motion to suppress a picture identification card obtained during a section 8 compliance investigation.2 deputy sheriff james speed testified for the prosecution. on may 18, 2009, he and deputy grijalva accompanied section 8 officer mullins to the home of section 8 housing funds recipient varla wisniewski to check whether she lived there and whether any unauthorized individuals lived with her. deputy speed was not there to investigate criminal activity. wisniewski and defendant were in the house. deputy speed had defendant come outside onto the front porch, where deputy speed asked defendant his name, and defendant replied his name was kevin boozer. deputy speed asked defendant if he had 1 all statutory references are to the penal code unless indicated otherwise. 2 section 8 is a federal housing subsidy program administered by the united states -income families in obtaining a decent place to live and of promoting economically mixed c.  1437f.) 3 ve deputy speed permission to enter her house and showed him which bedroom to examine. deputy speed went upstairs to get the identification pocket or from a wallet in dephotograph on the card depicted defendant. defendant said it was his identification. the trial court denied the motion to suppress. discussion defendant contends the search was unreasonable and violated the fourth amendment. we disagree with the contention. standard of review motion to suppress, the trial court finds the historical facts, then resolution of the factual inquiry under the deferential substantial-evidence standard. the ruling on whether the applicable law applies to the facts is a mixed question of law and people v. saunders (2006) 38 people v.] hernandez [(2008)] 45 cal.4th [295,] 298-(people v. greenwood (2010) 189 cal.app.4th 742, 745.) section 8 housing rules title 24 code of federal regulations section 982.551 provides in pertinent part: -- (1) the family must use the assisted unit for composition of the assisted family residing in the unit must be approved by the pha. the family must promptly inform the pha of the birth, adoption or court-awarded 4 custody of a child. the family must request pha approval to add any other family member as an occupant of the unit. no other person may reside in the unit (except for a foster child or live- regulatory searches under the fourth amendment 3] protects against unreasonable searches and seizures. (u.s. const., 4th amend.; terry v. ohio people v. greenwood, supra, 189 cal.app.4th at p. 746.) the burden is on the prosecution to establish that a warrantless search was justified by an exception to the warrant requirement. (people v. camacho (2000) 23 cal.4th 824, 830.) an administrative or regulatory regulatory scheme in furtherance of an administrative purpose, rather than as part of a are administrative searches may be conducted without probable cause in part because they of an intrusion on personal privacy and dignity than that which administrative or regulatory searches are often conducted under circumstances where the burden of obtaining a warrant would frustrate the governmental purpose behind the estes v. rowland (1993) 14 cal.app.4th 508, 522.) if the searches were authorized as regulatory searches, the court was authorized, and 3 persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated, and no warrants shall issue, but upon probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be searched, and the persons or 5 indeed obligated, to analyze the manner in which the searches were conducted to insure administrat[] to meet the test of reasonableness, an administrative screening search must be as limited in its intrusiveness as is consistent with satisfaction of the administrative need ingersoll v. palmer touchstone for all issues under the fourth amendment and article i, section 13 of the estes v. rowland, supra, 14 cal.app.4th at pp. 523-people v. hyde [(1974) 12 cal.3d 158, 166], quoting camara v. municipal court (1967) 387 u.s. 523, 536-estes v. rowland, supra, at p. 523.) the prohibition [against warrantless entry to search for specific objects] does not apply . . . to situations in which voluntary consent has been obtained, either from the individual whose property is searched, see schneckloth v. bustamonte, 412 u.s. 218, 36 l. ed. 2d 854, 93 s. ct. 2041 (1973), or from a third party who possesses common authority over the premises, see united states v. matlock (ill. v. rodriguez (1990) 497 u.s. 177, 181; accord, people v. boyer (2006) 38 cal. 4th 412, 445 [a warrantless search may, of course, be based on the consent of a person, other than the accused, who has joint dominion or control over the area or thing to be identification card resulted from a proper regulatory search. deputy speed was not conducting a criminal investigation for evidence of a crime. his purpose was to investigate the sethe aid recipient and approved members of her family reside in the home. (24 c.f.r.  982.551(h).) the presence of an adult male who stated his pants were upstairs in his bedroom reasonably gave rise to a suspicion defendant lived there in violation of section 6 would provide identification and residence information relevant to the compliance check. depulimited to retrieving one specific object from one specific location, the pocket of would be found. wisniewski admitted deputy speed into the premises and showed him voicing protest or disapproval, knowing what deputy speed intended to do, indicates the intrusion on his privacy and dignity interests was not great. balancing the need to inspect the intrusion was reasonable for the purpose of satisfying the regulatory need that justified it. the fourth amendment was not violated. disposition the judgment is affirmed. kriegler, j. we concur: turner, p. j. armstrong, j. 