filed 9/21/12 p. v. polyvko ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. valentin polyvko, defendant and appellant. b232213 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba377915) appeal from an order of the superior court of the county of los angeles, gail ruderman feuer, judge. affirmed. jamilla moore, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury found defendant and appellant valentin polyvko (defendant) guilty of corporal injury to his spouse, and the trial court sentenced him to a three-year prison term. on appeal, his appointed counsel filed a brief pursuant to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 requesting that this court independently review the entire record to reversal or modification of the judgment. based on our independent review of the record, we affirm the judgment. factual background on november 16, 2009, city of los angeles police officer juan cobian was assigned to the hollywood division. at approximately 11:40 p.m., he responded to 5526 carlton way in los angeles. he went to an apartment and noticed a five-gallon water bottle broken on the kitchen floor. he encountered defendant, his wife, irina, and their son george. during his interview with irina, she told him that when she came home from work, she discovered that defendant had been drinking. irina then began to drink beer. after she drank three beers, she saw defendant knock over the water bottle in the kitchen. efendant and irina to protect her. ge became involved in a physical altercation. according to officer cobian, irina stated that it was defendant who called the police. officer cobian explained that during his investigation of the incident, he observed that speaking. as officer cobian attempted to interview defendant, he became upset and 3 started screaming at irina. officer cobian detained defendant pending further investigation. on november 6, 2010the conviction was basedmagda seyranyan was the manager of the apartment building at 1743 garfield place in los angeles. defendant, his wife, son, and daughter lived in the loor unit. at about 10:30 p.m., seyranyan heard several people banging on her door and telling her to call the police. although she was afraid, seyranyan eventually called the police. during the 911 call, seyranyan told the [the police should] come because . . . i think she died now inside the car[.] can you think killed the wife[.] on november 6, 2010, city of los angeles police officer jose lepe was working as a uniform patrol officer in the hollywood division. at approximately 10:20 p.m., he and his partner received a radio call concerning an assault with a deadly weapon and they responded to 1743 garfield place. at the scene, officer lepe observed defendant and his son george. defendant appeared intoxicated. the officer also met with seyranyan who told him that irina was inside a car. irina was unconscious laying across the back seat of called for an ambulance because irina was unresponsive. officer lepe then spoke with seyranyan who pointed to defendant and george and defendant and irina were always fighting and that irina had told her several times that irina screaming for help and the sounds of someone being hit and thrown against the wall. when officer lepe spoke with george that night, he observed a scrape on 4 officer lepe did not observe any injuries to irina at the scene, he conducted a follow-up investigation at the hospital during which the doctor and nurse described and showed him on november 7, 2010, city of los angeles police officer frank marmolejo was assigned to the hollywood division. around 7:00 a.m., he was directed to proceed to the emergency room at kaiser hospital and speak to a victim. at the hospital, officer marmolejo spoke with irina. at first, irina seemed hesitant to speak with the officer, but eventually she began to answer questions. she told the officer that defendant always beat her up when he drank. the beatings had been ongoing for a year. irina also told him that she was afraid to call the police. according to irina, the incident on november 6, 2010, began when defendant and george engaged in a fist fight. when she tried to separate the men, defendant stopped assaulting george and began to punch her with both fists. he punched her in her arms and back, and then threw her on the floor. defendant also kicked irina 10 times with his bare foot in her legs and back. at some point, irina lost with her. on february 3, 2011, at 12:35 p.m., city of los angeles police officer colin subpoena. seyranyan told officer langsdale that since approximately the summer of 2010, defendant was usually drunk, and he was not as friendly as he had been before. could not understand what was being said. the next day, when seyranyan saw irina wearing a sling, irina explained that a door had fallen on her and broke her arm. when george was not home and before george was released from jail. the fighting became worse after george returned home from jail. on november 6, 2010, seyranyan heard arguing and loud noises similar to previous noises she heard, as if a 5 heavy object was hispanic teenagers. his hands were bloody and he had a scratch on his back. defendant testified on his own behalf and denied striking irina on the night of the november 6, 2010, incident or on the night of the november 16, 2009, prior incident. according to defendant, it was george who assaulted irina on both occasions. procedural background in an information, the los angeles county district attorney charged defendant with corporal injury to his spouse in violation of penal code section 273.5, subdivision (a). defendant pleaded not guilty. following trial, the jury found defendant guilty as charged in the information. at the sentencing hearing, the trial court denied probation and sentenced defendant to the middle term of three years. the trial court awarded 302 days of custody credit, consisting of 151 days of actual custody credit and 151 days of conduct credit. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion as noted above, appointed counsel filed an opening brief in accordance with people v. wende, supra, 25 cal.3d 436. we gave notice to defendant that his appointed counsel had not found any arguable issues and that defendant had 30 days within which to submit by brief or letter any grounds of appeal, contentions, or arguments he wanted us to consider. defendant did not file a supplemental brief. we examined the entire record to determine if there were any arguable issues on appeal. based on that independent review, we have determined there are no arguable issues on appeal. we are thersatisfied her responsibilities under people v. wende, supra, 25 cal.3d 436. 6 disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports mosk, j. we concur: turner, p. j. armstrong, j. 