filed 2/7/14 p. v. miller ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. herbert charles miller et al., defendants and appellants. b232167 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta112805) appeal from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, david sotelo, judge. judgments are affirmed as modified. joanna mckim, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant herbert charles miller. gail harper, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant javone lamar brown. richard d. miggins, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant jeffrey mcleod. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and mark e. weber, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendants and appellants, herbert charles miller, javone lamar brown and jeffrey mcleod appeal their convictions for two counts of first degree murder with multiple-murder special circumstance findings, and firearm use, criminal street gang, and prior serious felony conviction enhancements (pen. code,  187, 190.2, subd. (a)(3), 12022.53, 186.22,subd. (b), 667, subds. (a) (i)).1 defendants were sentenced to state prison for life without the possibility of parole. the judgments are affirmed as modified. background viewed in accordance with the usual rule of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established the following. 1. prosecution evidence. a. the nutty blocc crip gang. the nutty blocc crips2 are one of the oldest street gangs in compton. they originally referred to themselves as the grandee boys in reference to a local housing crip gang gang to signify they were the craziest gang in compton. the nutty blocc crip gang consists of different sets or cliques based largely on age. at the top, and the most powerful, are original gangsters. next in line are original baby gangsters, followed by baby gangsters, original tiny gangsters and then tiny gangsters. defendants herbert charles , javone lamar and - 1 all further references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 2 3 brown and miller were baby gangsters; mcleod was either an original tiny gangster or a tiny gangster. b. the shooting of nakia wheeler and michael leggette. nakia wheeler lived at 1027 south exmoor avenue in compton. he had grown up in the exmoor neighborhood and people knew he was a marijuana dealer. although wheeler was not a gang member, he had never had any issues with the nutty blocc crips experience dealing with the nutty blocc crip gang. he had never encountered either wheeler or leggette, and he had no reason to believe wheeler was a nutty blocc crip gang member. in the late afternoon on november 9, 2005, several teenage boys were standing on the 1100 block of south exmoor avenue, which was within nutty blocc crip territory. a black pontiac grand am with tinted rear windows drove slowly up and down the street, and then pulled up next to the teenagers. they could see two african american men in the car, the driver and a front seat passenger, but because of the tinted windows they could not see if anyone was in the back. the teenagers could not identify either the driver or the passenger with any certainty. the passenger asked if the teenagers were affiliated with a tagging crew. when a few hours later, around 8:15 p.m., nakia wheeler pulled into his driveway in a red ford explorer. michael leggette was either in the vehicle with wheeler or waiting ghbor then heard a gunshot, the sounds of someone running, and then more gunshots. the first gunshot was not as loud as the ones that followed. other neighbors who heard the gunfire also testified the initial shot seemed to come from a less powerful weapon than the remaining shots. 4 a neighbor who lived on the 1100 block of exmoor saw a dark pontiac or oldsmobile drive down his street around 5:00 or 6:00 p.m. later that evening, the neighbor was inside his home when he heard gunshots. as he went to close his front door, he saw two people firing weapons while standing by this same car. the gunmen two people outside the car firing weapons. one of the teenagers who had seen the pontiac grand am a few hours earlier saw the same car drive southbound on exmoor right after the shootings. leggette was found lying unconscious on the front lawn of 1035 exmoor. he died from a gunshot wound to the back. wheeler was found face down on the ground in the back yard of 1026 exmoor. he had been shot in the back, arm, and elbow. wheeler, too, died from his wounds. -thigh. two $5 bills and one $1 bill the ignition. the suv reeked of marijuana, but no sizable amount of the drug was found inside the vehicle. no significant amount of money was found in or near the vehicle. spent 7.62 by 39 millimeter rifle cartridge cases were found in the street. ballistics tests showed two guns had been fired at the scene: a .45 caliber semiautomatic handgun and a semiautomatic rifle. a ruger mini 30 rifle is one of the weapons that typically fires a 7.62 by 39 millimeter bullet. d.p. was about two blocks east of exmoor when she heard the gunshots. within minutes after the gunfire ended, defendants brown and mcleod, along with an unidentified third man, ran past d.p. toward the grandees housing project. this happened so soon after the gunfire that d.p. thought brown and mcleod were the ones being shot at. 5 c. in the aftermath of the shootings. the morning after the killings, d.p. overheard brown and mcleod at the grandees laughing and bragging to other nutty blocc crip memthey had obtained a lot of money by robbing wheeler. d.p. was in the habit of buying marijuana from wheeler on a daily basis. wheeler slike the kind wheeler used to sell d.p.3 before wheeler was killed, brown had not sold marijuana. d.h. was born in compton and became a nutty blocc crip when he was 12 years old. he and mcleod had been friends for years. d.h. also knew miller. d.h. had seen miller with a black ak-47 rifle before the killings. miller described the model as a -a .45-tte and wheeler were killed. the morning after the killings, mcleod told d.h. that he, miller and brown had robbed and killed wheeler. an living in the grandees neighborhood when she was 11 or 12 years old. miller moved in next door. when m.h. was 14 years old, miller began forcing her to have sex with him. he subsequently kidnapped her and forced her to have sex with other men who paid miller for her services. miller also physically abused m.h. their relationship ended in december 2005 when the police rescued her from a bellflower motel. during october-november 2005, m.h. saw miller in possession of a handgun. he also kept guns in the trunk of his car and he would switch guns with 3 same ingredients of the weed, like, the cru 6 mcleod. a day or two after the killings, miller in in 2005, miller owned a black 1999 pontiac grand am with tinted rear windows. no one else in the neighborhood owned a car that looked like his car. three days after the killings he had the car painted gold. in december 2005, detective cochran searched trunk he found two boxes of ammunition and a police scanner. the ammunition was not the same caliber as any of the spent cartridges found at the crime scene. s.t. was the girlfriend of a nutty blocc crip gang member who was close to brown. the boyfriend and brown shared an ak-47. after the boyfriend was murdered s.t. herself became an active nutty blocc crip member in early 2006. she committed a home invasion and 10 snatch-and-grab robberies with other nutty blocc crip members. brown committed some of these robberies with her. in march 2006, she and brown began a sexual relationship that lasted until brown was arrested and went to jail in april 2006. in january 2006, brown informed the department of corrections he was living in long beach with s.t., whom he pretended was his sister. brown told s.t. to make sure said he, mcleod and someone named j-capone had shot and killed two people on exmoor. brown said he had used an ak-47 weapon to shoot one victim and mcleod had shot the other. brown said they killed the victims for breaking into in september 2009, d.h. was transported from jail to the compton courthouse in to s 7 while s.t. was waiting to testify in this case, miller wrote letters urging her not to take the oath so the prosecutor could not use her police statements. miller also gave her instructions on how to testify and said he believed she had already fulfilled her agreement miller because they contained details only he would know. a few days before trial was originally scheduled to start, miller began calling m.h. and leaving her unwanted voicemail messages. m.h. told detective cochran she thought miller was possibly trying to dissuade her from testifying.4 d. expert testimony. s a gang expert. committing member typically commits crimes with other gang members. this gives the first gang member reassurance he will have support in committing the crime, and that he will have someone who can attest to fellow gang members he put in work for the gang. gangs obtain money by committing robberies and selling drugs. a gang would want to control the sale of drugs within its territory. gaining other gaact of violence is one way to gain respect. the more violent a gang member is, the more respect he gains. a gang member who cooperates with the authorities risks being killed. detective duncan testified as an expert on the nutty blocc crips, whose primary activities included drug trafficking, robberies, shootings and murders. one reason for a gang to claim territory is in order to control whatever crime occurs within that area. a gang mabout the work one has done is a way to gain status. a nutty blocc crip who lied about having put in work would risk a punishment ranging from being beaten to being killed. 4 man what the fuck is the deal man . . . . [w]hats [sic] the deal like we just have a lot to talk about . . . [y]ou got a lot of little shit goin. 8 as a result, gang members generally tell the truth to fellow gang members and try to accurately account for the crimes they have committed. duncan opined the leggette-wheeler killings had been committed to benefit the nutty blocc crip gang. killing a drug dpermission would show people that this behavior would not be tolerated. it also would give the perpetrators something to brag about. 2. defense evidence. a. defense investigator malcolm richards determined d.p. had been standing about 95 feet from brown and mcleod when she purportedly overhead them talking about the robbery. informants have been used in this case, but at this point the true motive for that the past certain facts in corroborated [sicduncan w-custody gang members . . . to provide b. fense. mcleod did not present any witnesses. c. (1) miller presented an alibi defense, asserting that at the time leggette and wheeler were shot in compton, he was receiving medical treatment in lancaster. medical records from lancaster community hospital (lch) showed miller had been treated for a gunshot wound in july 2003. on november 9, 2005, jacqueline lord was working as an emergency-room nurse at lch. at 9:21 p.m. that night, she conducted a triage assessment for a man complaining of abdominal pain. this man gave his name as herbert miller, but lord 9 testified she did not recognize defendant miller as the man she treated that night. on the assessment form, lord recorded that the patient was 5 feet 6 inches tall and weighed 165 pounds. miller, however, was 6 feet 2 inches and weighed about 200 pounds. the patient told lord he had not had any prior surgeries and he did not mention having sustained a prior abdominal gunshot wound. sometime before 1:24 a.m., the patient left the emergency room without having been seen by a doctor. p.m. on november 9, 2005. handwriting on the form declared it had been filled out at 8:00 p.m. it can take 30 minutes or more to check in at the emergency room, depending on how busy the staff is. a blank lch triage registration form could be obtained and filled out at any time prior to being submitted to the emergency room. arline, lived in lancaster. on november 9, 2005, around 6:00 or 6:30 p.m., miller arrived at her home in pain and holding his stomach. earline drove him to lch in his black grand am. after waiting in the emergency room for a few hours she drove home, leaving miller at the hospital. earline then returned to lch about 10:30 p.m. and brought miller back to her house, where he spent the night. kurt kuhn and barbara torres were handwriting experts. kuhn was privately employed and torres worked for the shernovember 9, 2005, lch emergency room forms. kuhn opined it was highly probable, although not conclusive, that miller had filled out one portion of the lch registration form. torres opined there was a strong likelihood miller had filled out a hand-printed portion of the lch registration form. however, neither kuhn nor torres could say when these forms had been filled out. (2) . miller testified he was born in compton. when he was 15 or 16 his family moved to nestor avenue, about eight blocks from exmoor. he joined the nutty blocc crips in middle school, but did not participate in gang activities. although miller had been a nutty blocc crip for 17 or 18 years, in all that time he had never put in any work for the gang. 10 miller testified he stopped associating with the gang in june 2005 because he . killings occurred, he was not associating with any nutty blocc crip gang members . he was identifying himself as a member of the gang. miller knew brown was in the nutty blocc crips. he and brown were on bad terms and they stayed away from each other. miller did not know mcleod personally, just from around the neighborhood. miller had known wheeler since grade school and they remained friends. wheeler was accepted by nutty blocc crip gang members and he socialized with them at picnics and parties. on the day leggette and wheeler were killed, miller dropped his stepchildren off at school in the morning and then drove to long beach community college, where he stayed until 5:00 p.m. from long beach he drove to lancaster, where his daughter lived with her mother. but miller was not supposed to visit unannounced, so he went to his l pains, his mother drove him to lch. at about 8:00 p.m., he filled out various hospital forms. he met with nurse lord and told her he had stomach pains, although he really had herpes. he did not tell lord about the herpes because he wanted to talk to a doctor.5 he lied when he told lord he had not had prior surgeries because it was beside the point; he just wanted attention for his abdominal pains. miller waited until midnight without seeing a doctor and then left the hospital because his pain had subsided. he called his mother, who picked him up and brought him back to her house where he spent the night. he left the next morning at 6:00 a.m. and returned to his apartment in compton. his girlfriend was there when he arrived. 5 t want her to know what it was. i was in a white hospital. i didn 11 later that day, miller learned leggette and wheeler had been killed the night before. when he heard people were saying his car had been used in the killings, he was girlfriend and her children, who lived with him, might be in danger because of the rumors. in november 2005, miller owned a black, two-door 1999 pontiac grand am. he did not know of anyone else in the neighborhood who had a car like his at that time. he had the car painted on november 12 because of the rumors connecting it to the leggette-wheeler killings. said it was not a good idea for him to approach her. he denied having instructed m.h. to s mother that some mexicans had killed her son. rather, miller was trying miller testified the ammunition and police scanner detective cochran found in his car did not belong to him. he denied having accosted d.h. on the bus ride to the preliminary hearing; he did not speak to d.h., threaten him or spit on him, and nobody else did either. he wrote one letter to s.t. because it was the five-year anniversary of her about this case and no one did so on his behalf. miller denied having had sex with m.h. the photographs of her found on the 3. detective cochran interviewed miller twice and both interviews were recorded. cochran was accompanied by his partner, who was a woman. miller told them his medical reason for going to the hospital involved his penis. he was not shy about discussing this and even offered to show them his penis. 12 nt elizer vega stopped miller for a traffic violation on december 6, 2005. miller was driving a gold grand am. vega drove miller to a motel in bellflower where vega found a 14-year-old girl in one of the rooms. there was a box of condoms in the room. as the officers were escorting the girl from the motel, miller -to-day movement of prisoners to and from jails, prisons and courts. he testified deputies uriostegui and voorhees transported d.h. and the defendants from jail to the compton courthouse on september 15, 2009. d.h. was the first prisoner to get on the bus; brown boarded a minute later, and then mcleod and miller five minutes after brown. 4. evidence. defendants from jail to the preliminary hearing. he did not recall any unusual incidents that day, and no threats or assaults had been reported to him. however, it would have been possible for a general-population prisoner to spit on a prisoner sitting in one of the keep-away cages on the bus. transported d.h. and defendants from jail to the preliminary hearing. voorhees did not recall any unusual incidents that day. no one reported to him about having been threatened or spat on. however, it can be noisy on the bus and the deputies have no way of knowing everything that goes on. miller testifithan two months before the trial. on cross-examination, he denied having testified earlier that he got the tattoo two years ago in 2008. miller testified he signed his name differently at different times because no one had ever told him it was important to be consistent. 13 contentions 2. there was insufficient evidence to support the multiple-murder special circumstance finding against miller. 3. brown was the victim of vindictive prosecution. 4. the trial court erred by not bifurcating the gang enhancement allegations. 5. the trial court committed misconduct by making improper comments during voir dire. -judicial statements. 7. the trial court erred by admitting consciousness of guilt evidence relating to elationship with m.h. 9. the trial court erred by admitting evidence miller tried to intimidate a prosecution witness. 10. the trial court erred by excluding evidence a prosecution witness had committed an unrelated murder. , 11. the trial court erred by not compelling a prosecution witness to identify another potential witness. 12. the trial court erred by allowing a prosecution witness to testify while wearing sunglasses. 13. the trial court erred by admitting evidence about the possession of certain guns and ammunition. 14. there was prosecutorial misconduct. 15. defendants were entitled to a voluntary manslaughter instruction. 16. there was cumulative error. 17. miller was entitled to have counsel reappointed after his post-conviction decision to represent himself. 18. there were various sentencing errors. 14 discussion 1. . defendants contend their murder convictions must be reversed for lack of sufficient evidence. they contend there was insufficient evidence to prove their involvement in the killings or, if they had been involved, that they had committed first degree murder. these claims are meritless. a. legal principles. review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidence that is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the federal standard of review is to the same effect: under principles of federal due process, review for sufficiency of evidence entails not the determination whether the reviewing court itself believes the evidence at trial establishes guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, but, instead, whether, after viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the standard of review is the same in cases in which the prosecution relies mainly on circumstantial efendant if it finds that circumstantial evidence is susceptible of two interpretations, one of which suggests guilt and the other innocence [citations], it is the jury, not the appellate court[,] which court that the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 11.) the reviewing court is to presume the existence of every fact the trier of fact could reasonably deduce from the evidence. (people v. ochoa, supra, 6 cal.4th at p. 1206.) even if the reviewing court believes the circumstantial evidence might be reasonably 15 people v. towler (1982) 31 cal.3d 105, 118.) it does not matter that contrary inferences could have been reasonably derived from the evidence. as our supreme court said in people v. rodriguez, supra, 20 cal.4th 1, while reversing an insufficient evidence finding because the reviewing court had rejected contrary, but reasoning . . . amounted to nothing more than a different weighing of the evidence, one the jury might well have considered and rejected. the attorney genfrom the evidence were no more inherently speculative (id. at p. 12, italics added.) s the commission of a crime when he or she, (i) with knowledge of the unlawful purpose of the perpetrator, (ii) and with the intent or purpose of committing, facilitating or encouraging commission of the crime, (iii) by act or advice, aids, promotes, encoupeople v. cooper crime nor knowledge of, but failure to prevent it, is sufficient to establish aiding and abetting its commiconsidered in making the determination of aiding and abetting are: presence at the scene (people v. campbell (1994) 25 cal.app.4th 402, 409.) b. discussion. (1) several incriminating admissions showed the defendants had been involved in the killings. the day after the killings, d.p. overheard mcleod and brown laughing and bragging about having robbed wheeler. that same day, mcleod told d.h. that all three defendants had robbed and killed wheeler. within a few months of the killings, brown told s.t. that he and mcleod had shot and killed two people on exmoor and that he had used an ak-47 to shoot one of the victims. 16 the evidence tended to show miller had been driving the car. he owned a black pontiac grand am with tinted rear windows and he acknowledged nobody else in the neighborhood owned a car like his in november 2005. a black pontiac grand am with tinted rear windows was seen going down exmoor, where wheeler lived, a few hours before the killings. someone in the car called out nutty blocc crip gang slogans and then the car drove off. the car returned to exmoor a few hours later and the two gunmen stood by the car while shooting the victims. the car drove away immediately after the shooting stopped. a day or two after the killings, miller instructed m.h. to tell killings, miller had his car painted gold. the evidence tended to show brown and mcleod had been the gunmen. just after the gunfire stopped, they were seen running from the shooting scene toward the nutty time to the gunfire that a witness thought brown and mcleod were the ones being shot at. within days of the killings brown, who had not previously sold marijuana, began selling a product that was similar to, and had the same packaging as, the marijuana wheeler had been selling. defendants either possessed or had access to the kinds of guns used in the killings. one had been a .45 caliber handgun and the other was a semiautomatic rifle, most likely a -had access to an ak-47 semiautomatic rifle, and he told s.t. he had used an ak-47 rifle to kill one of the victims. brown possessed a .45 caliber handgun and d.h. saw this there was evidence miller wrote to s.t., trying to convince her not to testify against him. miller began calling m.h. just before the trial was scheduled to start and left messages she interpreted as urging her not to testify. there was evidence miller and his mother gave false testimony at trial in order to provide him with an alibi. the evidence tended to show miller had prepared this false alibi in anticipation of carrying 17 out the killings by filling out portions of the lch emergency room forms prior to november 9, 2005, so he would have an alibi for when he was driving brown and mcleod to the crime scene. in sum, there was ample evidence the defendants had been involved in the killings. (2) evidence of first degree murder. the trial court instructed the jury on two theories of first degree murder, premeditated murder and robbery felony murder, as well as on the principles of aiding and abetting liability. there was sufficient evidence to support either theory and the jurors did not have to agree on which one was correct. ws only a single discrete crime but leaves room for disagreement as to exactly how that dpeople v. russo (2001) 25 cal.4th 1124, 1132.) if the jury believed the defendants had been motivated by a desire to punish the victims for n it was reasonable to rely on a premeditation and deliberation theory. if the jury believed defendants had been motivated by a desire to commit robbery, then it was reasonable to rely on a felony murder theory. (a) evidence of premeditation and deliberation. the various types of premeditation and deliberation evidence have been described finding of premeditation and deliberation falls into three basic categories: (1) facts about how and what defendant did prior to the actual killing which show that the defendant was engaged in activity directed toward, and explicable as intended to result in, the killing prior relationship and/or conduct with the victim from which the jury could reasonably infer a (3), would in turn support an inference that th-existing 18 facts about the nature of the killing from which the jury could infer that the manner of killing was so particular and exacting that the defendant must have intentionally killed according to a jury can reasonably infer from facts of type (1) or (2). [] analysis of the cases will show that this court sustains verdicts of first degree murder typically when there is evidence of all three types and otherwise requires at least extremely strong evidence of (1) or evidence of (2) in conjunction with either (1) or people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15, 26-27.) the evidence showed several motives for the killings. detective duncan testified one reason gangs claim territory is to control whatever crime occurs in that area. the trial evidence suggested the defendants killed leggette and wheeler to punish them for would want to control the sale of drugs within its territory suggested the defendants could have been motivated to kill wheeler for selling drugs in their territory. in this scenario, leggette could have been killed either because the defendants thought he was selling lling. there was evidence of planning activity because the defendants brought loaded guns to the crime scene. (see, e.g., people v. miranda (1987) 44 cal.3d 57, 87, disapproved on other grounds by people v. marshall (1990) 50 cal.3d 907 defendant brought his loaded gun into the store and shortly thereafter used it to kill an unarmed victim reasonably suggests that defendant considered the possibility of people v. alcala (1984) 36 cal.3d 604, 626, superseded by statute on other grounds as stated in people v. falsetta . . . brings along a deadly weapon which he subsequently employs, it is reasonable to there was also manner-of-killing evidence tending to show premeditation and deliberation because this was essentially a drive-by shooting in which the unarmed victims were shot in the back. (see people v. silva (2001) 25 cal.4th 345, 19 manner of killing multiple shotgun wounds inflicted on an unarmed and defenseless victim who posed no threat to defendant is entirely consistent with a premeditated and people v. vorise (1999) 72 cal.app.4th 312, 318-319 [premeditation and deliberation established where evidence showed defendant calmly shot incapacitated victim in chest twice at close range].) (b) evidence of felony murder. there was also substantial evidence defendants killed leggette and wheeler in the course of robbing wheeler. mcleod and brown openly bragged to fellow gang members that they had robbed wheeler. evidence at the crime scene tended to show wheeler had been robbed of both money and marijuana. despite his occupation as a drug dealer, no significant amount of money was found on him although a single $5 bill was found on the lawn in front of his house. this raised a reasonable inference that defendants robbed wheeler and accidentally dropped a $5 reeked of marijuana, no sizable amount of the drug was found either inside the vehicle or in the possession of either leggette or wheeler. brown had not sold marijuana before the killings, but a few days later he began selling marijuana having a similar quality and packaging to the marijuana wheeler had been selling. even if leggette were just an inconvenient bystander-witness, he too was a felony murder victim. (see, e.g., people v. young (1992) 11 cal.app.4th 1299, 1308 [felony murder properly applied where bystander killed during de-speed flight in stolen vehicle after carjacking].) (3) -arguments are meritless. brown and mcleod complain the prosecution witnesses consisted of unreliable gang members, drug users and convicted felons, and they claim that even the trial court motion for a new trial, when the trial court pointed out the defendants had tried to 20 impeach the prosecution witnesses but that the jury had obviously rejected their attempt: . . three witnesses who are former . . . members of the same criminal street gang who were privy to the world and the culture [of] each defendant . . . . each of whom [was] thoroughly impeached and scrutinized on behalf of the accused in the presence of the jury. [] the motion for new trial on that basis is denied brown argues d.p. lied about buying marijuana from him after wheeler died: [d.p.] changed her testimony on cross to an admission that she had not bought marijuana from brown or seen anyone buying marijuana from brown, but that d marijuana from brown and brought it back to roommate purchased the marijuana from brown and then told d.p. where she got it, and unobjected-to hearsay testimony constitutes evidence. (see evid. code,  353; people v. rodriquez in the absence of a specific hmcvey v. mcvey (1955) 132 cal.app.2d 120, 123 [unobjected-event, as discussed post, d.p. later clarified her testimony and said she had indeed purchased marijuana directly from brown. convictions. 2. -murder special circumstance finding. miller contends his multiple-murder special-circumstance finding must be reversed for insufficient evidence. this claim is meritless. special-circumstance finding, the standard of review is the same as when a reviewing court examines the sufficiency of the evidence supporting a conviction. (people v. booker (2011) 51 cal.4th 141, 172.) 21 section 190.2, subdivision (a)(3), provides for a sentence of life without the possibility of parole when the defendant is convicted in one proceeding of having committed a first degree murder and at least one other first or second degree murder. section 190.2, subdivision (c), requires that an aider and abettor who is not the actual killer must have acted with the intent to kill. (people v. souza (2012) 54 cal.4th 90, 110, fn. 6 [for an aider and abettor who did not actually kill the victims, multiple murder special circumstance requires an additional finding of intent to kill].) necessarily based its verdict on a felony-murder aiding and abetting theory, the murders ante, there was sufficient court instructed the jurors they could find the multiple-murder special circumstance allegation true, as to a defendant who did not actually kill either victim, only if they found the defendant acted with intent to kill. miller does not challenge the correctness of special circumstance allegation true, it must have concluded miller was guilty of a premeditated and deliberate killing rather than just an accidental killing. circumstance finding. 3. brown was not the victim of vindictive prosecution. brown contends the trial court erred by refusing to dismiss the charges against him on the ground of vindictive prosecution. this claim is meritless. a. background. in december 2006, brown was charged with one count of murder and three counts of attempted murder in connection with two shootings that were unrelated to the killings of leggette and wheeler. in 2008, brown, mcleod and a codefendant, robert neal, went on trial for these shootings in people v. neal, los angeles county superior court case no. ta093812 (neal). the jury acquitted the defendants on two of the attempted 22 murder charges, but could not reach a verdict on the murder charge and on one of the attempted murder charges. a retrial on these counts was held in march 2009. on march 20, 2009, s.t. entered into a formal agreement with prosecutors to testify about the leggette-wheeler killings, for which miller, brown and mcleod were then charged in april 2009, at which point the neal retrial was still going on. brown was acquitted in the neal retrial shortly thereafter. in june 2010, brown moved to dismiss the charges against him in the case at bar same information now as it did in the early stages of the investigation of the charged case until [the neal case] . . . was obviously falling apart . . . court denied the motion, finding no hint of any retaliatory motive and, therefore, no presumption of vindictiveness. the court also found that, in any event, a change in testify in this case. b. legal principles. the constitutional protection against prosecutorial vindictiveness is based on the noti(united states v. jackson vindictiveness is a legal presumption which arises when the prosecutor increases the criminal charge against a defendant under circumstances which . . . are deemed to present e subjective state of mind of the individual prosecutor and does not imply that he or she individually harbors an improper motive. [] by the same token this legal presumption d by a reassessment of the evidence against the defendant rather than by any desire to punish the exercise of a protected right. in order to rebut the presumption of vindictiveness, the prosecution must demonstrate that (1) the increase in charge was justified by some 23 objective change in circumstances or in the state of the evidence which legitimately influenced the charging process and (2) that the new information could not reasonably have been discovered at the time the prosecution exercised its discretion to bring the in re bower (1985) 38 cal.3d 865, 879.) vindictive prosecution can occur when a prosecutor increases the charges against a defendant who has exercised a constitutional procedural right, such as successfully appealing a conviction (north carolina v. pearce (1969) 395 u.s. 711 [89 s.ct. 2072]) or exercising a statutory right to a trial de novo after sustaining a misdemeanor conviction (blackledge v. perry that the prosecution has increased the charges exercise of a procedural right, the defendant has made an initial showing of an twiggs v. superior court (1983) 34 cal.3d 360, which may operate in the absence of any proof of an improper motive and thus may block a legitimate response to criminal conduct the court has done so only in cases in which a rea (united states v. goodwin (1982) 457 alabama v. smith (1989) 490 u.s. 794, 799-800 [109 s.ct. 2201].) . the discretion either to prosecute or to decline to prosecute an individual when there is probable cause to believe he hdavis v. municipal court (1988) justice system. [citations.] this discretion, though recognized by statute in california, is [citation.] we refuse to require prosecutors to proceed against a defendant on all known charges simultaneously. we share the concern . . aggravate the very harassment it was designed to alleviate by impelling a prosecutor 24 filing on one charge to throw the book at the defendant in order to prevent him from acquiring immunity against other potential charges and to protect the prosecutor from kellett: . . the prosecution is or should be aware of more than one offense in which the same act or course of conduct plays a significant part, all such offenses must be prosecuted in a single proceeding unless joinder is prohibited or severance permitted for good cause. failure to unite all such offenses will result in a bar to subsequent prosecution of any offense omitted if the initial proceedings culminate in either acquittal kellett [v. superior court of sacramento county (1966)] 63 cal.2d [822,] 827 . . .people v. valli (2010) 187 cal.app.4th 786, 801.) c. discussion. brown does not claim he was the victim of actual vindictiveness on the part of the prosecution. (see, e.g., united states v. ladeau (6th cir. 2013) 734 f.3d 561, 566 [actual that a prosecutor acted in order to punish the merely cites case law without making athe failure to properly develop an argument is fatal on appeal. (see jones v. superior court not raised or supported by argument or citation to authority, we consider the issues instead, brown argues only that the prosecution failed to rebut a presumption of was charged for the murand we disagree. brown does not contend the charges in neal were related to the charges in this case. this is not a situation that gives rise to a presumption of vindictiveness. (see people v. lucious (1984) 153 cal.app.3d 416, 420-424 [filing additional charges in 25 same case for unrelated conduct was not vindictive]; people v. kun lee (ill. app. ct. 2011) 954 n.e.2d 338, 346 [reindicting defendant on unrelated charge after successful appeal of convictions in different case was not vindictive]; williams v. bartow (7th cir. 2007) 481 f.3d 492, 501-504 [adding new charges for unrelated conduct after defendant won motion for new trial was not vindictive]; humphrey v. united states (11th cir. 1989) 888 f.2d 1546, 1549 [indicting defendant on unrelated charges while he was seeking appellate and collateral relief from first conviction was not vindictive]; united states v. martinez (9th cir. 1986) 785 f.2d 663, 668-670 [indicting defendant on unrelated charges in one case after he was acquitted in different case was not vindictive].) the only common bond with neal was that in both cases brown and mcleod were defendants and s.t. was a witness. that did not give rise to a presumption of vindictiveness. (see id. at pp. 669- united states v. groves (9th cir. 1978) 571 f.2d 450, is misplaced because there, the charges in the second prosecution were factually related to when they arrested him for participating in a marijuana smuggling operation and, been a cocaine charge in the first instance were it not for the marihuana [sic] id. at p. 454.) brown also mistakenly relies on united states v. jenkins (9th cir. 2007) 504 f.3d 694. jenkins testified during her drug-smuggling trial that she believed she had been smuggling illegal aliens, not drugs. although the government had sufficient evidence to prosecute jenkins for alien-smuggling before she admitted those crimes on the stand, it went ahead with the prosecution only after jenkins exercised her right to testify. hence, there was no presumption of vindictiveness in this case. -wheeler 26 concludecharge defendants and would have effectively rebutted any presumption of vindictiveness. 4. trial court properly refused to bifurcate gang enhancement allegation. defendants contend the trial court erred by not bifurcating trial of the criminal street gang enhancement allegation. this claim is meritless. a. legal principles. -enhancement allegation is reviewed for abuse of discretion. (people v. hernandez (2004) 33 cal.4th 1040, 1048.) by the prosecution, we have condemned the introduction of evidence of gang membership if o(people v. cox (1991) 53 cal.3d 618, 660, disapproved on another ground in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. often relevant to, and admissible regarding, the charged offense. evidence of the signs, symbols, beliefs and practices, criminal enterprises, rivalries, and the like can help prove identity, motive, modus operandi, specific intent, means of applying force or people v. hernandez, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 1049; see also people v. olguin (1994) 31 cal.app.4th 1people v. avitia (2005) 127 some material issue in the case other than character evidence, is not more prejudicial than gang evidence is particularly relevant where it serves to explain an otherwise inexplicable crime. (see people v. ruiz (1998) 62 cal.app.4th 234, 239 [notwithstanding potential prejudicial effect of gang evidence, such evidence is people v. martin (1994) 27 nt to testify is relevant to the credibility of that witness and is therefore admissible. credibility and is also admissible. [citation.] it is not necessary to show threats against the witness were made by the defendant personally, or t people v. sanchez (1997) 58 cal.app.4th 1435, 1449-1450.) b. discussion. the trial court denied a motion to bifurcate the gang-enhancement allegations after concluding the gang evidence was more probative than prejudicial. indeed, the court said . the main issues at trial were identity, motive and intent, and the gang evidence was directly relevant to these issues. it explained why the defendants committed these crimes. it explained why the defendants committed these crimes with each other, et along with brown and barely knew mcleod. (see, e.g., hernandez, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 1051 [gang evidence served to explain why members of two gangs would commit crimes together].) it explained why mcleod confided in d.h. about his role in the crimes, and why brown did the same with s.t. evidence about the black grand am cruising exmoor avenue a few hours before the killings, and someone in the car shouting out a gang slogan, was relevant to show this car was connected to the nutty blocc crips gang because evidence showed the same car had been used in the killings. evidence that miller was a nutty blocc crip member and owned the grand am was relevant to prove his identity as one of the perpetrators. immediately following the shootings, brown and mcleod were seen running to the grandees apartment complex, which evidence showed was the main hangout of the nutty blocc crips gang. the next day, brown and mcleod were overheard bragging to 28 fellow nutty blocc crip gang members about having committed a robbery the night before. gang evidence was relevant to explain why brown and mcleod ran to the grandees, why they were bragging about the crimes the next day, and why they were unlikely to have lied to fellow gang members about their involvement. detective duncan testified one reason gangs claim territory is to exercise control over whatever crime occurs in that area. hence, the gang evidence tended to show the homes, as want to control the sale of drugs within its territory suggested the defendants could also have been motivated by the fact wheeler was openly selling drugs. gang evidence was respecially with mcleod, and his knowledge that defendants possessed the kind of guns used in the killings. the same was true of s.t., especially concerning her relationship with brown. evidence about gang loyalty and retaliation against snitches was relevant to explain why witnesses like d.h. and s.t. had not come forward earlier than they did, and why their testimony sometimes differed in crucial respects from their police statements. the trial court did not abuse its discretion by refusing to grant bifurcation because to explain their relationships with each other and with the various witnesses. 5. trial court did not commit misconduct during voir dire. during jury selection, the trial court and counsel discussed with prospective jurors the importance of deciding the case based on the evidence, not on the physical appearances of the defendants or the witnesses. as part of this discussion, the trial court showed prospective jurors a photograph of the notorious serial killer ted bundy in order to stress the importance of not judging people based on their looks. defendants contend this constituted reversible error. this claim is meritless. 29 a. background. during this voir dire discussion about treating the defendants fairly, the trial court easier for the proseguilty. i actually heard jurors say that. i was one time on jury duty. . . . and walking out ? . . i imagine that juror was going to make it easier for the prosecutor to prove the case because in her opinion somebody looked guilty. in other words, this person was judging . . . a book by its cover. [] and so when we think of these images, what looks guilty, we think about . . . richard ramirez or charles manson with a swastika on his forehead. . . . [] . . . [y]ou saw mr. miller, mr. brown and mcleod. have any of you concluded . . . that they automatically look guilty because of what they look like? the color of their skin, the shape of their heads. anybody? that is just as unreasonable as saying somebody is here has to be evidence, ladies and gentlemen, beyond a reasonable doubt. they look like they have kind eyes, and they look like very nice boys. i would really have to be convinced that they had done the wrong thing . . bundy had kind eyes and was nice-looking. the following colloquy then occurred: court: anybody recognize him? anyone? . . : ted bundy. . . : serial killer. killed 14 women. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . gentlemen? oftentimes that is what people are looking for. they are looking for an 30 image that fulfills stereotypes. well, this person looks guilt men here are responsible for [sic: innocent?] or mean they look. you judge by the evidence that is presented. [] oned the prospective jurors, he followed up on the about judging people . . b. legal principles. uld be asked on voir direon], it has wide discretion in what questions should be asked on voir dire its failure to ask questions renders the de people v. taylor (2010) 48 cal.4th 574, 608.) ial comment on a case by case basis, noting people v. sanders (1995) 11 cal.4th 475, 531-532.) 31 c. discussion. defendants contend they were prejudiced because the trial court in effect linked -looking defendants should not have the benefit of a good impression; such defendants, like [ted] bundy, actually were likely to be guilty. . . . a prospective juror had just commented that because one of the defendants was nice-tively dispelled any favorable impression jurors might have had of brown and his co-defendants based on their appearance. thus, brown and his co-defendants started out the trial not presumed innocent but presumed guilty . . . could have reasonably understood the comment as a suggestion that the handsome defendant, like serial rapist and killer ted bundy, could be guilty. . . . as appellant was called we disagree. all the trial court did was point out that even someone as nice looking as ted bundy could be guilty of horrendous crimes. although it would have been judicial misconduct to suggest that because the defendants had a pleasing appearance they were likely to be guilty, this message cannot reasonably be gleaned from should decide the case based on the evidence, not on whether the defendants looked guilty or not guilty. 6. tria-judicial statements acknowledging involvement in the killings. there was evidence mcleod told d.h. the defendants had robbed and killed wheeler. there was evidence brown told s.t. that he and mcleod had shot and killed two people on exmoor. brown said he used an ak-47 to shoot one of the victims and mcleod shot the other victim. on appeal, defendants contend the trial court erred by admitting these statements. this claim is meritless. the statements were trustworthy, nontestimonial declarations against interest and, therefore, admissible under evidence code section 1230. 32 a. legal principles. knowledge of the subject is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule if the declarant is unavailable as a witness and the statement, when made, . . . so far subjected him to the risk of . . . criminal liability . . . that a reasonable man in his position would not have mad[evid. code,]  1230.) the proponent of such evidence must show that the declarant is unavailable, that the was (people v. duarte (2000) 24 cal.4th 603, 610-611.) nto account not just the words but the circumstances under which they were uttered, the possible motivation of the declarant, determination on this issue is revipeople v. cudjo (1993) 6 cal.4th 585, 607; see also people v. lawley (2002) 27 cal.4th 102, 153-reviewed for abuse of discr broad and deep acquaintance with the ways human beings actually conduct themselves in the circumsta people v. duarte, supra, 24 cal.4th whether a statement is trustworthy and falls within the declaration against interest exception. . . . [] . . . the most reliable circumstance is one in which the conversation occurs between friends in a noncoercive setting that fosters uninhibited disclosures. people v. cervantes (2004) 118 cal.app.4th 162, 175.) 33 b. discussion. (1) testimonial. mcleod made the statement in private to d.h., his long-time friend and fellow nutty blocc crip gang member, and tat the house where he lived with his mother and grandmother. (see people v. cervantes, supra, 118 cal.app.4th at pp. 173--time friend were nontestimonial].) nevertheless, defendants argue their confrontation clause rights were violated because admission of this evidence violated the rule of aranda-bruton.6 as our supreme court explained in people v. lewis has a right, guaranteed by the confrontation clause of the sixth amendment to the united states constitution, to confront adverse witnesses. the right to confrontation includes the right to cross-confession implicating the defendant is introduced into evidence at their joint trial. if the declarant codefendant invokes the fifth amendment right against self-incrimination and declines to testify, the implicated defendant is unable to cross-examine the declarant bruton is admissible particularized guarantees of people v. arceo (2011) 195 cal.app.4th 556, 571.) defendants cite people v. garcia (2008) 168 cal.app.4th 261, 282, fn. aranda/bruton rule applies only to extrajudicial testimonial statements appears to be an unsettled people v. garcia 6 bruton v. united states (1968) 391 u.s. 123 (88 s.ct. 1620); people v. aranda (1965) 63 cal.2d 518. 34 have expressly held that the bruton (people v. arceo, supra, at p. 574.) it also appears the statement was trustworthy. the conversation took place less than 24 hours after the killings, mcleod spoke from direct personal knowledge, and he had no reason to lie to d.h. defendants argue there were inconsistencies that rendered the evidence untrustworthy because d.h. wavered on the witness stand about whether mcleod had exceptions, the trial court must determine, as preliminary facts, both that the out-of-court declarant made the statement as represented, and that the statement meets certain standards of trustworthiness. [citation.] the first determination whether the declaration was made as represented is governed by the substantial evidence rule. the trial court is to determine only whether there is evidence sufficient to sustain a finding that the statement was made. [citation.] as with other facts, the direct testimony of a single witness is sufficient to support a finding unless the testimony is physically [citations.] except in these rare instances of demonstrable falsity, doubts about the credibility of the in-court witness should be lefnot afford a ground for refusing to admit evidence under the hearsay exception for statements against penal interestpeople v. cudjo, supra, 6 cal.4th at pp. 608-609, italics added.) (2) bro made the statement in private to s.t. at her home in long beach, a few months after the killings. s.t. had not only become an active nutty blocc crip gang member, but she and brown committed crimes together and were involved in a sexual relationship. rather, exculpatory. he implicated himself. but he also shifted the brown merely told s.t. that he, mcleod and j-capone had killed two people on exmoor, 35 7. trial court did not err by admitting consciousness of guilt evidence relating to . a day or two after leggette and wheeler were killed, miller instructed m.h. to minumother. defendants contend this was inadmissible hearsay evidence. not so. the statements were not hearsay, and they were relevant and admissible to show consciousness of guilt on the part of miller and brown. evidence code section 1200, subdivision evidence of a statement that was made other than by a witness while testifying at the hearing and that is offered to prove the truth of the not offered for the truth of the matter asserted, it was not hearsay at all and no hearsay people v. gutierrez (2000) 78 cal.app.4th 170, 174, fn. 4.; see, e.g., people v. curl (2009) 46 cal.4th 339, 362 [after being informed he had been accused of murder, extra-judicial declarant asked witness to tell family member conduct consisting of a direct defendant are admissible to dempeople v. hughes own consciousness of guilt: it was reasonable to infer he intervened because he knew the 36 8. miller contends7 the trial court erred by admitting evidence of the crimes he committed against m.h., sexual assault and kidnapping, as well as evidence of the voicemail messages he left for her on the eve of trial. this claim is meritless. a. background. in december 2005, miller was arrested and charged with having kidnapped m.h. and having committed various sex offenses against her, including pimping a minor for prostitution. following a trial at which m.h. testified, miller was sentenced to prison for 85 years to life. before m.h. testified in the case at bar, the prosecutor informed the trial court he been convicted. however, he did want to introduce evidence regarding the nature of er in order to show why miller felt secure enough to the following: she first met miller when she was 14 years old; they were having a sexual relationship in september-october 2005; miller forced her to have sex with him and then forced her to have sex with other men for money; their relationship ended in december 2005 when the police rescued her from the bellflower motel where miller had taken her. irrelevant. aagainst miller at his previous trial. on direct examination, m.h. testified accordingly. during cross-examination, defense counsel asked questions suggesting miller did not kidnap m.h., but rather that she ran away from home because her father had been molesting her, and this was why she 7 brown and mcleod join this contention to the extent it may benefit them. 37 never reported the alleged kidnapping to the police. in response to this cross-examination, the trial court allowed m.h. to testify that she did report miller to the police, charges were filed against him, and she testified against him at his trial. the trial court also allowed the prosecution to play a tape recording of the voice mail messages miller had left. (see fn. 4, ante.) the trial court reasoned the tone of directing her b. discussion. miller argues this evidence should not have been admitted because it was both irrelevant and prejudicial. he asserts the evidence had no probative value because real issue . . . was whether [miller] was involved in the crimes or in lancaster at the hospital during the shootings. evidence [he] kidnapped and had unlawful sex with [m.h.] when she was a minor and left intimidating messages on her answering machine added nothing to help the jury decide the case. the crimes were not even similar to those kidnapping the voicemail messages miller left for m.h. tended to show he was trying to keep her from testifying against him. the trial court listened to the messages and deemed idence of efforts to intimidate a witness is . . people v. valdez (2012) 55 cal.4th 82, 135, fn. 32.) ionship with m.h. was relevant and admissible to explain why a 29-year-old man, in an effort to deflect suspicion from himself, would tell a 14-year-old girl to lie to a murder-showing miller had a pimp-prostitute relationship with m.h. suggested he chose her to 38 deliver this message because he knew she was susceptible to his manipulation, and thus he had no fear she would report him to the authorities. by suggesting m.h. never reported any of this to the police, miller was trying to undermine her credibility and he thereby opened the door to evidence showing he had been convicted for committing sexual offenses against her. (see people v. cleveland (2004) 32 cal.4th 704, appear disingenuous, which would cast doubt on her credibility. it was thus appropriate evidence of his 2010 voice mail messages by suggesting through his questioning that defense. under evidence code section 352, a trial court has discretion to exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability of wasted time or the danger of undue prejudice, confusing the issue, or misleading the jury. (evid. code,  appeal absent a showing its discretion was abused. (people v. raley (1992) 2 cal.4th 870, 895; see also people v. von villas (1992) 10 cal.app.4th 201, 268 [decision to admit or exclude evidence lies within discretion of trial court and erroneous decisions are tested under watson8 harmless error standard].) the evidenmurdering two men. thus, in the context of the facts of this case, the potentially prejudicial prior sexual conduct evidence was not particularly inflammatory. (see people v. kipp (1988) 18 cal.4th 8 people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836. 39 9. trial court did not err by admitting evidence regarding the intimidation of d.h. defendants contend the trial court erred by letting d.h. testify about having been this claim is meritless. a. background. in a pretrial police interview, d.h. said mcleod told him all three defendants had participated in the killings. but at the preliminary hearing, and then during the initial portion of his trial testimony, d.h. said mcleod only told him miller and brown were the perpetrators without saying that he himself had participated. when the prosecutor challenged this testimony as inconsistent with what he told the police, d.h. acknowledged the inconsistency but testified he could not explain why his story had changed. the prosecutor asked d.h. if he were afraid. d.h. said he was, and then testified about having been threatened on the bus and spat on by miller. b. discussion. defendants argue this testimony was not relevant to credibility or impeachment, acode section 785. we disagree. following the enactment of the evidence code, any party may freely impeach any liance on pre-evidence code case law for the proposition that the impeached testimony must be prejudicial and . . code section 785 in the same year it passed evidence code section 1202. evidence code section 785 provides: credibility of a witness may be attacked or supported by any party, including the party 785 and 1202 were not only passed in the same year; they were passed as part of the same bill. [citation.] . . . read together as a single statute, these two sections allow a prosecutor to use a prior 40 inconsistent statement to partially impeach a hearsay statement the prosecutor had people v. osorio (2008) 165 cal.app.4th 603, 616-617.) reviewed for abuse of discretion and will be upheld unless the discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that resulted in a people v. ledesma (2006) 39 cal.4th 641, 705.) ness is afraid to testify or fears retaliation for testifying is relevant to the credibility of that witness and is therefore relevant to her credibility and is well people v. mendoza (2011) 52 cal.4th 1056, 1084; see people v. olguin, supra, of any kind by anyone is more credible because of his or her personal stake in the to testify and served to rebut the blow to his credibility arising from the fact he kept contradicting himself about what mcleod told him. the trial court did not err by admitting this evidence, which was more probative than prejudicial. 10. trial court properly excluded questions to d.h. about an unrelated murder. defendants contend the trial court erred continuing cross-examination of d.h. about whether he had committed an unrelated murder. this claim is meritless. during cross- true that he had killed someone named darren gunther. the prosecutor objected and the trial court, at a sidebar conference, asked for an offer of proof for this line of questioning. defense understood d.h. had killed gunther, but asserted the attorney-client privilege when the trial court asked him the basis for his understanding. after all three defense attorneys 41 et into it. 9 instead of demonstrating on appeal the relevance of this alleged murder, mcleod be examined as a question of fairness and parity. the state charged appellant with murder. that charge was an allegation, before having witnesses testify about evidence of that murder charge, including claims demonstrate the trial court erred by excluding further questioning about an apparently unrelated murder. (see people v. quartermain (1997) 16 cal.4th 600, 625 [trial court did not abuse discretion by excluding impeachment on collateral matter]; see also people v. hayes (1999) 21 cal.4th 1211, 1266 & fn. 15 [disallowing impeachment of prosecution witness on collateral matter d-examination].) 11. trial court did not err by not compelling d.h. to identify a potential witness. d.h. testified he had been with a friend at the grandees when he heard the gunshots on the night of the killings, but he refused to identify this friend. the trial court court erred by not requiring d.h. to identify his friend. this claim is meritless. evidence code section including evidence relevant to the credibility of a witness or hearsay declarant, having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the de a constitutional right to present all relevant evidence of significant probative value in his into 9 d.h. subsequently testified he had never killed anyone. 42 -people v. homick (2012) 55 cal.4th 816, ewed for an abuse of discretion. (people v. alvarez (1996) 14 cal.4th 155, 201.) would have allowed for an opportunity to impeach [d.h.], a key witness for the state, and it was a piece of discoverable evidence that would have lead [sic] to a witness for the mcleomcleod claims in error about the facts, the reasonable conclusion is that he lied. his friend would have o the far more reasonable conclusion, however, is that d.h. simply misjudged how much time had passed before the police arrived. in any event, there is no logical nexus whatsoever between what d.h. and his friend wthat on the following day he heard mcleod admit his role in the killings. d.h. did not claim to have witnessed the killings; he merely heard gunshots, as did numerous other witnesses. the identity of his friend was irrelevant because it did not have a tendency to of consequence to the determination of the 210, italics added.) the trial court therefore properly exercised its discretion by telling defendants to move on to more-relevant cross-examination topics. (see people v. marshall (1996) 13 all relevant evidence of significant probative value in his favor, this does not mean the 43 court must allow an unlimited inquiry into collateral matters; the proffered evidence must 12. trial court did not err by permitting witness to testify while wearing sunglasses. defendants contend their convictions must be reversed because the trial court allowed a prosecution witness to testify while wearing sunglasses. this claim is meritless. a. background j.s. was one of the teenagers who saw the black pontiac grand am drive up and down exmoor avenue several hours before the killings. j.s. saw two men in the car, the driver and a passenger, but he did not get a good look at either one. that evening, j.s. . . a a few weeks after the killings, detective cochran showed j.s. some photo arrays was less than 50 percent sure of the identification because he had not gotten a good look at the person. j.s. testified he knew mcleod from school, but he did not see mcleod in the car that day. j.s. did not identify miller as having been in the car. when he testified at trial, j.s. sat in the witness chair wearing sunglasses. after he acknowledged they were not prescription glasses, the trial court asked him to remove them. but j.s. asked to keep them on and the trial court agreed. none of the defendants for a medical reason, i would prefer any witness not to wear sunglasses. i think it assists the fact-fmcleod did not say anything. miller cross-examined j.s. about the quality of his vision, but not about the sunglasses. brown and mcleod did not ask j.s. any questions about his vision or why he was wearing sunglasses. 44 asked if he were having told the prosecutor and detective cochran he did not want to testify. the trial court later eleven days after j.s. testified, brown moved to strike his testimony on the ground he had worn sunglasses on the stand. miller joined the motion, but mcleod expressly declined to join. the trial court denied the motion, although it offered to consider an appropriate instruction to the jury if the defendants proposed one. the trial court said, for whatever reason, this witness wanted to keep some sort of privacy and some sort of perception of protection. . . . the jurors may certainly consider that. and counsel of instruction to addressing the issue. sunglasses are not a very good disguise. . . . in any event, this witness . . . is not a percipient witness to the homicides. this witness merely testified that he saw a vehicle earlier in the evening that he then saw later on at night after he heard gunshots, and he saw that same vehicle leaving. he . . . was not able to identify anybody inside that vehicle earlier in the day or did not recall . . . that he may have identified somebody that looked vaguely familiar to a six-pack, to detectives. [h]e did not identify anybody in court, so regarding b. discussion. ce those who pennsylvania v. ritchie (1987) 480 u.s. 39, 51 [107 s.ct. 989].) ting the conscience of the witness, but of compelling him to stand face to face with the jury in order that they may 45 look at him, and judge by his demeanor upon the stand and the manner in which he gives (mattox v. united states (1895) 156 u.s. 237, 242-243 [15 s.ct. 337].) citing coy v. iowa (1988) 487 u.s. 1012 [108 s.ct. 2798], maryland v. craig (1990) 497 u.s. 836 [110 s.ct. 3157], and people v. murphy (2003) 107 cal.app.4th 1150, defendants assert the trial court erred by allowing j.s. to testify without having first made an express finding he needed to wear the sunglasses and that public policy would be served by allowing him to do so. coy held that allowing child sexual abuse victims to testify from beconfrontation clause. (coy v. iowa, supra, at pp. 1020-1021.) craig allowed a child victim to testify from outside the courtroom by means of a one-way closed circuit television. (maryland v. craig, supra, at pp. 851-852.) murphy held that allowing an adult victim to testify from behind one-way glass, so she would not have to see the defendant, violated the confrontation clause. (people v. murphy, supra, at pp. 1157-1158.) but here, j.s. testified in person, from inside the courtroom and in full view of the defendants except for the fact his eyes were obscured. as the trial court noted, morales v. artuz (2d cir. 2002) 281 f.3d 55, the trial court allowed a principal witness to testify without removing her dark sunglasses. morales craig and coy set forth the appropriate test where the witness is physically separated from the defendant, none of the cases thus far decided by the supreme court deals with our precise context a witness testifying in the presence of the defendant and the jury with a slight disguise that prevents the defendant id. at p. 58, italics added.) morales seeks to assure cross-examination and an opportunity for the witness to see the defendant, right assures an opportunity for the defendant and especially the jurors to see the 46 g her credibility, mentioned as of value in assessing credibility. [citations.] in coy, the court noted that s looked away from the morales v. artuz, supra, 281 f.3d at p. 60, fn. omitted.) morales . . resulted in only a edibility. even if we accept the idea, grounded perhaps more on tradition than on empirical data, that demeanor is a useful basis for assessing credibility, the jurors had an entirely unimpaired otice any evident nervousness, and observe her body language. most important, they had a full opportunity to combine these fully observable aspects of demeanor with their consideration of the substance of her testimony, assessing her opportunity to observe, the consistency of her account, any hostile motive, and all the other traditional bases for evaluating testimony. id. at pp. 60-62, fns. omitted.) morales was followed by the massachusetts supreme court in commonwealth v. lynch type, there is no basis on which to conclude that it created a substantial likelihood of a the texas court of criminal appeals found a confrontation clause violation in a over his forehead, and a long-sleeved jacket with its collar turned up and fastened so as to 47 (romero v. state (tex.crim.app., 2005) 173 s.w.3d 502, 503, fn. omitted.)10 we agree with these analyses and conclude there was no confrontation clause violation here. moreover, even had there been a confrontation clause violation, it would have been harmless. unlike the situations in coy, craig, and murphy, where the witnesses in question were the alleged victims, j.s. was merely a bystander witness, he did not see the crimes being committed, he did not testify the defendants made inculpatory statements to him, and at most he had made a very equivocal identification of one defendant. (compare people v. murphy, supra, 107 cal.app.4th at p. 1158 [error not harmless we conclude the trial court did not err by letting j.s. wear his sunglasses while testifying. 13. guns and ammunition evidence properly admitted. defendants contend the trial court erred by admitting evidence miller possessed guns and exchanged them with mcleod, and evidence miller possessed ammunition that was different from the ammunition used in the killings. this claim is meritless. a. background. ` m.h. told police she had seen miller with guns, that he would keep them in the trunk of his car, and that he would switch guns with mcleod. m.h. also saw miller with a handgun around the time of the killings. 10 romero beloromero v. state, supra, 173 s.w.3d at pp. 506, 507.) as to all three of these factors, the situation in the case at bar was defendants did belong to a violent street gang, and he was not a key witness. 48 ammunition and a police scanner in the trunk. the ammunition did not match the spent cartridges found at the crime scene. outsithis evidence was being offered to show miller was still participating in gang activities despite his claim of having quit the nutty blocc crips. the trial court admitted the ammunition and the police scanner into evidence on the ground they were more probative than prejudicial, both as to the murder charges and the gang-enhancement allegation. when he testified, miller denied the ammunition and police scanner belonged to him, although he had no explanation for how these items found their way into his car. he . . . [] that was not my scanner. it b. legal principles. defendants cite a line of cases based on people v. riser (1956) 47 cal.2d 566, disapproved on other grounds by people v. chapman (1959) 52 cal.2d 95, 98, which be permissible to admit into evidence weapons found in the defendatime after the crime that could have been the weapons employed. there need be no weapon. [citations.] when the prosecution relies, however, on a specific type of weapon, it is error to admit evidence that other weapons were found in his possession, for such evidence tends to show, not that he committed the crime, but only that he is the sort people v. riser, supra, at p. 577.) however, our supreme court subsequently broadened riser, holding that even where it is clear the weapon was not the one used to assault the victim there may be some situations in which it would be relevant and properly admitted into evidence. (see people v. smith (2003) 30 cal.4th 581, 613-614 [evidence defendant possessed gun unrelated to murder was properly admitted because it contradicted accidental shooting defense]; people v. neely (1993) 6 cal.4th 877, 896 [where victim killed by .22-caliber 49 bullet, evidence of .30-scene shortly after the shooting was properly admitted].) miller testified he was no longer associating with the nutty blocc crip gang at the time of the killings because he had given his life over to christ. evidence that he had boxes of ammunition and a police scanner in his car was relevant to impeach this testimony and to show miller was still active in the gang. this evidence, in turn, was relevant to the gang-enhancement allegations because it showed that active nutty blocc crip gang members had carried out the killings. the evidence was relevant to the underlying charges because it tended to show miller was still associating with brown and mcleod. moreover, m.h. did not specify what type of handgun or other guns miller possessed and exchanged with mcleod around the time of the killings. the weapons used in the killings were a .45 caliber handgun and a semiautomatic rifle. evidence that miller possessepossibility these could have been the guns used. (see people v. de la plane (1979) 88 cal.app.3d 223, 239, disapproved on other grounds in people v. green (1980) 27 cal.3d 1, 39, fn. 25 [sawed-because expert testified it could this evidence was properly admitted. 14. there was no prosecutorial misconduct. defendants contend their convictions must be reversed for prosecutorial misconduct. this claim is meritless. a. legal principles. he the trial court or the jury, and it is reasonably probable that without such misconduct, an outcome more favorable to the defendant would have resulted. [citation.] under the federal constitution, conduct by a prosecutor that does not result in the denial of the 50 invocation of the right to remain silent but is otherwise worthy of condemnation, is not l misconduct unless in a timely fashion and on the same ground the defendant made an assignment of misconduct and requested that the jury be admonished to disregard the impropriety. people v. riggs (2008) 44 cal.4th 248, 298.) a defendant who fails to people v. wrest (1992) 3 cal.4th 1088, 1105.) to state its views as to what the (people v. welch remarks constituting misconduct, we examine whether there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury would have understood the remark to cause the mischief complained of. people v. osband (1996) 13 cal.4th prosecutorial misconduct based on remarks to the jury, the defendant must show a reasonable likelihood the jury understood or applied the complained-of comments in an than the least damaging meaning from people v. frye (1998) 18 cal.4th 894, 970, disapproved on another ground in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22.) b. there was no harmful late disclosure of evidence. defendants contend that a small proportion of the trial evidence should have been provided to them sooner than it was. however, defendants never explain exactly how they were harmed by these purported late disclosures. at most, they offer only gross ge51 exhibits complained about are as follows: (1) when the prosecutor showed a police officer the photograph of a purported gang prosecutor noted he had used this photograph during his opening statement, defense counsel saientirety during opening statement, and shown to all defense counsel prior to that, the trial court allowed the prosecutor to ask the witness about it and show it to the jury. defendants have not demonstrated there was any late disclosure of this exhibit. (2) the prosecutor wanted to show d.h. a photograph in which he appeared. after an initial defense objection was overruled, a subsequent objection led to a sidebar discussion regarding the proper manner of publishing photographs to the jury. when defense counsel complained the prosecutor had left the photograph on the overhead projector while defense counsel was still arguing the objection, the prosecutor pointed out he published the photo after the trial court had overruled an objection, only to have defense counsel make a new objection. to this explanation by the prosecutor, the trial court connected to this exhibit. (3) possessed firearms. the prosecutor informed defense counsel that during the lunch break d.h. said he --counsel of this new information. the trial court then held an evidentiary hearing at which 52 d.h. confirmed he had just given this information to the prosecutor during the lunch break. the court allowed d.h. to testify about his observations. [s] unlikely this information was unavailable for disclosure prior to that point. [d.h.] had been a prosecution witness for some time and this was crucial information linking the defendantspeculation that the prosecutor was aware of this information at an earlier time is insufficient to establish prosecutorial misconduct. (4) . on a friday, after the lunch break, the trial court held a hearing on the admissibility of a recorded phone call between miller and his mother, earline, which the prosecutor wanted to use while cross- to us at the beginning of the lunch hour so we could listen to it during the lunch hour. . . the tape. . . . [] yes, i understand under prop. 115 he to disclose rebuttal evidence until we present primary evidence, but he should have had the cd readied for each counsel and take a 15-minute break to listen to was r the record indicates the prosecutor provided a copy of the recording itself to transcribed. the prosecutor argued the recording was clean and he believed no transcript would be necessary. he agreed to make additional copies of the recording for brown and mcleod before the weekend, and to have the recording transcribed before trial resumed the following tuesday. the court ordered earline to return to court on tuesday in case defense counsel wished to question her further about the recording. defendants fail to specify how they were harmed by this episode. 53 (5) 96, 197 and 198. during the cross-nt and that no the trial court allowed the prosecutor to show kuhn the documents. showing kuhn an evaluation of there is no explanation of how this episode harmed the defendants. both handwriting experts opined miller had probably filled out portions of the hospital registration form. c. prosecutor did not present false evidence. defendants contend the prosecutor presented false evidence by d.p. the record shows, however, that d.p. merely gave inconsistent testimony. on direct examination, d.p. testified she overheard brown and mcleod laughing and telling other nutty bli.e., by robbing someone. d.p. also testified that a few days after the killings brown began selling marijuana just like the marijuana wheeler had been selling. on cross-examination, d.p. teit had been her roommate, not she, who made the initial purchase of marijuana from brown two or three days after the killings. other evidence, however, established these were merely testimonial was nervous, and that she herself had purchased marijuana from brown more than once after the killings. d.p. testified she told detective cochran that she heard brown and when he interviewed d.p. at the time of the killings she reported overhearing brown and mcleod talk about coming up on a good lick. the record shows d.p. merely gave conflicting testimony, not false testimony. 54 d. prosecutor did not elicit evidence that had been excluded by the trial court. defendants contend the prosecutor deliberately elicited testimony from d.h. that the trial court had already excluded. not so. for a reason he suspected was connected to this case. the proceedings paused so the prosecutor could advise d.h. not to mention the incident, and the trial court heard the prosecutor give d.h. the admonishment. the witness turned to the judge and asked if he could answer truthfully, and the trial heard mr. mckinney [i.e., the prosecutor] talking to mr. d.h. . . . and telling him not to [citation.] such misconduct is exacerbated if the prosecutor continues to attempt to elicit such evidence after defense counsel has nonresponsive answer that the prosecutor neither solicited nor could have anticipated. people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 1035.) t this assertion that the prosecutor must have known d.h. would violate the admonition and, therefore, purposely sought to elicit the impermissible answer is mere speculation. the trial court the bus incident during which d.h. had been threatened. 55 e. prosecutor did not improperly refer to evidence outside the record. defendants contend there were several instances in which the prosecutor improperly referred to evidence outside the record. this claim is meritless. (1) comment about playing the entire recording of an interview. brown cross-examined d.h. about certain statements he made during a july 2006 interview with detective duncan. in response to an objection from the prosecutor, the trial court asked if the parties would stipulate to having something read from the interview transcript as had been done the day before. when the prosecutor replied, would stipulate to playing the entire tape so the jury idefense counsel asked the trial court to admonish the prosecutor for misconduct on the ground the comment would cause the jury to think the defense was trying to hide something. the trial court determined there had been no misconduct. the court said it was the cross-erview would come in, although the court would have preferred if the prosecutor had referred to . hen you say things on jury. defendants fail to explain how they were prejudiced by this episode. (2) defendants contend the prosecutor committed misconduct during closing argument by referring to evidence he himself had gotten the trial court to exclude. the issue concerned whether d.h. had been facing a probation violation hearing when he met with police in july 2006, and therefore whether he believed he could personally benefit by giving them inculpatory information. 56 detective duncan and his partner, sergeant levins, interviewed d.h. on july 31, 2006. toward the end of the interview, levins mentioned having explained to d.h. that did not recall facing a probation violation hearing when duncan and levins interviewed him in july 2006. duncan testified he did not think d.h. had been facing a probation violation during cross-examination, defense counsel showed duncan a court document indicating he had recollection. duncan testified it did not. the trial court subsequently redacted most of the information in this court document, including the date the hearing had been set, but the court left the hearing date itself unredacted. during closing arguments, defense counsel cited this document while arguing duncan had lied when hearing. in response, the prosecutor argued the court document showed the hearing had taken place in october testimony that he had not been facing a probation violation hearing when he was interviewed in july 2006. defendants contend this argument by the prosecutor constituted misconduct because it relied on evidence the prosecutor had able to exclude, october 2006 probation violation hearing had been set. although it is improper for a prosecutor to tell the jury there is no evidence to support a defense point if it was the prosecutor who managed to have the evidence excluded (see, e.g., people v. varona (1983) 143 cal.app.3d 566, 568-570), that is not what happened here. the prosecutor told the jury this court document showed the the prosecutor never mentioned the absence of information regarding the setting date. 57 court disagreed, saying that is not what happened. we agree. this episode did not constitute prosecutorial misconduct. (3) . no. which the prosecutor wanted to show ants contend this constituted prosecutorial andoes not show the jurors heard what the prosecutor said. f. prosecutor did not engage in improper vouching. defendants contend the prosecutor improperly vouched for himself and for certain invoking their personal prestige, reputation, or depth of experience, or the prestige or reputation of their office, in support of it. [cipeople v. huggins (2006) 38 cal.4th 175, 206-based on the record, regarding the apparent honesty or reliability of prosecution witnesses, cannot be involves an attempt to bolster a witness by reference to facts outside people v. medina (1995) 11 cal.4th 694, 757.) (1) defendants contend the prosecutor improperly injected himself during a portion of configuration of the jail bus d.h. had been riding when miller threatened him. cross-examination of cochran revealed the prosecutor himself had taken photographs of several jail buses. during redirect examination, cochran explained the chain of events leading 58 constituted improper vouching, but the trial court disagreed with this characterization, the trial court was right. cochran testified he had been asked by the prosecutor to photograph the internal configuration of the jail buses. after cochran notified the prosecutor there were different configurations, the prosecutor went to the bus yard and took his own photographs. cochran testified he and the prosecutor then discussed what they had found. defendants argue the prosecutor was improperly acting like a witness. but their reliance on united states v. prantil (9th cir. 1985) 764 f.2d 548, is misplaced. in that case, the prosecutor played an active role in the circumstances of the alleged crime, but then refused to either testify or recuse himself. here, the prosecutor offered to testify even though, unlike the prosecutor in prantil, he lacked knowledge of any facts vital to the defense. there was no improper vouching. (2) comments during closing argument. defendants cite several instances from the prosethey contend constituted improper vouching. we disagree. t s . to take his life in a different direction. and redemption for him starts with honesty even if it hurts. i think it did hurt him to testify especially against . . none of these statements constituted improper vouching. (see people v. stansbury (1993) 4 cal.4th 1017, 1059, reversed on other grounds by stansbury v. california (1994) 511 a believable witness who had done a great deal of soul searching was a proper comment on the evidence, not an 59 ntrasted her agreement to tell when brown argued the prosecutor was giving his personal opinion, the trial court properly overruled the objection. while strictly speaking it might have been better had lity. (3) -examination, brown asked about statements a different prosecutor had made to her in a november 2007 interview. defense counsel asked: you remember the district attorney . . . asking you to figure out what exactly it is that you want. [] and then saying [if] we go to trial on a case like this and the jury statements until she was shown the transcript. in response, the prosecutor introduced additional portions of the ireality . . milleof his office by disclosing to the jury the self-serving statement by another prosecutor and used his witness to convey to the jury how diligent and credible he was in trying the rebut an implication the prosecution was willing to do anything to get a conviction, and to 60 g. allegedly eliciting sympathy for the victim. the victim is misconduct at the guilt phase of trial; an appeal for sympathy for the victim is out of place during an objective determination of guilt. people v. stansbury, supra, 4 cal.4th at p. 1057.) defendants contend the prosecutor improperly elicited sympathy for nakia wheeler during closing argument, citing people v. vance (2010) 188 cal.app.4th 1182. but the objectionable conduct in that case went far beyond anything that happened here. the vance night he was murdid. at p. 1194.) here, by contrast, the prosecutor made relatively innocuous remarks about wheeler being a likable marijuana dealer who might have matured to pursue some legitimate line of work had he not been killed. brown argues the prosecutwho knew nakia could now only view him in two-dimensional images [because] the prosecutor was in effect asking them to expand their empathy to the suffering of the -if nakia would have matured beyond where he was in life when he was killed. and the reason we'll never know is because these men destroyed his life. that is nakia wheeler from now on. that is michael leggette from now on. from now on, for eternity, they are photographs. they are no longer real people like i am standing here in front of you, a real person. from now on, that is all they are, two-dimensional photographs. whenever they are talked about from now on, it is not going to be about the future. it is going to be fashion, that the two victims were forever dead. 61 h. allegedly casting aspersions on the defense. part of the defense case was an attempt to paint wheeler as a member of the nutty [wheeler] oconnection, the prosecutor argued wheeler had no gang tattoos, did not appear in any gang photographs, and neither his family, his friends nor the police believed he belonged to a gang. the prosecutor then said if defendants wanted to argue that the presence of a defendants contcounsel have broad discretion in discussing the legal and factual merits of a case [citation], it is improper . . . to resort to personal attacks on the integrity of opposing counsel [citationpeople v. bell comment did not cast aspersions on the defense. it was a legitimate comment on the to be weaknpeople v. cummings (1993) 4 cal.4th 1233, 1303, fn. defense interpretation of the evidence, rather than as a personal attack on defense people v. spector (2011) 194 cal.app.4th 1335, 1406.) i. allegedly misstating the burden of proof. particularly to attempt to absolve the prosecution from its prima facie obligation to (people v. marshall, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 831.) defendants contend the prosecutor did that here. we disagree. defendants rely principally on people v. katzenberger (2009) 178 cal.app.4th ognizable iconic image [a puzzle coming together to form the statue of liberty] along with the suggestion of 62 a quantitative measure of reasonable doubt [by saying six out of eight puzzle pieces was sufficient to convict] combined to convey an impression of a lesser standard of proof (id. at p. 1268, fn. omitted.) but that is not what took place here. the prosecutor here did not discuss reasonable doubt during the initial position of acknowledgment that he did not know of any gang member who would provide 100 information? dothat my client committed these crimes . . . the jury a chart purporting to delineate levels of certainty less than reasonable doubt. it was tstill up there. i have seen every form of that chart over the years. the purpose of the chart is to suggest to you that no case could ever be proved because they have all these levels with reasonable doubt at the top, all these levels to get there like it is impossible to prove. and i have seen it . . . as a sky scraper, i have seen it as a thermometer, i have seen it as a space shuttle with beyond reasonable doubt up in space. [] the best description of reasonable doubt that i have heard and, of course, the jury instruction is the definition of it. but a person once said . . . if you be after a defense objection was overruled by the trial court, the prosecutor human affairs is open to some possible or imaginary doubt. it is that state of the case that leaves you after you consider all of the evidence with an abiding conviction of the truth of the charge. that is what it means. [] the lawyers i think fairly talked about the fact it is not something that you think is true today but you might not think is true tomorrow. it is something that you think is true today and based on the evidence that you heard in 63 the trial you can say tomorrow, next week, next year, based on the evidence that i heard, judge has already instructed you on the law. the instructions are paramount. they you believe it, in addition, the trial court instructed jur after closing argument was done, defendants asked the trial court to instruct the s and in particular in this case used rhetorical devices to explain the proof process. the jury has been instructed as to what the standard of proof is. all counsel referred to it. ultimately the instructions will guide the jurors, and the court finds n believed the prosecutor was saying each one of them had the right to make up their own 15. defendants were not entitled to voluntary manslaughter instructions. defendants contend the trial court erred by not instructing the jury on voluntary manslaughter. this claim is meritless. a. legal principles. a trial court must instruct on a lesser included offense if there is sufficient evidence to support a finding by the jury that the lesser offense was committed rather than the greater. (people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 154-163.) that evidence 64 any evidence, no matter how weak not justify instructions on lesser offenses. (id. at p. 162.) ( actually obscured as the . . to act rashly or without due [n]o specific type of provocation [is] required . . . intense, high- other than revenge (people v. breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 163, italics added.) provocative conduct by the victim may be physical or verbal, but the conduct must be sufficiently provocative that it would cause an ordinary person of average disposition to act rashpeople v. lee (1999) 20 cal.4th 47, 59.) and a subjective component. [citation.] the defendant must actually, subjectively, kill under the heat of passion. [citation.] but the circumstances giving rise to the heat of passion are also viewed objectively. as we explained long ago . . . must be such a passion as would naturally be aroused in the mind of an ordinarily set up his own standard of conduct and justify or excuse himself because in fact his passions were aroused, unless further the jury believe that the facts and circumstances (people v. steele (2002) 27 cal.4th 1230, 1252-1253.) 65 b. discussion. or what was said. the neighbor then heard a gunshot, the sounds of someone running, and more gunshots. based on this testimony that an argument occurred just before the shootings, brown and mcleod asked the trial court to instruct the jury on voluntary manslaughter.11 the trial court ruled there was no substantial evidence warranting the instruction. the trial court did not err. there was no evidence to prove either component of voluntary manslaughter. the evidence showed only a brief argument, of unknown origin and substance, followed by the shooting of two unarmed men from behind. this evidence did not provide any basis for a reasonable jury to conclude the victims had done strong passions, or that reasonable persons would have reacted similarly. moreover, the jury verdicts were inconsistent with a finding of voluntary manslaughtharmless when the jury necessarily decides the factual questions posed by the omitted (people v. lewis (2001) 25 cal.4th 610, 646.) if the jury convicted brown and mcleod of premeditated and deliberate murder, a voluntary manslaughter verdict was ruled out. (see people v. wharton first degree murder, the jury necessarily found defendant premeditated and deliberated the killing. this state of mind, involving planning and deliberate action, is manifestly inconsistent with having acted under the heat of passion . . . and clearly demonstrates that same result is reached if the jury convicted brown and mcleod of felony murder because 11 miller declined to join this request. 66 ovocation that reduces a people v.thomas (2012) 53 cal.4th 771, 813.) 16. there was no cumulative error. defendants contend their convictions should be reversed on the ground of cumulative error. because we have found no errors, this claim of cumulative error fails. (see people v. seaton (2001) 26 cal.4th 598, 639; people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 335.) 17. -appointment of counsel. miller contends the trial court erred by refusing to re-appoint counsel for him after he initially exercised his right to self-representation when the verdicts were returned. this claim is meritless. a. background. miller represented himself at the preliminary hearing with paul cohen serving as standby counsel. after the preliminary hearing, cohen was appointed to represent miller 10 days after miller was convicted, the trial court granted his request under faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806 [95 s.ct. 2525] to again represent himself for purposes of making a new trial motion and for sentencing. on february 18, 2011, miller asked the trial court to appoint cohen as his cocounsel, which the court declined to do. instead, the court offered to reappoint cohen to represent miller, an offer miller declined. at the same hearing, the trial court denied d not understand the nature of the charges against him, the trial court said it appeared miller me. you have understood the entire proceedings throughout this whole tr 67 sentenced him. that morning, the trial court had received a written motion miller filed the previous day. this motion claimed miller was incompetent, asked for counsel to be appointed on the ground he did not understand the proceedings, and challenged the validity of his convictions on various grounds. the trial court denied that motion too. miller now claims the trial court erred by denying his request for reappointment of counsel. b. legal principles. a trial court has discretion to grant or deny a subsequent request to revoke a faretta waived his right to counsel and elected to represent himself under faretta . . . seeks, during trial, to revoke that waiver and have counsel appointed, the trial court must exercise its discretion under the totality of the circumstances, considering factors revoke the waiver, and the delay or people v. lawrence (2009) 46 defand in the desire to change from self-representation to counsel-representation, (2) the reasons set forth for the request, (3) the length and stage of the trial proceedings, (4) disruption or delay which reasonably might be expected to ensue from the granting of such motion, and (5) id. at p. 192.) c. discussion. to have counsel reappointed because the court reasonably concluded he was purposely trying to manipulate the proceedings. 68 the court indicated on february 18 that miller was playing games when he claimed not to understand the charges against him and sought a psychiatric examination. that morning for reappointment of counsel, noting it had previously denied his post- at the february 18 hearing, miller told the tlot of things. the nature of the cause against me. nothing has come across my face to show me . . request for a psychiatric examination, thafter the court told miller he would be brought back on march 9 for sentencing, the following colloquy occurred: defendant miller: i have a question. i have a question. my question is according to my 6th amendment right . . . i am to be told the nature of the cause. and so . . a criminal action? me. you have understood the entire proceedings throughout this whole trial. throughout the entire trial you . . . have understood everything very clearly. so much so you raised more issues perhaps than your attorney did regarding the accusation, and the witnesses court reviewed prior to the march 9 hearing, demonstrates he was still playing games protester-like rant attacking the validity of the judicial system. he references u.s. bankruptcy as declared by president roosevelt on march sit as non-constitutional-non-article 69 he sic] representation because although my interest is greatest i am incapacitated mentally to understand the measure of discr then all of a sudden, at the march 9 hearing, miller became extremely articulate and well-reasoned while orally raising a whole series of alleged trial errors, including ineffective assistance of counsel, prosecutorial misconduct, his inability to cross-examine one of his codefendants, judicial misconduct for showing prospective jurors the bundy photograph, and juror misconduct. as an example, miller argued there had been juror misconduct because of an inappropriate contact between a . . foreman . . family outside the courtroom that the court should have asked what was the . . subject matter of that conversation. because . . . juror no. 3, did end up being the foreman. and no. in the hallway, we never know so i feel like that terribly both in court and in his written filings, showed that he was attempting to manipulate the right to counsel for an improper purpose. the court was, therefore, under the totality of 18. sentencing errors and clerical errors in abstract of judgment must be corrected. as the attorney general properly acknowledges, the trial court committed several sentencing errors and the abstracts of judgment appear to contain several clerical errors. we will order these mistakes corrected. an unauthorized sentence may be corrected at any time (see people v. gisbert (2012) 205 cal.app.4th 277, 282; people v. sanders (2012) 55 cal.4th 731, 743, fn. 13), and it is proper and important to correct clerical errors in abstracts of judgment (people v. mitchell (2001) 26 cal.4th 181, 185). 70 each defendant was sentenced to two terms of life without possibility of parole (lwop) to be served concurrently. the trial court erred by ordering brown and mcleod to serve, in addition to their lwop sentences, two consecutive 25-years-to-life terms for firearm-use enhancements ( 12022.53, subd. (d)). because their lwop sentences were to be served concurrently, the firearm enhancements for those convictions must also be served concurrently, rather than consecutively. a defpeople v. smith (1985) 163 cal.app.3d 908, 914; see people v. mustafaa (1994) 22 cal.app.4th 1305, 1311 -use enhancements to which [mustafaa] admitted were not separate crimes and cannot stand alone. each one is dependent upon and necessarily attached to its underlying felony. in separating the felony and its attendant enhancement by imposing a concurrent term for the felony conviction and a consecutive term for the the abstracts of judgment for mcleod and brown should be corrected to clearly reflect that both the lwop terms and the accompanying firearm enhancements are to be served concurrently. as to brown and mcleod, the trial court also erred by imposing $10,000 parole-revocation fines under section 1202.45. these fines were inapplicable because the defendants were not sentenced to any determinate terms. (see people v. oganesyan (1999) 70 cal.app.4th 1178, 1181-1182 [it was error to impose parole-revocation fine on defendant sentenced to term of life without possibility of parole on one count and indeterminate term on second count]; cf. people v. brasure (2008) 42 cal.4th 1037, 1075 [it was not error to impose parole-revocation fine on capital defendant who was also sentenced to determinate prison term on other counts].) as to miller, his abstract of judgment does not reflect that the trial court ordered his two lwop terms to be served concurrently. 71 disposition the judgments are affirmed as modified. the sentences for brown and mcleod are hereby modified as follows: the parole-revocation fines are vacated, and the firearm use enhancements are ordered to be served concurrently to each other rather than consecutively. the trial court is directed to prepare and forward to the department of corrections and rehabilitation amended abstracts of judgment for all three defendants, reflecting these modifications and correcting the clerical errors noted ante. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: croskey, j. aldrich, j. 