filed 12/4/12 p. v. hung ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. hong hung, defendant and appellant. b232356 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga079864) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. teri schwartz, judge. affirmed. jessica coffin butterick, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and nima razfar, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 appellant hong hung appeals from a judgment entered after a jury convicted him of mayhem (pen. code,  203, count 1)1 and assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury ( 245, subd. (a)(1), count 2). as to count 2, the jury found to be true the special allegation that appellant personally inflicted great bodily injury within the meaning of section 12022.7, subdivision (a). the trial court sentenced appellant to four years in state prison selecting the midterm on the mayhem conviction. the court imposed the upper term of four years for the assault and stayed the sentence pursuant to section 654. the court struck the punishment for the great bodily injury enhancement ( 12022.7, subd. (a)). friends threatened appellant, (2) the trial court should have, sua sponte, instructed the jury that it could consider evidence of prior threats by the victim and his friends when -defense, and (3) cumulative prejudice resulting from the claimed errors requires reversal. finding no error, we affirm facts prosecution evidence appellant and anh hoa bang were both homeless and lived on the streets of monterey park. they had known each other for about six months. on april 26, 2010, at about 11:00 a.m., bang and his friend paul walked by the parking lot of the golden liquor store where appellant worked. appellant approached and asked bang if he was helping paul in a dispute with appellant. bang denied he was, lled out a belt and swung it at bang. appellant pursued bang and paul as they ran towards an alley. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise stated. 3 later that afternoon, bang and his friend david were across the street from the golden liquor store. bang was using the pay phone when appellant approached and turned around and appellant punched him in the face with his fist. bang ran away and called 9-1-1 from another pay phone. the police arrived and interviewed bang. bang declined to press charges. bang and two friends went to shau may restaurant for dinner that evening. the restaurant was located near the golden liquor store. while bang was in the restroom he heard a loud commotion outside and came out to the dining area. appellant was drunk id that twice, this is the third time, so appellant and bang met in the golden liquor parking lot and appellant adopted a fighting stance. appellant, who was taller than bang, punched him a few times, and kigrabbed appellant by the neck and threw him to the ground. they continued to struggle until bang got on top of appellant, grabbed and held his arm and punched him two or three times around the head and face. appellant became very angry and yelled loudly. bang thought appellant was about to cry, and took pity on him and released his grip. ds. as bang tried to stand up appellant continued to bite his ear. bang cried out for help and felt ruben suarez was in the golden liquor parking lot at approximately 8:43 p.m. that evening. he saw appellant follow bang into the parking lot and strike him three or four times before bang put appellant in a headlock and took him to the ground. suarez saw s ear when a bystander intervened and pulled appellant away. 4 appellant attempted to follow bang who left the area and called 9-1-1. blood was and almost completely torn off. an ambulance transported bang to garfield medical center where a doctor reattached his earlobe. bang suffered pain and numbness to his ear. he continued to have hearing impairment at the time of trial. defense evidence appellant testified on his own behalf. he claimed to have known bang for about one year. before bang went to jail he asked appellant to take care of a backpack and bicycle for him. appellant gave the belongings to somebody else and could not return them to bang when he was released from jail. bang threatened to kill appellant if he did not return the items to him. on the morning of april 26, 2010, bang and three other men threatened appellant. bang and appellant pushed each other but there was no fight. later that afternoon, bang and his friends threatened appellant once more but it did not develop that evening, appellant went to the restaurant to get change for the bus. he saw restaurant and bang and his friends followed him outside to the golden liquor parking lot. bang put appellant in a headlock and he and his two friends wrestled appellant to the ground. bang was on top of appellant and choked him. bang punched appellant and grabbed his appellant denied he had been drinking that night. he testified that his speech was mumbled and incoherent because he was exhausted after the fight and he was in shock because he thought he was going to die. appellant denied threatening bang and denied starting the fight. rebuttal evidence detective gabriel escarsega of the monterey park police department interviewed appellant the day after the fight with bang. appellant did not tell detective escarsega 5 detective escarsega that the fight was between him and bang and he did not tell bang choked him or banged his head against the ground. discusssion i. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in excluding evidence that the victi a. contention friends threatened him moments before and during the fight with bang. appellant contends that the exclusion was prejudicial and deprived him of his constitutional right to present a defense. according to appellant, the proffered evidence was relevant and -defense. b. standard of review court applies the abuse of discretion standard of review to any ruling by a trial court on the admissibility of evidence, including, . . . one that turns on the (people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 723.) under judgment is not required, unless the trial court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage of justice. (people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 910.) c. legal principles evidence code section 350 states that only relevant evidence is admissible. . . having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disprobative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will 6 (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue a person claiming self-in so doing people v. davis (1965) 63 cal.2d 648, 656.) reasonably apeople v. minifie (1996) 13 cal.4th 1055, 1065 (minifie-defense is subject to all the normal evidentiary rules, including evidence code sections 350 [onin re christian s. (1994) 7 cal.4th 768, 783.) d. proceedings below appellant testified that on the morning of april 26, bang came to the liquor store and pushed appellant and threatened to kill him. he fustate of mind as it related to his claim of self-defense. the court agreed and instructed appellant testified that on the evening of april 26 at approximately 8:25 p.m., he appellant was asked what he did as a result of the conversation and testified that one of s here andthe ion on hearsay grounds and excused the jury. 7 at a sidebar conference, the court summarized the evidence as showing that friends at the restaurant, that bang testified that he knocked appellant down and hit him, ense counsel for an offer of proof to show how ds accosted appellant. the court was concerned with the amount of hearsay information that was being elicited, the need to rule on each objection that was raised, and the subsequent explanations and admonitions that the court was required to give to the jury. defense counsel stated that he intended to show that bang was the aggressor and that evidence of mind. the court stated that going forward it was going to sustain objections to participated in the fight. bang had testified earlier that appellant had threatened and the court explained that there had to be a nexus between what happened in the parking lot of the liquor store at approximately 8:45 p.m. and what happened in the earlier incidents and no such evidence had been presented. the court advised defense n if you think it is relevant to get into the basis here his state of mind, why he thought these other people were going to attack him, why he thought his life was in danger, why he bit the ear, then i am okay with him explaining his thoughts. but i am not okay with going through hearsay all throughout the day. it may or may not 8 have any relevance to what happened later on. so that is the problem i am having. and i think it is very confusing for me to keep telling the jury that it is only coming in for this incident and then he can explain why he thought the way he did and why he did the thing appellant resumed his testimony and defense counsel asked him if he could hear stified that he thought bang was going to kill him because bang was on top of him punching him and he was there were no further questions by defense counsel relating to statements made by e. analysis in this case, the trial court found that the evidence concerning third-party threats was not sufficiently relevant at the time defense counsel sought to elicit the statements and we find no abuse of discretion. as the court in minifie -defense was subject to the limitations of evidence code sections 350 and 352, meaning the minifie, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 1069.) evidence of the earlier encounters on april 26, between appellant and bang was introduced by appellant and the court permitted hearsay testimony related to statements ements made by the police officers investigating the second incident. but the series of hearsay statements were confusing and time consuming and the court was properly concerned that the jury was 9 before he saw bang, but left the restaurant as soon as he saw him. the court properly excluded the contents of that conversation and sustained hearsay objections to other third-party statements because at that time no evidence implicating anyone other than the victim in the fight had been introduced. at the restaurant at that point in the testimony was apt to confuse the jury and necessitate an undue consumption of time in instructing the jury as to their relevance in the case. tention the trial court did not order defense counsel to instruct appellant not to testify about third-of mind. the courtattacafter establishing the requisite nexus between the threats and the subsequent fight. even if we agreed with appellant and found that the trial court erred by excluding evidence of third-party threats before and during the fight with bang, we nonetheless would conclude that error was harmless under people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818. under watson, appellant has the burden on appeal to show that it is reasonably probable he would have obtained a more favorable verdict had the trial court not erred. (id. at p. generally is not subject to the more stringent standard of prejudice (i.e., harmless beyond a reasonable doubt) for federal constitutional error under chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18. although the chapman standard presumably would apply when a trial court people v. fudge (1994) 7 cal.4th 1075, 11031104), the chapman standard does not apply in this 10 -defense. (people v. fudge, supra, evidence of the later threats at the restaurant and during the fight would have added little to the testimony that the jury did hear. appellant testified regarding the pushed him down during the fight. moreover, the evidence against appellant was strong, aggressor, initiated the attack, and that he and appellant were the only two combatants in trial was vastly different from the version he gave to detective escarsega the day after the fight with bang. the proffered evidence would not have sufficed to overcome the evening of april 26, 2010. the people argue that appellant failed to object that he was denied his constitutional right to presforfeited a right to appellate review by failing to preserve a claim in the trial court, an appellate court may still review the claim as an exercise of its discretion. (people v. williams (1998) 17 cal.4th 148, 161, fn. 6; people v. johnson (2004) 119 cal.app.4th to raise the issue on appeal does not mean that an appellate court is precluded from forfeiture may lead to a subsequent filing of a petition for a writ of habeas corpus asserting ineffective assistance of counsel people v. crittenden (1994) 9 cal.4th 83, 160, fn. 18.) even if the forfeiture rule applies here, we 11 would, in the exercise of our discretion and as we have done here, address claim on the merits. ii. the trial court properly instructed the jury on the applicable law appellant contends that the trial court committed reversible error by failing to instruct the jury that they could consider past threats by bang and his friends when -defense claim. appellant reasons that he presented substantial evidence that he acted out of fear and that his fear was reasonable based on the threats that bang and his friends made against him and, therefore the trial court had a sua sponte duty to give a pinpoint instruction consisting of a portion of calcrim no. 3470 dealing with prior threats. the trial court has no sua sponte duty to give such an instruction and must do so only if a timely request is interposed in the trial court. no such request was made here. hence, the trial court did not err in failing to instruct on antecedent threats. the trial court prepared and gave the parties a proposed packet of instructions which included self-defense instructions based on calcrim nos. 3470, 3471, 3472, and 3474. the version of calcrim no. 3470 included in the proposed instructions did not contain language that the jury may consider past threats. both sides reviewed the instructions and appellant did not request the additional admonition, and it was omitted -defense instructions were included. in criminal caseon the general principles of law relevant to the issues raised by the evidence. [citations.] the general principles of law governing the case are those principles closely and openly copeople v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 154.) this duty to instruct, sua sponte, on general principles closely and openly connected with the facts also encompasses an obligation to instruct on defenses that are 12 people v. montoya (1994) 7 cal.4th 1027, 1047; see also people v. breverman, supra, at p. 157.) but the sua sponte duty to instruct on general principles of law does not extend to people v. saille instructions relate particular facts to a legal issue in the case to be given upon request when there is evidence supportive of the theory, but they are not ibid.) this issue has been decisively addressed in people v. garvin (2003) 110 cal.app.4th 484, 488490 (garvin), holding there is no sua sponte duty by the trial court to give a pinpoint instruction on antecedent threats. as stated in garvintrial court was obligated to instruct on the basic principles of self-defense[,] [i]t satisfied this duty by giving the standard caljic instructions on this topic. these instructions are legally correct and the concept of antecedent assaults [or threats] is fully consistent with the general principles that are expressed therein. [citation.] the issue of the effect of degree of force highlights a particular aspect of this defense and relates it to a particular piece of evidence. an instruction on the topic of antecedent assaults is analogous to a requires clarification must request a specific point and is not a general principle of law; the trial court was not obligated to id. at p. 489.) we agree with garvin and find it applicable here. (see bench note to calcrim no. 3470 (2012 ed.) [on defense request and when supported by sufficient evidence, the assaults against the defendant on the reasonableness opeople v. garvin, supra, 110 cal.app.4th at p. 488].) 13 even if the trial court erred in failing to give an antecedent threat instruction, that error was harmless in that there is no reasonable probability that a more favorable verdict for appellant would have ensued had such an instruction been given. (see people v. earp (1999) 20 cal.4th 826, 887; people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) the jury was properly instructed on self-defense. specifically, the jury was instructed that self-instru(calcrim no. 220) which included threats made by bang and his friends earlier in the day. these instructions were consistent with consideration of prior threats as a circums-defense. (see garvin, supra, 110 cal.app.4th at p. 489.) defense counsel vigorously argued self-defense to the jury. thus, even if the instruction was given, it is not reasonably probable that the jury would have reached a result more favorable to appellant. iii. cumulative error right to a fair trial. a defendant is entitled to a fair trial, not a perfect one. (see people v. chatman (2006) 38 cal.4th 344, 410; people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 1009; people v. bradford (1997) 14 cal.4th 1005, 1057.) the constitutional rules corpeople v. avila (1995) 35 cal.app.4th 642, 656.) when a reviewing court can determine that the record developed at trial establishes guilt beyond a e ibid.) here, as explained above, any complained-of errors either did not cumulative error is rejected. 14 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. _______________________, acting p. j. doi todd we concur: _______________________, j. ashmann-gerst _______________________, j. chavez 