filed 8/21/12 p. v. bravoalvarado ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose e. bravoalvarado, defendant and appellant. b232385 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba368337) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, robert j. perry, judge. affirmed. nancy l. tetreault, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and douglas l. wilson, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury found defendant and appellant jose e. bravoalvarado guilty of two counts statement about the crimes was admitted over his objection it was obtained in violation of miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 (miranda). he now contends that his waiver of his miranda rights was not voluntary, knowing and intelligent. he also contends that the testimony of a nurse practitioner, who mdid not personally conduct the examination, was admitted in violation of his sixth amendment rights, under crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36. we reject these contentions and affirm the judgment. factual and procedural background i. factual background. a. on february 20, 2010, six-year-old j.g. and bravoalvarado lived in the same brother. while outside, bravoalvarado, who j.g. knew, grabbed her hand and took her to his car. after pulling down her pants and pulling down his pants partway, mother calling for her, and he let her go. j.g. went home, but she did not tell her mother what happened until the next day. ppened when she got home. the next morning, february 21, 2010, j.g. told her mother that bravoalvarado part on her parts. she also said that two guys they knew asked what they were doing, and bravoalvarado said he had a girl. bravoalvarado got out of the car, leaving her inside. 3 the men left, and bravoalvarado returned to the car, where he again put his part on her private parts. he let j.g. go when her mother yelwhether her daughter bathed after coming home on february 20. j.g. had not changed out of the clothes she wore the day before. sally wilson, a family nurse practitioner at santa monica u.c.l.a. rape treatment center, testified that the day after the assault, a nurse examined j.g. wilson although trained to do forensic sexual assault examinations, she primarily trains other nurses, supervises the clinic, and reviews the charts and photo documentation prepared by other nurses. clinic. a state-mandated form, called cal-ema, was filled out during the visit. j.g. said she had urinated and defecated since the assault. j.g. had an acute pediatric examination consisting of a general medical history and physical, including a genital examination. j.g. had a pinkish-red area around her labia majora. the finding was not ould be caused by anything. eighty percent of pediatric patients can report an act of penetration without exhibiting injuries associated with the acts described. it is also not unusual for patients reporting anal penetration to have no anal injuries. afseat, he pulled her pants down and put his penis in her. j.g. was on top of him. some guys knocked on the window. he wrote letters to j.g. apologizing for having sex with her. b. defense case. detective sandra kipp for the los angeles police department sexual assault unit team interviewed j.g. one or two days after the incident. during the interview, j.g. 4 did not indicate that bravoalvarado penetrated her anus. she said bravoalvarado was on his lap and put his penis in her vagina. the parties stipulated that officer shannon interviewed j.g. on february 20, 2010. j.g. said that bravoalvarado grabbed her hand and walked her to his car, where he sat her in the center console area. he pulled down her pants and underwear, as well as his pants and underwear. suddenly, he pulled his pants up and got out of the car, locking the doors. when he returned to the car, j.g. was in the back seat. bravoalvarado placed j.g. on his lap so that they were sitting face to face and, after pulling down his pants and underwear, he inserted his penis into her vagina. j.g. said it hurt, but she was afraid to scream. bravoalvarado grabbed j.g. by the hips and rocked her back and forth. when j.g. said she heard her mother calling, bravoalvarado grabbed her by the back of the was afraid she would get in trouble. ii. procedural background. on march 23, 2011, a jury found bravoalvarado guilty of two counts of sexual intercourse or sodomy with a child under 10 (pen. code,  288.7, subd. (a)).1 on april 13, 2011, the trial court sentenced bravoalvarado to 25 years to life on count 1 and to a concurrent 25 years to life on the second count. discussion iii. miranda. a. additional facts. los angeles police officer matthew martinez and his partner drove to la paz, arizona, to pick up bravoalvarado, who was in custody. they drove him back to los angeles, and during the four-hour drive, the officers mainly talked to each other, but bravoalvarado joined in the conversation as well. back in los angeles, officer martinez interviewed bravoalvarado. 1 all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 5 primary language was spanish. during that interview, the following exchange occurred regardinmiranda rights: investigation, i have to read you your rights, okay? something that we do with everyone, and i want you to understand these. okay? varado]: uh-huh. the right to remain silent. do you understand that? do you that? here. okay. it says anything you say may be used against you in court. do you understand that? right here it could be brought up in court. do you understand that? go ahead and sign yes. you have the right to the presence of an attorney before and during any questioning. do you understand? -huh. 6 ve an attorney. do you understand? if you cannot afford an attorney, one will be appointed to you. you will be given one free of charge before any questioning if you want. do you understand that? guys start with . . . my questions? -huh. ficer martinez: if you cannot afford an attorney, one will be appointed to you free of charge before any questioning if you want. ne is, do you want to talk about what happened? do you want us to talkyou on and give you a chance to give your side of the story? martinez: do you wantthat fine? was obtained in violation of miranda, namely, it was not knowing, voluntary and intelligent. the court denied the motion: 7 the video and i have listened to the interrogation and read along with the transcript prepared by the prosecution. a valid waiver of miranda rights depends upon the totality of the circumstances. there is no question that that is what the court must consider. i felt in looking at the interview that mr. bravoalvarado had an excellent command of english. he was nodding at appropriate times. hesome of his responses are not reflected on the transcript the prosecution provided, but i certainly felt that he understood. there were two detectives involved who were fairly low key. and certainly officer martinez, i believe is the man who was seated at the table with the defendant, was very low key in giving the rights and explained the rights to the defendant patiently, in my view. understood that. when in response to martinez sayinghat i take issue with your transcript that says shakes ent and not appropriate for a transcript. the officers. i did not feel there was any pressure. they did not say, do you waive your right to an attorney. they did say to him 8 waiver of his right to remain sil b. miranda waiver was knowing, intelligent and voluntary. a custodial interrogation must be preceded by miranda warnings and by the miranda, supra, 384 u.s. at pp. 478-479.) a suspect in custody must therefore be warned he or she has the right to remain silent and to have an attorney present and any statement may be used against him or her. a waiver of these rights must be knowing, intelligent and voluntary, and generally cannot be presumed from a silent record. (moran v. burbine (1986) 475 u.s. 412, 421; people v. combs mincey v. arizona (1978lynumn v. illinois (1963) 372 u.s. 528, 534.) . . . whether a statement is voluntary depends upon the totality of the circumstances surrounding the interrogation. (people v. neal people v. smith (2007) 40 cal.4th 483, 501.) any language difficulties encountered by the defendant are factors to consider when determining the validity of a waiver. (united states v. bernard s. (9th cir. 1986) 795 f.2d 749, 751-752.) its evaluations of credibility if substantially supported, but independently determine from undisputed facts and facts found by the trial court whether the challenged statement was people v. smith, supraevidence that the statement was voluntary. [citation.] if a statement is found to be involuntary, the statement and other evidence derived from it are inadmissible for any people v. vasila (1995) 38 cal.app.4th 865, 873.) bravoalvarado contends that his waiver of his miranda rights was not voluntary, knowing or intelligent, because he was unfamiliar with the united states legal system and because he had limited proficiency in english. he relies on u.s. v. garibay (9th cir. 9 1998) 143 f.3d 534 (garibaynfession was found to have been obtained in violation of miranda. after custom agents found marijuana in his car, garibay was arrested. when interrogating agents asked whether he understood english, his miranda rights, which were read to him in english. (id. at p. 536.) miranda rights was valid, the district court made findings of fact that the appellate court later found were erroneous. contrary to the distrconducting the interrogation in spanish, and garibay did not refuse such an offer. (garibay, 143 f.3d at p. 538.) the agent assumed that garibay was sufficiently proficient in english to understand and waive his rights without a spanish-assistance. (ibid.) the agent admitted he rephrased questions when garibay did not seem to understand what was said. (ibid.primary languareceived d+ grades in 11th and 12th grade english and having never graduated. (id. at p. 537.) except for the interrogating agent, every witness at the suppression hearing (a clinical psychologist, the probation officer who prepared the presentence report, and spanish to garibay at his request. (id. at p. 538.) the evidence was undisputed that gar-english comprehension ibid.) under the totality of circumstances, the ninth circuit concluded that his waiver was not knowing and intelligent based on the absence of a written waiver; the failure to give garibay his miranda need for repeated explanations of his rights; and his lack of prior experience with the criminal justice system. (garibay, at pp. 538-539.) 10 this case is distinguishable from garibay.2 at no time while officer martinez, miranda rights or during the subsequent interview did bravoalvarado say he needed an interpreter or otherwise indicate he did not understand english. instead, the record shows that bravoalvarado understood english and his miranda rights. officer martinez began the interview by telling bravoalvarado to say something if he did not understand, to which bravoalvarado do demonstrated he understood what was being said to him, bravoalvarado, however, initially did say he did not understand the advisement that anything he said could be used against him in court. but when officer martinez explained that if bravoalvarado said something it could be brought up in court, bravoalvarado said he understood. similarly, after being told he could have an appointed attornewith . . he just talk what happened . . . garibay, bravoalvarado repeatedly said he understood his rights. only one time did he say he him. throughout this exchange, bravoalvarado signed a written waiver. the remainder of the interview also shows that bravoalvarado understood english. moreover, bravoalvarado, unlike garibay, did not produce evidence of his alleged inability to the united states for about 11 years, since 1999. 2 february 2010 interviews. 11 in any event, that a defendant has some difficulty with english does not render a waiver of miranda rights invalid. (united states v. bernard s., supra, 795 f.2d at p. 752 [even though the defendant clearly had some difficulties with english and required an interpreter at trial, his waiver of his miranda rights was valid because he studied english through the seventh grade and, most importantly, he said he understood each of his rights after they were explained to him].) miranda rights was knowing, intelligent and voluntary. iv. testimony. nurse practitioner wilson testified at trial examination. nurse wilson, however, did not personally conduct or otherwise participate in that examination; she merely reviewed the documentation about the examination. bravoalvarado now contends that admitting her testimony violated his sixth amendment right to confront witnesses, under crawford v. washington, supra, 541 u.s. 36.3 we do not decide whether admission of her testimony violated crawford, because we conclude s testimony was harmless.4 t(u.s. const., 6th amend.) under the confrontation clause, out-of-court statements that are testimonial in nature are inadmissible unless the declarant is unavailable and the accused has had a prior opportunity to cross-examine the declarant. (crawford v. 3 defense counsel did not object, under crawfordarguably forfeiting this issue. to obviate the ineffective assistance of counsel claim, we will address the issue. 4 this issuewhether a defendant is denied his or her sixth amendment right of confrontation when a nurse practitioner testifies to the results of a sexual assault examination and the report prepared by another nurse is currently on review in the california supreme court. (people v. gutierrez (2009) 177 cal.app.4th 654, rev. granted s176620, dec. 2, 2009.) 12 washington, supra, 541 u.s. at pp. 68-69.) crawford left open what statements (other than prior testimony at a preliminary hearing or testimony before a grand jury or at a former trial and statements made in police interrogations) are testimonial in nature. people v. geier (2007) 41 cal.4th 555, held that crawford did not require excluding a dna report, admitted through the testimony of a laboratory director who cosigned the report but who did not perform the analysis. the court concluded that the contemporaneous preparation of the samples for analysis, and the results of that analysis as she was actually id. at pp. 605-606.) also, the report was generated as part of not accusatory, since dna analysis can lead to incriminatory or exculpatory results. (id. at p. 607.) finally, the accusatory opinion rendered in the case, that the dna profiles laboratory notes and report, but by the tesibid.) geier, however, has been called into question by melendezdiaz v. massachusetts (2009) 557 u.s. 305,5 which clarified that affidavits showing the results of a forensic analysis performed on seized substances were testimonial; therefore, the affidavits could not be admitted in lieu of in-court testimony unless the analyst was unavailable and had previously been subject to cross-examination. most recently, in bullcoming v. new mexico (2011) __u.s. __ [131 s.ct. 2705], the united states supreme court examined laboratory report containing a testimonial certificationmade for the purpose of proving a particular factthrough the in-court testimony of a scientist who did not sign the id. at p. 2710.) 5 a second issue on review in gutierrez is how melendez-diaz affects geier. 13 requirement imposed by the confrontation clause, and that the defendant was entitled to be confronted with the analyst who signed the certification, unless the analyst was unavailable and the defendant had a prior opportunity to cross-examine him. (ibid.)6 we need not decide what the outcome should be under geier and recent united admitted here, the error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt under the test in chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24. j.g. testified that bravoalvarado took her to his car, where he assaulted her. she also said that he briefly left the car, because two men came by. moreover, bravoalvarado confessed. his confession confirmed portions e took her to his car and that some guys came by while he was in the car with j.g. the versions of what happened that j.g. told to her mother, officers, and the nurse were largely consistent, with j.g. consistently saying that -red ave caused the discoloration. harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. 6 bullcoming opinion in full. justice sotomayor, who joined in all but part iv of the opinion, wrote a concurring obullcoming v. new mexico, supra, 131 s.ct at p. 2719.) justice sotomayor agreed that the certification was testimonial, but is case does not (id. at pp. 2721-testifying is a supervisor, reviewer, or someone else with a personal, albeit limited, connection to the scientific test at issue. . . . it would be a different case if, for example, a supervisor who observed an analyst conducting a test testified about the results or a report about such results. we need not address what degree of involvement is sufficient because here [the witness] had no involvement whatsoever in the relevant test and id. at p. 2722.) justice sotomayor also noted that the case was not one in which an expert witness rendered an independent opinion about underlying testimonial reports that were not themselves admitted into evidence. 14 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports aldrich, j. we concur: klein, p. j. kitching, j. 