 filed 1/23/15 p. v. cerda ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. peter juan cerda et al., defendants and appellants. b232572 consolidated w/b235674 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma041397) appeal from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, hayden zacky, judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded with directions. ralph h. goldsen, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant peter juan cerda. edward h. schulman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant kyle allin johnson. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, louis w. karlin and mary sanchez, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendants and appellants, peter juan cerda and kyle allin johnson, appeal their convictions for first degree murder (cerda only), second degree murder (johnson only), and 23 counts of premeditated attempted murder, with gang and firearm use enhancements (pen. code,  187, 664, 187, 186.22, 12022.53).1 cerda was sentenced to state prison for a term of 816 years to life. johnson was sentenced to state prison for a term of 410 years to life. the judgments are affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded with directions. background although cerda and johnson were tried jointly, they had separate juries. their appeals have been consolidated. viewed in accordance with the usual rule of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established the following. 1. prosecution evidence. a. the katrina place shooting (counts 1-14). on the night of february 10, 2008, a large group of people were attending a party at a house on katrina place in palmdale. various witnesses, who either resided at the house or had come for the party, testified they heard gunshots and the sound of bullets passing through the house. ricardo r., who was in the garage at the time, heard gunshots. one shot was fired into the garage, making a hole in a television set. ricardo went into the house and rushed upstairs to check on his daughter, who was sleeping in the master bedroom with another child. he found two bullet holes in the bathroom of the master bedroom, about three feet away from where the children had been sleeping. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 3 adrianna r. had come to the party with her friend gerardo salazar, a 24-year-old taxi driver. they were sitting in the house at the dining room table with several other people when the shooting erupted. there were adrianna could hear things ricocheting off the walls. when the shooting stopped, salazar was bleeding and lying face down on the floor. he died from a gunshot wound to the back of the head. at the time of the shooting, daniel d., christina e. and luze e. were on the second floor of the house. luze was sleeping in one bedroom and there were two young children sleeping in a second bedroom. luze testified she was awakened by the sound of 20 gunshots. daniel and christina were in a third bedroom, which was located across the stairs from the master bedroom and directly above the dining room. daniel heard 13 or 14 gunshots. looking out the window, he saw a large pickup truck in the street and the muzzle flashes of a gun being fired from the truck. that same night, erika v. and her sister had been attending a party at jorge l.house, about two blocks from the katrina place house. at this party, erika was introduced to a man called casper, who was later identified as defendant johnson. jose casillas, who had also been attending this party, later gave erika and her sister a ride home in his dark green pickup truck. during the ride, erika saw johnson staggering ked like he was drunk, because he . . b. the morning circle shooting (counts 15-24). vicente valle lived with 12 family members in a two-story house on morning circle, a little over a mile from the katrina place house. about 30 minutes after the shooting at katrina place, gunshots awoke valle and his family. valle went outside to investigate. there were six bullet holes in the exterior of his house. one bullet had who was associated with the val verde park gang, had been sleeping downstairs at the time of the shooting. 4 c. police statements of pedro a. pedro a. talked to the police about the events of that night and the juries heard a recording of his interview. pedro also spoke to detective donna cheeks at the time of trial about what he had witnessed, and cheeks described this conversation for the juries. pedro told cheeks he went with sal trujillo, defendant johnson and defendant minutes later, pedrjohnson. cerda retrieved an ak--type weapon, black with a w-150 ford truck and casillas drove off. pedro did not go with them. several minutes later, he heard gunshots. a few days later, johnson told pedro what truck. they had driven back to the party house location, driven around the block once, came back. [] . . . at one point, [johnson] had gotten into the bed of the truck and was lying down holding the gun. and when they stopped in front of the party house, in his earlier police interview, pedro had said the following. during the party at n the street at katrina [place]and being loud and [said] . . . . 18th. . . you knowcause . . . . all just . . . . . some 5 tonight . . . -they show off . . . the gun . . . for like 20 minutes, 30 minutes. wait for like an hour to passenger seat, and johnson and trujillo in the back seat. two days later, johnson told with the gun, and did the shooting from there. after johnson shot up the katrina place sec d. forensic evidence. robert keil, a senior criminalist and firearms examiner with the los angeles one bullet had gone through the garage door, pierced a wall and a television set, and then embedded itself in the back wall of the garage. keil found numerous bullet holes in the front of the house. one bullet had gone through the dining room window and a wall, and ended up inside the kitchen refrigerator. another bullet, which also had gone through the dining room window, was the bullet that killed gerardo salazar. three bullets were found in the foundation area of the south exterior wall, underneath the dining room window. three other bullets had gone through a stucco wall next to the dining room window and hit the north wall of the dining room. another bullet had gone through the same wall, travelled through a hallway, and hit the wall on the opposite side of a stairway. one bullet had gone through the frame of the front door and then hit a wooden cabinet in the kitchen. 6 on the second floor of the katrina place house, keil found a bullet hole in one of the roof tiles. this bullet had first gone through the wall of the second bedroom and then through a pair of sliding closet doors. there was evidence another bullet had hit the wall of the second bedroom. there were two bullet holes just to the left of the window in the second bedroom; these bullets had struck the north wall of the bedroom, one of them traveling across the hallway and through the staircase wall. keil recovered a bullet fragment from the master bathroom sink. in the street just south of the katrina place house, keil found 16 spent cartridge cases. these came from .762 by .39-millimeter bullets, which is the ammunition fired by an ak-47 semi-automatic assault rifle. there were 16 bullet holes in the exterior of the house; bullets had struck both the first and the second story of the house. there were 10 bullet fragments inside the house consistent with the spent cartridges found in the street. a bullet recovered from the corner of the dining room had blood, tissue and bone residue on it, indicating it was the bullet that had killed salazar. keil prepared a diagram showing where each of the 16 gunshots had struck the exterior of the house and where some of those gunshots had traveled after penetrating the house. police recovered four live cartridges and four spent cartridge cases from the morning circle shooting scene. keil concluded these spent cartridge cases matched the cartridge cases recovered from katrina place. keil opined both sets of casings had been fired from the same ak-47 rifle. the bullets used in an ak-47 military assault rifle are lighter than those fired from thickness, greater, more substantial barriers, such as exterior walls of residences, car nine-millimeter round might not even penetrate the exterior stucco wall of a house, an ak-very high- 7 anything else in the exterior wall. they have the potential to reliably perforate . . . exterior walls, based on m e. . two telephone calls cerda made while in jail had been tape recorded. in the first gonna be in here because i was involved in a murder. my friend shot someone and killed in the second call, cerda initially spoke to the father of a girl named vanessa and . . . f. johnson was interviewed by detectives cooper and robison. he initially denied any involvement in to go back with (unintelligible) people and just have a fight, be a big real fight. they johnson subsequently admitted he went along on the mission, but he claimed . . you gets in the bed of [the] truck and we pull up to the house and he does it. and then we 8 . . the motivation to go over there was that . . . they dissed you at that party. . . [cerda] is the one that wanted to shoot it. when johnson w . . you guys come up with the idea to go shoot the house up, for . . i truth is you fired on the 18th street house and [cerda] fired on the val verde house is they told me, when we stop, just start . he sat up and started shooting at the katrina place house. after doing the shooting, he seat and [cerda] got in the back [i.e., in the truck bed]. and then g. in december 2007, a probation officer searched the room of a female juvenile thought to be affiliated with the lms gang. the officer found a piece of paper he series of names, monikers and telephone numbers in a peculiar script resembling graffiti. there was an entry for johnson, and there were references to trujillo and casillas, but there was no mention of cerda. h. gang expert testimony. lms or locos marijuanos is a street gang with more than 50 documented members. gillis had personally dealt with a group of about 10 lms members in the palmdale area. but over time their activities came to include vehicle thefts, possession of firearms, and 9 shootings. based on his review of reported police contacts, field information cards, and so-of the lms gang at the time of the shootings. gillis was familiar with a gang called val verde park or vvp. vincent valle senior was an original founder of the gang and his son, vincent junior, was a member. at the time of the shootings, vvp and lms were rivals. lms was allied with a gang called lancas, some of whose members had shot at vvp gang members around the 18th street and lms. more respect by committing violent crimes. losing a fight to a rival gang member would call for a violent response in order to regain respect and street credibility, both personal respect for the particular gang member involved in the fight and respect for the gang as a whole. a common response would be an organized act of retaliation. presented with a hypothetical question based on the evidence presented, gillis opined the two shootings arm themselves with a gun. the . . . sole purpose for an ak-47 or assault rifle is to kill. and they go get that weapon. they come back to the location after they just had this . . . fight and they light up this house with a weapon with ammunition that is capable of going through . . its rivals, as you said . . . they take the opportunity while they are out on their mission which is a common thing gang members do is they go on missions and they effect a second assault on another residence . . . 10 2. defense evidence. johnson testified on his own behalf. he had been 16 years old at the time of the he drank 10 to 15 beers and smoked marijuana. after an hour, he walked over to the katrina place party where he had more beer. as johnson was leaving katrina place he jumping over a back wall. after that he walked home and stayed there the rest of the night. he did not return to the house where the fight occurred, and he did not tell pedro he had been involved in the shootings. during his police interview, johnson initially told the truth by denying any involvement in the shootings, but then said he had been present because he was scared and wanted to go home. he was confused and kept giving the police different stories. police wanted to hear. on cross-punched him. but he lied to the police when he said he had gone along with cerda to do the drive-by shooting. although johnson had told police he only drank two to four beers , why he would have lied to the police about how much he drank that night. johnson testified he was a member of lms in 2008. he had known cerda for about a year before the shootings; cerda was not an lms member. cerda did not testify. 11 3. rebuttal evidence. both juries heard the recorded police interviews with johnson that had initially been played only for his jury. contentions for premeditated attempted murder. ctions must be overturned because the trial court gave an erroneous instruction on the natural and probable consequences doctrine. superseded version of calcrim no. 400. 4. the trial court erred by failing to instruct the two juries they could convict the defendants of shooting at an occupied dwelling house ( 246). 5. the trial court improperly instructed the two juries on the so-theory. orney was ineffective for failing to ask for a jury instruction on a voluntary intoxication defense. be reversed for cumulative error. sentencing. amendment. 12 discussion 1. for premeditated attempted murder. defendants contend there was insufficient evidence to sustain their premeditated attempted murder convictions arising out of the katrina place and morning circle shootings. this claim is meritless. a. legal principles. (1) standard of review. review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidence that is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the federal standard of review is to the same effect: under principles of federal due process, review for sufficiency of evidence entails not the determination whether the reviewing court itself believes the evidence at trial establishes guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, but, instead, whether, after viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the standard of review is the same in cases in which the prosecution relies mainly on circumstantial that circumstantial evidence is susceptible of two interpretations, one of which suggests guilt and the other innocence [citations], it is the jury, not the appellate court[,] which eviewing court that the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 11.) the jury convicted [him] is of no consequence to the perhaps the most 13 fundamental rule of appellate law is that the judgment challenged on appeal is presumed correct, and it is the appellantthus, when a criminal defendant claims on appeal that his conviction was based on insufficient evidence of one or more of the elements of the crime of which he was convicted, we must begin with the presumption that the evidence of those elements was sufficient, and the defendant bears the burden of convincing us otherwise. to meet that analysis of the evidence, . . . that the evidence is insufficient to support the judgment[ ] of affirmatively demonstrate that the evidence is people v. sanghera (2006) 139 cal.app.4th 1567, 1573.) (2) elements of aiding and abetting, and premeditated attempted murder. a person aids and abets the commission of a crime when he or she, (i) with knowledge of the unlawful purpose of the perpetrator, (ii) and with the intent or purpose of committing, facilitating or encouraging commission of the crime, (iii) by act or advice, people v. cooper (1991) 53 cal.3d 1158, 1164.) pted murder has long differed from that required for murder itself. murder does not require the intent to kill. implied malice a conscious disregard for life murder requires the specific intent to kill and the commission of a direct but ineffectual people v. smith (2005) 37 cal.4th 733, 739.) red to convict a defendant of attempted murder, may in many cases be inferred from the l the people v. smith, supra, 14 purposeful shooting with lethal force under all the attendant circumstances can support a conviction of attempted murder even without evidence of motive. [] . . . [t]he act of purposefully firing a lethal weapon at another human being at close range, without legal excuse, generally gives rise to an inference that the shooter acted with express malice. that the shooter had no particular motive for shooting the victim is not dispositive, although . . . where motive is shown, such evidence will usually be probative of proof of intent to kill. nor is the circumstance that the bullet misses its mark or fails to prove lethal dispositive id. at p. 742, italics added.) section or is prevented or intercepted in its perpetration, shall be punished where no provision is made by law for the punishment of those attempts, as follows: [] (a) if the crime attempted is . . . . willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder, as defined in section 189, the person guilty of that attempt shall be punished by imprisonment in the state prison for b. discussion. defendants argue the evidence only showed their intent to shoot at two houses in violation of section 246 (shooting at an inhabited dwelling house), not an intent to kill the occupants of those houses. not so. the evidence showed johnson and cerda intended to kill the people who were inside the two houses. the evidence also showed each defendant was guilty of attempted murder as an aider and abettor for the shootings carried out by the other defendant under the natural and probable consequences doctrine.2 2 defendants argue certain favorable inferences should have flowed from various inconsistent aspects of the jury verdicts. these arguments are meritless. (see people v. superior court (sparks) jury verdict as to one defendant, that verdict may stand despite an apparently inconsistent verdict as to an people v. santamaria is . . . settled that an inherently inconsistent verdict is allowed to stand; if an acquittal of 15 (1) express intent to kill as to all attempted murder counts. people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15, 26-27, a murder case, discussed the following types of premeditation and deliberation evidence3the type of evidence which this court has found sufficient to sustain a finding of premeditation and deliberation falls into three basic categories: (1) facts about how and what defendant did prior to the actual killing which show that the defendant was engaged in activity directed toward, and explicable as intended to result in, the killing what may be characterized as prior relationship and/or conduct with im, which inference of motive, together with facts of type (1) or (3), would in turn support an -rash impulse hastily facts about the nature of the killing from which the jury could infer that the manner of killing was so particular and exacting that the defendant must a (1) or (2). [] analysis of the cases will show that this court sustains verdicts of first degree murder typically when there is evidence of all three types and otherwise requires at least extremely strong evidence of (1) or evidence of (2) in conjunction with either (1) or one count is factually irreconcilable with a conviction on another, or if a not true finding of an enhancement allegation is inconsistent with a conviction of the substantive offense, 3 murder for purposes of determining whether there is sufficient evidence of premeditation people v. herrera (1999) 70 cal.app.4th 1456, 1462, fn. 8, disapproved on other grounds in people v. mesa (2012) 54 cal.4th 191, 199.) 16 in this case, there was evidence of all three anderson factors: motive, planning and manner of attempted killing. the evidence showed defendants planned and carried out two purposeful drive-by shootings with sufficient lethal force to have shot dead each attempted murder victim. the evidence showed motives for both shootings. the defendants planned the attack on katrina place in retaliation for the assault on johnson, and they then attacked the morning circle house because rival gang members lived there. as johnson related to advancing their gang interests there was planning evidence. (see, e.g., people v. miranda (1987) 44 cal.3d 57, 87, disapproved on other grounds by people v. marshall (1990) 50 cal.3d defendant brought his loaded gun into the store and shortly thereafter used it to kill an unarmed victim reasonably suggests that defendant considered the possibility of murder people v. alcala (1984) 36 cal.3d 604, 626, superseded by statute on other grounds as stated in people v. falsetta (1999) 21 cal.4th 908, 911 . . brings along a deadly weapon which he subsequently employs, it is reasonable to infer that he inference raised by defendants simply having acquired the ak-47 for use in the shootings, the evidence also showed they discussed a plan to retaliate for the assault on johnson by carrying out a drive-by shooting, retrieved the ak-drove drove to katrina place to pedro only knew there was a plan to retaliate in some unspecified manner, pedro told polic after johnson shot at the katrina place house, the defendants decided to continue carry out a second drive-by 17 duration of time as much as it is the extent of the reflection. thoughts may follow each other with great rapidity and cold, calculated judgment may be arrived at quickly. . . people v. mayfield (1997) 14 cal.4th 668, 767.) and finally, by firing the ak-47 multiple times at the two houses, the defendants engaged in a manner of attempted killing tending to show premeditation and deliberation. (see people v. silva multiple shotgun wounds inflicted on an unarmed and defenseless victim who posed no threat to defendant people v. vorise (1999) 72 cal.app.4th 312, 318-319 [premeditation and deliberation established where evidence showed defendant calmly shot incapacitated victim in chest twice at close range].) johnson and cerda used a military assault rifle so powerful its bullets were known to penetrate the walls of houses. at katrina place, it appears almost all the shots did penetrate the house. although only one bullet actually penetrated the house at morning circle, the other bullets were found embedded in the exterior stucco walls of the in sum, the evidence showed defendants intended to do more than just damage the two houses or scare the occupants. rather, the evidence showed the defendants intended to kill the victims. (2) guilt based on natural and probable consequences doctrine for non-shooting incidents. as discussed, ante, the evidence showed each defendant intended to kill, both when he fired the ak-of the weapon. in addition, however, the evidence also showed that under the natural and probable consequences doctrine each defendant was guilty of premeditated attempted murder for the shots fired by his codefendant, even if the non-been to violate section 246 (shooting at an occupied dwelling house). the intended crime [target offense] but also of any other crime the perpetrator actually commits [nontarget offense] that is a natural and probable consequence of the intended 18 crime. the latter question is not whether the aider and abettor actually foresaw the additional crime, but whether, judged objectively, it was reasonably foreseeable. ine should have known that the charged offense was a reasonably foreseeable consequence of people v. medina (2009) 46 cal.4th 913, 920.) in medina, the defendants planned to beat up barba, a rival gang member. but after barba managed to defend himself, one of the defendants pulled out a gun and shot at ee defendants were convicted of first degree murder and premeditated attempted murder. affirming the convictions, medina held the deadly outcome was a natural and probable consequence of -related purpose of the initial assault and the fact that, despite being outnumbered, barba exhibited strength against three aggressors who could not avenge themselves in response to what they considered disrespectful behavior by barba, the jury could reasonably have found that a person in retaliation was likely to occur and that escalation of the confrontation to a deadly level was reasonably foreseeable as barba was retreating from the scene. [c(people v. medina, supra, 46 cal.4th at pp. 922-necessary for there to have been a prior discussion of or agreement to a shooting, or for a gang member to have known a fellow gang member was in fact arm(id. at p. 924.) the evidence here is much stronger than in medina because johnson and cerda planned to use the ak-47 from the very beginning. the jury could have reasonably found each defendant intended to aid and abet the offense of shooting at an occupied dwelling house in circumstances where it was reasonably foreseeable his codefendant would instead commit attempted murder. (see, e.g., people v. mendoza (1998) 18 cal.4th 1114, 1123 [second degree murder and attempted murder could be natural and probable consequences of shooting at occupied building in non-gang retaliation shooting 19 after altercation at party]; people v. montes (1999) 74 cal.app.4th 1050, 1054-1057 [attempted murder as natural and probable consequence of simple assault and breach of the peace in gang context]; people v. lucas (1997) 55 cal.app.4th 721, 732-735 [second degree murder as natural and probable consequence of brandishing]; people v. laster (1997) 52 cal.app.4th 1450, 1465 [attempted murder as natural and probable consequence of discharging firearm from a vehicle]; people v. montano (1979) 96 cal.app.3d 221, 225-227, superseded by statute on other grounds as stated in in regarding john r. (1981) 116 cal.app.3d 940, 944 [attempted murder as natural and probable consequence of plan to beat up rival gang members].) in sum, there was overwhelming evidence in support of the premeditated attempted murder convictions. 2. erroneous as to his murder conviction only. a. der conviction must be reversed. in our original opinion in this matter (an unpublished decision issued july 18, 2013), we concluded, with respect to the katrina place shootings, that there was sufficient evs on both the multiple premeditated attempted murder counts and the first degree murder count for the death of salazar. subsequently, however, our supreme court held in people v. chiu (2014) 59 cal.4th 155, 158-159, thapremeditated murder under the natural and probable consequences doctrine. rather, his or her liability chiu reasoned that culpability for aiding and abetting a target crime that would naturally, probably, and foreseeably result in a murder under the natural and probable consequences doctrine(id. at p. 166.) we therefore recalled the remittitur in this case, and requested supplemental briefing from cerda and the attorney general, because this new decision raised the possibility firmed. as 20 chiu which was legally correct and one legally incorrect, reversal is required unless there is a basis in the record to find that the verdict was based on a valid ground. [citations.] a reasonable doubt that the jury based its verdict on the legally valid theory that defendant directly aided and abetted the premeditated murder. people v. chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 167.) and abetting theory as well as a natural and probable consequences theory, the jury may have convicted him on the legally invalid theory. chiu, the jury here was and probable consequence theory. this improperly allowed the jury to find that [cerda] was guilty of first degree premeditated murder as a natural and probable consequence of however, the attorney general goes on to argue this error was harmless because the prosecutor used closing argument to highlight evidence showing johnson and cerda had katrina place] house. the attorney general asserts reasonable doubt that the jury based its verdict on the legally valid theory that appellant cerda directly aided and abetted the murder of salazar, and that he did so with premeditation. the to kill, while very strong, was not overwhelming. although the evidence clearly showed cerda had a revenge motive for carrying out the drive-by shooting at katrina place, the crucial question is whether his intent was to kill one or more of the occupants, or with gunfire. the trial evidence could have been read as supporting a conclusion cerda merely intended to scare the party-goers at katrina place rather than kill them. that is, up johnson this could have been seen as merely indicating an intent to scare rather than kill. there was other evidence at least suggesting 21 the plan had been only to shoot at the house. cerda told his father (with respect to the immediately subsequent morning circle shooting)shoot the [katrina place] mean to hurt nobod in an implicit acknowledgment of this problem at trial, the prosecutor invited the jurors to rely on the natural and probable consequences doctrine to support a first degree murder verdict if they were unconvinced cerda had the intent to kill. the prosecutor . . they intended to kill anyone. i think that they were just shooting into a home and somebody just happened to die. [] the law says, even that is sufficient for you to convict of -47 with 20 some odd rounds in it knowing that you are going to shoot up a house. an occupied house. you someone is going to die? yeah. unless i have an i.q. of two, i know lighting up a house with an assault rifle, somebody is going to die. cerda certainly knew that. and as such, he is guilty. he is guilty of the crime of murder. [] so would a reasonable person know? yes. he knew that having kyle johnson shoot up that house, that somebody was hence, we cannot determine beyond a reasonable doubt that the jury must have found cerda intended to aid and abet the murder of salazar, as opposed to relying on the invalid natural and probable consequences theory. in chiu our supreme court held that if there was no basis in the record to conclude the jury relied on the legally valid direct aiding and abetting theory, the proper ] the first degree murder conviction, allowing the people to accept a reduction of the conviction to second degree murder or to retry the greater offense. . . . if the people choose to retry the case, they may seek a first degree murder conviction people v. chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 168.) 22 cerda argues the only proper remedy is reducing his conviction to second degree murder because, inasmuch as johnson was only convicted of second degree murder, allowing a retrial would encourage a jury to reach an inconsistent verdict. but our supreme court has sanctioned inconsistent premeditation findings (see people v. palmer (2001) 24 cal.4th 856, 866-867), and based on the misconception that an aider and abettor can be liable for no greater offense than is the direct perpetrator. (see people v. mccoy (2001) 25 cal.4th 1111, 1120 [actual perpetrator had less culpable state of mind than accomplice]; see also people v. nero (2010) 181 cal.app.4th 504, 507 [mccoy held that an aider and abettor may be found guilty of greater homicide-related offenses than those the actual perpetrator committed.) trial court for further proceedings. b. cerda contends the jury instructions improperly allowed him to be convicted for attempted murder on a natural and probable consequences theory, without having to find johnson committed premeditated murder and that premeditated attempted murder had been foreseeable. apart from our discussion, ante, explaining why the natural and murder conviction, we conclude there was no error as to any other jury verdict. (1) background. on the natural and probable consequences doctrine as follows: on a natural and probable consequence theory, you must decide whether he is guilty of shooting at an occupied house. must prove that: 23 of shooting at an occupied house, the defendant, or co-participant in that offense, committed the crime of murder or attempted murder; and under all of the circumstances, of the murder or attempted murder was a natural and probable consequence of the commission of shooting at an occupied house. -participant in a crime is the perpetrator or anyone who aided and abetted the perpetrator. it does not include a victim or innocent by-stander. easonable person would know is likely to happen if nothing unusual intervenes. in deciding whether a consequence is natural and probable, consider all of the circumstances established by the evidence. if the murder or attempted murder was committed for a reason independent of the common plan to commit shooting at an occupied house, then the commission of murder or attempted murder was not a natural and probable consequence of shooting at an occupied house. ted murder were committed, (2) discussion. merely an aider and abettor, counts 1 through 14, the npc [natural and probable consequences] theory applies only when there is another person who actually committed a first degree murder or premeditated attempted murder with the required mental state. murder without aider and abettor guilty under an npc theory unless it also determines that a perpetrator committed first degree murder or premeditated attempted murder. calcrim 403, as given in this case, and in combination with the arguments of counsel, failed to make this 24 this contention was based on people v. hart (2009) 176 cal.app.4th 662, but, as cerda acknowledges in his reply brief, our supreme court overruled hart in people v. favor consequences doctrine as applied to the premeditation allegation under section 664(a) [the statute defining premeditated attempted murder], attempted murder not attempted premeditated murder qualifies as the nontarget offense to which the jury must find foreseeability. accordingly, once the jury finds that an aider and abettor, in general or under the natural and probable consequences doctrine, has committed an attempted murder, it separately determines whether the attempted murder was willful, deliberate, and premeditated. [] under the natural and probable consequences doctrine, there is no requirement that an aider and abettor reasonably foresee an attempted premeditated murder as the natural and probable consequence of the target offense. it is sufficient that attempted murder is a reasonably foreseeable consequence of the crime aided and abetted, and the attempted murder itself was committed willfully, deliberately and with id. at pp. 879-880.)4 cerda has responded to the favor argument which pertains to premeditated attempted murder. his argument is still valid regarding . . . all attempted murder convictions. although the instructions were not that the aider and abettor must foresee only the act engaged in by the perpetrator, rather because the act of shooting at an inhabited dwelling may be a mere assault, or an attempted murder, depending on the mental state of the shooter and the likelihood of a murder occurring. the npc theory of liability as portrayed by the parties alleviated the 4 to the extent johnson claims he was unfairly prejudiced by the calcrim nos. 403 and 601 instructions, he is ignoring the fact his premeditated attempted murder intent to kill at morning circle. 25 . . . an attempted murder . . . nothing in favor thing and another person dies. so that one of you at this point says . . k they intended to kill anyone. i think mental state. it was called upon only to dete there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury has applied the challenged instruction in a must be viewed in the context of the over (people v. richardson (2008) 43 cal.4th 959, 1028.) -target crimes, the final sentence of the the defendant has committed murder, you must decide whether it is murder of the first or 26 allegation that the attempted murder was done willfully and with premeditation and clarification cerda asserts was needed by referring the jury to other instructions. prosecutor did argue the defendants intended to kill people. the prosecutor told the jury: there was motive for that. he was trying to get back at the people who beat him up. lms was there trying to take down a house that for them portrayed 18th streeters who had he people who went out that night armed with an ak-47 were going hunting. they were going hunting that night. hunting for rivals. hunting for people who had disrespected them and their gang. [] . . . they were hunting for humans beings that they could shoot and the prosecutor made it clear he was not talking about an accidental death. for complete about. murder, as the judge read to you is this. a person committed an act that caused prosecutor went on to explain malice aforethought and the concepts of express and implied malice. the prosecutor clearly told the jury it had to find johnson committed murder in order for cerda to be to get to that, did [cerda] aid and abet kyle johnson in killing somebody, we have to make sure . . . was there a murder and did he aid and abet [?] the prosecutor also clearly argued there had been a premeditated intent to kill: the party and somebody has a gun in their waist band . . . and as soon as they get beat up, 27 enario is . . . happen. . . . [] they are talking about it. they are thinking about it. 20, 30 minutes, an hour has gone by. they have also had to get into their car, driven down to the location, circled the block. one of them pops up with the gun and starts shooting. [] that is hence, we conclude that, viewed in context, the jury was not reasonably likely to have construed the natural and probable consequences instructions in a manner that 3. the calcrim no. 400 instruction does not mandate reversal. defendants contend their convictions must be overturned because the trial court instructed the jury with a superseded version of calcrim no. 400. this claim is meritless. a. background. the trial court instructed the jury with calcrim no. may be guilty of a crime in two ways: one, he may have directly committed the crime. i will call that person the perpetrator. two, he may have aided and abetted a perpetrator who directly committed the crime. a person is equally guilty of the crime whether he committed it personally or aided and abetted the perpetrator wcalcrim no. johnson formulation in the old version of calcrim no. 400 because it improperly tethered each first degree murder, to the mental state of his codefendant. 28 b. legal principles. as it own acts and own people v. mccoy, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. . . . vicarious only in the minal activity of another, she . . . . own acts are she is liable for her mens rea, noid. at p. 1118.) in people v. nero, supra, 181 cal.app.4th at p. 507, we noted mccoy an aider and abettor may be found guilty of greater homicide-related offenses than those the actual perpetrator committed. extending that holding, we conclude that an aider and abettor may be found guilty of lesser homicide-related offenses than those the actual people v. samaniego (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 1148, mccoy concluded that an aider and abettor could be guilty of a greater offense than the direct perpetrator, its reasoning leads inexorably to the further aider and abettor has a less culpable mental state. [citation.] consequently, calcrim no. equally guilty of the crime [of which the perpetrator is guilty] whether he or she committed it personally or aided and abetted the [citation], while generally correct in all but the most (id. at pp. 1164-1165.) 29 c. discussion. based on nero and samaniego, defendants argue the instructions given to their juculpability be determined independently. we disagree. (1) . aim does not affect the aiding and abetting instructions as they relate to the natural and probable consequences doctrine. the same court that decided samaniego subsequently pointed out in people v. canizalez (2011) 197 mccoy nor samaniego [nor, we would add, nero] involved the natural and probable consequences doctrine. each reached its conclusion only for aiders and abettors of a target offense. mccoy in this opinion necessarily applies tdoctrine. . . . id. at p. 851.) canizalez probable consequences doctrine for a nontarget, or unintended, offense committed in the course of committing a target offense has a different theoretical underpinning than aiding and abetting a target crime. aider and abettor culpability for the target offense is based upon the intent of the aider and abettor to assist the direct perpetrator commit the target offense. by its very nature, aider and abettor culpability under the natural and probable consequences doctrine is not premised upon the intention of the aider and abettor to commit the nontarget offense because the nontarget offense was not intended at all. it imposes vicarious liability for any offense committed by the direct perpetrator that is a natural and probable consequence of the target offense. [citation.] because the nontarget offense is unintended, the mens rea of the aider and abettor with respect to that offense is irrelevant and culpability is imposed simply because a reasonable person could have foreseen the commission of the nontarget crime. it follows that the aider and abettor 30 the natural and probable consequence of the intended crime. [] consequently, the statement in calcrim former equally guilty of the crime [of which the perpetrator is guilty] whether he or she committed it personally or aided and abetted the when applied to natural and probable consequence aider and abettor culpability . . . (people v. canizalez, supra, 197 cal.app.4th at p. 852.) ates to the prosecution theory that, as to the --47. in nero, we found instructional error because the jury expressly asked the trial correctly answering yes, the trial court simply reread the standard aiding and abetting here, as here, the jury asks the specific question whether an the trial court, however, by twice rereading caljic no. question, mispeople v. nero, supra, 181 cal.app.4th at p. 518.) as nero than second degree murder for brown. it expressly asked whether brown, as the aider and abettor, coujury, the foreperson asked if, for example, they were to find defendant a guilty of second degree mucould acquit the aider and abettor, but whether the aider and abettor had to be found without consulting counsel, the court reread, twice, caljic no. 3.00, which states: equally guilty 31 (italics added.) the jurors then indicated that the instruction answered their question. the next day they found both defendants guilty of second degree murder. [] it is therefore clear that the jury was considering whether to impose a lesser degree or offense on the aider and abettor. notwithstanding that other instructions might have given them people v. nero, supra, 181 cal.app.4th at pp. 519-520.) johnson argues something similar happened in this case, as shown by a series of notes the jury sent out to the trial court during deliberations. however, as johnson concedes, these notes did not expressly ask if an aider and abettor had to be found guilty of the same degree of attempted murder as the direct perpetrator.5 in addition, any potential confusion was necessarily resolved by other instructions. under calcrim no. 401 (aiding and abetting intended crimes), the people had to prove: cerda committed the crime; johnson knew cerda intended to commit the crime; 600 said that, to convict johnson of attempted murder, the people had to prove he intended to kill the victim. as in people v. mejia 5 johnson argjohnson shot the gun or did not but was in the car, because we are confused on the law. first degree or implied malice, the jury could ignore its fourth element: deliberately acting with [sic] charge which would result in guilt, would the implied or express malice be murder charge, on which johnson was convicted of the lesser offense, second degree murder. the attempted murder note appears to be asking about the difference between two theories of guilt: direct perpetrator versus aiding and abetting. 32 abettor must (1) know purpose, (2) intend to facilitate or assist that unlawful purpose, and (3) act in some manner that does assist or facilitate the unlawful purpose. . . . this instruction advised the jury that it must base its decision of ply on the mental state of the direct perpetrator of the intended to facilitate the purpose contemplated by the perpetrator. [] unlike mccoy and nero, where the evidence suggested the principals might have differing states of mind and therefore might be guilty of different crimes, the evidence in this case did not: the evidence overwhelmingly showed that all four appellants, plus lorenzo, went to the location to kill pulid. at p. 625.)6 in nerocrucial evidence about how the victim came to be stabbed was in dispute. the victim in nero had been stabbed during a spontaneous parking lot confrontation and there was conflicting evidence as to whether the defendant, her codefendant or the victim had first produced the knife, and whether the defendant had encouraged the murder or instead tried to stop it. there was no such crucial evidentiary dispute in the case at bar. the defendants planned to carry out a drive-by shooting at katrina place using extremely dispute that cerda knew johnson planned to shoot at the katrina house and that cerda assisted johnson by furnishing the gun. there is some evidence of verbal johnson told police that after he shot up the katrina place house from n we took [cerda] house. the trial court did not err by giving calcrim no. 400. even assuming arguendo it did, the error was harmless as to both defendants. 6 in mejia, gang members assaulted a rival gang member who managed to kill one of the attackers, resulting in a provocative-act murder prosecution. 33 4. trial court did not err by failing to instruct on shooting at an occupied dwelling as a target offense. defendants contend all the convictions predicated on the natural and probable consequences doctrine must be reversed because the trial court failed, sua sponte, to give the jury an opportunity to convict on shooting at an inhabited dwelling house ( 246) as a lesser included offense. this claim is meritless. in this case, shooting at an inhabited dwelling house was merely a lesser related offense of the charged crimes (murder and attempted murder) and, as cerda acknowledges, a trial court has no duty to instruct on lesser related offenses. (people v. birks (1998) 19 cal.4th 108.) instead, cerda invites us to fashion a new rule, holding ircumstances, the target crime is the functional equivalent of an element of the crime as pleaded, and failure to regard it as a lesser included offense is [he] comrule. moreover, even if such a rule existed, it would not have aided either defendant in offense generally is subject to harmless error review under the standard of people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, at pages 836-837 . . . . reversal is required only if it is reasonably probable the jury would have returned a different verdict absent the error or people v. rogers (2006) 39 cal.4th 826, 867-868, fn. e supporting the existing judgment is so relatively strong, and the evidence supporting a different outcome is so comparatively weak, that there is no reasonable probability the error of which the id. at p. 870.) that is precisely the situation here. even if the juries had been instructed they could convict defendants of shooting at an inhabited dwelling house, it is not reasonably probable they would have done so. as 34 to cerda, there was overwhelming evidence that murder and attempted murder were the -by shooting to avenge his beating there earlier in the evening. according to pedro, the plan was to retaliate against the people who had assaulted johnson by shooting them. cerda retrieved the wall-piercing ak-47 for johnson to use. cerda acknowledges he encouraged johnson to carry out the drive-by shooting. although the foreseeability evidence as to the morning circle shooting was thinner, it was still substantial. johnson told police that, after shooting up katrina place, he handed the ak-47 to cerda and changed places with him, returning to the cab of the truck so cerda could take up the shooting position inside the truck bed. johnson told the power of this by the fact he did this right after having himself committed murder and attempted murder at katrina place with the ak-intended to shoot at a building, but that he had not even been present that night, an alibi jury would have convicted him only of violating section 246 if given the opportunity. hence, we find the trial court did not err by failing to instruct on section 246 as a charged crime and, in any event, such an instruction would not have helped the defendants. 5. the kill zone instruction was not improper. defendants contend their convictions must be reversed because the trial court improperly instructed the jury on the so-meritless. 35 a. background. as explained in people v. bland (2002) 28 cal.4th transferred intent does not apply to attempted murder still permits a person who shoots at a group of people to be punished for the actions towards everyone in the group even if id. at p. 329.) concurrent intent exists while directed at a primary victim, are such that we can conclude the perpetrator intended to ensure harm to the primary victim by on a commercial airplane intending to harm a primary target on board ensures by this method of attack that all passengers will be killed. similarly, consider a defendant who and c, and attacks the group with automatic weapon fire or an explosive device devastating enough to kill everyone in the group. the defendant has intentionally created reasonably infer from the method employed an intent to kill others concurrent with the intent to kill the primary victim. . . . where the means employed to commit the crime against a primary victim create a zone of harm around that victim, the factfinder can reasonably infer that the defendant intended that harm to all who are in the anticipated id. at pp. 329-330.) victim, or victims, and at the same time intend to kill anyone in a particular zone of harm or kill zone. in order to convict the defendant of the attempted murder of the victims named in counts 2 through 24, the people must prove that the defendant not only intended to kill someone but also either intended to kill the victims named in counts 2 through 24 or intended to kill anyone within the kill zone. [] if you have a reasonable doubt whether the defendant intended to kill the victims named in counts 2 through 24, or intended to kill someone by killing everyone in the kill zone, then you must find the 36 defendant not guilty of the attempted murder of the victims named in counts 2 through 7 b. discussion. of guilt on each and every attempted murder count even if the jury found only the intent [to] kill someone but not everyone. at best, the language is ambiguous. the trial court people v. stone (2hearing about the intent to kill anyone within the kill zone would probably interpret it as meaning the intent to kill any person who happens to be in the kill zone, i.e., everyone in tid. at p. 138, fn. 3.) cerda argues the kill zone instruction had no application to the facts of this case l boundaries. the second is that all previous kill zone cases have involved persons either visible to the perpetrator or known to be present, like the other passengers on an airplane in the (often noted) we disagree. assertion, there was indeed primary target evidence in this case. at katrina place, the intended targets were the 18th street gang members who had assaulted johnson; at morning circle the intended targets were the rival val verde park gang members. and there is no requirement all the victims must have been visible. in bland-on-the-limited by an incorrect estimation of how many passengers were actually on board. endant is aware that the attempted murder victims were within the zone of harm is not a defense, as long as the victims actually were within the zone of people v. adams (2008) 169 cal.app.4th 1009, 1023.) 7 the two juries were instructed in virtually identical language. 37 people v. vang (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 554, is the seminal case involving a drive-by shooting which targets an occupied residence. the defendants there were convicted on murder and multiple attempted murder counts after carrying out drive-by shootings at two residences. on appeal, the defendants argued the attempted murder evidence was deficient because it failed to prove they intended to kill any of the inhabitants other than two individuals they had been specifically targeting. the trial court rejected this claim, asonable inference, in light of the placement of the shots, the number of shots, and the use of high-powered, wall-piercing weapons, that defendants harbored a specific intent to kill every living being within the residences they shot up. [citations.] . . . when there is manifested a deliberate intention unlawfully to take away the life of a take the lives of others when they fired high-powered, wall-piercing, firearms at inhabited dwellings. the fact they could not see all of their victims did not somehow negate their express malice or intent to kill as to those victims who were present and id. at pp. 563-564, fn. omitted.) people v. mccloud (2012) 211 cal.app.4th 788, is misplaced. there, the defendants fired 10 bullets from a semiautomatic handgun, shooting from a parking lot into a masonic lodge where a party was going on. the defendants killed two victims and wounded a third. they were convicted on two counts of second degree murder and 46 counts of either attempted murder (one defendant) or assault with a firearm (the other defendant). mccloud held this result could not be justified by the kill convictions in the manner suggested by respondent, the record would have to contain evidence that stringer and mccloud tried to kill the person who punched stringer by contains no evidence that stringer or mccloud intended to kill 46 people with 10 bullets. nor does the record contain evidence that it would have been possible for them to kill 46 people with 10 bullets (given the type of ammunition and firearm they used), or that they 38 believed or had reason to believe it was possible. on the contrary, the evidence tended to show that it was not possible of the three bullets that struck moses, taylor, and gaines, all three lodged in their bodies rather than exiting. . . . [t]here is no evidence that more persons with [a] single (id. at pp. 799-800, fn. omitted.) but mccloud specifically acknowledged the significant difference between its facts and the drive-by shootings in vang. as mccloud appeal [in vang] held that the evidence was sufficient to sustain those attempted murder convictions, becausthe shots, the number of shots, and the use of high-powered, wall-piercing weapons, that defendants harbored a specific intent to kill every living being within the residences they shopeople v. vang preceded bland, but bland cited it with approval (people v. mccloud, supra, 211 cal.app.4th at p. 800, fn. 5.) the facts here are similar to vang, not mccloud. defendants used a military-style assault rifle with wall-piercing ammunition, not the far less powerful handgun used in mccloud 6. ineffective assistance of counsel: johnson johnson contends he was denied effective assistance of counsel because his attorney failed to ask for a jury instruction on voluntary intoxication. this claim is meritless. a. background. a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel based on strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668 [104 s.ct errors so serious that counsel was defendant by the sixth amendment. second, the defendant must show that the deficient 39 serious as to deprive the defend that there is a reasonable probability that, but for a reasonable probability is a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the williams v. taylor (2000) 529 u.s. 362, 390-burden of proof that the defendant must meet in order to establish his entitlement to relief on an ineffective-people v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d 171, 218.) former penal code section 22,8 provided: criminal by reason of his or her having been in that condition. evidence of voluntary intoxication shall not be admitted to negate the capacity to form any mental states for the crimes charged, including, but not limited to, purpose, intent, knowledge, premeditation, deliberation, or malice aforethought, with which the accused committed the act. ry intoxication is admissible solely on the issue of whether or not the defendant actually formed a required specific intent, or, when charged with murder, whether the defendant premeditated, deliberated, or harbored express malice aforethought. tary intoxication includes the voluntary ingestion, injection, or taking instruction that the trial court is not required to give unless requested by the defendant. [citationspeople v. rundle (2008) 43 cal.4th 76, 145.) 8 section 22 has been renumbered as section 29.4. 40 b. discussion. the johnson argues defense counsel should have requested a voluntary intoxication instruction because there was evidence he ingested methamphetamine before arriving at that he was already intoxicated by the time he went over to the katrina place party. son to forego such a intoxication was not terribly strong. his trial testimony about consuming methamphetamine and a large quantity of beer was contradicted by his police statement, which indicated he had only consumed two to four beers, apparently did not mention moreover, at trial johnson claimed to have an alibi, testifying he had gone home after being assaulted at katrina place and stayed home the rest of the night. defense defense impractical because it might have undercut the defense johnson himself presented. johnson has not demonstrated there was ineffective assistance of counsel. 7. ineffective assistance of counsel: cerda. cerda contends he was denied effective assistance of counsel because his trial -the testifying expert himself, cerda contends the evidence violated both california hearsay law and the federal confrontation clause as delineated by crawford v. 41 washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36 [124 s.ct. 1354]. we conclude cerda was not denied effective assistance of counsel. a. background. robert gillis, the gang expert who testified at trial, explained how gang officers collect information on suspected gang members during the daily course of their work. on which they keep track of their contacts with suspected gang members. this information includes the date and location of their contact, name, birth date, address, other investigation which shows that a particular individual is associated with a particular gang. asked what information caused him to believe cerda was an lms member, gillis on previous occasions. i have personally spoken to him, also, on occasions in palmdale when i was working gangs down there. and i have contacted him with other members of -admitted to gillis personally that he was an lms member. gillis testified he had reviewed one of the field information made by officer pickett indicating cerda had self-admitted his lms membership on march 25, 2008. the following colloquy occurred: lms on february 10th of 2008. and what is your opinion? 42 sic] area that they were trying to claim as their turf . . . in palmdal gillis also testified he was absolutely sure both johnson and jose casillas were lms members on the day of the shootings. b. discussion. crawford in williams v. illinois (2012) 132 s.ct. 2221 [testimony had been improperly admitted for its truth. although the williams plurality concluded expert basis testimony does not violate crawford because it is not admitted for its truth (id. at pp. 2227-the four williams dissenters rejected that analysis, concluding this kind of evidence is admitted for its truth (id. at pp. 2255-2256, conc. opn. of thomas, j.; pp. 2268-2272, dis. opn. of kagan, j.) this result has been recognized by our supreme court. (see people v. lopez (2012) 55 cal.4th 569, 578-580 [explaining how a majority in williams concluded expert basis testimony is admitted for its truth].) however, before this opinion in williams was issued, the well-established rule in california was that reliable hearsay evidence was admissible under evidence code sections 801 and 802 for the non-hearsay purpose of revealing the basis for an expert evidence was not admitted for its truth. (see people v. gardeley (1996) 14 cal.4th 605, 618 [expert testimony may be premised on upon by experts in the particular fwilliams was announced, an objection to and properly, denied by the trial court. cerda acknowledges this long-standing rule, but argues it has recently been criticized, citing people v. hill (2011) 191 cal.app.4th 1104. but cerda neglects to 43 mention that hill, although critical of the gardeley rule, held there was absolutely no question but that this line of cases constituted controlling precedent which must be conclusion that the challenged statements were not admitted for their truth. this determination precludes (people v. hill, supra, at pp. 1127-1128.) the hill opinion was filed on april 20, 2011. cerda was on trial in february and march 2011. williams could have been reasonably expected to anticipate the subsequent change in law wrought by the williams court. (see sophanthavong v. palmateer (9th cir. 2004) 378 f.3d 859, strickland does not mandate prescience, only objectively reasonable advice under spaziano v. singletary (11th cir. 1994) 36 f.3d 1028, does not include a requirement to make arguments based on predictions of how the law nelson v. estelle of counsel to be aware of prior controlling precedents in even a single prejudicial instance deficient.9 9 in hwilliams makes clear that the entry in [the hard card] could not be used for its truth and, upon proper objection by trial counsel, the jury should have been so instructed. cerda broadens his ineffective assistance claim to apply cerda cannot broaden the arguments made in his opening brief to encompass a new ue raised people v. king (1991) 1 cal.app.4th 288, 297, fn. 12; see people v. newton we do not consider an argument first raised in a reply brief, absent a showing why the argument could not have moore v. shaw (2004) 116 cal.app.4th 182, 200, fn. 10 44 8. there was no cumulative error. johnson contends the cumulative prejudicial effect of the various trial errors he has raised on appeal requires the reversal of his conviction. because we have found no errors, his claim of cumulative error fails. (see people v. seaton (2001) 26 cal.4th 598, 639; people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 335.) 9. sentencing error: cerda. cerda contends the trial court erred by imposing sentences of 35 years to life for the premeditated attempted murder convictions arising out of the morning circle shooting (counts 15 through 24). the attorney general asserts that, while those sentences were proper, the trial court erred by not imposing the same sentences on the premeditated attempted murder convictions arising out of the katrina place shooting (counts 2 through 14). neither claim has merit. on counts 15 through 24, the trial court imposed a term of 35 years to life for each conviction, consisting of a life term for premeditated attempted murder ( 664), enhanced by a 15-year minimum parole eligibility term for the gang enhancement ( 186.22, subd. (b)(5)), and an additional 20-year enhancement for firearm use ( 12022.53, subd. (c)). cerda contends the correct sentence was only 27 years to life on each count 12022.53 operates to prevent both a firearm and gang furtherance enhancement from being imposed as to gang members who did not personally use a cerdstatute and the firearm use enhancement statute: to be applicable, in order for section 12022.53 to apply, it is necessary only for a principal, not the accused, in the commission of the underlying felony to personally use the firearm; personal firearm use by the accused is not required under these specific circumstances. however, as a consequence of this expanded liability under section on appeal.].) 45 12022.53, subdivision (e), the legislature has determined to preclude the imposition of an additional enhancement under section 186.22 in a gang case unless the accused personally people v. salas (2001) 89 cal.app.4th 1275, 1281-1282.) however, this principle does not apply here because cerda personally used the firearm while committing the morning circle shooting (counts 15 to 24). hence, it was proper to impose both a firearm enhancement and a gang enhancement on these counts. the attorne-years-to-life term should have been imposed on counts 2 through 14 is also incorrect because those counts related to katrina place, where johnson did the shooting, not cerda. therefore, the 15-year minimum parole eligibility term called for by the gang statute did not apply; instead, cerda was only subject to the seven-year minimum parole eligibility term provided for by section 3046, subdivision (a)(1).10 (see people v. salas, supra, 89 cal.app.4th at pp. 1281-1282 [additional enhancement under gang statute only applies when defendant personally used the firearm].) 10. no probation report. cerda contends he must be resentenced because, on the day set for sentencing, the trial court realized no probation report had been prepared but proceeded with sentencing anyway. the trial court directed that a probation report would subsequently be prepared and transmitted to the california department of corrections and rehabilitation. although defense counsel did not object to this procedure, cerda claims it violated due process and his sixth amendment right to counsel. we disagree. cerda was statutorily ineligible for probation because he was subject to firearm use enhancements under section 12022.53. (see  12022.53, subd. 10 section 3046, subdivision soner imprisoned under a life sentence may be paroled until he or she has served the greater of the following: [] (1) a term of at least seven calendar years. [] (2) a term as established pursuant to any other provision of law that establishes a minimum term or minimum period of 46 recognized that a probation report is not necessarily required if defendant is statutorily people v. dobbins (2005) 127 cal.app.4th 176, 180; accord people v. johnson (1999) 70 cal.app.4th 1429, 1431-1432; people v. llamas (1998) 67 cal.app.4th 35, 39.) in people v. murray (2012) 203 cal.app.4th 277, superseded by statute on other grounds as stated in people v. gutierrez (2014) 48 cal.4th 1354, 1370-1371, the defendant claimied his due process rights had been violated because the trial court resentenced him without obtaining a new probation report. murray found no error: as not eligible for probation. [citation.] because he was not eligible for probation, no supplemental probation report was required. although a probation report is often advisable where a defendant is ineligible for probation, it was within the trial codiscretion whether to order one. [citations.] murray does not show on appeal how the id. at p. 289, fn. omitted.) although cerda argues his rights were violated because there could have been mistakes in the probation report, he acknowledges a probation report was subsequently prepared and filed, and as the attorney general notes, he points to no mistakes in that report. cerda has failed to demonstrate error here. 11. sentencing error: johnson. johnson was found guilty of second degree murder and 23 counts of premeditated attempted murder, for which the trial court imposed a sentence of 410 years to life. because this sentence violated the eighth amendment, we agree with johnson that his case should be remanded to the trial court for resentencing. johnson was 16 years old at the time of the shootings. the united states supreme court has, in recent years, expressed concern about sentencing juvenile offenders to prison terms that prevent any possibility of rehabilitation and eventual release. in roper v. simmons (2005) 543 u.s. 551 [125 s.ct. 1183], the court held that juveniles must be roper established that 47 because juveniles have lessened culpability they are less deserving of the most severe ble or susceptible to difficult even for expert psychologists to differentiate between the juvenile offender whose crime reflects unfortunate yet transient immaturity, and the rare juvenile offender offenders cannot with reliability be classified amo . . [] no roper about the amici point out, developments in psychology and brain science continue to show fundamental differences between juvenile and adult minds. . . . juveniles are more capable of change than are adults, and their actions are graham v. florida (2010) 130 s.ct. 2011, 2026 [176 l.ed.2d 825]. roper held the imposition of capital punishment on juvenile offenders for any offense whatsoever violated the eighth amendment. graham held the imposition of a life-without-possibility-of-parole sentence on a juvenile offender for a non-homicide offense violated the eighth amendment. miller v. alabama (2012) 132 s.ct. 2455, 2469 mandates life in prison without possibility of parole for juvenhomicide, although a trial court could in its discretion impose such a punishment. (italics added.) in people v. caballero (2012) 55 cal.4th 262, our supreme court concluded that, under the reasoning of these united states supreoffender for a nonhomicide offense to a term of years with a parole eligibility date that punishment in violation of the eighid. at p. 268.) caballero reasoned: miller . . . made it clear that graham 48 applies to all nonhomicide cases involving juvenile offenders, including the term-of-years sentence that amounts to the functional equivalent of a life without parole sentence imposed in this case. [] defendant in the present matter will become parole eligible over 100 years from now. [citation.] consequently, he would have no opportunity to grahamgrahammeted out. instead . . realistic opid. at pp. 267-268, fn. omitted.) johnson was sentenced on august 26, 2011, before either miller (decided june 25, 2012) or caballero (decided august 16, 2012) waexplanation for imposing the functional equivalent of a life-without-possibility-of-parole court has considered that the crimes were of a very violent nature, including an ak-47 weapon that was sprayed into a home that was occupied by at least 15 people which resulted in the murder of one person. [] and then the defendant went to a second location, which was separate and distinct from the first location, where he and his confederates also [fired] multiple rounds into the home of gang rivals. and that home was occupied, again, by numerous people, including babies, infants and children, as well the only apparent reference to for probably the rest of his life is not an easy thing to do, especially when i look at your mother, who is torn apart people, mr. johnson. not just yourself. [] and what a terrible, terrible decision you given these circumstsentence and remand to the trial court for resentencing in accordance with the new case law from the united states supreme court and the california supreme court. (see 49 people v. thomas (2012) 211 cal.app.4th 987, 1013-of 196 years to life, for special circumstances murder and attempted murder, reversed and remanded for resentencing because it predated miller and caballero]; people v. argeta (2012) 210 cal.app.4th 1478, 1480-sentence of 100 years, for murder and multiple attempted murders, reversed and remanded for resentencing because it predated miller and caballero].)11 we express no opinion as to how the trial court should weigh the factors discussed in miller and caballero 11 in response to miller, graham, and caballero, the legislature recently enacted section 3051, which includes provisions for a parole suitability hearing after a maximum of 25 years for most juvenile offenders serving life sentences. the question whether these provisions are sufficient to comply with the mandate of miller, graham, and caballero is currently pending before the california supreme court in in re alatriste (review granted feb. 19, 2014, s214652) and in re bonilla (review granted feb. 19, 2014, s214960). 50 disposition the judgments are affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded with directions. d to the trial court for resentencing in light of the eighth amendment and the miller and caballero cases, and consistent with this opinion. in all other respects, the judgment as to johnson is affirmed. is reversed and the matter is remanded to the trial court. the people may accept a reduction of this conviction to second degree murder. if, after the filing of the remittitur in the trial court, cerda is not retried within the time described in section 1382, subdivision (a)(2), the trial court shall proceed as if the remittitur constituted a modification of the judgment to reflect a conviction of second degree murder and shall resentence cerda accordingly. not to be published in the official reports edmon, p. j. we concur: klein, j.* kitching, j. * retired presiding justice of the court of appeal, second appellate district, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 