filed 6/17/13 in re anderson ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three in re william french anderson, on habeas corpus. b232746 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba255257) original proceedings in habeas corpus. michael e. pastor, judge. order to show cause discharged; petition for writ of habeas corpus denied. douglas w. otto for petitioner. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, linda c. johnson and blythe j. leszkay, deputy attorneys general, for respondent. _________________________ 2 petitioner william french anderson was the appellant in people v. anderson (2012) 208 cal.app.4th 851, which affirmed the judgment entered following his conviction by jury of continuous sexual abuse of a child under the age of 14 years and three counts of lewd act with a child under the age of 14 years. (pen. code,  288.5, 288, subd. (a).) in addition to the appeal from the judgment, anderson filed this writ petition to raise ineffective assistance of counsel issues. after ordering the petition and the appeal to be considered concurrently, we severed the matters to prevent ineffective assistance in failing to challenge the admissibility of a secretly recorded conversation in which the victim confronted anderson and requested an apology for his years of abuse. we issued an order to show cause. upon review of the evidence in the record and before us by declaration, we conclude an evidentiary hearing is unnecessary, deny the petition and discharge the order to show cause. summary from anderson: anderson, a medical doctor and the founder and director of a genetic research laboratory, sexually molested the daughter of an employee of the laboratory from the time the child was in the fourth or fifth grade until the ninth grade. anderson coached the victim in competitive karate; she won national karate competitions when she was in the fourth and fifth grades in 1997 and 1998. he also assisted her academically. however, they frequently were alone together and he regularly committed about a continuing course of misconduct. e-mails anderson sent her after the abuse ended but before she decided to report him in april of 2004 corroborated her testimony. because anderson indicated in his e-mails he would apologize to her in person, she agreed to meet him outside a public library while carrying a recording device provided by detectives. on july 1, 2004, she surreptitiously recorded a conversation in which she angrily confronted anderson and asked why he had molested her. at trial, anderson claimed the apologies in his e-mails were for applying excessive pressure on her to 3 succeed and at the library she was on the verge of going out of control and he was willing people v. anderson, supra, 208 cal.app.4th at p. 856.) on appeal, anderson claimed the trial court erroneously excluded evidence of his conduct after the library confrontation, particularly, that he and his wife wrote a four-in which they reported the victim falsely had accused anderson of sexual molestation in november of 2003 and expressed their fear she had descended into drug abuse and might try to extort money from them. we found no reversible error in the exclusion of this claim that application of these rules of evidence infringed upon his constitutional right to testify in his own behalf. moreover, any error was harmless as anderson testified fully with respect to all aspects of the case, including the e-mails and the recorded confrontation was not critical to his defense and admission of the evidence would not or unfairly exploited the the jury. anderson now contends defense counsel rendered ineffective assistance in failing to challenge the admissibility of the recorded conversation on authentication grounds (evid. code,  1400-credibly regarding the library confrontation, and in failing to investigate indicia of alteration of the recording.1 he claims defense counsel should have known the recording was incomplete or had been edited because there is a time disparity of two or three 1 anderson also cwas rejected on appealcounsel also fails. (see people v. collins (2010) 49 cal.4th 175, 204-205.) 4 minutes between the 12-case log, which indicates the library meeting consumed approximately 14 minutes. also, the conversation starts awkwardly and anderson told defense counsel the recording did not include the initial portion of the conversation in which the victim, y., accused him of sexual molestation and he denied it. anderson further claims proper investigation by defense counsel would have discovered anomalies in the recorded conversation that were investigation and an objection on authentication grounds would have, at minimum, caused the jury to question the recording and the credibility of law enforcement. -conviction declaration in which he claims the recording of the library confrontation does not include the first few minutes of the conversation in which y. accused him of sexual molestation and he denied it. habeas counsel commenced oral argument with an nconsistent three minutes and denied that y. accused him of molestation during the meeting. also, anderson testified extensively at trial but never mentioned this assertedly missing conversation. we not credible. an authentication challenge based on various indicia of untrustworthiness, such as the time disparity, the awkward start of the conversation and anomalies uncovered by his habeas experts, is also unavailing. none of the findings by the habeas experts or otherwise indicates the defense would have prevailed on an authentication challenge. y. testified before the grand jury and at trial the recording accurately reflected her conversation with anderson. this testimony alone would have been sufficient to authenticate the recording. however, additional support for the admission of the recording is found in the testimony of the deputy sheriff responsible for transferring the digital file from the recording device. 5 asserted indicia of untrustworthiness suggests the recording of the library confrontation would have been excluded from evidence or substantially denigrated in the eyes of the jury, anderson is unable to demonstrate that any of the actions he now asserts should have been undertaken would have resulted in a more favorable outcome. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687-694 [80 l.ed.2d 674].) we therefore reject his claim of ineffective assistance of counsel, conclude no evidentiary hearing is required, deny the petition and discharge the order to show cause. facts and procedural background2 1. confrontation indicate anderson arrived at the library at 1:25 p.m. and y. walked into the library after the conversation ended at 1:39 p.m. the actual recorded conversation is 11 minutes and 48 seconds long. 2. . in the letter to chief farris dated july 4, 2004, anderson stated the conversation la on july 9, 2004, in a recorded interview, anderson told detectives duncan and t 2 we incorporate by reference the facts and procedural background as well as the discussion related to the admissibility of the letter to chief farris in people v. anderson, supra, 208 cal.app.4th at pp. 858-875. we take judicial notice of the record on appeal in people v. anderson as well as the superior court file. 6 rned around with that accusation. when told the meeting was not three minutes long, anderson stated, 3. . in a declaration filed in support of his habeas petition, anderson asserts that, upon transcript of the july 1, 2004 re recollection of the omitted part of the conversation . . . . at the point where she showed me the cuts on her arms, i became very upset and concerned, and the rest of the missing portion is the closest i could remember: my life. better. [i am not certain of the exact order of each exchange from here on; also i may have forgotten some exchanges] 7 horribly thoughtless. i thought i comprehend why i was so thoughtless. (pause) -time national champion. at this point, the recorded conversation begins.3 anderson faxed his description of the omitted conversation to his attorney, barry tarlow, and shortly thereafter met with tarlow to discuss the case.4 tarlow told he did not want to be wedded to 3 the recording of the library confrontation commences: 4 anderson was represented at trial by barry tarlow, blair berk and saura sahu. 8 told tarlow what had been omitted from the transcript and that parts of the transcript differed from his recollection. in preparation for trial, tarlow told anderson not to testify the beginning of the conversation was missing from the recording in order to avoid cross-examination on this incomplete without independent proof the recording had been edited. also, tarlow told with relationships, referenced during the recorded conversation. tarlow hoped the prosecutor would follow up, thereby permitting anderson to testify he had information indicating y. was gay, which the trial court had ruled inadmissible. had tarlow asked, anderson would have testified y. took a girl to the prom and was evasive about it. also, y. assanxious to please her. anderson declared tarlow never discussed with him the feasibility of a challenge to the recorded conversation on authentication grounds or based on the time disparity. 4. litigation with respect to the library confrontation. on august 22, 2005, hon. terri schwartz ordered the prosecution to produce the original recording of the library confrontation and the police interviews of anderson conducted on july 9 and july 30, 2004, and the equipment used to make them for examination by the defense expert in the presence of a representative of the agency in claim the official information privilege under evidence code section 1040. on november 29, 2005, the defense filed numerous pretrial motions, two of which are relevant here. one motion addressed the procedure governing the assertion of the official information privilege and requested sanctions, including dismissal. the other motion sought sanctions for the delay in complying with the order of august 22, 2005. both motions relied on a declaration of defense expert john russ filed december 7, 2005, under seal. 9 russ, a fiber-optic real equipment and/or software, as well as the identity, the specifications (including serial numbers, brand names and instruction manuals), the inspection and repair records, and/or other similar information about some or all of (1) the microphones and containers housing or concealing them when they were used; (2) any broadcasting devices; (3) all cables and connections used; (4) possibly some or all component(s) of the recording devices; and/or (5) all the equipment and/or software used to process or store the russ declared analysis of the recordingand document subtle cues of evidentiary manipulation, as where the recording party intends for the device to be capable of inaccurate or incomplete transmissions. digital media are more easily manipulable, and the manipulation is more difficult to detect, than manipulation has occurred and whether the device was intentionally set up to be capable of inaccurate or incomplete t in january of 2006, the people provided the defense a letter identifying the recording equipment used to make the recordings. a memo from attila mathe, the device, is attached to the letter. the memo states recorded data is transferred from the redibility to on february 16, 2006, the matter was transferred to department 100 for trial and thereafter was assigned to hon. michael pastor. 10 at a pretrial hearing on march 23, 2006, the prosecution provided the defense disks of the original unenhanced recordings of the library conversation and the police interviews of anderson. at the hearing, defense counsel stated the disks were copies and t jury trial commenced on june 14, 2006. on june 27, 2006, the defense filed a motion seeking a ruling on the claim of the official information privilege and whether sanctions should be imposed for its assertion. the trial coof the southern california high technology task force testified the microphone is device and computer, and from the computer you subsequently copy those files to some archivable permanent media you mark as evidence and make other copies or give to the investigator or fu of can then be enhanced. ebert took screen shots of the enhancement process to allow anyone to duplicate the process but did not take a screen shot of the conversion of the recording from the proprietary format to a .wav file. the original version of the recording, the enhanced version and the screen shots were put on a cd that was provided to the defense. 11 processes it does, and features it has, we feel [it] need[s] to be kept out of the realm of the public. and the manufacturer, to my understanding, has federal mandates against the the trial court conducted a further hearing in camera and sustained the claim of regarding this equipment as to its functionality and the specific features of the equipment, manuals describing the features, and any attached or built- the defense thereafter requested an instruction advising the jury the prosecution had refused to disclose information about the equipment used to record the conversation and the jury should therefore disregard the recording. the defense argued it had been ed declaration, and claimed it had nothing with which to compare the enhanced version of the recording. the trial court denied the request, ruling disclosure of the official information was immaterial within the provisions of evidence code section 1042 and in a letter from russ to defense counsel sahu dated july 14, 2006, the same day as been provided appear to be normal but he needed to compare them to the originals in order to detect any alterations or edits. 5. . (exhibit b to the petition.) in letters dated august 19, 2009, october 12, 2010, and november 29, 2010, habeas csubstantial conversation was missing from the recording. the letter of august 19, 2009, th 12 tarlow responded in a letter dated december 30, 2010, exhibit b to the habeas petition. in the letter, tarlow stated he could not sign the declaration enclosed with the disparity, tarlow about 15 minutes does not determine the length of the actual conversation or support a disparity regarding the assertedly omitted conversation, tarlow agreed anderson s of missing conversation or ly recall that i considered attacking the admissibility/reliability of the library tape recordings. [w]e . . . thoroughly reviewed and analyzed all of the issues involving potential secondary evidence, best evidence, and authentication, objections to the tarlow noted the defense raised authentication and secondary evidence issues with approach was the one we followed . . . . we [sought] access to all of the necessary original recordings, manuals and microphones, as well as the computers involved in the enhancement process and the production process. without these materials we could not move forward to persuasively assert constitutional or evidentiary objections or 13 6. other relevant declarations. in exhibit a to the petition, defense expert russ declared that, after contracting with tarlow, he interacted exclusively with associate counsel sahu. russ stated he stated the procedure recommended by ads, i.e., transfer reliable means of producing an accurate surrogate or proxy for the original digital data. however, . . . in the anderson case . . . the original data was transferred from the recorder to the computer used by the law enforcement could provide no assistance in determining the authenticity of the cd copies provided by examined by another expert with more specialized background in digital recording exhibit h to the petition is a declaration from habeas counsel indicating that on december 20, 2010, sergeant powaware the manufacturer of the recording device recommended transfer of digitally department transferred data from the recorder to a computer and did not make a screen shot of the transfer. 7. declarations re indicia of alteration of the recorded conversation. in support of the petition, anderson submitted declarations of four experts. yi xu, ph.d., an associate professor at university college london who which are incompatible with the limitations of human vocalization. at 52:59 of the 14 pulses with a total duration of 29.3 milliseconds. however, a human utterance requires a beginning of a longer utterance that has been foreshortened through some mechanical 150 hz in 189.05 milliseconds, which exceeds the capacity of an untrained voice. the at 54:47 of the recording, xu found a pause of 62.9 milliseconds between two female utterances, which is too short to be a normal pause, and concluded these e authenticity of the evidence that the recording, as currently constituted, was altered from the original in a supputterances are below normal levels for social conversation and fall in the pitch range after . . . some conv curtis crowe, assertedly an expert in the analysis of digital recordings, found an electronic spike at 45:05 of the recording, approximately two seconds after a female nt with a recorder finally, crowe detected a 58.3 hz signal, which is not normally associated with an outdoor environment. the signal begins prior to the first word of the conversation and 15 stops almost exactly at the end of the conversation. crowe could find no potential source of this signal at or near where the conversation occurred. craig schick, b.s., an electronics engineer, also detected the 58.3 hz signal which commenced shortly before the start of the conversation. none of the comparison recordings schick made outside the library included a 58.3 hz signal. schick concluded the recording had been edited in an environment that allowed the introduction of a 58.3 hz signal, like a laboratory or office, and asserted with certainty the recording had been in a second declaration submitted with the traverse, crowe indicated he analyzed the sound of footfalls at the start of the recording and compared footfalls as she walked from the scene of the conversation, at first on grass and then on ssy surface where the conversation distinctly different and consistent with the grassy surface where the conversation a stronger basis for inference that is missing from the recording. a two second jump occurs at 12:41:57. four second jumps occur at 13:04:53 and at 13:28:21, the latter occurring during conversation. grigoras hypothesized the missing data could be caused by recording system through the microphone input that can be followed by human intervention on the file not be detected as a counter skip anomaly would likely necessitate a two-step process of (a) editing the content of the recording while in wav format, and then (b) re-recording the edited version onto the recorder initially used. . . . [i]n order to determine the feasibility of an intentional alteration, i need to examine the recorder used to make the recording in 16 finally, in the traverse, habeas counsel notes the recording of the library conversation provided to the defense in december of 2010 bears a time stamp that coincides with the observations of the surveilling deputies. however, a time stamp in the ice until 2:55 p.m. 8. declarations submitted with the return. in exhibit no. 2 to the return, detective jester declared the entries in his journal reflect the time jester received information, not the time the event occurred. also, 1:25 p.m. indicates when anderson arrived at the library, not when he began speaking to y. the 1:39 p.m. entry indicates when jester was informed y. had walked into the library and was safe. also, jester records time without regard to seconds. thus, 1:25 p.m. could reflect a real time of either 1:25:05 or 1:25:55. i would transfer the recording to a computer. this was done using proprietary software from ads, and the resultant file was in a proprietary format. i would then make at least two exact cd copies of the recording in the proprietary format. one cd was archived, and the other was given to the investigator on tproprietary format could only be played using the proprietary software, or converted to a .wav file. it could not be edited, altered, or manipulated in any way. the recording in this proprietary format was therefore prot to a write-once cd for two main reasons. first, it saved time because it was time-consuming to transfer to a cd, and if there was an error, the entire process would have to be repeated. second, we usually needed multiple copies of a recording, and it was easier cording would be erased so the recorder could be used again. 17 software would then transfer the recording in its own format. . . . there was no way to format to a .wav file was also an automatic process using the proprietary software. . . . there was no way to alter, manipulate, or edit the file during this process. however, once a file was in a .wav format, it was unprotected and could be easily edited or i never altered, manipulated, or edited any file without documenting it, as described original recording of the library conversation between anderson and the victim was ppowell received a telephone call from attila mathe, the president of ads, referring to a letter mathe had received from habeas counsel. the letter advised mathe that habeas e time skipped about three seconds: 13:04:53 and 13:28:22. he requested that ads attempt to inal data files to see if there was a clock error or something else. . . . in response, mr. mathe wrote the letter that is attached exhibit o to the petition, an undated and unaddressed letter from mathe, indicates: ks of the recording corresponding to the two missing approximately 3 second con18 block failure. . . . during the examination we did not find any evidence of data contentions anderson contends defense counsel rendered ineffective assistance in failing to challenge the admissibility of the recording of the library confrontation on authentication library confrontation, and in failing to investigate indicia of alteration of the recording of the library confrontation. in the traverse, anderson insists an evidentiary hearing is necessary to resolve numerous factual matters.5 discussion 1. ed conversation is entirely incredible. anderson declares he advised tarlow before their first meeting there was an extended unrecorded conversation at the outset of the library confrontation in which y. accused him of sexual molestation and he denied it. anderson claims this missing portion of the conversation. anderson argues defense counsel rendered ineffective f the conversation to allow anderson to rock v. arkansas (1987) 483 u.s. 44, 52 [97 l.ed.2d 37].) instead, during preparation for trial, defense counsel told anderson not to question the authenticity of the recording. anderson asserts his claim the recording did not include a portion of the conversation is supported by the time disparity as well as the absence of normal social salutations at the start of the conversation and the tenor of the initial exchange which suggests something not currently contained in the recording caused anderson to say he feared a break down. 5 anderson has not presented a declaration from any of the three attorneys who petition, the mat 19 s a heavy burden initially to plead sufficient grounds for relief, and then later to prove in re crew (2011) 52 cal.4th 126, 149.) anderson has failed to carry this burden. are missing from the recording is inconsistent with his prior statements found in the record. in the letter to chief ferris and in the interviews of anderson conducted on july 9 and july 30, 2004, anderson said the conversation was brief, lasting only a few minutes. he did not state on any of these three occasions that y. accused him of molestation at the outset of the conversation and he denied it. in the interview conducted by detectives boyett and duncan on july 9, 2004, anderson denied that y. mentioned molestation during the library confrontation. also, anderson testified at length at trial and was questioned, line by line, about of sexual molestation and his denial. his claim that, on advice of counsel, he failed to mention substantial unrecorded conversation that supported his position is not worthy of belief.6 conversation. detective jester explained in his declaration he recorded the time events were reported to him, not the time the events occurred, and he disregarded seconds when he recorded the relevant times. also, the 1:25 p.m. entry reflects the time anderson 6 instant writ petition in this court, rather than the trial court. we note that, after the people the trial court (cal. rules of court, rule 8.384(a)(1); form mc-275, p. 6), anderson provided his cdc number and place of incarceration but did not state the circumstances justifying application to this court in the first instance. the failure to address this point, gation before judge pastor, sentencing. 20 arrived at the library, not the start of the conversation, and the 1:39 entry indicates when y. entered the library at the end of the conversation. thus, the 14-minute duration of the -minute recorded conversation. nothing on the recording explains why anderson feared a breakdown at the outset, this was not a normal social encounter. anderson and y. had not met face-to-face in approximately one year and, in the interim, y. had written e-mails to anderson advising him of the distress occasioned by his abuse, her struggle with whether to report him and her insistence that anderson participate in therapy. given the circumstances, it is not surprising that the conversation begins in a disjointed and emotional manner. conversation at the outset of the library confrontation in which y. specifically accused him of sexual molestation and he denied it. tarlow cannot be faulted for failing to elicit idle act. 2. no ineffective assistance with respect to the failure to object to the recording of the library confrontation on authentication grounds. a. authentication. evidence code sections 1400 and 1401 require a writing to be authenticated before the writing or secondary evidence of its content may be received in evidence.7 a (a) the introduction of evidence sufficient to sustain a finding that it is the writing that the proponent of the evidence claims it is or (b) the establishment of such facts by any other people v. skiles (2011) 51 cal.4th 1178, 1187, citing section 1400.) 7 subsequent unspecified statutory references are to the evidence code. 21 authentication is a preliminary fact first determined by the trial court subject to redetermination by the jury. (people v. marshall (1996) 13 cal.4th 799, 832; people v. fonville (1973) 35 cal.app.3d 693, 708-709.) the proponent of the writing has the not to establish validity or negate falsity in a categorical fashion, but rather to make a showing (people v. valdez (2011) 201 cal.app.4th 1429, 1437.) jazayeri v. mao testimony of a person who was present at the time the picture was taken, or who is otherwise people v. bowley (1963) 59 cal.2d 855, 862.) e trial court [is] required people v. morris (1991) 53 cal.3d 152, 205, disapproved on other grounds in people v. stansbury (1995) 9 cal.4th 824, 830, fn. 1.) n regarding authenticity goes to the people v. valdez, supra, 201 cal.app.4th at p. 1435, quoting jazayeri v. mao, supra, 174 cal.app.4th at p. 321.) with respect to alteration, section 1402 statesgenuine which has been altered, or appears to have been altered, after its execution, in a part material to the question in dispute, must account for the alteration or appearance thereof. he may show that the alteration was made by another, without his concurrence, or was made with the consent of the parties affected by it, or otherwise properly or innocently made, or that the alteration did not change the meaning or language of the instrument. if he does that, he may g( consolidated loan co. v. harman (1957) 150 cal.app.2d 488, 491.) 22 we review a ruling on authentication matters for an abuse of discretion. (people v. hovarter (2008) 44 cal.4th 983, 1014.) b. . anderson contends defense counsel knew or should have known the people would have difficulty authenticating the recording of the library confrontation based on his the original data in the manner prescribed by the manufacturer. also, had defense counsel consulted other experts as russ assertedly recommended, the defense could have shown the vocal anomalies uncovered by the habeas experts which cast doubt on the integrity of the recording and constitute strong evidence the recording was altered. anderson claims a timely challenge would have resulted in exclusion of the recording or admission of the recording with evidence calling its authenticity into question and an instruction directing the jury to determine its authenticity before considering it. finding of prejudice. c. ient to authenticate the recording. before the grand jury, the prosecutor asked y. to listen to the recording because am going to ask you afterwards . . . if this is the complete conversation between both when a knowledgeable witness testifies a writing or recording is accurate, the trial d or people v. morris, supra, 53 cal.3d at p. 205 [trial court properly rejected authentication objection where defendant claimed a page of his letter was missing and handwriting expert suggested possibility of a missing page, but recipient testified letter was accurate]; people v. bowley, supra, 59 cal.2d at p. 862.) similarly, at trial y. 23 testified she had the recorder in her purse when she met anderson at the library and the recording was an accurate rendition of their conversation. defense counsel would have been familiar with the grand jury proceedings and confrontation. because an authentication challenge to the library recording would have failed, the decision not to bring a futile motion was a reasonable strategic choice. (see people v. prieto (2003) 30 people v. torrez (1995) 31 cal.app.4th 1084, 1091 [counsel is not required to make futile motions to appear competent].) and by declaration here. ebert explained the procedure by which he transferred the original digital data to a computer in proprietary format and thereafter placed copies of testimony, any material alteration to the recording, other than the documented enhancements performed on the recording, must have been innocently made. anderson argues the grigoras declaration demonstrates alteration of the recording was not innocent. grigoras declared that, in order to edit the recording so as to eliminate the blank blocks where erasures had occurred, the original recording would have to be removed from the recording device, converted to a .wav file which would have been edited and then re-recorded onto the device in the edited form. such a course of conduct would have required a concerted effort on behalf of law enforcement and simply is not plausible. (see people v. lewis and oliver (2006) 39 cal.4th 970, 992 [affirming denial allegations of a police conspiracy to frame him were not plausible].) based on the foregoing, we confidently conclude the recording of the library confrontation would have survived an authentication challenge. as previously noted, the time disparity and the awkward nature of the start of the conversation do not indicate 24 portions of the recording had not been recorded. they similarly do not indicate the recording had been altered. recording examined by an expert with more specialized background in digital recording ion and the suggestion does in any event, even had defense counsel raised the anomalies noted by the habeas experts, the absence of a screen-shot of the initial transfer from the recorder to the computer, and the time discrepancy in the properties window of the file provided to the defense, these matters would have gone to the weight of the evidence, not its admissibility. (see people v. martinez jazayeri v. mao, supra, 174 cal.app.4th at p. 321.) would have been admissible in court (see people v. kelly (1976) 17 cal.3d 24, 30, abrogated by statute on another point as explained in people v. wilkinson (2004) 33 cal.4th 821, 845-848inspire any confidence in a reasonable probability of a different result. two three-second would provide an innocent explanation for at least some of the anomalies detected by the experts. in any event, the declarations of the habeas experts would not have overcome about how the recording was transferred from the recording device to a computer in proprietary format. further, under section 1402, the prosecution only would have been required to ( 1402; people v. hovarter, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 1014.) the asserted omission of and thus not material to any question in dispute. also, anderson has failed to show the 25 ng a portion of the conversation. ( 1402; see people v. hovarter, supra, at p. 1014 [defendant challenged authentication of document on which handwritten markings may not have existed on the originals].) because there was no indication the recording had been materially altered, 1521, subd. (a)(1).) admission of secondary evidence of its content would be unfair. ( 1521, subd. (a)(1) & (2).) consequently, even if the cds did not qualify as originals, they were admissible secondary evidence. satisfactory evidence is offered when it was within the power of the party to produce stronger and more satisfactory evidence, the evidence offered should be viewed with proprietary format, section 412 has no application. in sum, the new declarations do not support a finding of a material alteration of the further, it appears defense counsel acted reasonably in seeking to obtain the recording device and, when the trial court upheld the claim of official information privilege, seeking sanctions under section 1040. the russ declaration filed under seal in the trial court indicated detection of any manipulation of the recording required access to russ told defense counsel he could not do a meaningful analysis without the original digital recordings were difficult to detect. based on this advice, defense counsel reasonably focused on obtaining access to the recording equipment used to record the conversation as well as the original recording. (see people v. williams (1988) 44 cal.3d 883, 945-946; fields v. brown (9th cir. 2005) 431 f.3d 1186, 1205.) 26 indeed, habeas expert grigoras reiterated the need for the recording equipment and declared that, in order to determine the feasibility of an intentional alteration of the recording, he had to examine the recording device. thus, defense counsel cannot be seen to have acted unreasonably in seeking to obtain the equipment used to make the recording. the absence of any indication defense counsel considered an authentication records does not show defense counsel failed to consider such a challenge or misunderstood the burden of proof in an authentication proceeding. defense counsel -mails to anderson, on authentication grounds. the trial court overruled the objection and admitted many e-claim the e-mails had been sent. thus, the record demonstrates defense counsel was aware of the availability of an authentication challenge. further, anthis claim at trial, it would have prompted the prosecution to cross-examine anderson with respect to his repeated insistence the meeting lasted only three minutes. this would as a brief encounter demonstrated consciousness of guilt. thus, defense counsel reasonabwas well within the wide range of reasonable professional assistance. (strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 689.) 27 3defense. during the recorded conversation, y. complained she had experienced difficulty with interpersonal relationships, showed anderson cuts on her arms and demanded an anderson contends defense counsel should have asked the trial court to permit -destructive behavior and difficulty with relationships. however, the trial court sustained relevance objections whenever defense counsel attempted to elicit this information. during cross-examination l asked is [a] symptom of sexutherefore had these problems which an expert will testify are reasons for cutting and the trial court ruled both sides could ask the experts about factors that could cause anxiety and depression, and physical abuse, and sexual abuse, and issues regarding sexual orientation or sexual dysfunction as precipitating cutting and burning . . . . [] but to specifically make direct comments upon the sexuality, sexual orientation of a nine, ten, 12, eleven, 13-year-old, or 14-year- the trial 28 defense counsel argued the expert testimony would have no meaning if the defense could not also present evidence indicating y. is gay. the trial court indicated it showing had been made. for the cutting. well, i adid not ask anderson what those reasons were, hoping the prosecutor would cross-examine anderson on this point, thereby opening the door to the evidence. anderson claims defense counsel should have asked the trial court to revisit its ruling. he argues library conversation and thus related to a substantive issue in the case. he notes defense counsel argued the record because no one asked anderson about it. anderson asserts the jury must have viewed this as bizarre, given that defense counsel conducted extensive examination of anderson. however, the jury likely concluded defense counsel would have asked anderson defense counsel reasonably could conclude the trial court would not change its ruling destructive behavior. (people v. prieto, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 261.) further, the defense presented evidence indicating y. had been the victim of physical abuse at the hands of her father in 1998 which resulted in a referral to the department of children and family services. thus, even without the sexual identity sexual molestation. no ineffective assistance of counsel appears. 29 disposition the petition is denied. the order to show cause is discharged. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: croskey, j. kitching, j. 