filed 5/25/12 p. v. brewer ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. gino donte brewer, defendant and appellant. b232351 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba309601) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. judith l. champagne, judge. affirmed as modified. ______ vanessa place, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, david c. cook and baine p. kerr, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______ 2 gino donte brewer appeals from the judgment entered after a jury convicted him of forcible rape, forcible oral copulation, sexual penetration by foreign object and kidnapping to commit another crime. brewer contends the trial court committed prejudicial error by admitting evidence of prior sexual offenses under evidence code section 1108 and then precluding evidence that a jury in a trial regarding those offenses was unable to reach a verdict. we disagree and thus affirm the judgment.1 factual and procedural background 1. the information a third amended information, dated march 1, 2011, charged brewer with four counts: (1) forcible rape (pen. code,  261, subd. (a)(2)); (2) forcible oral copulation (pen. code,  288a, subd. (c)(2)); (3) sexual penetration by foreign object (pen. code,  289, subd. (a)(1)(a)); and (4) kidnapping to commit another crime (pen. code,  209, subd. (b)(1)). as to counts 1, 2 and 3, the information specially alleged that (1) brewer had kidnapped the victim and her movement substantially increased the risk of harm to her over and above that level of risk necessarily inherent in the offense of rape (pen. code,  667.61, subds. (a) & (d)(2)); (2) brewer had a prior serious or violent fel(pen. code,  667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)); (3) the burglary conviction subjected brewer to sentencing pursuant to penal code section 667, subdivision (a)(1); 1 of forcible rape, forcible oral copulation, sexual penetration by foreign object and kidnapping to commit another crime. after the first trial, the jury found brewer guilty on prejudicial evidentiary error. the erroneously admitted evidence consisted of expert testimony regarding child sexual abuse accommodation syndrome and rape trauma syndrome, testimony from a woman named c.c. who described a sexual attack on her but did not identify brewer as the perpetrator and evidence that a jury in a trial against brewer regarding the attack on c.c. did not reach a verdict but voted 10 to 2 in favor of guilt. in addition, in closing argument, the prosecutor presented facts outside the record people v. brewer (dec. 8, 2009, b207859) [nonpub. opn.].) 3 and (4) brewer had served one prior prison term within the meaning of penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b).2 2. the evidence presented at trial a. on september 5, 2006, about 3:45 p.m., when s.s. was 14 years old and walking home from her first or second day of high school, a black car pulled up near her. the driver, an african american man, identified as brewer, called her over to the car. s.s. went to the car, and brewer asked s.s. for her hand, kissed it and then recited a poem about a beautiful african queen. because brewer was blocking traffic, s.s. suggested that he drive his car around the corner, which he did. s.s. and brewer continued to talk. s.s. told brewer that she was 14 years old, and brewer said that he was 27 years old. brewer told s.s. that she was beautiful, he wanted to be with her and he would buy her clothes and take her to get her nails and hair done. s.s. was interested because she could not afford to buy the clothes that she wanted for high school and gave brewer her cellular telephone number. brewer asked s.s. if she wanted to get into the car so that they could drive around and talk, and s.s. agreed. once s.s. was in the car, brewer asked her if she had a boyfriend, and she said it did not matter. brewer also asked whether s.s. had had sex or oral sex, with a man or woman, and she responded that she had not, feeling uncomfortable. while driving, near the zipper of his pants. s.s. snatched her hand away, and brewer put her hand back on his crotch. he had an erection. he took out his penis, played with himself and then told s.s. to do it. s.s. complied, although she was scared and never before had touched a penis. s.s. told 2 the information also included a special allegation under penal code section 667.61, subdivisions (a) and (d)(2), as to count 4. the trial court dismissed that special allegation before the case went to the jury. 4 group of stores because he was running out of gas and asked s.s. if she wanted to come with him to buy more gas. s.s. declined because she did not want to be seen with brewer, and he kissed her before leaving her in the car and electronically locking the the car, believing an alarm would sound if she unlocked and opened the door. she thought that she would tell brewer to take her home when he returned to the car. when brewer returned, he had a cup of gas but could not put ian auto parts store and left s.s. again in the locked car. after he came back to the car, brewer drove a few blocks to a gas station and put gas in the car, leaving s.s. in the locked car. as brewer drove from the gas station, he told s.s. to pull down her pants, aggressively, and s.s. felpants and underwear toward her hips, and brewer pulled them down to her knees. s.s. tried to cover her vagina with her shirt, but brewer raised her shirt and told s.s. to say to him that she was his bitch and that it was his pussy. brewer told s.s. to put her mouth around his penis, and, when she said no, he used his right hand to push her head forward to forput his finger in it, causing s.s. to feel a sharp, sudden pain. she asked brewer to stop and told him two or three times that she wanted to go home. brewer told s.s. not to lift brewer pulled over and stopped driving, but left the engine running, and s.s. spat outside the car. brewer would not let her pull up her pants. s.s. did not try to leave because she felt that she could not get out of the car fast enough and her pants were down. brewer then continued to drive and told s.s. they would go into the backseat so he could kiss her buttocks. s.s. climbed into the backseat while brewer was driving. 5 from her pants, kissed her buttocks and then turned her on her back, unzipping his pants. is penis] inside of [her]. pressure. it hurt a lot. it felt like he was trying to put it inside. [she] started crying [she] just kept crying. [she] tried to lift [her]self. [she] pushed her body toward[] the what it was called. brewer let s.s. pull up her pants, and she helped him zip his pants or buckle his belt, th brewer and s.s. got back into the front seat, and brewer began driving again, telling s.s. that they could be together and that he would buy her lingerie and heels and get her hair done so that she could work for him. s.s. thought brewer was referring to prostitution. s.s. asked brewer to drop her off close to, but not at, her house. he would not take her there because the area was crowded with people. he offered to drop her off at another location, and s.s. agreed, knowing that she had relatives who lived nearby. are once brewer dropped off s.s., she ran to the house where her cousin lived with his fiance. she was close to her cousin and his fiance and often visited them and their twin children. when s.s. arrived at the house, she was crying, and her cousin and his fiance could not understand what she was saying to them. after her cousin told her to 6 had been raped. her cousin and his fiance said that she should make a police report, but s.s. nevertheless went to the police station and filed a report later that day. the police took her to a rape treatment center, where she gave the nurse an account of the incident with brewer and the nurse conducted a physical examination, which showed blood at the base of the vaginal opening, an abrasion and tenderness on the hymen, the consistent with a sexual assault, but the nurse could not determine whether they were caused by consensual or nonconsensual sexual activity. dna collected from s.s. during a few days afand took her and their little sister shopping for shoes at a store that was three blocks from home and close to where brewer had met s.s. on the street. while in the store, s.s. saw brewer outside, and he came into the store. s.s. was scared and ran to the back of the quiet, hid with her little sister. her older sister went to the front of the store and saw ousins and her mother. she then saw brewer talking to another man and called 911 again. brewer disappeared, and she approached the man to whom he had been talking and asked questions about 7 s.s. heard that her mother had chased brew on september 20, 2006, the police conducted a follow-up interview with s.s., during which she identified brewer from a photographic lineup as the person who had sexually assaulted her. after brewer was identified as a suspect in the assault, a warrant issued for his arrest. on october 19, 2006, the police set up surveillance outside a residence where they believed they might find brewer. after waiting for 50 or 55 minutes, they saw a man matching officers approached brewer and identified themselves. brewer looked around and then ran back into the residence and into the backyard. he leaped over a four-foot fence and ran alongside the houses on the street. he stopped abruptly when he saw an officer in b. the evidence of prior sexual offenses under evidence code section 1108 m.k. testified that on july 13, 1997 she lived in an apartment in santa monica and about 8:45 p.m. that evening she was lying on her bed watching television. although the front door was open, the screen door was locked. m.k. looked up and saw a man, whom she identified at trial as brewer, standing abovimmediately . . . ame wedged between the bed and the wall, causing a wooden rod with drapes to crash down on her and the bed. brewer choked her his fist out of her mouth and stood up from the bed. m.k. stood up as well, becoming face-to-face with brewer in the doorway next to the bed. she remembered he appeared very young and had almond-shaped eyes and prominent lips. as brewer left the apartment, he as a result of the attack, m.k. sustained a black eye, a bloody mouth and various scratches on her torso and had shooting pains and spasms in her neck for about three 8 weeks. after features, lips, nose and , she participated in a live lineup in which she on cross-you there, i can say with absolute certainty, yes, you are the man because i was this close to you face-to-face, and i am close enough and looking at you, and i can see the movements and your impression, and i know this is the person. you are the person w c.c. lived in an apartment in venice on august 6, 1997, and about 8:30 p.m. that evening left the apartment with the door unlocked to take out the trash. when she returned, she lay down on her stomach on the floor in the living room to spread out materials that she was working with that evening. she heard a slight noise behind her and felt someone jump on top of her and a tie coming around her face. she put her hands up to block the tie from going around her neck and a male voice from behind her i need to the man worked his hand underneath her clothing, grasping at and touching her breasts and trying to pull down her shorts. c.c. tried to keep her shorts up, shouted at the man and attempted to stop him from tightening the tie around her neck, but it became tighter he man was african american, with dark skin and dark eyes, and tried to poke him in the eye. c.c. continued to struggle with the man. he said that he had a knife, but she did not believe him. the man took the side of her head and hit it into the coffee table. the struggle continued, and they knocked into the entertainment center. c.c. picked up a drum next to the entertainment center and threw it against the wall, hoping a neighbor would hear her. the man told her no one would come and put his hands inside her mouth. c.c. noticed his hands were covered in white, athletic socks and bit down on his hands. c.c. could not struggle anymore and 9 had an erection. thhe half-bit, half-in front of her and saw her building manager, wynette weller, standing outside. c.c. off of c.c. he left the apartment, taking a $10 bill on his way out, and exchanged words with weller as he passed her. as a result of the attack, c.c. suffered a large bump on her head, abrasions on her face, fabric burns on her cheeks, chin and neck, carpet burns on her face, elbows and knees and bruises on her neck, back, arms and ribs. c.c. was unable to identify her assailant. weller testified that on the night of august 6, 1997 she heard a strange noise, she c.c. an african american male, whom weller identified as brewer, walked out of the apartment right in front of weller, probably a foot from her. brewer said to weller, 911, and c.c. spoke on the telephone to the operator as well. weller was unable to identify the assailant from a photographic lineup, but, at a live lineup on october 20, trial, weller was 99 percent certain that the man who had attacked c.c. was brewer. c. brewer, who voluntarily had waived his right to counsel and represented himself at this trial, presented no evidence in defense but argued in closing remarks to the jury that the people had not proved beyond a reasonable doubt that s.s. did not consent to the sexual acts between them. 10 3. the jury found brewer guilty of forcible rape, forcible oral copulation, sexual penetration by foreign object and kidnapping to commit rape and found true the special allegation that brewer had kidnapped the victim and the movement of the victim substantially increased the risk of harm to her over and above that level of risk necessarily inherent in the underlying offense within the meaning of penal code section 667.61, subdivisions (a) and (d)(2). in a bifurcated proceeding, the trial court told prior-conviction package, and the jury found true the special allegations that (1) brewer had a prior burglary conviction that qualified as a strike under the three strikes law; (2) the prior burglary conviction subjected brewer to sentencing under penal code section 667, subdivision (a)(1); and (3) brewer had served a prior prison term within the meaning of penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b). the trial court sentenced brewer on count 1 for forcible rape to a state prison term of 55 years to life, consisting of 25 years to life based on the finding under penal code section 667.61, subdivisions (a) and (d)(2), doubled pursuant to the three strikes law, plus five years for the prior serious felony conviction within the meaning of penal code section 667, subdivision (a)(1). as to count 2 for forcible oral copulation and count 3 for sexual penetration by foreign object, the court imposed concurrent terms of 16 years per count, consisting of the upper term of eight years doubled pursuant to the three strikes law. on count 4 for kidnapping to commit another crime, the court imposed a life term but stayed execution of sentence pursuant to penal code section 654 because brewer already had been punished for the kidnapping based on the enhancement under penal code section 667.61, subdivisions (a) and (d)(2), as to count 1. the court struck the punishment for the one-year, prior-prison-term enhancement pursuant to penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b). 11 discussion 1. the trial court did not commit prejudicial error by admitting evidence of prior sexual offenses under evidence code section 1108 brewer contends the trial court committed prejudicial error by admitting the evidence under evidence code section 1108 of the prior sexual offenses against m.k. and c.c. he also contends that, given admission of the evidence, the court also should have permitted evidence that a jury in a trial regarding charges based on those offenses was unable to reach a verdict. we disagree with both contentions.3 in commission of another sexual offense or offenses is not made inadmissible by section to prove conduct on a specified occasion], if the evidence is not inadmissible pursuant to pro(people v. reliford (2003) 29 cal.4th 1007, 1009.) under the provision, trial courts may wid. at pp. 1012-1013.) remoteness, the degree of certainty of its commission and the likelihood of confusing, misleading, or distracting the jurors from their main inquiry, its similarity to the charged offense, its likely prejudicial impact on the jurors, the burden on the defendant in defending against the uncharged offenses, and the availability of less prejudicial 3 brewer also asks us to revisit the constitutionality of evidence code section 1108. the supreme court rejected constitutional challenges to the statute in people v. loy (2011) 52 cal.4th 46, people v. lewis (2009) 46 cal.4th 1255 and people v. falsetta (1999) 21 cal.4th 903. we are bound to follow those decisions. (auto equity sales, inc. v. superior court (1962) 57 cal.2d 450, 455.) 12 alternatives to its outright admission, such as admitting some but not all of the surrounpeople v. loy, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 61.) sis of h which he is charged and other matters relevant to the determination of the charge. as with other forms of relevant evidence that are not subject to any exclusionary principle, the presumption will be in favor of admission (id. at p. 62.) the trial court did not abuse its discretion by admitting evidence regarding the issue at trial was whether s.s. had consented to the sexual acts with brewer, rendering an sexual offenses is relevant because sexual offenses often are committed in secret with no people v. manning (2008) 165 cal.app.4th 870, 878, citing people v. falsetta, supra, 21 cal.4th at pp. 915, 918.) admission of the evidence regarding the prior sexual offenses thus was in line with a statutory purpose. moreover, although the incident between brewer and s.s. and the offenses against m.k. and c.c. were not similar in all respects, they each involved force as a means to accomplish sexual acts against vulnerable victims who were unfamiliar with the perpetrator and attempts to convince the victims not to resist. evidence linked brewer to the prior offenses against m.k. and c.c., and no dispute existed at trial that brewer had engaged in the sexual acts had told her older sister and her cousin and his fiance and consistent with the physical examination of her. the incident between brewer and s.s. occurred nine years after the 13 offenses against m.k. and c.c., and the prior sexual offenses, therefore, were not too remote in time, particularly given that brewer was in prison for a number of the intervening years. the evidence of the prior sexual offenses was presented with only four witnesses, who had no connection to s.s. or her incident with brewer, and did not consume undue time in the trial against brewer.4 nor did the trial court err by declining to admit evidence that the jury in the cases involving m.k. and c.c. did not reach a verdict. in introducing evidence of a prior sexual offense under evidence code section 1108, evidence that the defendant was acquitted of charges regarding the prior sexual offense must be admitted. (people v. griffin (1967) 66 cal.2d 459, 465-466; people v. mullens (2004) 119 cal.app.4th 648, 669.) brewer, however, cites no authority, and we are aware of none, holding that evidence that a jury was unable to reach a verdict regarding the prior sexual offense must be admitted. indeed, such evidence would allow jurors to use the current charges to punish the defendant for the prior sexual offense if it believed that he had committed it. 4 the trial court properly instructed the jury under calcrim no. 1191 on the preponderance-of-the-evidence standard of proof necessary for the prior sexual offenses defendant committed the crime of assault with intent to commit rape[,] which was not charged in this case. this crime is defined for you in these instructions. [] you may consider this evidence only if the people have proved by a preponderance of the evidence that the defendant in fact committed the uncharged offenses. proof by a preponderance of the evidence is a different burden of proof from proof beyond a reasonable doubt. a fact is proved by a preponderance of the evidence if you conclude that it is more likely than not that the fact is true. [] if the people have not met this burden of proof, you must disregard this evidence entirely. [] if you decide that the defendant committed the uncharged offenses, you may, but are not required to, conclude from that evidence that the defendant was disposed or inclined to commit sexual offenses, and based on that decision, also conclude that the defendant was likely to commit and did commit forcible rape, forcible oral copulation, sexual penetration by foreign object, and kidnapping to commit rape by force, as charged here. if you conclude that the defendant committed the uncharged offenses, that conclusion is only one factor to consider along with all the other evidence. it is not sufficient by itself to prove that the defendant is guilty of forcible rape, forcible oral copulation, sexual penetration by foreign object, and kidnapping to commit rape. the people must still prove each charge and allegation beyond a 14 2. the judgment must be modified to reflect a penal code section 667, subdivision (a)(1), enhancement on counts 2 and 3 reply, the trial court was required but failed to impose a five-year enhancement under penal code section 667, counts 2 and conviction for burglary. (people v. purata person has been convicted of a serious felony in the current case, and it has been alleged and proved the person suffered a prior serious felony conviction within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (a)(1), the trial court must impose a consecutive five-year term for each such prior consee people v. williams (2004) 34 cal.4th 397, 402-404.) accordingly, we modify the judgment to reflect that the sentences on each of counts 2 and 3 consist of the upper term of eight years, doubled pursuant to the three strikes law, plus five years under penal code section 667, subdivision (a)(1), both to run concurrently with the sentence imposed on count 1. (purata, at pp. 498-beyond the jurisdict-year term 5 5 the people also contend a five-year enhancement under penal code section 667, subdivision (a)(1), should have been imposed as to count 4. the enhancement, however, was charged as to counts 1, 2 and 3, not as to count 4, and thus is proper as to counts 1, 2 and 3 only. 15 disposition the judgment is modified to reflect that the concurrent sentences imposed on each of counts 2 and 3 consist of the upper term of eight years, doubled pursuant to the three strikes law, plus five years under penal code section 667, subdivision (a)(1). as modified, the judgment is affirmed. the trial court is directed to send a corrected abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published. rothschild, j. we concur: mallano, p. j. johnson, j. 