filed 9/28/12 p. v. gomez ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. alexander b. gomez, defendant and appellant. b233431 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va108556 consolidated with no. va113062) in re alexander b. gomez, on habeas corpus. b242009 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. peter espinoza, judge. affirmed. original proceeding. petition for writ of habeas corpus. writ denied. sharon fleming, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant, appellant and petitioner. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and john yang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________________________ 2 alexander gomez appeals from the judgment after a jury found him guilty of one count of first degree murder. we affirm. facts and proceedings below on the evening of october 13, 2008, rigoberto arevalo and julio figueroa were riding their bicycles near their homes in south central los angeles when a van pulled up 1 and the driver stuck a black revolver out of his window and started shooting at the boys. figueroa dived under a parked car and was uninjured. four bullets struck arevalo and he died from his wounds. jaime diaz testified for the prosecution. he told the jury that he was 15 years of age at the time of the shooting and had been a member of the aztlan gang for approximately a year and a half.2 on the night of the shooting he was riding in the back ) was in the front passenger seat. diaz stated that he, gomez and droopy were cruising the area looking for members of the florencia gang. at one point in the evening standing at the end of a cul de sac. before diaz did so, however, gomez took the gun their bicycles. gomez remarked that he thought the boys were members of the florencia gang. drove to the home of his girlfriend, erika frias. diaz saw gomez hand frias the gun that he had used in the shooting and heard him tell her to hide it. diaz denied being the shooter and bragging about being the shooter. 1 this was a reference to the florencia gang. neither arevalo or figueroa belonged to a gang. 2 aztlan and florencia were rival gangs. 3 on cross-examination diaz testified that the police arrested him for the arevalo murder but later released him. he stated that while he was in custody the police told him he would be charged with murder and face spending the rest of his life in prison. prior to trial the police had assisted diaz and his family to relocate in another state. wrapped in a white shirt. gomez told frwho was also a member of the aztlan gang. gomez instructed frias that if she was questioned by the police she shoulthe day of the shooting and that he was with her the whole day and did not have his van. frias admitted she told the police that on the night of the shooting gomez told her: but, she testified, she lied to the police because she was scared. she also admitted telling the police she saw the gun that gomez handed her the night of the shooting and that it looked like a black statement too was a lie. on cross-examination frias testified that she had never seen the gun two days earlier. she told the jury that after the shooting diaz bragged about the shooting and clarevalo. involvimpounding the van when gomez arrived on the scene and admitted that the van was his. gomez was arrested for public intoxication. further investigation led to his being c 4 gomez testified on his own behalf. he admitted that he had been convicted of assault with a firearm six months before the shooting and that at the time of the shooting he was a member of the aztlan gang. he stated that on the day of the shooting he had house in his van but was too drunk so he turned the van over to diaz and fell asleep in the front passenger seat. he was awakened by the sound of diaz shooting a gun from the that 15-year-old diaz knew how to drive and that he got his nickname, clever, from stealing cars. gomez admitted that when the groshooting, he gave the gun to her to hide. the jury found gomez guilty of one count of first degree murder and found true the gun use allegations under penal code section 12022.53 and the street gang allegation under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c). gomez admitted the prior conviction allegations. the court sentenced gomez to a term of 25 years to life, doubled under the section 12022.53, subdivision (d), and an additional 5 years for a prior serious felony conviction. gomez filed a timely appeal. discussion i. conviction for assault with a firearm and failure to request a limiting instruction on the errors. on appeal and in an accompanying writ petition gomez contends that his secutor impeaching his testimony with evidence of his prior conviction of a similar crime 5 assault with a firearmand failure to request a limiting instruction on the use of that prior conviction. even assuming counsel was negligent in his representation, gomez has failed to of people v. ledesma (2006) 39 cal.4th 641, 746.) the evidence against gomez showed that he had the means, motive and revolver with him in the van the night of the shooting. the motive for the shooting was g, florencia. the opportunity arose when gomez saw arevalo and figueroa, whom he believed were members of the florencia gang in vulnerable circumstances as they rode their bicycles on the street. the most damaging evidence against gomez came from diaz and from gomez himself. mony was his mother (recorded by the police and played to the jury) in which he told his mother to dispose of the gun he gave to his girlfriend frias shortly after the shooting, and in house the day of the shooting and that he was with her the whole day and did not have his van, and (2) that he was working with his uncle the day of the shooting and that later his n over to diaz to drive and that diaz shot the victim from the van. in another conversation he told his mother that if she 6 would put up his bail, he would go to mexico and never come back. finally, when he when she confessed on cross-examination that despite numerous conversations with the police she had never before told anyone that diaz admitted to her that he was the shooter. ii. prior to trial gomez moved to exclude evidence that a few days after the murder submission and ultimately ruled the evidence was admissible because it was relevant and based on this ruling deputy sheriff arnulfo loreto testified that in the afternoon of october 16, 2008 he responded to a report of shots fired. the reporting party gave loreto the description of a van which loreto broadcast to other deputies in the area. a deputy reported seeing a van matching the description and loreto went to the location. gomez arrived at the scene as the van was being prepared for towing. loreto arrested gomez for public intoxication. in the trial court the people maintained that the evidence the police encountered kept the jury from thinking 7 the attorney general essentially repeats that argument here. the evidence tying gomez presence but did not suggest that gomez was the shooter. thus, even if minimally relevant, the evidence was not unduly prejudicial under evidence code section 352. in any case, even if the the error would not be a ground for reversal. for the reasons explained in part i (ante, at p. 4), it is not reasonably probable that absent this error, gomez would have obtained a more favorable result. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818.) iii. sentence with the firearm enhancement under penal code section 12022.53, subdivision (d). gomez argues that imposing the 25-years-to-life gun enhancement under penal code section 12022.53, subdivision (d), on top of a sentence for murder violates the rule barring multiple convictions based on necessarily included offenses (people v. ortega (1998) 19 cal.4th 686, 692-694) and the double jeopardy clause of the united states constitution. he concedes, however, that the california supreme court disagrees with his position. (people v. sloan (2007) 42 cal.4th 110; people v. izaguirre (2007) 42 auto equity sales, inc. v. superior court (1962) 57 cal.2d 450, 455.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. the petition for a writ of habeas corpus is denied. not to be published. rothschild, acting p. j. we concur: chaney, j. johnson, j. 