filed 10/1/12 p. v. zarate ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. manuel zarate, defendant and appellant. b233578 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta108563) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. francis j. hourigan, judge. affirmed. gary v. crooks, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii and marc a. kohm, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________________ 2 a jury convicted manuel zarate of one count of attempted willful, deliberate, premeditated murder and one count of shooting at an occupied dwelling. zarate does not contest his conviction for shooting at an occupied building. he does contend, however, kill and the -publicized arizona shopping mall shooting, which occurred during jury selection, or to allow counsel to question the potential jurors regarding that event. he also contends the prosecutor engaged in prejudicial misconduct in his closing argument to the jury. we find no merit in any of these arguments and affirm the judgment. facts and proceedings below on the night of the shooting, september 20, 2009, zarate stopped by the home of his neighbor, theo when jensen told zarate that he looked ready to cry, zarate did not respond directly. instead zarate told jensen that he wanted jensen to go somewhere with him. when approximately two hours later, zarate went to the home of another friend, eddy two good fridrank together and occasionally did drugs togethermarijuana and methamphetamine. fraga attmethamphetamine at the party. house, 3 zarate raga stood next to the motorcycle, zarate reached into one of the saddlebags, pulled out a 12-gauge sawed-ed so he turned and walked away. after he walked approximately 15 feet he heard the sound of struck fraga on his hand. fraga ran inside his house and shut the front door. zarate fired another blast striking the door and then rode away on his motorcycle. expl the shooting zarate divorce he had been smoking methamphetamine or that zarate was starting to hear and devil had taken methamphetamines and he began to hear things and gone through a bad divorce, lost his job, and after he shot fraga, zarate went to the home of ruben torrez and asked torrez for permission to leave his motorcycle there. torrez consented. at trial torrez testified 4 ourse of his employment he received training in detecting whether persons were using illegal substances. based on this training he concluded that on two of the last three times he had seen his brother, his brother was under the influence of drugs. henry went to the back of the garage, just sat there by himself looking very depressed and unattached. . . . [t]here was a house full of people and he was off in the back all by normally did r brother two to three times a week. she observed signs that zarate was using drugs. she depression to a series of incidents including his divorce, his car being stolen, losing his father came to the store where she worked. he appeared to be under the influence of dr. haig kojian, a forensic psychologist, testified for the defense. he stated that er, sister and daughter, it appeared that zarate had been using drugs and alcohol since he was 12 or 5 13 it also appeared from his interview with zarate that zarate had been suffering from shooting:1 the breakup of his marriage and attendant quarrels over spousal and child support; financial struggles resulting from being laid off from work; a foreclosure on his house that he had spent a great deal of time and money improving; and the theft of his truck. dr. kojian testified that losing the truck wakojian administered showed zarate was deficient in his ability to cope with stressors. dr. kojian concluded from interviewing and testing zarate and reading reports from his relatives that zarate suffered from hallucinations, paranoia, extreme sweating he added that it was possible that the use of methamphetamine could also affect a the jury found zarate guilty of one count of attempted murder and one count of shooting at an inhabited dwelling. as to the attempted murder charge the jury found true the gun use allegations and that the offense was willful, deliberate and premeditated. the jury found that in both offenses, zarate personally inflicted great bodily injury on eddy fraga. the court sentenced zarate to 25 years to life for the attempted murder and imposed and stayed sentencing on the enhancements and the punishment for shooting at an occupied dwelling. 1 6 discussion i. the court did not err in r under penal code sections 28 and 29 expert opinion is admissible on the issue of whether the defendant suffered from a mental disorder at the time of the alleged offense and how that disorder afthe requisite mental state for the crime charged (e.g. intent, premeditation, deliberation). requireby people v. coddington (2000) 23 cal.4th 529, 582-583; people v. cortes (2011) 192 cal.app.4th 873, 908.)2 2 section 28: shall not be admitted to show or negate the capacity to form any mental state, including, but not limited to, purpose, intent, knowledge, premeditation, deliberation, or malice aforethought, with which the accused committed the act. evidence of mental disease, mental defect, or mental disorder is admissible solely on the issue of whether or not the accused actually formed a required specific intent, premeditated, deliberated, or harbored malice aforethought, when a specific intent crime is charged. diminished responsibility, or irresistible impulse in a criminal action or juvenile adjudication hearing. section 1026 or 1429.5. evidence code, to exclude psychiatric or psychological evidence on whether the accused had a mental disease, mental defect, or mental disorder at the time of the alleged defendant's mental illness, mental disorder, or mental defect shall not testify as to whether the defendant had or did not have the required mental states, which include, but are not limited to, purpose, intent, knowledge, or malice aforethought, for the crimes charged. the question as to whether the defendant had or did not have the required 7 before dr. kojian testified the court held a hearing to determine the permissible scope of his testimony. that he pointed out that in his opinion affect the ability of a defendant, mr. zarate, to form certain inl conditions at the of zarate at the time of the shooting as being high on methamphetamine, sweating, his broken marriage, the loss of his job, the foreclosure on his home and the theft of his car. objection, however, the court prohibited kojian from testifying zarate told him that on his son may have been kidnapped and held for victim [fraga] was coming after him arm himself. the court reasoned that because fraga testified he did not make or could not physical and mental conditions at the time of the shooting the deputies could testify to those statements under the hearsay exception for prior inconsistent statements 8 (evid. code,  1235) but kojian could not testify that he relied on those same statements any opinions rendered by [kojian], but . . . admissible evidence for the jury to determine zarate argues that the court erred in ruling kojian could not testify that in forming as reported by the deputies. we agree that the court erred but find the error harmless. an expert witness is permitted to state the reasons for an opinion and the matter on which the opinion is based. (people v. montiel (1993) 5 cal.4th 877, 918.) the trial court, of course, has discretion to decide how far it will allow the expert to go in describing the basis for an opinion. (people v. gardeley (1997) 14 cal.4th 605, 618-619.) this discretion is usually exercised to limit the backdoor introduction of inadmissible hearsay. (id. at p. 619.) in this case, however, kojian was prohibited from testifying about matters that were already in evidence as admissible hearsay under the exception for prior inconsistent statements. as to reliability, prior inconsistent statements are admissible not just as impeachment of trial testimony but as substantive evidence of their truth if the requirements of evidence code section 770 are met, as they were here.3 ny cases the inconsistent statement is more likely to be true than the testimony of the witness at trial because it was made nearer in time to the matter to which it relates and is less likely to be influenced by the controversy that gave rise to the litigpeople v. ochoa (2001) 26 cal.4th 398, but this argument goes to the weight of the evidence, not its admissibility. presumably 3 to give him an opportunity to explain or to deny the statement; or (b) the witness has not code,  770.) 9 under evidence code section 352 a court could exclude otherwise admissible testimony about the matter on which the expert opinion was based (see people v. coleman (1985) 38 cal.3d 69, 92) but the attorney general does not argue that theory and we do not ,  352.) zarate also contends the court erred in prohibiting kojian from testifying that in the night of the shooting he believed that his son may have been kidnapped and held for of proof kojian would have testified that these statements played a role in his evaluation people v. demond (1976) 59 cal.app.3d 574, 588 [failure to make an offer of proof regarding the materiality of the excluded evidence forecloses challenge on appeal]; and see evidence code section 354 [verdict will not be set aside for erroneous exclusion of evidence unless relevance of the excluded evidence was made known to the court].) kojian to testify that he concluded from interviewing and testing zarate and reading reports from his relatives that zarate suffered from hallucinations, paranoia, extreme of those mental disturba 10 ii. the court did not err in refusing to continue the trial or alter the voir dire following news of the shooting rampage in arizona. while the jury selection phase of this case was in recess for the weekend, a gunman during a shooting rampage in tucson arizona killed six people including a federal judge and a nine-year-old child and seriously wounded a member of congress. news of the event saturated the media. on the following monday, zarate moved to e with the horrible event in the extent that they cannot be a fair and imparcourt denied both motions. surrounding the arizona shooting. 4 there are no -time friend, fraga, and jared r what appeared to be political motives. (see 2011 tucson shooting, wikipedia, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/2011_tucson_shooting (last viewed 9/27/12.) finally, if we is not, unfortunately, an unusual occurrence in the united states in the 21st century. while this appeal was pending gunmen killed and wounded moviegoers in colorado, worshipers at a sikh temple in wisconsin and patrons of a hair salon in huntington beach. 4 all the cases zarate cites regarding pretrial publicity involved pretrial publicity own case, none involved publicity about an unrelated crime that occurred nearly 500 miles away in another state. 11 iii. alleged misconduct forfeited the issue on appeal and in any event we find no prejudicial error on appeal zarate claims for the first time that the prosecutor engaged in multiple instances of misconduct during closing argument. he also acknowledges that in most cases such a claim is preserved for appeal only if the defendant objects and requests an admonition. (people v. blacksher (2011) 52 cal.4th 769, 829.) zarate does not argue that this case should be an exception to the rule. accordingly, because zarate did not timely object and request an admonition and has not shown that an admonition would have failed to cure the alleged harm or that the objection would have been futile, he forfeited his claim of prosecutorial misconduct. prejudicial misconduct. a. and argued facts not in evidence 1. attempt to recruit jensen as an accomplice e zarate was referring to. jensen asked zarate: crime; in fact, it was jensen, not zarate, who mentioned beating someone up. the prosecutor, however, has wide latitude to argue reasonable inferences from the evidence. (people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1202-1203.) the conversation between zarate and jensen reasonably permits an inference that zarate was asking jensen to help him lure fraga out of his house so that he could shoot him outdoors and not risk harming 12 on the front porch and then zarate had fraga accompany him out to the sidewalk where he first attempted to shoot him. 2. murder jury that zarate may have wanted to kill fraga out of jealousy: fraga had a house, a wife that it takes a considerable stretch to make the evidence support a motive of jealousy but illogical since these are matters for the jury. (people v. lewis (1990) 50 cal.3d 262, 266.) 3. from forming the specific intent to kill fraga, the prosecutor observed: statement did not accurately portray the evidence. jensen, who saw zarate shortly before the shooting, testified that zarate was acting abnormally but did not testify that he shooting, testified that in his opinion fraga gave conflicting statements regarding zh the prosecutor misstated the evidence, we conclude that evidence that has be 13 would have obtained a more favorable result. (people v. crew (2003) 31 cal.4th 822, 839.) 4. zarate introduced no evidence from a drug expert in an argument covering the evidence of the shooting and reasons why the jury counsel] would like to jury because before kojian testified the court held a hearing under evidence code section 402 to determine his qualification as an expert on use and abuse of controlled substances and methamphetamine in particular. kojian detailed his experience and the prosecutor stated on the record that he was satisfied it is not clear what the prosecutor meant by his remark about zarate not bringing in a drug expert and wanting to use fraga as such an expert. nevertheless, the jury heard kojian testify to his extensive experience in evaluating criminal offenders with substance abuse issues and, as we noted above, they are the sole determiners of the facts in the case. 5. zarate was estranged from his family zarate argues the prosecutor committed misconduct in telling the jury family would not know whether he habitually got high on methamphetamine because they did not see him often. although the prosecutor chose the wrong word to convey his point,5 his isolated statement was at most harmless hyperbole. (cf. people v. sandoval (1992) 4 cal.4th 155, 184.) 5 the word estrange connotes a mutual dislike where there previously had been love 14 b. proof on intent zarate argues that the prosecutor attempted to shift the burden to him to prove lack of intent to commit murder. he cites two statements by the prosecutor. to anybody except for the family members and the defendant. did you subpoena work records? no. did you interview anybody outside the family that he knew? no. would that have been the same standard in the second statement the prosecutor posed a rhetorical question to the jurors: neither statement constituted an attempt by the prosecutor to require zarate to prove he lacked the intent to commit murder. under the defense theory of the case, zarate was prevented by drug intoxication and mental disorders from forming the intent to commit murder. therefore, it was incumbent on zarate to produce enough evidence in support of that theory to raise a reasonable doubt whether he formed the requisite intent. othing more than proper fair people v. hughes (2002) 27 cal.4th 287, 373.) c. and, in rfieldian was no evidence that zarate was estranged from his family. his sister and daughter testified otherwise. 15 people v. wharton (1991) 53 cal.3d 522, 567.) and, although ad hominum attacks are frowned on by most jurists, our supreme court has been reticent to label such attacks misconduct. in people v. gionis (1995) 9 cal.4th 1196, 1216, for example, the court held it was not misconduct to accuse people v. bell (1989) 49 cal.3d 502, 538, it was not misconduct to accuse defense counsel of deimproper in gionis and bell. d. s witnesses we get live testimony. testimony of a witness by offering the impression that [he] has taken steps to assure a people v. ward (2005) 36 cal.4th 186, 215 [brackets cre(cf. people v ward, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 216.) the second remark is problematic. it a(id. at p. 215) or, the second remark could be viewed as nothing more than a comment suffering the trauma of the shooting. (id. at p. 216.) under either interpretation, 16 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. rothschild, j. we concur: mallano, p. j. johnson, j. 