filed 9/17/12 p. v. binkley ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. rhonda binkley, defendant and appellant. b233359 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka092961) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, carol williams elswick, judge. affirmed. robert bryzman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant rhonda brinkley. kamala d. harris, attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and kim aarons, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________________ 2 rhonda binkley appeals from a judgment entered upon her jury conviction of possession of a controlled substance, a violation of health and safety code section 11377, and bringing a controlled substance into jail, a violation of penal code section 4573.1 she contends the court committed prejudicial error by failing to investigate a asserts that her section 4573 conviction should be reversed because the evidence supporting the conviction was obtained in violation of her constitutional right to silence. we affirm the conviction. factual and procedural summary on december 31, 2010, appellant was driving a car with passengers gabriel almeida and guillermo almeida.2 police officers bryan tromp and roger sardina pulled over the car because its bright headlights were on. when the officers approached officer tromp ordered appellant to get out of the car and sit behind it. officer tromp helped officer sardina handcuff guillermo, who was resisting arrest. officer tromp then handcuffed appellant. officers recovered a bag containing white powder located near appellant. appellant was taken to a police station for booking. before arriving, an officer advised appellant that if she brought narcotics into the jail, she would be charged with another crime. a sign at the jail also warned that it was a felony to bring narcotics into the jail. leslie garcia, a records supervisor at the jail, conducted a search of appellant and more bags were recovered from a jail cell where appellant had been placed before 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code, unless otherwise indicated. 2 guillermo almeida dismissed his appeal. 3 officers could conduct additional searches. the substances in the bags tested positive for methamphetamine. appellant was charged in an information with possession of methamphetamine for sale (health & saf. code,  11378; count 1) and bringing a controlled substance into jail ( 4573; count 3.) it further alleged that appellant had suffered two prior prison terms under section 667.5, subdivision (b), and three prior felony convictions under section 1203, subdivision (e)(4). guillermo was charged with possession of methamphetamine for sale (health & saf. code,  11378; count 2). appellant was convicted of the lesser offense of misdemeanor possession of a controlled substance (health & saf. code,  11377) on count 1, and bringing a controlled substance into jail on count 3. appellant admitted the prior conviction allegations. she was sentenced to an aggregate term of four years in state prison, consisting of the lower term of two years on count 3, plus one year for each of the two prior prison term allegations. on count 1 the court imposed a 365-day sentence to be served in any penal institution, to run concurrent to count 3. this timely appeal followed. discussion i appellant contends that the trial court erred by failing to investigate potential juror misconduct, and that the error requires reversal of the judgment. we find no error. the jury began deliberations on may 18, 2011. the next morning, the jury regarding the text messages recovered from a cell phone found in the car. later that afternoon, the foreperson advised the court that the jury had reached a verdict on one of the counts but had been unable to reach a verdict on the other. in the morning on may 20, juror no. 3 contacted the court clerk to say she felt bullied by another juror and wanted to know her rights. the clerk informed the court. 4 at a hearing outside the presence of the jury that morning, the court stated its g in all of the jurors, indicate to them that the court has some concern that one . . . or a number . . . of you . . . are having some problem with the issue of intimidation or bullying. i want to advise all of our jurors that everyone again needs to treat one another courteously and i trust that you will do so. if there are any additional -in counsel requested to bring in juror no. 3 only and inquire into the nature and extent of the bulling to determine whether there was juror misconduct . . . when she goes back in to intimidated, . . . to please report it to [the] deputy who can then relay that [information] to there. and then obviously if she contacts us again the jury was brought to the courtroom and given the following admonition: have feelings of pressure. you might have feelings of being bullied, and if any one of you feels that way, you need to bring it to for one side o[r] the other. that was part of the instructions you received. you are the treat one another courteously, with civility, which is also one of the instructions that you received. so if any one of you feels that, hey, there are some issues still going on or if 5 the minute ord that afternoon, the foreperson advised the court that the jury remained unable to reach a unanimous verdict on counts 1 and 2. after the court asked whether the jury my impression that each and every individual had made their decision and can . . . justify after further inquiry by the court, the foreperson stated that the last vote taken rring controlled substance. . . . it is the greater crime. . . . simple possession[,] also known as possession of a controlled substance[,] is the lesser crime. . . . [y]ou must find the defendant not guilty of the greater crime in order to make whatever decision, if any, as to the lesser crime. . . . i am not telling you in what order you need to do that. okay. you can do it in any order, but there must at some point in time be a not guilty as to the jury inquires if there are conflicting opinions[,] are they stuck in deliberations until a less than an hour later, the jury reached a verdict, finding appellant guilty of the lesser offense of simple possession for count 1 and the offense of bringing a controlled substance into jail for count 3. the attorney general asserts appellant forfeited her claim by failing to object to there was good cause to discharge a juror. but the cases cited by the attorney general 6 court investigated potential cause for discharge. (see people v. lewis (2009) 46 cal.4th 1255, 1308; people v. stanley (2006) 39 cal.4th 913, 950; people v. holloway (2004) 33 cal.4th 96, 124.) as the california supreme court has stated with regard to the investigation when the court possesses information that might constitute good cause to remove a juror rests with the trial court whether or not the defense requests an inquiry, people v. cowan (2010) 50 cal.4th 401, 506.) therefore, we conclude appellant did not forfeit the claim. submission of the case to the jury, a juror dies or becomes ill, or upon other good cause shown to the court is found to be unable to perform his or her duty, or if a juror requests a discharge and good cause appears therefor, the court may order the juror to be hority to conduct an appropriate investigation concerning whether there is good cause to do so, and the limited in scope as possible, to avoid intruding unnecessarily upon the sanctity of the people v. alexander (2010) 49 cal.4th 846, 926-927.) incompetence, or misconductlike the ultimate decision to retain or discharge a jurorrequired only where the court possesses information which, if proven to be true, would his duties and would justify people v. martinez (2010) 47 cal.4th 911, 942.) 7 possibility that a juror should be discharged. (people v. alexander, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 927.) appellant contends a hearing was necessary in order to determine: 1) whether the bullying felt by juror no. 3 caused her to lose her ability to render a fair and unbiased verdict or to continue with the deliberations; and 2) whether the juror or jurors bullying juror no. 3 had committed misconduct requiring discharge. we do not agree. was bullying was to know what her rights were in relation to what she apparently perceived as bullying. she did not say that the bullying was affecting her ability to perform the requisite functions of a juror. by asking what her rights were, juror no. 3 expressed an intention to assert those rights in the deliberations, rather than to stop performing her functions as a juror. having with one or more of the other jurors. all parties agreed that the court should admonish the entire jury to be courteous and reiterate that complaints could be made to the bailiff. this admonishment appears to have cured whatever issue previously existed since no further complaints were lodged. after the admonishment, juror no. 3 participated with the proceedings to clear up confusion regarding the verdict on count 1. she suggested that the jury needed clarification on the lesser and greater offenses and the jury reached a verdict shortly after the court provided that information. the admonition served its function by stopping the conduct causing juror no. 3 while preserving the integrity of the deliberative process. to disagree during deliberations, even at times in heated demeanor, eccentricities or personalities of individual jurors would deprive the jury room of its inherent qualitpeople v. orchard (1971) 17 cal.app.3d 568, 574 [(orchardpeople v. keenan (1988) 46 cal.3d 478, 541.) 8 in orchard, after a juror sent the foreperson a note stating her belief that the defendant was innocent, the forepersoand causing her to vote . . . id. at p. 572.) the court noted that jurors are expected to disagree and sometimes do so with anger. to permit courts to inquire into inherent qid. at p. 574.) thus, the court concluded that the id. at p. 574.) the california supreme court approved orchard in people v. keenan, supra, 46 er at [another juror], an elderly woman who was the lone holdout against [the] death id. at p. 540.) occurred, we must conclude as a matter of law that it was not prejudicial misconduct which impeaches the verdict. the outburst described . . . was particularly harsh and inappropriate, but as the trial court suggested, no reasonable juror could have taken it temper, and strong conviction against the contrary views of aid. at p. 541.) authorities already discussed, heated, angry or passionate disagreements between jurors do not constitute prejudicial misconduct. as we have already discussed, juror no. 3 did court in its attempts to clarify confusion amongst the jurors about the lesser and greater 9 offenses. whatever conduct the other jurors engaged in did not improperly influence juror no. 3. since any investigation into conduct constituting misconduct must be as limited in people v. alexander, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 927), the court did not abuse its discretion in concluding that the admonition provided was sufficient, and preferable to a hearing. ii appellant asserts that her section 4573 conviction must be reversed because it was obtained in violation of her privilege against compelled self-incrimination under the fifth amendment of the united states constitution. she contends that because she was arrested and brought to jail while in possession of a controlled substance, appellant could not avoid prosecution under section 4573 unless she admitted that she possessed the controlled substance, a violation of health & safety code section 11377, subdivision (a). by remaining silent about her possession of the controlled substance, she was compelled to enter the jail while still in possession and violate section 4573. appellant acknowledges that the california supreme court has rejected this basis for a constitutional challenge and upheld the validity of the statute in people v. low (2010) 49 cal.4th 372, 389-392, and people v. gastello (2010) 49 cal.4th 395, 403-404. prison. . . . in purpose and effect, the statute does not operate in a compelled testimonial manner. it simply targets the willful commission of a new drug-(people v. gastello, supra, at p. 403.) fifth amendment privilege against compelled testimonial self-incrimination. 10 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. epstein, p. j. we concur: willhite, j. manella, j. 