filed 7/16/12 p. v. huezo ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. juan carlos huezo, defendant and appellant. b233864 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la062282) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, elizabeth a. lippitt, judge. affirmed in part, modified in part and remanded. richard c. neuhoff, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii, supervising deputy attorney general, steven e. mercer, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction defendant and appellant juan carlos huezo (defendant) was convicted of murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)1). on appeal, defendant contends that the trial court voluntary intoxication to determine whether defendant acted with the intent necessary for first-degree deliberate and premeditated murder and not in connection with the felony-murder charge; allowing the jury to be informed that a witness had not been given ny forfeitures, there was ineffective assistance of counsel. defendant also contends that the cumulative effect of the errors requires reversal. the attorney general requests that we strike the parole revocation fine that was imposed and suspended againsrevocation fine, and remand the matter to the trial court to amend the abstract of judgment accordingly. background a. factual background 1. prosecution evidence marissa hernandez2 june 7, 2009, after not speaking to defendant for several months, marissa called defendant to determine if he wanted to get together. defendant agreed, and they went to 1 all statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 2 marissa hernandez shares the same surname as her sister, priscilla hernandez. for clarity, further references to these individuals are by their first name only. 3 hour. marissa testified that she and defendant decided to rent a room at a motel in north hollywood. when they arrived at the motel, defendant went inside to see how much a room would cost. when defendant returned to the car, he told marissa there was a man in the office, later identified as filemon cortez, who had a lot of cash on him. marissa testified that defendant and marissa then drove to a convenience store across the street from the motel, and cortez had exited the motel and was crossing the street. defendant referenced cortez and told marissa that cortez was going to the marissa did not think defendant was serious. marissa testified that when she and defendant arrived at the convenience store, defendant went in to purchase cranberry juice. when defendant exited the convenience store, he and cortez spoke. at some point, defendant and cortez exchanged telephone numbers. marissa testified that defendant and marissa returned to the motel and rented a room. defendant called cortez and invited him to drink with them. marissa drove defendant and cortez to two convenience stores where they bought a bottle of vodka and more cranberry juice. marissa testified that the three of them returned to the hotel and drank about half a when he exited the bathroom he was carrying a bottle of vodka. defendant then stood behind cortez, gestured to marissa to be quiet by placing his finger against his lips, and ant told marissa to shut up and get the car. night. cortez had not been flirting with her or acting inappropriately toward her before defendant struck him with the bottle. cortez had not hit or threatened defendant, and 4 defendant and cortez did not have an altercation before defendant struck cortez with the bottle. defendant may have patted down cortez pant pockets. marissa testified that she retrieved her vehicle and pulled it up to the motel room. she did not drive away alone because she was scared and did not know what to do. defendant got into the vehicle carrying the vodka bottle. marissa testified that her memory was blurry and she did not remember whether she or defendant drove away. dahyabhai patel3 testified that he was the manger of the motel and was working at the time of the incident. earlier that day, dahyabhai had rented a room to cortez. cortez had placed his wallet on the counter while checking in, and defendant was near him. ashish, knocked on the door to , and marissa and defendant exited the room. ashish testified that defendant tdahyabhai and ashish testified that marissa and defendant drove off, and cortez was lying on the floor with blood coming from his head. dahyabhai testified that ashish noted the license plate number of the car, and they called 911. aaron halverson, a paramedic with the city of los angeles fire department, testified that he arrived at the scene and found cortez unconscious and unresponsive. cortez had a four-inch laceration on the back of his head and was surrounded by broken glass. los angeles police department detective charles lenane testified that he responded to the scene and there were blood stains and splatters of blood in the room. halverson testified that cortez was in critical condition and transported to the hospital. cortez subsequently died. detective lenane testified that no wallet or money was found in the room. 3 because dahyabhai patel and ashish patel share the same surname, we refer to them by their first names. 5 marissa testified that she went home and told priscilla that she had just seen defendant kill somebody, and priscilla called the police. when the police arrived they handcuffed marissa and took her to the police station. priscilla testified that marissa came home between 2:30 and 3:00 a.m. on june 8, e head over and when marissa told priscilla that cortez was dead, priscilla called the police. priscilla cortez started to argue prior to defendant repeatedly hitting cortez on the head with the at about 4:30 a.m. on june 8, 2009, the morning after the incident, marissa was interviewed by detective edwards of the los angeles police department, an audio recording of which was played for the jury.4 marissa was scared and still intoxicated during the interview. marissa told detective edwards that after defendant paid for the room defendant told marissa that cortez had a lot of money and defendant wanted to steal it. marissa said she told defendant that they were not going to do that, and ked up defendant. marissa told 4 marissa testified at trial that she did not recall talking to detective edwards because was feeling the effects of the alcohol and fatigue. 6 he was going to kill her. marissa testified that at some point defendant drove, she was in the passenger seat, and they picked up defefriend drove the vehicle, dropped off defendant, took marissa back to her house, and told house, told her sister what happened, and her sister called the police. marissa told detective edwards that she has no idea why defendant hit cortezdefendant and cortez were not arguing about anything, and she never saw defendant take at if she spoke up, defendant would ntion of holding you. you to feel comfortable to speak freely. . . . . . you robbed five banks, well then i would have [lied]. . . . [] my only question to you now is, can we continue talking oror do we have to stop? [] [c]an we continue talking . . . what are willing to dohit him to jack him. . . . [] for but she did not see him do it. at about 4:00 p.m. on june 8, 2009, marissa was interviewed by detective mario santana of the los angeles police department, and all but a small portion of an audio recording of the interview was played for the jury.5 marissa told detective santana, inter alia, that when defendant returned from the motel to the vehicle after determining how not going to get in trouble 5 marissa testified that she remembered most of this interview. 7 sitting on the bed, and defendant went to the bathroom carrying the bottle of vodka. f next to cortez, and then sat next to cortez talking to him.6 marissa then sat in a chair and continued to drink. defendant returned from the bathroom, carrying the bottle of vodka, approached cortez from behind, gestured to marissa to be quiet, and struck cortez in the back of the head with the vodka bottle. paul gliniecki, a deputy medical examiner for the los angeles department of coroner, testified that he performed an autopsy on cortez and determined that the cortez died from a blunt force trauma to the head, which was the result of a powerful blow that fractured his skull. the skull fractures could have been caused by a bottle striking cortez had a small abrasion to his right eyebrow and next to his left eye, a small laceration next to his left ear, and bruises on the back and front of his right hand, left ear was consistent, but it was possible that it was consistent with a blow from a fist fight, as was the abrasion to this right eyebrow. gliniecki did not know what caused the those gliniecki testified that cortez also sustained five fractured ribs, and he had bruises on his lungs and surrounding muscles. those injuries were caused by application of a significant amount of force, and were consistent with someone stomping the ribs with a the same time, while cortez was alive, but he could not determine the order in which he sustained them. 6 marissa testified that she did not remember telling this to detective santana. 8 2. defense evidence at happened that night [of the incident]. when i, when i woke up the next uphim. cortez bought a bottle of alcohol, and they consumed it. defendant went to the . . d or . . . when he walked out of the room he had a bottle in his hand and it fell at the door. ured his right hand during the fight, and detective santana agreed that it was a little swollen. defendant to purchase the bottle of alcohol. defendant did not intend to twallet. detective santana testified that he interviewed defendant at about 10:30 p.m. on june 9, 2009. during the interview, defendant said he injured his hand during the fight with cortez, but there was no visible injury or swelling. as a ruse to keep the interview going, detective santana agreed with defendant that his hand appeared to be injured. b. procedural background the district attorney of los angeles county filed an information charging defendant with one count of the murder of cortez in violation of section 187, subdivision (a). the district attorney alleged that defendant personally used a deadly weapon in violation of section 12022, subdivision (b)(1), and killed cortez during the commission 9 of a robbery in violation of section 190.2, subdivision (a)(17). the district attorney further alleged that defendant had served one prior prison term within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b), and had four prior felony convictions with the meaning of section 1203, subdivision (e)(4). following a trial, the jury found defendant guilty of murder, found the murder to be in the first degree, and found that the special circumstances and deadly weapons allegations were true. the trial court sentenced defendant to state prison for a term of life without the possibility of parole. the trial court ordered defendant to pay a $10,000 restitution fine pursuant to subdivision (b) of section 1202.4, a $30 criminal conviction assessment, and a $40 court security assessment. the trial court imposed and suspended a $10,000 parole revocation fine pursuant to section 1202.45.7 discussion a. voluntary intoxication instruction the jury was instructed that defendant could be found guilty of first degree murder if the murder was willful and premeditated, or during the commission of a robbery. defendant contends that the trial court committed prejudicial error when it instructed the he acted with an intent to kill or if defendant acted with deliberation and premeditation, thereby precluding the jury from considering such evidence in determining whether defendant acted with the specific intent to commit battery. although the trial court erred, the error was harmless. 1. background facts the following exchange occurred during a discussion about proposed jury 7 as discussed below, we strike the $10,000 parole revocation fine because defendant was not eligible for parole. 10 alcohol in this case. [prosecutor:] your honor, the voluntary intoxication goes to the i mean obviously under their theory they have to prove robbery, which is a specific intent crime. so certainly it would go to whether or not [defendant] had the intent to permanently deprive, which robbery felony murder theory. it could be under a malice theory too that the jury could find based on the evidence. [] i mean if the jury were to accept [defendant] hit [cortez] in the head was submitted and the trial court moved on without comment. later, during a discussion about the proposed jury instruction for voluntary intoxication, the trial court inquired whether either counsel wanted to be heard regarding it, and both the prosecutor and el said they did not. the only theory of first-degree murder argued by the prosecutor was the felony-murder based on robbery. the trial court instructed the jury pursuant to calcrim no. 625,8 may consider evidence, if any, of the defendantway. you may consider that evidence only in deciding whether the defendant acted with an intent to kill or if the defendant acted with deliberation and premeditation. [] a person is voluntarily intoxicated if she or he becomes intoxicated by willingly using any intoxicating drug, drink, or other substance knowing that it could produce an intoxicating 8 nsider evidence, if any, of the evidence only in deciding whether the defendant acted with an intent to kill[,] [or] [the defendant acted with deliberation and premeditation[,]] [[or] the defendant was unconscious when (he/she) acted[,]] [or the defendant _________________ <insert other specific intent required in a homicide charge or other charged offense> .] [] a person is voluntarily intoxicated if he or she becomes intoxicated by willingly using any intoxicating drug, drink, or other substance knowing that it could produce an intoxicating effect, or willingly assuming the risk of that effect. [] you may not consider evidence of voluntary intoxication for any other purp 11 effect or willingly assume the risk of that effect. you may not consider evidence of involuntary [sic] intoxic 2. analysis although the jury was instructed that defendant could be found guilty of first degree murder if the murder was willful and premeditated, or during the commission of a robbery, it is undisputed that the prosecutocortez during the commission of a robbery. robbery, as the jury was instructed, requires a showing that there was a specific intent to steal. (in re albert a. (1996) 47 cal.app.4th 1004, 1007). there was substantial evidence that defendant was intoxicated at the time he killed cortez. 625 was erroneous because it prohibited the jury from considering the evidence of oluntary intoxication in determining whether defendant acted with the specific intent to commit battery. (see people v. mickey (1991) 54 cal.3d 612, 675.) the attorney general contends, however, that the error was harmless pursuant to people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818 [more favorable outcome for defendant reasonably probable absent error]. defendant contends that he was deprived of a potentially under chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18 [harmless beyond a reasonable doubt] applies. we conclude that the error was harmless under either standard. from cortez, and then he followed through with his announced intention. evidence was introduced that when cortez rented the motel room from the manger of the motel, he had placed his wallet on the counter, and defendant was near him. marissa testified, and told detectives edwards and santana, that when defendant returned to the car from the motel office, he told marissa that cortez had a lot of cash on him and defendant wanted to steal it. priscilla testified that when marissa arrived home shortly after the incident, marissa told her 12 the evidence establishes that approached cortez from behind carrying a bottle of vodka, gestured to marissa to be quiet by placing his finger against his lips, and struck cortez in the back of the head with the bottle. it is reasonable to infer that by defendant gesturing to marissa to be quiet, he knew what he was doing, that he harbored the intent to steal from cortez without being detected, and that he was consciously and deliberately signaling his intent to marissa. ashish testified that when he knocked on the door of the motel room, defendant told him, defendant immediately fled the scene. no wallet or cash was found in the room. intoxication in determining whether defend-back [fight intended to steal. intend to steal from cortez, but instead that defendant and cortez were engaged in a fight over marissa. the jury rejected this argument, finding that defendant intended to commit a robbery. that defendant may have been intoxicated at the time of the incident is of no significance to th failure to instruct the jury that voluntary intoxication could negate the specific intent required to commit the crime of robbery. the failure was harmless error. b. immunity defendant contends that the trial court erred by striking the language from calcrim no. 226, that in determining the credibility or believability of a witness the r leniency in 13 that marissa did not have immunity. defendant contends that this violated his right to due process under the fifth and fourteenth amendments, and his rights to compulsory process and confrontation under the sixth amendment to the united states constitution. we disagree. 1. background facts jessica p. silvers, at which the prosecutor was edward nison, marissa asked to take a break. on cross-examination, she stated that at the break she spoke with the prosecutor and a detective and told them that she was scared to be there. when asked if they discussed anything else, marissa ans [] . . secutor:] your honor, [for] the record, [marissa] had an attorney who advised her. so clearly, there was some discussions regarding [immunity]. [] . . . and he made the determination that it was not necessary. [trial court:] because the people had agreed there would be absolutely no filing of any charges relating to this incident against this witness. [prosecutor:] correct, your honor. that none of her testimony would give rise what actually happened, you felt assured you would not be prosecuted for anything; is the honorable elizabeth a. lippitt presided over the trial, and scott marcus was the prosecutor. the following exchange occurred at a pre- 14 court:] is there any issue that [marissa] is arguably involved under an aider and abettor if it was ever formally understanding from reviewing the prelim transcript she was appointed counsel. the deputy district attorney handling the preliminary hearing stated on the record that he did not envision any charges that could be filed against her based on what we anticipated her testimony to be. her appointed lawyer agreed with that statement, and she proceeded to ther marissa thought she had immunity was relevant to her state of mind. the prosecutor stated that he had no objection if preliminary hearing], did you talk to either of the detectives on that day; of immunity for yourself? [marissa:] yes. [] . . regarding immunity? [marissawe talked about it and marissa testified that she had an attorney at the preliminary hearing, and she had spoken to the prosecutor and a detective during a break in her testimony at the hearing 15 attorney] did you feel assured you had immunity . . . [the] detectives redirect examination, marissa testified that there was a statement made on the record during a discussion of proposed jury instructions, counsel and the trial court discussed calcrim no. 226, which concerns the factors a jury may consider in determining the credibility or believability of a witness, including as a possible factor 9 the prosecutor proposed that this possible factor not be 9 believability of the witnesses. in deciding whether testimony is true and accurate, use your common sense and experience. you must judge the testimony of each witness by the same standards, setting aside any bias or prejudice you may have. you may believe all, part, or none of any witness's testimony. consider the testimony of each witness and consider anything that reasonably tends to prove or disprove the truth or accuracy of that witness see, hear, or otherwise perceive the things about which the witness testified? [] luenced by a factor such as bias or prejudice, a personal relationship with someone involved in the make a statement in the evidence prove or disprove any fact about which the engaged in [other] conduct that reflects on witness promised immunity or leniency in exchange for his or her testimony?] [] do 16 re was no immunity promised to could argue the matter to the jury. day of the preliminary hearing], i need a bathroom break. sure. by all means. oh, t? i wants you to think that marissa . . . upon taking this break at the preliminary hearingto arrange for her immunity. [according to when she decided to start telling a different story . . . . [] . . . marissa . . heard her say she thought she was taken care o not automatically reject testimony just because of inconsistencies or conflicts. consider whether the differences are important or not. people sometimes honestly forget things or make mistakes about what they remember. also, two people may witness the same event for truthfulness has not been discussed among the people who know him or her, you may something, tsubject.] [] [if you decide that a witness deliberately lied about something significant in this case, you should consider not believing anything that witness says. or, if you think the witness lied about some things, but told the truth about others, you may simply accept 17 2. analysis the fifth amendment to the united states constitution provides, in pertinent part, testimony is compelled and the witness no longer has a privilege against self-people v. morgain (2009) 177 cal.app.4th 454, 466-467.) calcrim no. 226 provides that in order for the jury to consider it in determining a marissa was not given immunity by the primmunity for marissa was not necessary because the testimony would not give rise to the filing of any charges against her relating to this marissa was vague as to her recollection she was given immunity, but at one point when was asked at trial whether she felt she got we talked about it andit the trial court did not err by striking the language from the jury instruction that in determining the credibility or believability of a witness the jury may consider whether the witness was given immunity, or by allowing the prosecutor to argue before the jury that marissa did not have immunity. c. defendant contends that the trial court erred in admitting evidence that andy 18 1. standard of review evidence code section 352 is reviewed under an abuse of discretion standard of review. (see people v. avila section 3 2. background facts andy huezo was talking about, and she did not recall defendant telling her what story to tell the police. marissa told the police about the telephone call. detective santana testified that on june 10, 2009, marissa told him that the day told him what that story was, detective santana responded, . . cortez, tried to sexually he prosecutor er happened. that was the lie that marissa . . protect him anymore and then told the truth . defendant previously objected to such evidence under evidence code section 352,10 contending that the probative value is outweighed by the prejudicial impact 10 evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger 19 trial court cited people v. olguin (1994) 31 cal.app.4th 1355, and stated that it is admissible because allthis case has everything to do with credibility . . . . [] . . . it clearly is probative as to credibility and the effect on the listener. we will let that in, and at the close of trial, the trial court gave the following limiting instruction, which evidence was admitted for a limited purpose. the phone conversation from [andy of witness marissa . . . . you may consider that evidence only for that purpose and for no other. 3. analysis matter that has any tendency in reason to prove or disprove the truthfulness of his testimony at the hearing . . . . . . [] . . . [] . . . in which he testifies or toward the giving of idthe case. aw prohibits proving consciousness of guilt by establishing attempts (people v. olguin, supra, 31 cal.app.4th at p. 1368.) there was evidence introduced at trial tdefendantdefendant contends that he was prejudiced by the admission of this evidence, and that prejudice substantially outweighed the probative value of the evidence, because it can be 20 reasonably inferred that defendant was attempting to suppress evidence, thereby showing his consciousness of guilt. defendant similarly contends that he was prejudiced when the prosecutor purportedly attempted to prove his consciousness of guilt when he argued to lie that marissa . . . told initially because the defendant told her to, but realized she . . previously gave one account to police officers. in addition, the trial court gave the jury a ess marissa . . . . you may consider that evidence only for that purpose and for no other. we people v. avila, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 719; people v. bennett (2009) 45 cal.4th 577, 596.) whatever prejudice defendant might have experienced from the evidence was substantially diminished by the limiting instruction. here, as in people v. olguin, supraargument, never even a suggestion, that [the] evidence id. at p. 1368.) xclusion of evidence under evidence code section 352 is designed to avoid is not the prejudice or damage to a defense that naturally flows from prejudicial or damaging to tevidence which uniquely tends to evoke an emotional bias against the defendant as an individual and which has very little effect on the issues. in applying section 352, people v. yu (1983) 143 cal.app.3d 21 people v. karis (1988) 46 cal.3d 612, 638.) the trial court did not err in admitting the evidence. d. parole revocation fine although the issue was not raised by defendant, the attorney general observed that it was improper for the trial court to impose (and suspend) a $10,000 parole revocation fine pursuant to section 1202.4511 because defendant received a life sentence without the possibility of parole. we agree, and we strike parole revocation fine. e. cumulative error defendant contends that the cumulative effect of errors committed by the trial court requires the reversal of his conviction. there has been no showing of cumulative prejudicial error. (people v. watson (2008) 43 cal.4th 652, 704; people v. boyette (2002) 29 cal.4th 381, 467-468; people v. seaton (2001) 26 cal.4th 598, 675, 691-692 [few errors identified were minor and either individually or cumulatively would not alter the outcome of the trial]; people v. cudjo (1993) 6 cal.4th 585, 630 [no cumulative error when the few errors that occurred during the trial were inconsequential].) whether considered individually or for their cumulative effect, any of the errors alleged did not (people v. sanders (1995) 11 cal.4th 475, 565; people v. cudjo, supra, 6 cal.4th at p. 637.) people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 1009; people v. mincey, supra, 2 cal.4th at p. 454; people v. miranda (1987) 44 cal.3d 57, 123.) 11 section 1202.45 provides iconvicted of a crime and whose sentence includes a period of parole, the court shall at the time of imposing the restitution fine pursuant to subdivision (b) of section 1202.4, assess an additional parole revocation restitution fine in the same amount as that imposed pursuant to subdivision (b) of section 1202.4. . . 22 holding that error harmless, there is no occasion to consider the cumulative impact of errors. also, because there was no prejudicial error, we did not deal with any forfeitures of an issue or the ineffective assistance of counsel contention if there had been a forfeiture. disposition the judgment is modified to eliminate the imposition of a $10,000 parole revocation fine. the matter is remanded for the trial court to amend the abstract of judgment accordingly. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. mosk, j. we concur: turner, p. j. armstrong, j. 