filed 11/30/12 p. v. prieto ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose alfredo prieto et al., defendants and appellants. b233309 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta106590) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, curtis b. rappe, judge. affirmed as modified. charlotte e. costan, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant jose prieto. david y. stanley, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant jesse robles. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., supervising deputy attorney general, and daniel c. chang, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 appellant jose prieto (jose) is the brother of hector prieto (hector).1 appellant jesse robles (robles) is their friend and fellow gang member. this appeal arises out of a robbery and triple murder committed, according to appellants, in order to raise money to bail the prieto bguilty of second degree robbery, and three counts of murder committed during the commission of a robbery, and also found gang enhancements true. on appeal, jose and robles contendcapital trial; (2) prosecutorial misconduct during voir dire denied them a fair trial and due (4) the court erroneously admitted highly prejudicial evidence of witness intimidation; (5) instructional error requires reversal; (6) there is insufficient credible evidence to sustain the convictions; (7) cumulative error deprived them of a fair trial and constituted a miscarriage of justice; (8) the gang enhancement should be struck because the crimes were not committed to benefit the gang; and (9) the abstracts of judgment require nd several liability for restitution and the correct firearm enhancement. we agree only that the and the vicarious firearm use enhancement. otherwise, we affirm. procedural background a third amended information charged jose, his brother, hector, and robles with three counts of murder (pen. code,  187, subd, (a);2 counts 57), robbery ( 211; count 8), and attempted murder ( 187, subd. (a), 664; count 9).3 as to counts 5 through 7, the information also alleged that the murders were committed during the commission of a 1 when discussed individually, we will refer to jose and hector prieto by their first names to avoid confusion. 2 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 count 9 was subsequently dismissed pursuant to a section 1118.1 motion. 3 robbery ( 190.2, subd. (a)(17), 211, 212.5), that hector personally discharged a handgun that caused the death of all three victims ( 12022.53, subd. (d)), and that a principal personally and intentionally discharged a firearm that caused the death of all three victims ( 12022.53, subds. (d) & (e)(1)). as to counts 8 and 9, it was further alleged that jose personally used a handgun. ( 12022.53, subd. (b).) as to all counts, it was alleged that the offenses were committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, and in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further, and assist in criminal conduct by gang members. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c).) as to robles, the information alleged that he suffered one prior conviction of a serious or violent felony ( 1170.12, subds. (a)(d), 667, subds. (b)(i)).4 all three defendants pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. trial on the grounds that (1) hector had made statements to fellow gang member jesus d not be redacted to prevent the jury from knowing that hector referred to robles and jose in his statements; (2) of the three defendants, only hector faced the death penalty; and (3) because hector faced the death penalty, his trial preparation would take up to two years, whereas robles and jose could be ready for trial within 60 days of the hearing on the motion. the motion and robles renewed their request for severance again. it was denied, and the court set a new trial date for march 1, 2011. a jury convicted jose, robles and hector as charged, and found the special allegations to be true.5 robles waived jury trial on his prior strike allegation. ( 1170.12, subds. (a)(d), 667, subds. (b)(i).) 4 counts 1 through 4 were dismissed. ( 1385.) 5 the jury convicted hector, whose case was tried as a capital case, of the same offenses, but was unable to reach consensus as to punishment. hector is not a party to this appeal. 4 jose and robles were each sentenced to three consecutive terms of life without the possibility of parole for each of the special circumstance murders (counts 576), plus 25 years to life on each of those terms for the firearm enhancement. for the robbery (count 8), robles and jose each received the midterm of three years, plus 10 years for the gang enhancement. the court awarded presentence custody credits. it imposed various fines and fees, including a restitution farguments, followed. factual background on march 29, 2009, andrew williams, ronald carter and sinecia miller were the prosecution evidence the defen the prieto brothers live with their mother beatrice elias in compton. jose was bald in march 2009. at the time of trial, his hair was in a ponytail and he weighed 2030 pounds more than he had in march 2009. he has a scar near his right eyebrow. each of jesus saldana, who was 27 years old when he testified at trial under a grant of immunity, has been a member of barrio 13 since he was 11 years old. saldana has four years. saldana and his wife mabel have five children between the ages of two and eight years old. 6 during trial, counts 5 through 8 were renumbered counts 1 through 4 for the 5 march 29, 2009: the crimes saldana, jose, robles and hector were together on the morning of march 29, 2009 o discuss plans to commit a robbery to raise $50,000 to bail their mother out of jail. during ing a settlement from an accident case, and would give them the money. but hector or jose robbery. his wife talked him out of it because he would not receive any of the proceeds. rosa avila testified that sometime after 2:00 p.m. or 3:00 p.m. that day, jose arrived at her compton apartment.7 their apartment building was a hangout for barrio 13 gang members. jose asked husband to drive him somewhere, but he was drunk so avila agreed to do it. when avila hite pickup jose said the truck was low on gas. avila drove behind the truck, which stopped at a s on the way. avila stopped her car behind the truck. hector and jose each got out of the vehicles, walked toward rosecrans and out of her sight. robles stayed in his truck and avila waited in the volvo. andrew williams was a marijuana dealer who sold marijuana from his apartment on east rosecrans in compton, from a nearby barbershop and in the driveway next to the barbershop. reginald kemp and williams were friends. on march 29, 2009, at about with $90 to buy marijuana, 7 avila testified under a grant of immunity. 6 apartment he saw a bald male wearing a black hoodie leaning against a wall about 18 feet dentified the man as jose. the thought were four firecracker sounds or gunshots. jose approached kemp, pointed a counted the cash.8 kemp sought help at the barbershop, where he told the employees and patrons he had just been robbed. one barber, who had heard three gunshots before kemp arrived, went to a nearby apartment to check on his friends who lived there. upon entry, the barber saw three dead bodies, later identified as williams, carter and miller. meanwhile, avila testified that, about five minutes after they left, hector and jose returned, walking briskly, to the waiting vehicles. hector went to the truck and jose happened, that everything was fine and told avila to leave-that was happening, avila saw hector take some paper money out of his pocket. she asked him where the cash had 8 in the car. while she waited, arceneaux saw a male hispanic pacing in the driveway -shirt, and a black hooded sweatshirt and had both hands in the pockets of his sweatshirt. as kemp walked them. moments later, she saw two hispanic men in black hoodies run past her. one was the same man she had seen earlier who was shorter than the man. the taller man grabbed the shorter man by the jacket as they ran past. arceneaux was unable to identify either man. 7 avila went back to her apartment. she never saw blolater that evening, avila drove down rosecrans and saw police activity and yellow tape along the street. when she got home she saw a newscast and learned three people had been killed in the area where she had seen the police activity. on the evening of march 29, 2009, detective paul fournier and other members of the front been shot in the head. miller suffered a gunshot wound that went through her wrist and another gunshot wound to the top of her head. each victim died of a gunshot wound to the head. when he entered the apartment, detective fournier smelled a strong odor of marijuana, and he saw small amounts of marijuana throughout. the public information released by the police was very general. it stated only that three people had been murdered at the scene in compton. detective fournier did not nature of their injuries. the press release did not contain information about the number head. the press release did not mention that a white truck or a black volvo had been involved in the murders, that the suspects were male hispanics, or that they wore black hooded sweatshirts. hector posted bond for his mother at 11:54 p.m. on march 29, 2009.9 she was released the following morning. march 30, 2009: hector and jose boast; robles remains mostly silent saldana was watching the news early on the morning of march 30, 2009, and saw a report of a triple murder. fearing his friends had been killed, saldana, his wife and 9 agreed to pay the balance in installments. 8 e encountered jose and robles sometime before 8:30 a.m. saldana asked them what had happened. they said everything was cool. jose asked saldana to drive to the police station to get hector and see if his mother had been released. saldana dropped jose away, and took robles to the station to meet hector. broadcasting a news story about the triple murder. a mother was crying and asking anyone with ihector laughed, and began telling saldana about the murders. and knocked on the door. a man (williams) answered. hector asked the man for a $20 (carter) on the couch. then he shot a girl (miller) who put up her hand and begged for her life. that shot went through the girl$5,000 and some victims, and robles was at the corner. the gun hector used had only three bullets. hector showed saldana his pants and white tennis shoes, which had a small amount of but hector said he would wash them. saldana drove back to pickup jose, who began to recount for saldana how the murders had occurred. he told saldana he stood outside the door acting as lookout during the shootings. he wore a black hooded sweatshirt. he planned to kill anyone who tried to get inside. while outside, jose encountered a black man at whom he pointed a gun which would not fire; the man ran away. robles remained silent when hector and jose told saldana about the murders and robberies, and when jose and saldana urged hector to dispose of his clothing. robles told saldana he drove his white s-10 pickup 9 jose said the other getaway driver was a girl in a black volvo. saldana did not immediately report this to the police. the investigation kemp called the police and was interviewed on march 30, 2009. at that time he described the person who robbed him as a male who appeared to be no more than 16 or 17 years old, wearing plaid shorts, bald, with a tattoo on his neck and an eyebrow piercing that appeared to be infected, red and nasty, and who had acted inexperienced. field interview cards, admitted at trial by stipulation, reflect that jose, who was 22 years old at the time the crimes were committed, was five feet 11 inches in 2008 and weighed between 170 and 180 pounds. neighborhood sweep. they seized a large stash (51 baggies) of marijuana. saldana and his wife were arrested, and their children were detained by the department of children and family services (dcfs). upset and angry about what had happened to his children and in his neighborhood, saldana told lasd deputies he had information about the triple murd saldana was interrogated by detectives fournier and caouette on april 29, 2009. the detectives immediately informed saldana his wife had been released from custody. saldana relayed what the defendants had told him about the robbery and triple murder. he also said a woman in a black volvo was connected to the crimes. saldana directed the detectives to his cell phone, which contained phone numbers for each defendant, and as a result of his april 28 arrest, saldana was charged with possession of marijuana for sale and received a 16-month prison term. may santos, the prosecutor on prison in exchange criminal history, and did not know saldana was a witness in this triple murder case when 10 he was a witness in a triple murder case, and santos believed her offer of 16 months was apart from being relocated, saldana testified that he did not receive any favors for his testimony in this children released from custody. he did not consider the fact that his wife was released dcfs. on may 4, 2009, detective fournier seized a white t-shirt and a pair of tennis shoes from hector while he was in lockup. the shirt was taken to prepare a k-9 scent discrimination lineup. on may 5, saldana spoke again with detective fournier. he told detective fournier that, earlier, he had run into hector, who had not been wearing shoes. hector told saldana that the police had taken his shoes and his shirt, but that the shoes they took were not the ones he wore during the murders.10 also on may 5, detective fournier interviewed kemp and showed him four six-pack photographic lineups. kemp identified jose as the man who robbed him. kemp on may 6, 2009, a k-shirt, and the pants pocket of the murder victim that had been turned inside out. in the scent lineup, four boxes were placed in a specific formation, three of which contained 10 the trial court limited the testimony regarding the seized shoes to hector. the issue resurfaced later in connection with jury inrequest to limit a hiding evidence instruction to hector. (see discussion in section 5 below. 11 scent pads from hispanic men unconnected to the triple murder. the fourth contained sniffed the pocket taken from the crime scene, which was placed officers seized two hooded black sweatshirts and a pair of white tennis shoes. an lasd criminalist examined the shoes. the upper portion of the shoes appeared to have been cleaned or white polished, but the soles were dirty. tests for blood evidence were negative; blood can be washed away. a fingerprint analysis revealed that none of the fingerprints recovered from the crime scene belonged to any defendant. a firearms specialist examined three bullets, one of which was recovered from each victim. all three bullets were fired from the same revolver, either a .38-caliber special or a .357-caliber magnum. a coroner testified that all three victims died of gunshot wounds to the head. as for miller, a single bullet went through her wrist then struck her head, killing her. the coroner was most likely in front of her forehead. about certain phone calls made and received from cell phone number (323) 377-4216, on march 28 through 30, 2009. the calls were made to aladdin bail bonds, using the same cell phone tower located near 971 west rosecrans avenue in compton, which had a range of about a five-mile radius. the driving distance between that cell tower and avi-half mile. prosecution gang expert lasd deputy salgado, a member of the gang task force in compton, testified as generally, and his specific expertise as to the barrio 13 gang. deputy salgado had actively gathered information on the barrio 13 gang, which has about 115 documented members. he has spoken with hundreds of gang members, including as many as 30 members of the barrio 13 gang. those conversations have yielded useful intelligence, 12 gang commits. deputy salgado has been involved in hundreds of investigations involving gang members, including about 30 involving barrio 13 gang members. deputy jose, robles and hector, all of whom are members of barrio 13 and have gang tattoos and monikers. jose and robles were active members of the gang on march 29, 2009. when deputy salgado was first assigned to the compton station, barrio 13 was not a compton gang. recently, however, on the north and south of those streets. that was one reason deputy salgado and his partner had been charged with targeting barrio 13 in that area. gang members claim territory by, among other things, committing crimes and conducting drug sales within the claimed as their own. since gangs claim territory unilaterally, there are frequent border disputes among rival gangs. the crimes in this case took place on the 1200 block of east rosecrans which ha deputy salgado testified that the primary activities in which members of the barrio 13 gang engage are vandalism, thefts, criminal threats, robberies, assaults, burglaries, shootings, murder and attempted murder. deputy salgado based his professional opinion on his involvement in investigations involving barrio 13 gang members. the prosecutor presented deputy salgado with certified documents pertaining to predicate acts, or prior convictions of members of the barrio 13 gang, including an attempted murder by a gang member in july 2005, and robberies committed by another member of the gang in october 2007. . . . more violent the crime, the more status gained. murder is the ultimate crime a gang 13 because it gives them heightened status, reputation and more respect from the gang. crimes, especially those committed openly by a group, instill fear in the community and wear masks. crimes are committed in broad daylight to instill fear within the community, which in turn helps deter members of the community from reporting crimes for fear of retaliation. deputy salgado opined that gang members work together to commit crimes for several reasons. first, they work together in groups of two to six gang members to in a group creates witnesses, so someone can report back to the gang that a crime was in fact committed. third, it is easier to commit the crime working in a group because different gang members can perform different roles such as lookout, or driver. the prosecutor presented deputy salgado with a hypothetical explicitly patterned on the facts of this case. she designated the role of each defendant and gave them the fictional names larry, moe and curly, respectively. deputy salgado opined that larry, moe and curly were gang members acting in association with one another, and were opinion, the triple murder and robbery were committed to benefit the gang because, be elevated to the top. so too for the lookout (moe) and getaway driver (curly). the of the gang. the gang also benefited from the crimes because it gained prestige and respect, and garnered a reputation for violence which, in turn, instilled fear within the community. the fact that the victims had been shot in the head would cause rival gangs and the community to fear the barrio 13 gang even more. ted his own status within the gang, and the fact that 14 he was not afraid to commit crimes. the fact that larry, moe and curly spoke openly an important function as a witness to the crimes who could verify the actions of larry and moe. the defense evidence none of the defendants testified. in october 2010, saldana was arrested for carjacking. he told the deputy who arrested him he was a witness in a triple murder case. the deputy contacted detective fournier and, for his safety, saldana was placed in a separate housing unit. otherwise, prosecutor that saldana was a witness in this case, but did not specifically recall having done so. detective gomez had interviewed saldana after he and his wife were arrested in april 2009 for possession of a large quantity of marijuana. saldana told detective gomez he was a witness in a triple murder case and asked that his wife be released from custody, and that dcfs return his children. saldana did not tell detective gomez that he would testify only if his wife and children were released or if the charges against him were reduced, and sought no benefit in exchange for information about the murders. even though saldana had information about the murders, detective gomez still requested that he be charged with felony possession of marijuana for sale. detective gomez ven though she admitted possession of the marijuana, and knew saldana had been selling it from their home and using the money to buy food and other testimony regarding the thrchildren. defense gang expert humberto guizar, a civil rights and personal injury attorney, testified as the defense gang expert. guizar is a former gang member, who has testified before as an 15 expert on criminal street gangs and regularly lectures on criminal street gangs and the gang enhancement statute. he reviewed police and investigative reports, the preliminary custody. defense counsel provided guizar with a hypothetical factual scenario patterned on the evidence in this case, and asked him if the attempt to steal money to bail out the hypothetical mother had been committed for the benefit of, at the direction of and in association with a gang. guizar opined that the crimes committed in the hypothetical were not gang crimes. on the facts stated, guizar opined that if the mother was not an active gang member, it was not a gang crime. not everything a gang member does is a gang crime. guizar opined that the crime was committed in order to get the mother released from custody. discussion 1. the principles of the aranda/bruton11 line of cases; (2) the spill-over effect generated undue prejudice; and (3) delaying their trials in order to accommodate the trial speedy trial. a. legislative preference for joint trials and legal standards for severance and review common crimes involving common events and people v. tafoya (2007) 42 cal.4th 147, 162 (tafoya).) the legislature strongly prefers joint ts are jointly charged with any public offense, 11 people v. aranda (1965) 63 cal.2d 518; bruton v. united states (1968) 391 u.s. 123 [88 s.ct. 1620, 20 l.ed.2d 476] (bruton). 16 whether felony or misdemeanor, they must be tried jointly, unless the court order[s] people v. souza (2012) 54 cal.4th 90, 109 (souza).) joint trials promote judicial economy and efficiency and avoid inconsistent verdicts. (zafiro v. united states (1993) 506 u.s. 534, 537, 540 [113 s.ct. 933, 122 l.ed.2d 317].) despite the preference for joint trials, a trial court may grant a request for a separate trial. such a trial is appropwith codefendants, likely confusion resulting from evidence on multiple counts, conflicting defenses, or the possibility that at a separate trial a codefendant would give exoneratinpeople v. massie (1967) 66 cal.2d 899, 917, fns. omitted.) nclude the trial court abused its discretion, reversal is required only if it is reasonably probable the defendant would have obtained a more favorable result at a souza, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 109; people v. greenberger (1997) 58 cal.app.4th 298, 343 (greenberger).) the principal factors to be considered in determining whether severance is in order -admissible in separate trials; (2) are some of the charges unusually likely to inflame the jury against the defendant; (3) has a weak case been joined with a strong case or another weak case so that the total evidence on the joined charges may alter the outcome of some or all of the charged offenses; and (4) is any one of the charges a death penalty offense, or does joinder of the charges people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 2728; people v. mckinnon (2011) 52 cal.4th 610, 630 (mckinnon).) a finding that the evidence is cross-admissible ordinarily dispels any inference of prejudice. (marshall, at p. 28.) 17 b. the trial court did not abuse its discretion: greenberger and cervantes control notwithstanding the aranda/bruton defendant in the same case may be admissible against the defendant. (greenberger, supra, 58 cal.app.4th 298 at p. 334; people v. cervantes (2004) 118 cal.app.4th 162, 174175 (cervantes).) bruton statements of one defendant that implicate another may not be introduced against all greenberger, at p. 332.) in greenberger, the court found that statements by a codefendant which incriminate a nondeclarant defendant may be admissible against the defendant if the statements fall within a hearsay exception, and the admitted in a joint trial so long as the statement satisfies the statutory definition and otherwise satisfies the constitutional rid. at p. 334.) to what the declarant actually said and whatever else is relevant to the inquiry. (ibid.) greenberger, supra, 58 cal.app.4th 298 was followed in cervantes, supra, 118 cal.app.4th 162. cervantes in which he implicated himself and codefendant cervantes were not testimonial under crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36 [124 s.ct. 1354, 158 l.ed.2d 177] because it was unlikely that morales had reasonably anticipated his statements would be repeated in court. (cervantes, at p. 174.) morales, who was injured, sought medical aid from a long-time friend and medical assistant, dolores ojeda. he told ojeda he had been hurt jumping fences after he and a third codefendant (martinez) and cervantes detained two men and shot them. morales said he shot one of the men, and he and cervantes shot the other one. (id. at pp. 166ojeda against cervantes and martinez. morales, who did not testify, was not subject to cross-examination. 18 the cervantes court analyzed whether the statement fell within a hearsay exception or bore sufficient indicia of reliability. (cervantes, supra, 118 cal.app.4th at p. 174.) the morales made it within 24 hours of the shooting, and made it to a longtime friend whom he sought out to treat his injuries. (id. at p. 175.) moreover, the statement was against his penal interest and nothing in it rendered him a sympathetic participant in the crime. (see greenberger, supra, 58 cal.app.4th at p. 335 [most reliable circumstance is where the conversation occurs between friends in a noncoercive setting].) the circumstances here track those in cervantes, supra, 118 cal.app.4th 162, and were against his penal interests. (evid. code,  1230.) second, all three conversations relayed by saldana occurred within hours of the commission of the crimes. the first conversation took place on the morning of march 29, 2009, the second conversation about 12 hours after the murders and the third a few hours later on march 30. third, all three conversations occurred among friends and fellow members of the barrio 13 gangs in a noncoercive setting. none of the challenged statements was exculpatory, placed the speaker in a sympathetic light or attempted to place blame on anyone else. in the first of two conversations on march 30, hector laughingly told saldana he shot three people in the head inside the apartment, one of whom had begged for her life.12 hector never minimized his own conduct or attempted to shift responsibility to anyone. he pointed the finger of blame directly at himself and accepted complete responsibility for the murders. fourth, the challenged statements were reliable because saldana revealed details about 12 jose points out that he was not present for this conversation, which cannot be deemed an adoptive admission as to him. nevertheless, the information relayed by saldana in a conversation that took place in the presence of all three defendants a short time later. 19 the murders (e.g., the number of bullets fired, the fact that the female victim begged for her life and raised her hand to protect her face, and the fact that hector took marijuana from hector and/or appellants. the trial court did not err in finding the statements were sufficiently trustworthy under greenberger, supra, 58 cal.app.4th 298 and cervantes, supra, 118 cal.app.4th 162. appellants assert that severance was in order because the spillover effect of trying severance motion may be an abuse of discretion if the evidence related to the joined counts is not cross-admissible; if evidence relevant to some but not all of the counts is highly inflammatory; if a relatively weak case has been joined with a strong case so as to mckinnon, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 630.) cross-admissibility concerns whether evidence on each of the joined charges would be admissible in separate trials under evidence code section 1101. (people v. bradford (1997) 15 cal.4th 1229, 13151316.) here, with the exception of the robbery count as to kemp, hector and both appellants faced equivalent charges with common victims. the vast majority of the evidence, including the challenged extrajudicial statements, was cross-admissible to prove the defendaparticipation or common design. the evidence was also admissible to prove the gang would have proceeded involving virtually identical evidence. the severity of the charges also favored a joint trial. separate trials would pose an enormous burden on the courts, the prosecutor and the witnesses in conducting multiple trials involving the same evidence. cross-admissibility is only one of several factors to be considered in determining whether severance is proper. (mckinnon, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 630.) but, -people v. stitely (2005) 35 cal.4th 514, 531.) if the evidence on each charge would be admissible in a separate 20 trial of the others, no prejudice results from their joinder. (people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 985; people v. bradford, at pp. 13151316.) cution-style murder of three individuals was unquestionably heinous. but, the special circumstances murders of which appellants were accused were themselves quite egregious and a jury reasonably could find them as despicable as it would have if it considered evidence of those crimes separately. considering the relative strength and weakness of the cases, jose argues the evidence against him was weak, and robles contends the evidence against him was even weaker. the record reflects otherwise. jose focuses description of his robber shortly after the incident and several weeks later when he identified jose in a photo lineup. but our function is not to reweigh evidence. the jury ight to give his testimony and resolved any inconsistencies between his pretrial identifications of jose and his trial testimony. identification, and inferences raised by that eviof the . . . jury to determine the credibility of witnesses and the truth or falsity of the facts people v. barnes (1986) 42 cal.3d 284, 303.) cies in eyewitness testimony are matters solely for the [trier people v. allen (1985) 165 cal.app.3d 616, 623; people v. ford (1981) 30 cal.3d 209, 215.) at the time kemp made the photo identification of jose, he maintained that hrobbery count. (people v. panah (2006) 35 cal.4th 395, 489 [uncorroborated testimony of one witness unless physically impossible or inherently improbable is sufficient to sustain conviction]; calcrim no. 301.) vehicles headed to and from the immediate vicinity in which the crimes occurred, highlighted the haste with which hector and jose returned to the waiting vehicles and 21 desired to leave the area, and their return to the gang hangout where hector, jose and robles exchanged congratulatory greetings with other gang members and hector pulled 13 finally, although the prosecution sought the death penalty only as to hector, this action qualified as a special circumstances case against appellants, as murders committed in the course of a robbery. ( 190.2, subd. (a)(17)(a).) appellants contend that, as noncapital defendants they should not have been tried with hector, a capital defendant. the california supreme court has rejected this argument. in tafoya, supra, 42 cal.4th the practice of conducting joint trials of defendants eligible for the death penalty with id. at pp. 163164.) and, althousignificantly delayed their trial date, appellants failed to show the delay was unjustified. if the precipitating cause is justified, the legislative preference for joint trials constitutes good cause to delay the trial of an objecting codefendant. (people v. sutton (2010) 48 was denied in may 2010. as respondent observes, appellants fail to argue, let alone demonstrate, that the length of that delay was not commensurate with the complexity of the case, the seriousness of the capital murder charge or the need to coordinate all the lay and expert witnesses who testified at trial. for these reasons, we find the trial court did not err by denying severance.14 13 if the jury believed avila was an accomplice, her testimony alone would have e had upon the testimony of an accomplice unless it be corroborated by such other evidence as shall tend instructed. 14 having found that appellants suffered no undue pdecision to proceed with joint trials, we must also consider whether despite the souza, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 109; see also people v. soper (2009) 45 cal.4th 759, 783 [upon determination that trial 22 2. appellants forfeited their claim of prosecutorial misconduct during voir dire, one of the prosecutors (ostrowski) examined several potential jurors who expressed discomfort with the principle that the testimony of just one witness is sufficient to support a conviction. during a break in the proceedings following the nded her the continued and ostrowski examined three more potential jurors regarding their discomfort with the rule. before the preliminary hearing the prosecution had given avila, potentially one of two getaway drivers, immunity from prosecution in exchange for her testimony against the defendants. the trial court became aware that avila would testify under a grant of immunity -in-chief was underway. the court chastised ostrowski for having represented during voir dire that no accomplice issues would arise at trial. the learning, belatedly, that avila had been given immunity.15 must still determine whether the joinder of defendants or counts for trial was so grossly unfair as to deprive defendant of due process].) our review of the record convinces us that the failure to sever the trials did not result in gross unfairness. 15 this exchange took place: like when we were in voir dire and you all were questioning about the one witness rule and i asked you whether there are any possible going to have to give the accomplice instruction on. 23 appellants maintain ostrowski committed misconduct and poisoned the jury from the outset, and court could not deliver an effective antidote by giving a curative jury instruction at the close of trial. as a result, they claim to have been deprived of a fair admonish the jury.16 qualified as an accomplice. ainly a jury issue. [] . . . [] . . . she goes on a trip following people five miles and she says that she did it because they were out of gas. [] . . . [] . . . she has no concerns about the fact that they rstand that. but my point to you, your honor, is that i was not intentionally misrepresenting to the court whether i made a statement or not. impression that [avila] was going why i wanted to intervene in it and tell the jury there are exceptions andthis is a general rule but there are exceptions, for example, accomplices. [] and i got a firm representation that there was no possible accomplice issue on any of your witnesses. [] and, you know, if you wanted to hedge your bets you should have told me, well, we have a possible issue about that. [] but, you know, any time you give immunity to somebody under situations issue. [] . . . could be discussed in front of a jury and voir dire and so forth it seems to me you ought to err on the side of caution because what you did you firmly implanted with the jury the idea that one witness is sufficient for any finding of a fact if they believe the witness on 16 the record reflects that trial counsel for each appellant also represented that appellant in pretrial proceedings. it does not appear that ostrowski was involved in prosecuting this action before january 2011. prior to that time, the matter was apparently handled by prosecutors magno (the other prosecutor at trial) and aguilar (who did not participate in the trial). the preliminary hearing was held in october 2009. we presume 24 respondent appellants maintain that no objection or request for a curative instruction was necessary -witness preconditioning of targue their failure to object should be excused because such a request would have been futile, and because of the importance of the rights at stake. the general rule is that a claim of prosecutorial misconduct may be reviewed on appeal only if the defendant makes a timely objection at trial or asks the trial court to people v. cook (2006) 39 cal.4th 566, 606.) as with most rules, there are exceptions, aptly summarized in people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800 (hill), overruled on another ground in price v. superior court (2001) 25 cal.4th 1046, 1069, footnote 13. as pertinent here, hill states tobjection and/or a request for admonition if either would be futile. [citations.] in addition, failure to request the jury be admonished does not forfeit the issue for appeal if id. at p. 820.) the futility exception has been limited to cases of severe and repeated prosecutorial misconduct. (see people v. arias (1996) 13 cal.4th 92, 159161; hill, forfeiture only where a defendant affirmatively demonstrates that an objection or admonition would have been futile or the nature of the misconduct was incurable. (people v. panah, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 462.) neither criterion is present here. counsel reviewed the preliminary hearing materials (which are not part of the appellate record) in preparation for trial. 25 on this record we conclude that a defense objection or request for admonition demonstrate its concerned that the accomplice testimony. thus, the court specifically soughtand receivedthat no accomplice issues would arise at trial. this record makes plain that, had the defense raised a red flag and objected to or requested an admonition regarding the object cannot be excused on grounds of futility. (see hill, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 820.) appellants do not even address their failure to request an admonishment, nor do they address any exception to the general rule requiring such a request. here, any harm could have been cured by an admonition; prosecutorial misconduct has not been preserved for appeal. (people v. cook, supra, 39 cal.4th at p. 606.) we also decline to exercise our discretion to reach a forfeited issue (see imagistics internat., inc. v. department of general services (2007) 150 cal.app.4th 581, 584, fn. 2, 589), as we discern no miscarriage of justice resulting from the forfeited 17 3. gang expert during direct examination the prosecutor asked its gang expert deputy salgado to assume there were three barrio 13 gang members, larry, moe and curly. the prosecutor 17 the court instructed the avila as evidence of the crimes charged against the defendants you must decide whether rosa avila was an accomplice e]xcept for the testimony of rosa avila, if you find she was an accomplice and thus requires supporting evidence, the testimony of only one to the facts of the case. (people v. carey (2007) 41 cal.4th 109, 130.) 26 posed a lengthy hypothetical that virtually tracked the evidence presented at trial,18 and asked the expert whether the three men in the hypothetical had acted in association with 18 the prosecutor presented this hypothetical: assume that while at this residence larry and moe, who were both brothers, talked about committing a robbery to raise money to bail their mother out who had just gotten arrested the day before. [] assume that during this conversation about committing a robbery curly said to larry and moe that he was going to back them up. [] so curly indicated he was going to back them up. [] assume that a fourth barrio 13 gang member named sammy was present during this conversation. [] assume that sammy, after hearing that larry and moe needed money to bail their mother out, offered to give either larry or moe the money they needed for bail. assume that at that time sammy was expecting a settlement check from a car accident that he was involved in. [] assume that either larry or moe declined his offer saying they cannot wait. [] assume that later on that night larry, moe and curly drove to compton and parked around the corner from the apartment of bob, a local marijuana dealer who sold marijuana from his home. [] assume that while curly remained in the car larry and moe got out and walked towards lookout larry walked up to the apartment and knocked on the door. [] assume that bob opened the door for him and after opening the door for larry[,] larry then asked for . . . twenty dollars worth of marijuana. [] assume that bob then turned around presumably to retrieve the marijuana that he was going to be selling to larry. [] assume that at that time larry then took out a gun and shot bob once in the back of the head. [] assume that larry then immediately turned to the other male in the living room and shot him once in the head. [] assume that larry then turned to the third person in the room. [] assume that the third person was a woman who at that point started begging for her life. [] assume that larry then paused but decided to shoot her once in the head as she held her hands up. [] assume that the bullet went through her hand then through her head killing her. [] assume that after allthat after shooting all three victims larry gathered all the marijuana and cash he could find even going through the pants pocket of the second victim that he had shot. [] assume that larry took approximately four to five thousand dollars total in cash. [] assume that at the same lookout[,] later on admitting that he was trying to shoot anyone who was going to walk up. [] assume that as moe shim, pointed it at the man and tried to shoot but the gun would not shoot. [] assume that moe then just grabbed the money this man had in his hand that he was going to use 27 one another based on their gang membership. deputy salgado said they had, and explained the bases for his opinion. deputy salgado also testified that the triple murder and robbery benefited the gang, and that a particularly violent crime like shooting victims would generate more fear within the communitywhich would be less likely to report crimes to the policethe top, and he would be known as a violent member of the gang. moe, the lookout, would also benefit by talking about his participation in the crimes which, in turn, the gang both by showing he was not afraid to commit crimes and because he was able to vouch for what larry and moe had done. the fact that all three men spoke openly about the crimes showed how the gang and its members willingly publicized crimes. to pay for the marijuana. [] assume that larry then came out of the apartment and along with moe ran back to the two cars waiting around the block. [] assume that curly was the second driver and that he drovethat himself and a second driver drove all four of them away in the two cars. [] assume that all three got away from the location away from the location the three, larry, moe, and curly, were seen high-fiving each other; however, none of them high-fived the second getaway driver. [] assume that all three, larry, moe and curly, then went to aladdin bail bonds that night, that all three, larry, moe, and curly, went there and the next day went together to pick up larry and bail bonds. [] assume that larry and moe used only a thousand dollars out of the four to five thousand dollars to bail their mother out. [] assume that the next day larry admitted to sammy what each of them did in the presence of curly. [] assume that just before larry stated talking about what he did a news broadcast came up in which the about the murders to call the police. [] assume that larry reacted to this by laughing. [] assume that moe admitted to being the lookout and trying to shoot anyone who walked up and to actually trying to shoot one person who did walk up but was unable to do so because his gun would not shoot. [] assume that curly also admitted what he 28 too closely tracked the evidence. they maintain that the gang expert improperly usurped respondent asserts that appellants have forfeited this argument by failing to raise specific obone another in committing a robbery. twice that objection was sustained. we presume assertion that jose forfeited his right to assert error for failing to join the objections at trial. it was unnecessary for him to interpose a redundant objection to the sustained objections. for an abuse of discretion. (people v. gonzalez (2006) 38 cal.4th 932, 944.) no abuse of discretion occurred here. tracked the evidence at trial was recently rejected in people v. vang (2011) 52 cal.4th 1038 (vang).19 in vangid. at p. 1045.) vang is required, not prohibited, that hypothetical questions be based on the evidence. the questioner is not required to id. at p. 1041.) the reason uestion not based on the evidence is irrelevant 19 vang, suprabriefs were filed. 29 id. at p. 1046.) as applied in vangevidence showed these defendants did, not what someone else might have done. the questions were directed to helping the jury determine whether these defendants, not someone else, committed a crime for a gang purpose. disguising this fact would only ibid., italics omitted.) on hypothetical questions that tracked the evidence, whether the [crimes], if the jury vang, supra, 52 ares no better. expert testimony regarding the culture, habits, and psychology of gangs is permissible. courts have long held that these subjects are sufficiently beyond common experience that expert opinion may assist the trier of fact. (vang, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 1044; people v. garcia (2007) 153 cal.app.4th 1499, 15121513 (garcia); people v. valdez (1997) 58 cal.app.4th 494, 506 (valdez).) an expert may properly testify about the size, composition or existence of a gang; the motivation for a particular crime; whether a crime is gang-garcia, at p. 1512; vang, at pp. 10491050, fn. 5; people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 63 (albillar); valdez, at p. 509.) an enot objectionable because it embraces an ultimate issue to be decided by the trier of fact. (evid. code,  805; vang, at p. 1048; valdez, at p. 507.) that an individual had specific knowledge or possessgarcia, at p. 1513; people v. killebrew (2002) 103 cal.app.4th 644, 658, disapproved on other grounds by vang, at pp. 10471049.) moe and curly were gang members acting in association with one another and were 30 objections to two follow-up questions posed to deputy salgado by the prosecutor,20 were sustained as seeking intended to benefit the gang because, having committed murders, the most violent crime, appellants insist that the device of substituting the names of the three stooges for identifying and what deputy salgado meant. they maintain the resolution of disputed facts and the perpetraits role. deputy salgado opined that the crimes benefited the barrio 13 gang because, the fact of the murders and their particularly violent nature, bolstered its reputation and inspired fear in the community and among rival gangs. deputy salgado did not opine opinion, the crimes benefited the gang as a whole, and individual gang members. this was not improper. as vang, suprato support . . . id. at p. 1048.) enhancing its reputation for viciousness can be sufficient to raise the inference that the . . . ithin the albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 63.) people v. hernandez (1977) 70 cal.app.3d 271, on which appellants rely, does not assist them. in hernandezconversation with several individuals was a drug transaction because of the way the individuals 20 were they 31 shook his head, as if to say he was out of drugs when approached by other people. (id. at significance of the fact that the four persons kept looking at the area where defendant had ibid.) here, by contrast, deputy salgado did not offer comparable testimony regarding of a fact-specific hypothetical did vang, supra, 52 cal. 4th at p. 1047 [disapproving killebrew to 4. admission of evidence of witness intimidation threats of violence made against avila by three unknown men. they insist there was no evidence they were connected to the threats and that, even if the evidence was relevant, it was highly inflammatory and its prejudicial value outweighed its relevancy. they argue the evidence should have been excluded under evidence code section 352, and that the forfeited this argument by failing specifically to challenge the evidence at trial on section 352 grounds or, in the case of robles, failing to challenge it at all. a. relevant facts when avila began to testify about an assault and threat in her home in 2009, grounds, including hearsay, due process and the right of confrontation, arguing there was no nexus between jose and the threats.21 the court overruled the objections but, before 21 32 avila resumed testifying, instructed the jury that the evidence of intimidation was avila then testified that, after she spoke to the police, she was home alone one day in may 2009 when three unknown hispanic men knocked on her door and forced their onto the couch and smeared hair removal cream over her face. they held her down, kept her from removing the cream, and warned her not to talk about the shooting incident to micking a slicing motion. when they left, the men told avila to stay quiet if she wanted to live. avila believed the men were members of the barrio 13 gang, members of which often visited her apartment complex. the men forced avila to keep the hair removal creamwhich is typically left on for two or three minutes on her face for 1015 minutes; avila reported the may 23, 2009 incident involving being threatened and assaulted in her the prosecutor noted during closing argument, avila broke down, trembled and cried incessantly during her testimony. b. forfeiture respondent argues appellants forfeited their evidence code section 352 arguments by failing to raise the objections at trial. questions regarding the admissibility of evidence are generally not reviewed on appeal in the absence of a specific and timely objection in the trial court on the ground urged on appeal. (people v. alvarez (1996) 14 different theory for exclusion than he asserted at trial, that assertion is not cognizable [on people v. partida objection based on evidence code section 352, or a specific request for the court to 33 make sua sponte an affirmative finding on the record to the effect that the probative value people v. smith (1984) 151 cal.app.3d 89, 97.) a relevance objection is insufficient to preserve a challenge under evidence code section 352. (people v. barnett (1998) 17 cal.4th 1044, 1130.) here, counsel for jose and hector objected to the evidence of witness intimidation on various state and federal bases. at no time, however, did counsel assert a evidence code section 352 objection or argue that the risk of prejudice outweighed the relevance forfeited for his conceded failure to object or to join the objections made by jose and hector. (people v. wilson (2008) 44 cal.4th 758, 793.) 5. instructional error the had been offered that hector tried to hide evidence by washing blood off his shoes, and counsel objected the wording of calcrim no. 371 is subjunctive. jose asserts that the trial court erred by giving an unmodified version of calcrim no. 371 over c22 he argues that the unmodified 22 the instruction, as given, states: hide evidence, that conduct may show that he was aware of his guilt. if you conclude that any of the defendants made such an attempt, it is up to you to decide its meaning and importance. however, evidence of such an attempt cannot prove guilt by itself. person to hide evidence, you may consider that conduct only against that defendant. you may not consider that conduct in deciding whether any other defendant is guilty or not 34 jury to find that since hector . . . or . . . robles hid evidence, jose probably did so too, 23 these assertions lack merit. first, the record contains substantial evidence that, at a minimum, jose authorized hector supported a consciousness of his own guilt sufficient to support the giving of calcrim no. 371 as to jose. second, even if the record lacked substantial evidence that jose hid or sanctioned the hiding of evidence, his assertion would fail. as the trial court observed, the any of the defendants made such an attempt a defendant tried to hide evidence or authorized another person to hide evidence you may consider that conduct only against that defendant. you may not consider that conduct in deciding whether any other defendant is guilty or not the jury to find that since hector . . . or . . . robles hid evidence, jose probably did so too . . . instructions. (people v. carey, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 130.) accordingly, we reject the claim. 23 instruction was properly given as to robles, as to whom jose contends the record forfeited for failure to object at trial. (people v. wilson, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 793.) 35 6. appellants contend the evidence at trial came from (1) uncorroborated testimony of a probable accomplice who willingly drove one getaway car, (2) a dishonest, vengeful informant who cut a favorable deal in exchange for his testimony, and (3) the unreliable physical characteristics. they maintain the guilty verdicts must be set aside because there is insufficient credible evidence to establish their guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, and sustaining their convictions denies them a fair trial and violates due process. (jackson v. virginia (1979) 443 u.s. 307, 318319 [99 s.ct. 2781, 61 l.ed.2d 560].) a. standard of review the whole record to determine whether any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime or special circumstances beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the record must disclose substantial evidence to support the verdicti.e., evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] in applying this test, we review the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution and presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably subject to justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends. [citation.] we resolve neither credibility issues nor evidentiary conflicts; we look for substantial evidence. people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357.) lengthy discussion. first, they ask us to reweigh the evidence in the light most favorable 36 to their version of events by arguing, as they did to the jury, that avila was an accomplice, that saldana was nothing but a vengeful, untrustworthy snitch looking for his that is not our function, nor is it the appropriate standard of review. (people v. culver (1973) 10 cal.3d 542, 548.) b. avila (people v. hoover (1974) 12 cal.3d 875, 879.) to believe the witness was an ibid.) on people v. tewksbury (1976) 15 cal.3d 953, 962.) there is evidence avila did not know of any plan to commit the crimes, and that she did not participate -she did nothing more than agree to drive jose, and that she knew nothing of the murders until she saw the news. after she went to the police, avila was assaulted and she and her family wetrembling, crying and fearful behavior at trial demonstrated she took those threats with an accomwas for the jury, not this court, to resolve those inconsistencies. we do not reweigh evidence on appeal. (people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181.) 37 c. saldana as for saldana, appellants correctly point out there was evidence from which the jury could have concluded he was a dishonest man with a lengthy history of criminal conduct of his own, who testified in exchange for a deal that benefited his family.24 what they ignore, however, is an amplitude of contrary evidence offered, not just through saldana, but by way of the trial testimony of two district attorney deputies, two lasd detectives and one neither he nor his wife received a benefit in exchange for his testimony in this case. in about the charged crimes were not publicly available, and the jury could reasonably have concluded that he could only have learned those details from the defendants. as appellants acknowledge, the credibility of a witness is generally a question of fact for the jury. (people v. smith (2005) 37 cal.4th 733, 739.)25 d. kemp rational jury could find beyond a reasonable doubt that he was the man who robbed him at gunpoint. the identification identity (people v. anderson (2001) 25 cal.4th 543, 570575), even if that identification 24 saldana has an extensive criminal history, starting as a juvenile. in april 2009, after hector tagged a police car, the lasd did a neighborhood sweep of every known gang member from barrio 13. during that sweep deputies found a huge stash of marijuana, arrested saldana and his wife, and removed their children from the house. saldana was angry with the gang for instigating the sweep. in a evidence code section 402 hearindefendants because their actions resulted in the loss of his wife and children. he decided to tell the police about the triple homicide. he told the lasd to help him, and he would help them. thirty minutes later his wife was released from custody. 25 wanted revenge against appellants after he and his wife were arrested and their children were detained by dcfs. but the testimony on which they rely to support this assertion 38 is not entirely free of inconsistencies (people v. martinez (1969) 206 cal.app.2d 809, 812). further, kemapartment. the jury could reasonably conclude that kemp was the person jose described. in any event, his testimony unreliable, as nothing more than a veiled request to reweigh the evidence. the jurors asand resolved any conflicts and inconsistencies between his pretrial identifications and his testimony at trial. (people v. martinez, supra, 206 cal.app.2d at pp. 812813.) substan26 7. additional motive for commission of crimes does not negate gang enhancement appellants, who do not dispute that they or hector are members of the barrio 13 gang, maintain that the gang enhancements must bail money, their personal motives do not detract from or negate their additional motive of conferring a benefit to their gang. the same principles discussed above, regarding appellate challenges to the sufficiency of the evidence, apply to enhancement prosecutions under section 186.22, subdivision (b). (in re jose p. (2003) 106 cal.app.4th 458, 465466.) we consider the evidence in a light most favorable to the judgment and presume the existence of every 26 their contention that cumulative error deprived them of a fair trial and constituted a error occurred, it was harmless. appellants cannot demonstrate a cumulative effect from any errors. (see people v. ochoa (1998) 19 cal.4th 353, 435436.) 39 fact the jury could reasonably deduce from the evidence. (people v. zamudio, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 357.) finding on the gang enhancement. they argue the evidence does not show they harbored l conduct by gang members . . . their desire to raise bail money, not to benefit their gang. subdivision (b)(1). the enhancement requires the prosecution to prove two elements: or (c) in association with a criminal street gang; and second, that in connection with the felony, the defendant harbored the specific intent to (a) promote, (b) further, or (c) assist in re daniel c. (2011) 195 cal.app.4th 1350, 1358, italics omitted.) the disjunctively worded subparts of each element provide separate and alternative means to satisfy the two statutory elements. (people v. leon (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 149, 162.) the prosecution need not establish the underlying felony benefits the gang. the he requisite association from the very fact that defendant people v. morales (2003) 112 cal.app.4th 1176, 1198 (morales).) morales also explains, benefit the gang ibid.) the (albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 62, italics omitted.) but that may be inferred where they rely on their mutual gang affiliation or work in concert with other gang members. citing coordination among gang members, the gang expert in morales explained that the gang olved three gang members acting in association with each other. the -choose to commit a crime in association with other gang members because he could 40 count on their loyalty. of multiple gang members would be intimidating. the crime would benefit the individual gang members with notoriety among the gang, and the gang with notoriety among rival gang members amorales, supra, 112 cal.app.4th at p. 1197.) specific int(albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 67, italics omitted; see also morales, supra, 112 intent argue that desire to bail her out precludes a conclusion that the crimes had any additional motive to predominate over gang affiliation when gang members who are related commit crimes albillar, at p. 62.) the evidence that appellants committed the triple murders and robbery of kemp in collaboration with hector, and that all three defendants were members of the barrio 13 gang was sufficient to satisfy the specific intent element of the gang enhancement, argumentthe gang enhancement. further, deputy salgado explained that gang members gain respect and an elevated status as individual gang members and for their gang at large, in the community and among other gangs by committing crimes which instill fear in the community, especially when the crimes are particularly vicious, such as murder. the evidence that appellants and hector committed the crimes in collaboration with each other, takto promote, further, or assist in criminal conduct by gang members. this is true irrespective of the possibility that appellants were also motivated to commit the crimes to 41 raise bail. appellants simply chose to raise the bail money in a way that also benefited their gang. the challenge to the gang enhancements fails. 8. abstracts of judgment must reflect joint and several liability for restitution ordered that those fines be joint and several. the abstracts of judgment fail to reflect joint and several liability. respondent appropriately concedes that the abstract of judgment must be corrected to state that appellants are jointly and severally liable for the restitution, in people v. delgado judgment prevails over abstract of judgment].) 9. modification of abstract of judgment as to robles robles correctly asserts that the abstract of judgment requires modification to reflect the correct firearm enhancement as to him. by its verdict, the jury found true the enhancement that a principal personally used a firearm under section 12022.53, subdivision (d), and the vicarious firearm use enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (e)(1). the minute order and abstract of judgment incorrectly reflect an enhancement as to robles for section 12022.53, subdivision (d). respondent concedes that the abstract requires modification to correct this legal error. (people v. smith (2001) 24 cal.4th 849, 852.) we will direct the trial court to modify the judgment and issue a corrected abstract of judgment.27 27 people v. mason (2002) 96 cal.app.4th 1, 1114 [when murder occurs in the course of multiple robberies, all counts are subject to  12022.53, subd. (d) enhancement].) 42 disposition the trial court is directed to modify the judgment and issue a corrected abstract of judgment to reflect that jose prieto is jointly and severally liable with jesse robles to pay $26,618.48. with respect to jesse robles, the trial court is directed to modify the may 20, 2011 minute order to reflect that the sentence enhancements imposed as to counts 1, 2 and 3 are imposed pursuant to penal code section 12022.53, subdivision (e)(1). the court is further directed to issue a corrected abstract of judgment for jesse robles to reflect that the: (1) sentence enhancements imposed as to counts 1, 2 and 3 are imposed pursuant to penal code section 12022.53, subdivision (e)(1), and (2) jesse robles is jointly and severaforward certified copies of each corrected abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. johnson, j. we concur: rothschild, acting p. j. chaney, j. 