filed 10/24/12 p. v. campos ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. robert evaristo campos, defendant and appellant. b233703 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba373180) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, monica bachner, judge. affirmed. john j. uribe, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven e. mercer and alene m. games, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________________ 2 appellant robert evaristo campos appeals from a jury verdict finding him guilty of elder abuse likely to produce great bodily injury or death. (pen. code  368, subd (b)(1).)1 appellant contends: (1) the trial court abused its discretion by allowing inflammatory and cumulative photographs to be admitted into evidence; (2) statements erred by relying on improper factors to sentence appellant to the middle term for the base count; and (4) because his attorney failed to properly articulate objections to the prosecutorial misconduct and improper sentencing, appellant was denied effective assistance of counsel. we conclude the photographs were relevant, not unduly constituted valid argument and the trial court gave the necessary instructions regarding rial court did not rely on improper factors to aggravate counsel argument is moot since all claims on appeal have been dealt with on their merits. we affirm. factual and procedural summary on july 2, 2010, 56-year-old appellant was involved in an altercation with 79-year-old victim enrique milanez. although the victim initiated the confrontation, appellant soon gained control of a wooden stick milanez was holding and began to beat him with it. while the victim lay on the ground, appellant repeatedly kicked him and continued to beat him until a passerby intervened. law enforcement officers responded to the scene and took appellant into custody. the victim had injuries to his legs, elbows and face, and was covered in blood. he was taken to a hospital emergency room, where his injuries were photographed and treated. appellant was taken to a police station where he was informally interviewed by an officer. appellant claimed he was the victim and was acting in self-defense. after appellant complained of injuries, the officer conducted a physical examination of appellant, but observed no visible injuries. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code, unless otherwise indicated. 3 at trial, appellant was found guilty of elder abuse likely to produce great bodily injury ( 368, subd. (b)(1)); the jury found true allegations that appellant used a deadly or dangerous weapon ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)) and inflicted great bodily injury on a person 70 years of age or older ( 368, subd. (b)(2), 12022.7, subd. (c)). the trial court sentenced appellant to the middle term of three years on the elder abuse count, with consecutive enhancement terms of five years for great bodily injury and one year for the use of a deadly weapon. this appeal followed. discussion i appellant contends the trial court abused its discretion by admitting three photographs. he argues they were unnecessarily cumulative and unduly prejudicial, and thus, should have been excluded under evidence code section 352. a trial courtdisturbed unless it is shown that it resulted in a manifest miscarriage of justice. (people v. jones (1998) 17 cal.4th 279, 304.) more specifically, the trial court has broad discretion when determining the admissibility of photographs challenged as unduly inflammatory, and we uphold the admission of such evidence unless its prejudicial effect clearly outweighs its probative value. (people v. taylor (2010) 48 cal.4th 574, 649.) the -6). appellant claims exhibits 2-4 should have been excluded under evidence code section 352 as the evidence otherwise presented (the additional photographs, the testimony of the attending emergency room doctor and the arresting officer) was sufficient to detail the . elbow and torso area. the three challenged pictures show injuries to each side of the reviewing the six photographs together, it is apparent that each serves to depict a specific 4 the charges being tried included infliction of great bodily injury; thus, detailing the injuries sustained was necessary to prove an element of the crime, and the photographs served that end. they were especially probative given the self-defense claim that defendant had only punched the victim five times in the face. the photos rebutted that claim and there is no basis to find them cumulative or unduly prejudicial. we find no abuse of discretion. ii appellant argues that the trial court abused its discretion in overruling his objection to statements made by the prosecutor during closing arguments, which amounted to prosecutorial misconduct. people v. morales (2001) 25 cal.4th 34, 44.) under state law, prosecutors commit misconduct when they attempt to persuade the jury using methods that are deceptive or reprehensible. (people v. wallace (2008) 44 cal.4th 1032, 1070-1071.) when a claim of prosecutorial relevant question is whether there is a reasonable probability that the challenged statements were used by the jury in an improper manner. (people v. cole (2004) 33 probable that absent such misconduct a more favorable outcome would have resulted. (wallace, supra, at pp. 1070-1071.) here we deal with the following comments by the s appellant argues these statements amounted to testimony by the prosecutor and imply knowledge of undisclosed information. we disagree. de to discuss and draw inferences from the evidence people v. dennis (1998) 17 cal.4th 468, 522.) here, the prosecutor 5 were visible on appellant after a physical examination. logical, material evidence. (people v. wilson (2005) 36 cal.4th 309, 338.) in her closing argument, defense back was not properly documented. the prosecutor was entitled to offer her conclusion from the same evidence, even if more explicitly. whether the inferences drawn by counsel were reasonable was for the jury to decide. (people v. dennis, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 522.) we see nothing reprehensible or deceptive about these comments, and we find no evidence that their utterance infected the trial with unfairness. mitigating any improper impact on the jury, the trial court gave explicit instructions both before closing arguments red only as people v. clair (1992) 2 iii appellant contends the sentence imposed was improper because the trial court relied on elements of the crime charged and facts used for sentencing enhancements to aggravate the base term. when determining the period of imprisonment to be imposed between three e exercise of that discretion, the court may consider aggravating and mitigating circumstances. (ibid.; cal. rules of court, rule court to impose an aggravated prispeople v. jones (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 853, 863, fn. 7.) there are numerous limitations placed on the imposition of the upper 6 term. for example, elements of the crime and facts used to support enhancements cannot also be used to impose an aggravated sentence. ( 1170, subd. (b); cal. rules of court, rule 4.420(c), (d); see people v. scott (1994) 9 cal.4th 331, 350.) appellant argues the court considered elements of the crime and facts used to impose enhanceme nts in aggravating his base sentence. but the court did not impose the aggravated term; it imposed the middle term, neither aggravated nor mitigated. the factors complained of by appellant were not used to aggravate the term, and no prejudice was suffered. iv appellant argues that the judgment should be reversed for ineffective assistance of counsel because of the failure of counsel to articulate sufficient objections to the alleged prosecutorial misconduct and the factors considered by the court at sentencing. since we decide those issues on their merits and reject each of his challenges, we need not address the ineffective assistance of counsel argument. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports epstein, p. j. we concur: manella, j. suzukawa, j. 