 filed 5/24/13 p. v. cabrera ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. anthony jerry cabrera, defendant and appellant. b233111 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va108103) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, michael a. cowell, judge. affirmed. william pitman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell, tasha g. timbadia and brendan sullivan, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant, anthony jerry cabrera, appeals his conviction for voluntary manslaughter with an enhancement for use of a deadly or dangerous weapon (pen. code,  192, 12022, subd. (b)(1)).1 he was sentenced to state prison for 11 years. the judgment is affirmed. background viewed in accordance with the usual rule of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established the following. 1. prosecution evidence. on the night of october 18, 2008, rebecca v. went to a party in hawaiian there, she met up with danny valdez, whom she knew from high other brother, marco, did not approve of danny and had previously told her to stay away from him. shortly after arriving at the party, rebecca and danny drove to a nearby grocery store where they met defendant cabrera and his girlfriend, ashley. ashley was over 21 and therefore able to buy alcohol. the four of them went in and bought a bottle of vodka. approaching from the parking lot. rebecca told damarco as her brother. rebecca was four feet 11 inches tall and weighed 120 pounds, while marco was five feet 1 all further references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 3 rebecca noticed something was going on between cabrera and joey, but she could not see them clearly because marco was standing in front of her. cabrera then came toward them and swung his fist. marco pushed rebecca away and she fell down. while she was rebecca to her feet, she told them to leave her alone. cabrera, ashley and danny ran off. marco told rebecca to call the police because joey was hurt. right after that, rebecca testified she never screamed for help during her argument with marco and that she had not been afraid he was going to hurt her. she testified marco did not marco was pronounced dead at the scene. he had sustained three sharp force entry wounds, two in the upper chest and one in the chin. one of the chest wounds had joey garcia testified he and marco had gone to a billiards club earlier that evening about whether rebecca had taken his car without permission or if it had been stolen. marco and joey then drove to the store. according to joey, marco was not annoyed or hile joey was making the call on his cell phone, marco was walking toward the store and joey was walking just behind him. joey testified that after he put his cell phone away he kept his hands in the pockets of his jacket. when rebecca came out of the grocery store, marco . . take your 4 joey started walking toward cabrera because cabrera had insulted them. joey did this on his own initiative; mjoey still had his hands in his jacket because he was cold. cabrera took something shiny from his pocket and swung his right arm toward joey, who raised his left forearm to again and knocked unconscious. a surveillance camera in the grocery store parking lot, on which much of the incident had been captured, apparently recorded danny punching joey and then kicking him while he was on the ground. when joey regained consciousness, marco was lyimouth. joey testified he did not have a weapon that night. he did not see marco with a weapon, and he did not know marco to carry weapons. 2. defense evidence. cabrera testified in his own behalf. that night, he picked up his girlfriend ashley he was with a girl and they wanted to buy alcohol. cabrera agreed to meet them at a grocery store. when cabrera and ashley arrived, danny introduced them to rebecca. inside the store, danny and rebecca picked out a bottle of vodka which ashley purchased. as the group was leaving the store, they were approached by marco and joey. cabrera had never seen them before; he denied having ever had an altercation with marco. marco was being loud and verbally abusive to danny and rebecca, which made 5 because she was with danny. marco and rebecca were yelling at each other. . . put it in his pocket and then he turned around and looked at me. d? . . what it was? it was just some object in his hand? martoward cabrera. joey looked upset and mad: . . as this person was walking towards you? . . . [] . . i knew he was coming to hurt me. i thought he was coming to do in his pocket, cabrera had a small pocket knife with a three- or four-inch blade. as joey got closer to cabrera: a. i reached for my knife. . i just did it. 6 me and i seen something in his hand. and i knew he had in the next instant, cabrera had swung his knife at joey: . . and he made a quick movement toward me with one of his arms. cabrera testified their forearms collided and he retreated as joey continued to nd by her over her neck and her face hit me. . . . [] i only remember doing it twice. 7 hat was your intent? what were you intending to do when you stepped into that fray? your mind was this moving quick, was it moving slow? sic] thinking about what you were doing at that point in time? me and i just reacted around and hit me. . . . and i stabbed him and then after that he kept cursing, but it was king it through, but when i walked away, yes, i knew i stabbed him. him? 8 after stabbing marco, cabrera fled with danny and ashley. he later threw the knife away because he was scared; he did not feel good about what had happened and he dr. scott fraser, a professor of neuropsychology who teaches at ucla and usc human reactions to frightening situations. people faced with potentially dangerous situations experience a series of automatic physiological reactions, including an increased blood flow to the skeletal muscular system along with a compensating decreased blood making occurs, where we monitor our behavior, where we evaluate the consequences of more likely to interpret actions and objects as threatening and dangerous. dr. fraser position the night of the stabbing. 3. rebuttal evidence. ne of the lead investigators on the case. the first time he interviewed rebecca, which was about seven hours after the stabbing occurred, he did not see a single scratch, red mark, bruise, or other type of injury on her. she did not have torn clothing or look disheveled. in fact, 9 contention the trial court erred by refusing to instruct on involuntary manslaughter as a lesser included offense of murder. discussion cabrera contends his conviction must be reversed because the trial court should have instructed the jury on involuntary manslaughter based on an imperfect self-defense theory. this claim is meritless. 1. background. cabrera and danny valdez were jointly charged with murdering marco and assaulting joey garcia. danny pled guilty to the assault and only cabrera went to trial. cabrera was acquitted of assaulting joey, but convicted of voluntary manslaughter for at trial, during a discussion about which jury instructions to use, cabrera asked for an involuntary manslaughter instruction on the theory he had acted in imperfect self-defense and, therefore, the killing of marco had been without malice. the trial court rejected but as we discussed at length in chambers and this obviously was not on the record, it was a discussion with counsel. everyone seemed to agree and [what] the discussion focused on, was the phrase . . the jury can find there was no conscious disregard for life on the part of your client. and and you stab someone in the chest, there is a conscious disregard for life unless you have evidence, one that he was unconscious or the motion was involuntary or some evidence ink disregard for life. [] he testified he intentionally took the knife out, he opened the blade, he swung the knife, and . . . he admits stabbing the person . . . twice in the chest. [] now obviously it was three times because there were three puncture wounds, three separate wounds. 10 that there is no conscious disregard for life. and thabeing an involuntary manslaughter. [] so your objection is noted for the record, but the court is going to instruct the jury on second degree murder as requested by the people and on the lesser included offense of v 2. legal principles. missing, but that the accused is guilty of a lesser included offense, the court must instruct upon the lesser included offense, and must allow the jury to return the lesser conviction, people v. webster (1991) 54 cal.3d 411, could conclude the lesser offense, but not the greater, had been committed. (people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 162.) in people v. blakeley (2000) 23 cal.4th 82, our supreme court explained the difference between murder and the lesser included offense the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought. (pen. code,  187, subd. (a).) malice may be either express or implied. it is express when the defendant manifests 188.) it ibid.) this statutory definition of implied malice, we have sconsequences of which are dangerous to life, which act was deliberately performed by a person who knows that his conduct endangers the life of another and who acts with . . [f]or convenience we shall describe this 192.) a defendant lacks malice and is guilty of 192, subd. (a)), or when the 11 - the unreasonable but good faith belief in having to act in self-people v. blakeley, supra, 23 cal.4th at pp. 87-88, fn. omitted.) blakeley intentionally kills in unreasonable self-defense lacks malice and is guilty only of voluntary manslaughter, not murder. [citations.] but what offense is committed when a person, acting with a conscious disregard for life, unintentionally kills a human being, but the killing occurs in unreasonable self-defense? is the killer guilty of murder, voluntary people v. blakeley, supra, 23 cal.4th at p. 88.) blakeleyvoluntary manslaughter is also committed when a defendant, acting with conscious disregard for life and the knowledge that the conduct is life-endangering, unintentionally but unlawfully kills while having an unreasonable but good faith belief in the need to act in self-id. at p. 85.) 3. discussion. citing blakeley, cabrera contends there was substantial evidence to support an involuntary manslaughter instruction in his case. this claim is meritless, for both legal and factual reasons. said in blakeley. cabrera asserts the blakeley en a defendant, acting with a conscious disregard for life, unintentionally kills in unreasonable self-notably, however, the court acknowledged, while discussing justice -defense may sometimes be guilty of involuntary manslaughterdistinguished between persons who with an actual, but unreasonable belief in imminent danger of death or great bodily harm, act with malice aforethought, either express or involuntary manslaughter, 12 while the former guilty of voluntary manslaughter. [citation.] accordingly, the blakeley unintentional killing in unreasonable self-defense is involuntary manslaughteradded.) what the blakeley t a defendant who, with the intent to kill or with conscious disregard for life, unlawfully kills in unreasonable self-people v. blakeley, supra, 23 cal.4th at p. 91.) justice mosk agreed with this statementid. at p. 99, fn. 2 (dis. opn. by mosk, j.).) hence, justice mosk agreed with -defense and with a conscious disregard for life commits voluntary manslaughter, not involuntary manslaughter.2 that a defendant acting in imperfect self-defense but with something less than conscious disregard for life, e.g., mere negligence, would only be guilty of involuntary manslaughter blakeley majority concluded the trial court had erred by not instructing on involuntary manslaughter, completely only because of a retroactivity problem. that is, blakeley-impression question it faced mpeople v. 2 -blakeley cases as people v. glenn (1991) 229 cal.app.3d 1461, and people v. welch (1982) 137 cal.app.3d 834, is misplaced because these cases were specifically disapproved by blakeley. (see people v. blakeley, supra, 23 cal.4th at p. 91.) 13 blakeley, supra, 23 cal.4th at p. 92.)3 the blakeley decision, the new principle announced there applies to him. second error is factual because there is no substantial evidence that, in stabbing marco, he acted with anything other than a conscious disregard for life. cabrera substantial evidence existed to support a reasonable conclusion that the appellant acted reflexively while brandishing a [knife] and without an intent to kill or a conscious acted either unconsciously or accidentally, the overwhelming weight of the evidence was to the when he stabbed marco, that it had been an intentional and deliberate act, and that the stabbing had not been accidental. cabrera was very clear he knowingly stabbed marco out of fear and because he believed it was necessary to protect rebecca and/or himself. although cabrera occasionally testified that when he stabbed marco he demonstrated he had been acting intentionally. describing his encounter with joey, cabrera testified that when he saw joey pull his hands from his jacket and make an arm around and hit me. . . . and i stabbed him and then after that he kept cursing . . . showing cabrera had stabbed marco intentionally. counsel argheard what appeared to be a young woman getting beat up and injured and instinctively 3 the majority went on to find the error had been harmless. justice mosk dissented because he would have found the error prejudicial. (see people v. blakeley, supra, 23 cal.4th at pp. 93-94; id. at pp. 99-100 (dis. opn. by mosk, j.).) 14 ne second passes and he reacts. he thinks because of what he heard, because of what he saw, because he just got [rebecca]. and he sees that and he acts. he reacts. it . . like i think regard [for life]. . . . [t]here was no conscious disregard. there was no thought process. the thought process was i see a girl getting cabrera may have been afraid. in the heat of the moment, he may have believed his violent intervention was necessary to protect rebecca or himself. there is, however, no doubt that he knowingly and intentionally stabbed marco. cabrera offers absolutely no authority or reasoned argumedisregard for life unless you have evidence, one that he was unconscious or the motion about what i was doing . . . [does not entitle you] to ask the jury to find there was no conscious disregard for life. [] he testified he intentionally took the knife out, he opened the blade, he swung the knife, and . . . he admits stabbing the person . . . twice in people v. garcia (2008) 162 cal.app.4th 18, where garcia hit the victim, gonzalez, in the face with the butt of a shotgun, causing lunged toward him and . . . he thought gonzalez was going to try to fight him and was . . [he] jabbed or swung at gonzalez to back him up. he did not intend to hit gonzalez in the face and id. at p. 25.) the trial court refused to instruct on involuntary manslaughter as a lesser-included offense, reasoning gonzalez 15 id. at p. 26.) the court of appeal affirmed: whether because malice was negated by provocation or the doctrine of imperfect self-circumstances attending the killing show[ed] an [citation] of either a dangerous misdemeanor [citation], or a lawful act in an unlawful manner or without due caution and circumspection, it does not fall within the statutory definition of involuntary manslaughter [citation]. [] . . . [i]n light of the undisputed evidence garcia assaulted gonzalez with a deadly weapon/firearm, knocking him to the sidewalk where he hit his head and died, there was not sufficient evidence in this case the killing of gonzalez was involuntary manslaughter. accordingly, no involuntary manslaughter id. at pp. 32-33.) in his own testimony, cabrera acknowledged knowingly and deliberately stabbing marco because he believed it was necessary to save himself and/or rebecca from harm. the other evidence at trial also showed the stabbing had been intentional, and hence there was no evidence from which the jury could have concluded cabrera was acting without a . . committed when one kills unlawfully, and with conscious disregard for life, but lacks malice because of provocation or imperfect self-people v. rios (2000) 23 cal.4th 450, 461, fn. 7.) because there was no substantial evidence from which the jury could have reasonably concluded cabrera committed involuntary manslaughter, there was no error in not giving a lesser included offense instruction. (see people v. webster, supra, 54 cal.3d at p. 443.) 16 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: kitching, j. aldrich, j. 