filed 12/4/12 p. v. gutierrez ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. joseph anthony gutierrez, defendant and appellant. b233724 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka086653) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. david c. brougham, judge. affirmed with directions. mark alan hart, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, linda c. johnson and michael c. keller, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 appellant joseph anthony gutierrez appeals from a judgment entered after a jury convicted him of one count of second degree murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a))1 and found true the allegation that he personally used and intentionally discharged a firearm that caused great bodily injury and death ( 12022.53, subds. (b), (c), and (d)). the trial court sentenced appellant to a term of 40 years to life in prison, consisting of 15 years to life for the murder, plus 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement found true pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (d). the enhancements found true within the meaning of subdivisions (b) and (c) were stayed pursuant to section 654. the court awarded appellant 779 days of actual custody credit. appellant contends (1) the trial court erred in excluding evidence concerning the state of mind of the deceased, (2) the additional term of 25 years to life imposed under section 12022.53, subdivision (d) constituted double jeopardy, and (3) he is entitled to an additional day of custody credit. we modify the abstract of judgment to reflect an additional day of custody credit, but otherwise affirm the judgment. facts prosecution case in april 2009, appellant and his girlfriend, yasmeen hassan, had been dating for on the morning of april 20, 2009, ruiz saw hassan sitting on the couch wearing pajamas. she was smiling and playing with the dogs. ciorlieri was mopping the floor and also saw hassan playing with the dogs. appellant was sleeping in his bedroom. ruiz left the house to run some errands. he saw hassan later that morning in the kitchen while he and ciorlieri were watching television. she was wearing a black dress and had -go-hassan retrieved an empty trash bag from the kitchen and went to the bedroom she 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise stated. 3 shared with appellant. she went outside to throw away the trash bag which she had filled and then returned to the bedroom. ruiz and ciorlieri were watching television when they heard a noise and looked toward the hallway. appellant came out of the bedroom screaming and crying, and was econds and then came back out. he told ruiz to call 9-1-1, and instructed appellant to stay in the house until the police arrived. there was a lot of noise and confusion and ruiz could not hear clearly so he went to the backyard to call 9-1-1. ciorlieri also went to the backyard because the 9-1-1 operator insisted on speaking with him. when ruiz returned to the house, appellant was no longer there. city of covina police officers responded to the 9-1-1 call. they searched the residence and surrounding neighborhood for appellant but were unable to locate him. detective michael robison found hassan lying on her back in the bedroom. her arms wound to the head and her right eye was outside her orbital socket and attached only by robison that she was dead. there was no weapon in sight. a black .357 revolver with a brown handle was found between the mattress and five live rounds and one spent casing which had recently been fired. hassan suffered a -and-ted the bullet above a dresser in the bedroom. a sunglasses case found near the dresser contained 11 more live picture. a crumpled photograph of appellant and three females was found on the ground by the closet. that the expended bullet recovered from above the dresser had been fired from the gun 4 fied that the gun had both a single and double action trigger pull and required significant pressure to fire in either mode. the gun had a built-in safety mechanism and was not the type that went off accidentally. a press release broadcast on both radio and television on the day of the shooting murder. the following day, appellant, accompanied by his attorney, turned himself in at the covina police station. yolanda alvarado dated appellant for approximately 11 months in 2006 and 2007. she tried to break up with him about 10 times in the 11 months they were together. on at least six occasions she saw appellant with a gun similar to the one used to shoot hassan. appellant pulled out the gun during one argument when alvarado told appellant she yo ely 80 times while she was at a party with friends. he asked her to contact him. alvarado left the car. when she told him that she wanted to end their relationship he hit her in the face and caught and grabbed her as she was knocking on the door but released her when his aunt opened the door. alvarado filed a report with the pomona police department. her injuries consisted of facial bruising, a bloody nose, and scratches on her arms and legs. defense case sence of dna. the gun contained a mixture of dna from two contributors. the major contributor matched the profile for hassan. 5 there was not enough dna to detect a second entire profile but appellant could not be of gunshot of shootings especially when the weapon was fired at close range. office conducted gunshot wound to the head. the gun was in direct contact with the skin when the bullet entered the right temple and exited the left side of the head moving front to back and slightly upwards. dr. wang acknowledged that in his experience it is more common than not for a contact wound to be self-inflicted. suicide on a number of factors, and after he consulted with the chief medical examiner and discussed the case with a third coroner. he spoke with the investigating officers regarding the circumstances of her death. he concluded that hassan could not have hidden the gun used to cause her death in the mattress of the bed because her death was immediate. he learned the gun belonged to appellant who had a history of domestic location very quickly. he noted that hassan was not depressed and did not have suicidal ideation. she had put on makeup and was preparing to go to work. dr. wang further no references to appellant. but the custodian of records for myspace testified that e-someone had logged into the account on august 29, 2009. 6 vanessa amaya knew appellant and hassan and saw them together quite often. antthat time she told him that she was upset with her mother. at approximately 2:15 p.m. on the day of the shooting carmelina ciorlieri, ms. ciorlieri returned home and found her brother-in-law holding appellant who was crying and appeared to be very upset. she called an attorney who advised her to take appellant to a safe place until the following afternoon when the attorney could personally take appellant to the police station. ms. ciorlieri drove appellant to his mother in bellflower. appellant. he was screaming and crying in the back seat of the car, and continued to do so when he was brought into the house. marquez arrived at the house approximately one hour later. marquez took appellant and gonzalez to a motel down the street where they stayed until the next morning. gonzalez testified that she saw no blood on appellant, and that he did not take a bath or wash his clothes while he was with her. rebuttal hassan worked as a sales agent for sprint and was described by coworkers as enthusiastic, friendly, and outgoingcould come into work the following day even though she was not scheduled to work until tuesday. hassan was planning to get a cell phone when she received her paycheck at the end of april. 7 melissa marquez testified that she drove appellant and his mother to a motel 6. he appeared to be acting normal and she did not remember seeing appellant crying or hysterical. covina police officer michael taron interviewed ruiz at the scene of the shooting, shortly after it occurred. ruiz told officer taron that immediately after the discussion i. the trial court did nostatements about her mother a. contention appellant contends that the trial court denied his right to present a defense by not permitting anthony ciorlieri to testify regarding statements hassan made to him approximately one or two weeks prior to her death. appellant contends that the defense theory of the evidence was that hassan shot herself and the problems between hassan and her mother were critical evidence on the issue of her state of mind leading up to her death. he contends the statements were admissible under the state-of-mind exception to the hearsay rule (evid. code,  1250) and were not more prejudicial than probative (evid. code,  352). b. standard of review the abuse of discretion standard of review applies to any ruling by a trial court on the admissibility of evidence. (people v. rowland (1992) 4 cal.4th 238, 264.) this admissibility involved questions of relevance and the state-of-mind exception to the hearsay rule. (ibid.reversal of the judgment is not required, unless the trial court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage of justice. (people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 910.) 8 c. legal principles evidence of a statement that was made other than by a witness while testifying at the law, hearsay evidence is inadmissible. (evid. code,  1200, subd. (b).) evidence code se . . evidence of a (including a statement of intent, plan, motive, design, mental feeling, pain, or bodily health) is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule when: [] (1) the evidence is or at any other time when it is itself an issue in the action; or [] (2) the evidence is o evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger enjoys broad discretion under evidence code section 352, in assessing whether probative value outweighs undue prejudice, confusion, or consumption of time. (people v. brown (2000) 77 cal.app.4th 1324, 1337.) d. proceedings below the trial court conducted an evidence code section 402 hearing during which the defense called anthony ciorlieri to testify. he testified that he had a conversation with hassan approximately one or two weeks before the shooting. according to ciorlieri, hassan was crying and was upset with her mother because her mother always wanted to methamphetamines for her. 9 approximately one month before the shooting hassan said she wanted to live with salcido. salcido agreed on condition that hassan end her relationship with appellant, return to school to get her high school diploma, and get a job to pay for her cell phone. hassan agreed, and when she got a job salcido took her shopping for clothes. problems with her mother. she did not like boyfriend. andrade also testified that hassan was afraid of appellant and that he had hit her. appellant threatened hassan with a gun when she tried to leave him. andrade last saw hassan alive on the wednesday before she died and at that time hassan was her statements made by hassan concerning her relationship with her mother. the court found that the evidence code section 1250 hearsay exception did not apply because of mind in that regard was not relevant. the court also excluded the proffered statements under an evidence code section 352 analysis because any potential relevance was outweighed by the potential for prejudice.2 e. analysis as earlier stated, evidence code section 1250 provides that an out-of-court e inadmissible by the hearsay subd. (a)(1)-(2).) the threshold for admissibility of such evidence is its relevance. there 2 the trial court also ruled that the statements made by hassan to salcido and andrade were inadmissible under evidence code sections 1250, and 352. only the statements made to ciorlieri are at issue in this appeal. 10 was no dispute hassan and her mother had a poor relationship. but there was no suicide. there was no evidence to suggest that hassan was in fact suicidal. aside from ce that hassan committed suicide. furthermore, there was absolutely no evidence that hassan ever considered suicide in connection with her mother. appellant relies on a recent california supreme court decision, people v. riccardi (2012) 54 cal.4th 758 (riccardistatements to ciorlieri about her mother. in riccardi, the defendant was convicted of killing connie navarro, his ex-girlfriend, and her best friend. (id. at p. 765.) during the trial of thto end her relationship with defendant, and that defendant was no longer welcome in her id. at p. 813) and that she had changed her locks and installed an alarm system because she was frightened that defendant would hurt her. (ibid.) connie also related another incident to her of defendant breaking into her condominium and kidnapping her. (ibid.) the defense sought to exclude this evidence asserting that it was inadmissible hearsay, irrelevant, and prejudicial under evidence code section 352. (riccardi, supra, at p. 811.) the trial court ruled that the specific acts identified by the conformity with that fear. (id. at p. 812.) the supreme court discussed the threshold requirement of relevance in the s state of mind offered under evidence code -of-court statements expressing fear of a defendant are relevant under evidence code ve in the crimes against the victim. (riccardi, 11 supra, 54 cal.4th at pp. 816817.) the court found ample foundational evidence fearful of him, no longer desired a relationship with him, and took actions in conformity acts of stalking connie, all of which would unquestionably cause her to become fearful, defendant admitted he was despondent over the end of the relationship, acknowledged he had disabled her newly installed home alarm, claimed he had stolen a letter describing he wanted to. defendant alid. at p. 819.) the court held that evidence obut only if there is independent, admissible evidence that the defendant was aware of the id. at p. 820.) where riccardidefendant to act as he did, and thereby support admission of the statements, there is no evidence that hassan was motivated to commit suicide. the evidence pointed to a contrary conclusion. hassan had recently started a new job and made plans to get her own cell phone. rivera testified that hassan was happy the day before the shooting. rui-go-ing was 12 take her life. conduct indicated that hassan was upset with her mother, but there was no evidence that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in ruling that evidence code section 1250 was inapplicable and excluding the statements. appellant also argues that the trial court erred in concluding under section 352 that . . section 352, the trial court enjoys broad discretion in assessing whether the probative value of particular evidence is outweighed by people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 1124.) in light of the preceding discussion finding the statements were not relevant, and applying the deferential standard of review discretion. ii. the additional term of 25 years to life does not violate double jeopardy by relying on the same fact pertaining to the murder conviction and the attendant firearm enhancement appellant contends that the imposition of a 25-years-to-life sentence enhancement imposed pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (d), in addition to his sentence for murder, violates principles of double jeopardy. as defendant acknowledges, the california supreme court rejected this argument in people v. izaguirre (2007) 42 cal.4th 126, 133auto equity sales, inc. v. superior court (1962) 57 cal.2d 450, 455.)3 we find no error. 3 appellant acknowdecision, and that he has raised the issue in this court to preserve it for later review. 13 iii. appellant should be awarded one additional day of actual custody credit appellant contends, and the people concede, that he is entitled to one additional day of actual custody credit. pursuant to section 2900.5, subdivision (a), a defendant convicted of a felony is entitled to credit against a state prison term for actual time spent in custody before commencement of the prison sentence, including the day of sentencing. ( 2900.5, subd. (a); people v. smith (1989) 211 cal.app.3d 523, 526.) generally, an appellant may not appeal an error in the calculation of presentence custody credit unless the claim is first presented in the trial court, which did not occur here. ( 1237.1.) however, the court of appeal may address a presentence custody credit issue if other claims are also raised on appeal. (people v. mendez (1999) 19 cal.4th 1084, 11001101; people v. acosta (1996) 48 cal.app.4th 411, 420421.) as a general rule, the time credited includes the date of arrest, the date of sentencing, and every day in between. (people v. smith, supra, 211 cal.app.3d at p. 526 states that appellant was arrested on april 21, 2009 and he was sentenced on june 9, 2011, a span of 780 days. because the trial court awarded appellant 779 days of custody credit, the abstract of judgment must be amended to reflect 780 days of actual custody credit. 14 disposition the trial court is directed to amend the abstract of judgment to reflect 780 days of actual custody credit and to forward the amended abstract to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. _____________________, j. doi todd we concur: ____________________________, p. j. boren ____________________________, j. chavez 