filed 11/5/12 p. v. venegas ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. christian venegas et al., defendants and appellants. b233131 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba362787) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. anne h. egerton, judge. affirmed. richard l. rubin, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant christian venegas. brett harding duxbury, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant jason romero. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and zee rodriguez, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 a jury convicted appellants christian venegas and jason romero of first degree murder. the jury also found true allegations that a principal personally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury or death, and that appellants committed the crime for the benefit of a gang. a third codefendant, hernaldo ramos, was acquitted of all charges. on appeal, romero contends: (1) the trial court erred in failing to adequately to aiding and abetting, the natural and probable consequences doctrine, and murder, did not demand an adequate finding on deliberation; and (3) there was insufficient evidence and further contends: (1) the trial court prejudicially erred in refusing to allow venegas to impeach codefendant ramos with evidence of an arrest; (2) the consecutive firearm use enhancement of penal code section 12022.53, subdivision (d) violates the eigand unusual punishment; and (3) cumulative errors require reversal. we affirm the judgment. factual and procedural background1 on august 7, 2009, jose romero, pedro romero, and miguel ramirez were on a street in east los angeles. defendants jason romero and christian venegas approached the group.2 romero was a known member of the laguna park vikings gang. venegas was also an 18th street gang member. jose and romero engaged in a fistfight. jose knocked romero to the ground. romero stood and ran away, along with venegas. 1 we summarize the facts in accordance with the usual rules on appeal. (people v. virgil (2011) 51 cal.4th 1210, 1263 (virgil).) 2 to avoid confusion, we will refer to jose and pedro romero by their first names, and to defendant jason romero by his last name, or collectively with venegas as 3 romero went to the home of hernaldo ramos. ramos was not a gang member, but he had known romero since romero was a child. romero woke ramos up. romero told ramos he had been in a fight on the corner and he needed a ride. the two men got e and romero saw venegas running. venegas got into the back seat of the car. as ramos drove past jose, pedro, and ramirez, either window of the car. jose was shot and killed. the people charged romero, venegas, and ramos each with one count of first degree murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a));3 and two counts of attempted, willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder ( 187, subd. (a), 664, subd. (a)). as to the murder charge, the people alleged a principal personally and intentionally discharged a firearm, causing great bodily injury and death ( 12022.53, subds. (d), (e)(1)). on all counts, the people alleged a principal personally and intentionally used and discharged a firearm ( 12022.53, subds. (b), (c), (e)(1)). the people also alleged the defendants committed the charged crimes for the benefit of, at the direction of, and in association with a criminal street gang with the intent to promote, further, and assist in criminal conduct by gang members ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)). the three defendants were tried jointly. ramos was the only defendant to testify at trial. the jury acquitted ramos of all charges. the jury acquitted romero and venegas on the attempted murder charges. however, the jury found romero and venegas guilty of first degree murder, and found all of the charged allegations true. the trial court sentenced romero and venegas to prison terms of 50 years to life. 3 all further section references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 4 discussion i. there was no instructional error jury instructions (romero and venegas) appellants contend the trial court should have explicitly defined the word error. i. background calcrim nos. 571 and 603instructions on voluntary manslaughter. the trial court rejected the request, concluding in part there was no substantial evidence to support a theory that provocation reduced the crime to voluntary manslaughter. however, the court indicated it would instruct the jury with calcrim no. 522, on the theory that provocation insufficient to reduce murder to manslaughter might still be sufficient to reduce a murder from first to second degree. thus, after instructing the jury with a murder from first degree to second degree. the weight and significance of the provocation, if any, are for you to decide. [] if you conclude that the defendant committed murder, but was provoked, consider the provocation in deciding whether the crime was first or second-4 4 the trial court gave calcrim nos. 520 and 521, including a portion regarding you must decide whether it is murder of the first or second-degree. the defendant has been prosecuted for first degree murder under two theories: (1), the murder was willful, deliberate and premeditated; and (2), the murder was committed by shooting a firearm from a motor vehicle. [] each theory of first-degree murder has different requirements and i will instruct you on both. [] you may not find the defendant guilty of first degree murder unless all of you agree that the people have proved that the defendant committed murder, but all of you do not need to agree on the same theory. the defendant is guilty of first-degree murder if the people have proved that he acted willfully, deliberately and with premeditation. [] the defendant acted willfully if he intended to kill. [] the defendant acted deliberately if he carefully weighed the considerations for and against his choice and, knowing the consequences, decided to kill. [] the defendant acted with 5 ii. discussion appellants now contend the trial court gave prejudicially misleading instructions by failing to define provocation. they argue that by failing to define provocation, the court allowed the jury to reason that only provocation eliciting a homicidal response would be sufficient to reduce the degree of murder. we disagree.5 in hernandez, supra, 183 cal.app.4th 1327, the court of appeal considered arguments similar to those of appellants in this case. in hernandez, the defendant requested an instruction on provocation that reduces murder from first to second degree. premeditation if he decided to kill before committing the act that caused death. the length of time the person spends considering whether to kill does not alone determine whether the killing is deliberate and premeditated. the amount of time required for deliberation and premeditation may vary from person to person and according to the circumstances. [] a decision to kill made rashly, impulsively or without careful consideration is not deliberate and premeditated. on the other hand, a cold, calculated decision to kill can be reached quickly. the test is the extent of the reflection, not the murder if the people have proved that the defendant murdered by shooting a firearm from a motor vehicle. the defendant committed this kind of murder if, one, he shot a firearm from a motor vehicle, two, he intentionally shot at a person who was outside the vehicle, and three, he intended to kill that person. [] . . . [] all other murders are of the second degree. [] the people have the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that the killing was first degree murder rather than a lesser crime. if the people have not 5 the people contend appellants forfeited this argument by failing to request an correct, the trial people v. mayfield (1997) 14 cal.4th 668, 778.) in such cases, a defendant cannot complain on appeal that the instruction was incomplete or ambiguous if he or she did not request a supplemental or clarifying instruction. (id. at pp. 778-779.) however, appellants here do not concede that the provocation instruction was correct but incomplete in this case. they at least nominally assert the instruction given was substantial rights, and may be addressed on appeal despite a failure to object in the trial court. (people v. hernandez (2010) 183 cal.app.4th 1327, 1331, fn. 2 (hernandez); people v. lewis argument. 6 as in this case, the court gave calcrim no. 522. the defendant did not request modifications or additions to calcrim no. 522. yet, on appeal, the defendant argued calcrim no. 522 was incomplete and misleading because it did not specify that provocation can negate premeditation and deliberation, and because it did not explicitly instruct the jury that provocation insufficient for manslaughter may be sufficient for second degree murder. (hernandez, at p. 1331.) the instruction on provocation for second degree murder is a pinpoint instruction that need hernandez, supra, 183 cal.app.4th at p. 1333, citing people v. rogers (2006) 39 cal.4th 826, 878-879.) that such an instruct on provocation without explicitly stating that provocation can negate premeditation and hernandez, at pp. 1333-1334.) the court reasoned that when given with calcrim no. 521, which defines first and second degree murder, was instructed that unless the defendant acted with premeditation and deliberation, he is guilty of second, not first, degree murder, and that a rash, impulsive decision to kill is not hernandez, at p. 1334.) the hernandez court further reasoned: peculiar to the law, and we assume the jurors were aware of the common meaning of the term. (see people v. rowland (1992) 4 cal.4th 238, 270-(merriam-people v. ward . . . is the defendantemotional reaction to the conduct of another, which emotion may negate a together, the jurors would have understood that provocation (the arousal of emotions) can give rise to a rash, impulsive decision, and this in turn shows no premeditation and deliberation. [] we are satisfied that, even without express instruction, the jurors understood that the existence of provocation can support the absence of premeditation and deliberation. thus, without a 7 request for further instruction, the trial court was not required to amplify the instructions to explain this point. (cf. people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1211-1212 [trial court has no sua sponte duty to give amplified instruction stating that provocation can negate intent to torture for murder hernandez, supra, 183 cal.app.4th at p. 1334.) not misleading because it did not include a deprovocation would only reduce a murder from first to second degree if the defendant was did not suggest the jury should focus on whether the defendant responded reasonably to provocation. instead, the instructions as a whole informed the jury that first degree murder requires premeditation and deliberation, all other murders are second degree murders, and the jury could consider whether the defendant was provoked in determining the degree of any murder. (people v. carrington (2009) 47 cal.4th 145, 192 (carrington) [correctness of a jury instruction determined from the entire charge of the court].) as in hernandez, we are satisfied the jurors would have understood that provocation might negate premeditation or deliberation elements, and that their role was to determine whether any provocation supported the absence of premeditation and deliberation in this case. people v. najera (2006) 138 cal.app.4th 212, is inapposite. in najera, the prosecutor misstated the law when describing the level of provocation needed to negate malice. (id. at p. 222.) in closing argument, the prosecutor also asked the jury to focus on how the defendant responded to provocation and the reasonableness of the response, sufficient to cause an ordinary person of average disposition to act rashly and without id. mixed correct and incorrect statements of law and created confusion, evidenced by questions from the jury. this is not a prosecutorial misconduct case. the jury instruction 8 on provocation accurately stated the law and no party misstated the law on provocation. the reasoning of najera does not apply to this case. ns on aiding and abetting liability were proper (romero) improper because they did not require the jury to find the aider and abettor personally deliberated before concluding he was also guilty of first degree murder. romero also argues the instructions should have explicitly stated the defendant could only be guilty of first degree murder under the natural and probable consequences doctrine if first degree murder was a reasonably foreseeable consequence of the target crime. we find no prejudicial error. i. background at trial, the prosecution argued venegas was the shooter in the incident, and romero was liable on an aiding and abetting theory. the trial court instructed the jury with calcrim nos. 400, 401, and 403 on aiding and abetting and the natural and probable consequences doctrine. as mentioned above, the trial court also gave calcrim nos. 520 and 521 to instruct the jury on murder. and abetting romero first contends the instructions on aiding and abetting liability were misleading because they did not require the jury to find the aider and abettor personally deliberated, and this was necessary for the jury to conclude he was guilty of first degree murder. the people contend romero forfeited this argument by failing to request a clarifying instruction, and the instructions were not misleading. we agree that romero forfeited this argument. calcrim no. 400 was a correct statement of the law. to the extent romero believed the instruction was inaccurate when applied to the facts of the case, he was required to object or request a modification or clarifying instruction at trial. (people v. canizalez (2011) 197 cal.app.4th 832, 849.) 9 either in general or as applied to this case. romero relies on people v. nero (2010) 181 cal.app.4th 504 and people v. samaniego (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 1148, to support his argument. in both cases, the court concluded the version of calcrim no. 400 used was potentially misleading. but, in both cases, the then version of calcrim no. 400 he or she personally committed it or aided and abetted the perpetrator. in nero and samaniego, the respective courts concluded the instruction could be misleading because and culpable mental state. (samaniego, at p. 1164; nero, at p. 518.) the current version of calcrim no. 400, and the one used at the trial in this case, instrucguilty of a crime whether he or she committed it personally or aided and abetted the not carry the same potential to mislead as the former version. instead, the instruction accurately states that an aider and abettor is guilty when he or she aids and abets a crime, state. even had romero preserved his argument, we would find no prejudicial error for another reason. as noted above, when considering a claim that an instruction was subject to an incorrect interpretation, we look at the instructions as a whole to determine whether it is reasonably likely they caused the jury to misapply the law. (carrington, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 192; people v. solomon (2010) 49 cal.4th 792, 822.) the trial court not only instructed the jury with calcrim no. 400, but also calcrim nos. 401, 520, and 521. calcrim no. 401 explained that to find a defendant guilty of a crime as an aider defendant intendaids and abets a crime if he or she knows 10 fact, aid, fathe people were required to show the defendant committed an act that caused the death of another person, and the defendant acted with malice aforethought. calcrim no. 521, that he acted willfully, deliberately, and with premeditation. the defendant acted willfully if he intended to kill. the defendant acted deliberately if he carefully weighed the considerations for and against his choice and, knowing the consequences, decided to kill. the defendant acted with premeditation if he decided to kill before committing the of establishing the elements of first degree murder beyond a reasonable doubt, the jury was required to find the defendant not guilty of first degree murder. taken together, the instructions ensured that the jury would only find romero guilty of first degree murder, even as an aider and abettor, if it concluded he acted willfully and with intent to kill. (lopez, supra, 198 cal.app.4th at pp. 1119-1120.) we assume the jury followed the instructions rather than disregarding them. (people v. yeoman ing. 2. natural and probable consequences similarly, romero argues the instruction on natural and probable consequences than first degree murder, was a natural and probable consequence of the target crime, in this case, assault. the people assert the natural and probable consequences theory applied only to ramos, and the evidence showed nothing less than that romero acted with deliberation and premeditation. even if we assume romero did not forfeit his argument by failing to request a modified instruction, we would find no error. as an initial matter, we agree with the people that the record indicates the natural and probable consequences theory was only 11 argued as to ramos, not romero. the prosecutor contended romero was guilty of directly aiding and abetting murder.6 however, even were this not the case, we would find no prejudicial error. romero relies on people v. hart (2009) 176 cal.app.4th 662 (hart), for the proposition that the trial court should have instructed the jury it could convict romero of first degree murder under the natural and probable consequences doctrine only if it concluded premeditated and deliberate murder was the reasonably foreseeable consequence of assault. however, hart concerned attempted premeditated murder, and the california supreme court recently rejected the hart analysis in people v. favor (2012) 54 cal.4th 868, 876-880 (favor).7 hart ere. 6 for example, after describing the law of aiding and abetting in his closing [h]e obviously goes and arranges for the ride. . . . [] . . . obviously the two of them, venegas and romero, have already talked pick you up. . . . [] so, romero, he arranges for the ride. he gets the wheels for this operation. [] . . . [] ramos is the guy who actually gets them there . . . . [] romero probable consequences, why is it important? . . . . [] even if you believe that he truly only thoughtthat it was going to be an assault, it was going to be some type of a fight, even if you believe that . . . . [] . . . under the natural and probable consequences theory the law basically says even if it was just going to be that . . . under all the circumstances a reasonable person, and in the defendant ramos position, would have known that the commission of murder or 7 in favor, oconsequences doctrine, there is no requirement that an aider and abettor reasonably foresee an attempted premeditated murder as the natural and probable consequence of the target offense. it is sufficient that attempted murder is a reasonably foreseeable consequence of the crime aided and abetted, and the attempted murder itself was favor, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 880.) this was an explicit rejection of the conclusion in hart. 12 we note that hart relied extensively on people v. woods (1992) 8 cal.app.4th 1570 (woods). the court in woods found the trial court erred when it told the jury it could not find the aider and abettor guilty of murder in the second degree if it determined the perpetrator was guilty of first degree murder. (woods, at p. 1579.) the favor court rejected hart in part because it relied on woodsnot attempted murderfavor, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 877.) favor did not otherwise address the analysis in woods. yet, even if woods remains good law, it does not require a reversal in this case. in woods, the court ily included offense if the evidence is such that the aider and abettor, if guilty at all, is guilty of something beyond that lesser offense, i.e., if the evidence establishes that a greater offense was a reasonably foreseeable consequence of the criminal act originally woods, at p. 1593.) here, the evidence established that as to romero, first degree murder was a reasonably foreseeable consequence of the target assault, and no evidence suggested otherwise. the jury did not receive incorrect information as the woods jury did. instead, the jury was properly instructed on the elements and definitions to be considered in determining whether romero was guilty of first or second degree murder. in addition, the court specifically instructed the jury that should it find the defendant guilty of murder, instructions were proper. (see people v. cummins (2005) 127 cal.app.4th 667, 680-681 [natural and probable consequences instructions proper in attempted premeditated murder case where defendant was an active participant in all steps that led to the attempt and his conduct made him no less blameworthy than perpetrator].) finally, even if the trial court should have explicitly instructed the jury that first degree murder, not just murder, must have been a reasonably foreseeable consequence of the assault, we would find any error harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24; people v. prieto (2003) 30 cal.4th 226, 256.) the evidence was overwhelming that if romero was guilty at all, he was guilty of a 13 deliberate, premeditated murder. appellants instigated a conflict with the victims, by approaching them and issuing a gang challenge. when romero was beaten in the fistfight, he and venegas left the scene of the conflict, secured a ride, located a weapon, returned to find the victims, and venegas shot at jose from the back seat of the car. the evidence offered no indication that the murder was anything other than willful, deliberate, and premeditated. (see people v. canizalez, supra, 197 cal.app.4th at p. 853.) indeed, during its deliberations, the jury asked whether it could find romero guilty of first degree murder as an aider and abettor, even if it concluded venegas was not the perpetrator. this question suggested that while the jurors may have had some doubt that venegas was the shooter, they had no doubt romero was guilty of first degree murder. even had the trial court instructed that romero could be guilty of a lesser degree of murder than venegas, or that first degree murder, not just murder, had to be the natural and probable consequence of the target assault, it is clear the jury would still have found romero guilty of first degree murder. ii. (romero and venegas) gang enhancement. the record does not support their contention. a. background at trial, the people offered testimony from gang expert edmundo torres. torres was a gang detective in east los angeles for five years. he also worked with the compton gang task force for one year, and in east los angeles on patrol for six years. when torres worked patrol in east los angeles, he came into contact with gang members on a daily basis. the laguna park vikings were one of the three largest gangs in the area. as a gang detective, torres investigated gang-related crimes and targeted the most active gangs in east los angeles. torres also worked in the county jail system and interviewed over 1,000 inmates who were primarily hispanic gang members. he additionally received training in classes or conferences about gangs. 14 torres testified he was familiar with the laguna park vikings. he described the alexander marquez, a laguna park vikings gang member. torres described a crime in which marquez assaulted a peace officer with a semi-automatic firearm. torres became familiar with the crime by speaking with the police officers involved. torres also testified he was familiar with miguel angel reynoso, a laguna park vikings gang member, and a crime in which reynoso committed a voluntary manslaughter. torres assisted los angeles police department homicide detectives in investigating the crime. the trial court instructed the jury with calcrim no. 1401, as follows, in three or more persons, whether formal or informal: [] (1) that has a common name or common identifying sign or symbol; [] (2) that has, as one or more of [its] primary activities, the commission of assault with a firearm or sale of controlled substances; [] and (3) whose members, whether acting alone or together, engage in or have engaged in a pattern of criminal gang activity. [] in order to qualify as a primary activity, the committed by one or more persons who happened to be members of the group. . . . [] . . . [] the people have the burden of proving each allegation beyond a reasonable doubt. if the people have not met this burden, you must find that the allegation has not 15 b. discussion -enhancement provision ( 186.22, subd. (people v. sengpadychith (2001) 26 cal.4th 316, 322 (sengpadychith).) the requirement may be satisfied by the testimony of a police gang expert who opines that the primary activities of the gang are statutorily listed crimes, including crimes reflecting past conduct by members of the gang. (ibid.; people v. gardeley (1996) 14 cal.4th 605, 611, 620.) support the primary activities element of the enhancement because he did not explicitly vities. instead, the prosecutor asked torres about activities were assaults with firearms, narcotics sales, and vandalism.8 appellants assert ortant, or serious, without describing the frequency of the activities. we disagree with this interpretation. people v. margarejo (2008) 162 cal.app.4th 102, is instructive. in margarejo, ry activities. in evidence to support a true finding on the primary activities element. the court explained s for an unreasonably restrictive 8 although torres included vandalism in this list, the trial court deliberately omitted vandalism from the jury instruction on the primary activities element. thus, the jury was instructed to consider only whether the people had proved the laguna park vikings had assault with a firearm or sale of controlled substances as one or more of its primary activities. both crimes are enumerated in the gang statute. ( 186.22, subd. (e)(1), (4).) 16 id. at p. 107.) could reasonably infer torres was offering aactivities, rather than simply the most serious, but only occasional ones. (people v. duran (2002) 97 cal.app.4th 1448, 1464, citing sengpadychith, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 323.) torres had significant experience investigating gang crimes in east los angeles, including those of the laguna park vikings. his testimony describing his experience and training was sufficient to establish a foundation for his opinion on the activities of the gang. there was substantial evidence to support a jury finding that the laguna park vikings is a criminal street gang. (people v. martinez (2008) 158 cal.app.4th 1324, 1330.) in re alexander l. (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 605, is misplaced. in alexander l., winformation establishing the reliability of his opinion was elicited. on cross-examination, the expert testified that the majority of the cases connected to the gang that he had run across were graffiti related. (id. at pp. 611-on his several years of experience investigating gang crimes, and his work with other law enforcement officials investigating specific crimes committed by gang members. torres alexander l. is not persuasive here. (people v. martinez, supra, 158 cal.app.4th at p. 1330.) iii. the trial court did not err in refusing to allow impeachment of ramos with evidence of an unrelated arrest (venegas) venegas contends the trial court erred when it refused to allow him to impeach ramos with evidence of his arrest for possession of marijuana for sale and illegal firearm possession. we find no error. 17 a. background after determining he would testify on his own behalf, ramos moved to preclude the other parties from impeaching him with evidence of a september 2009 arrest he suffered (the maywood arrest).9 the trial court reviewed a police report relating to the [auto dealership/]repo place . . . were sort of the main perpetrators, for lack of a better role . . . . [] the police did find, upon execution of the search warrant at the repo depot, a lot of dope and a number of guns a loaded semi-auto, an uzi, three handguns, loaded and a hidden compartment in one of the vehicles with a kilo of cocaine and the court asked deraised the issue of the maywood arrest, and his concern about that incident tended to show a bias or motive to lie to law enforcement. after reviewing the transcript of the police interview with ramos, the court granted the motion to preclude impeachment based on the maywood arrest. the court explained: a crime of moral terms of the merits of the charge and undue consumption of time where we do not just have a certified docket of conviction. [] number two, to the extent that the argument of mr. romero is that somehow mr. ramos may have been making up things about defendants venegas and romero in the hopes of in the transcriptno disrespect to anybodyto support that theory. [] while mr. ramos expresses, obviously, a lot of concern and in fact fear, it seems 9 l both indicated they wished to impeach ramos with evidence of the arrest. 18 in very deep hot water. certainly [the sergeant conducting the interview] never says anything to suggest that if [ramos] provides information about the mumaywood case. [] i think the probative value is between zero and very small ramos testified on his own behalf at trial. on cross-examination, he admitted that he had a drug abuse problem when he was younger and was going to a drug court program, drug counseling, and narcotics anonymous meetings. he further admitted he the jury returned its verdicts, romero filed a motion for a new trial, arguing the trial court should have allowed him to impeach ramos with evidence of the maywood arrest. romero onfrontation, and his right to effective cross-examination. venegas sought to join in the motion.10 after argument, the trial court denied the new trial motion. b. discussion venegas asserts the trial court erred in refusing to allow him to impeach ramos with evidence of the maywood arrest, thereby violating his rights under the california constitution, and the sixth and fourteenth amendments. venegas contends he was denied the ability to effectively cross-examine ramos to show his bias and impeach his credibility. we disagree.11 10 written joinder and served it on the people 10 days before the hearing. however, the court allowed separate cross-examination issue. 11 the people contend venegas forfeited these arguments by failing to raise them hment with evidence of the maywood arrest, he did not specifically reference the state or federal the same as those advanced in the trial court, namely that the trial court would, and did opportunity to cross-examine ramos to demonstrate bias and lack of credibility. to the ent from those the trial 19 criminal defendants have the right to cross-examine a witness regarding credibility and bias. (virgil, supra, wide latitude insofar as the confrontation clause is concerned to impose reasonable limits on such cross-examination based on concerns about, among other things, people v. sully (1991) 53 cal.3d 1195, 1219, quoting delaware v. van arsdall (1986) 475 u.s. 673, 679.) similarly, while article i, evidence whose probative value is substantially outweighed by its potential for prejudice, confusion, or undue consumption of time. (evid. cod accordingly, that provision does not affect the general policy against admitting this kind people v. chatman (2006) 38 cal.4th 344, 376.) the trial court here did not abuse its discretion under evidence code section 352 in concluding the potential for undue consumption of time far outweighed the probative value of evidence of the maywood arrest. (people v. mills (2010) 48 cal.4th 158, 195-196 (mills).) the police report did not clearly indicate that ramos was connected to the illegal weapons discovered at the time of the arrest. and, as the trial court reasoned, the value of the arrest for possession of marijuana for sale was minimal even for impeachment purposes, in light of the fact that no criminal charges were ever filed. the court noted there were potential problems of proof since there was no conviction and no filed charges. (people v. wheeler (1992) 4 cal.4th 284, 296-297.) the transcript of the insofar as erroneous for the reasons actually presented to the court, had the additional legal consequence of violating the federal [and staarguments are not forfeited on appeal. (people v. cowan (2010) 50 cal.4th 401, 464, fn. 20; people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 436-439.) 20 police excessively worried about the maywood arrest and therefore had a reason to lie about the shooting. there was no indication law enforcement suggested ramos might receive leniency with respect to the maywood incident if he cooperated on the shooting. thus, the trial court did not err in excluding the impeachment evidence under section 352. 352, we also reject various constitutional claims. the routine and proper application of state 352 to exclude evidence of marginal impeachment to confrontation and cross-examinationconfrontation clause guarantees an opportunity for effective cross-examination, not cross-examination that is effective in whatever way, and to whatever extent, the defense people v. riccardi (2012) 54 cal.4th 758, 809-810; mills, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 196.) moreover, any possible error was harmless under any standard. motivation to lie and his bias were obvious and unavoidable since he was implicated in the shooting and was being tried as a codefendant. ramos admitted he did not voluntarily go to the police after the shooting, and that he got rid of his car immediately after. his bias as a codefendant in the murder case was far more significant than any bias he may have had because of an arrest for a drug charge, or a weapons charge that may not have even involved him. the court allowed cross-examination in other areas, and without evidence of the maywood arrest. (see also virgil, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 1251 [no sixth amendment violation unless defendant shows prohibited cross-examination 21 iv. no cumulative error (venegas) we have concluded the court did not err in contention that cumulative error mandates reversal. (people v. burney (2009) 47 cal.4th 203, 256.) v. the imposition of a 25-years-to-life consecutive term under section 12022.53 is not cruel and unusual punishment (venegas) venegas argues section 12022.53, subdivision (d), on its face violates the eighth amendment prohibition against cruel and unusual punishment. venegas contends the e severity of the current offense, fails to take mitigating factors into consideration, and arbitrarily imposes severe punishment in cases involving criminal use of a gun as compared to the section 12022.53, subdivision (d) was cruel and unusual as applied to his case in particular. we agree with the other courts of appeal that have considered and rejected the arguments venegas makes here. for example, in people v. martinez (1999) 76 cal.app.4th 489 (martinez), the court of appeal considered the argument that section 12022.53, subdivision (d) does not adequately recognize gradations of culpability depending on the severity of the offense or mitigating factors. the court explained that thigradation by the legislature of the consequences of gun use in the commission of serious crimes. the section is limited, in the first place, to convictions of certain very serious felonies. the statute then sets forth three gradations of punishment based on increasingly serious types and consequences of firearm use in the commission of the designated felonies: 10 years if the defendant merely used a firearm, 20 years if the defendant intentional discharge of the firearm proximately caused great bodily injury. furthermore, the provision in question is an enhancement to the base term for the underlying conviction; a trial court retains flexibility as to fixing the underlying base term for [the 22 martinez, at p. 495, fn. omitted; see also people v. zepeda (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 1183, 1214-1215 (zepeda).) in response to the contention that the statute does not allow consideration of variations in the degree of a great bodily injury inflicted, the martinez court reasoned this somewhere, and the legislature has reasonably drawn the line at great bodily injury. the fact that [section 12022.53,] subdivision (d) leaves no additional room for trial court discretion based on different gradations of great bodily injury does not render the punishment crumartinez, supra, 76 cal.app.4th at p. 495, citing harmelin v. michigan (1991) 501 u.s. 957, 1007-1008 (conc. opn. of kennedy, j.).) the martinez court likewise rejected the argument that the statute is unconstitutional because it imposes a more severe punishment for an offense committed with a firearm than the same offense committed with a knife or another deadly weapon. designated felonies of a very serious type. . . . [t]he legislature determined in enacting section 12022.53 that the use of firearms in commission of the designated felonies is such protect our citizthe enumerated felonies could be killed or injured if a firearm is involved clearly supports a legislative distinction treating firearm offenses more harshly than the same crimes committed by other means, in order to deter the use of firearms and save lives. . . . that section martinez, supra, 76 cal.app.4th at pp. 497-498, citations omitted; people v. gonzales (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 1, 18-19.) we agree with this analysis. it is not arbitrary for the legislature to draw a distinction between firearm offenses and the same crimes committed by other means. (people v. aguilar (1973) 32 cal.app.3d 478, 486; zepeda, supra, 87 cal.app.4th at p. violation of . . . section 12022.53; the legislature has determined that a significant 23 increase in punishment is necessary and appropriate to protect citizens and deter violent people v. em (2009) 171 cal.app.4th 964, 973.) venegas acknowledges that other courts have rejected his arguments, but he does not specifically address the reasoning of these previous decisions other than to assert in a footnote that they were incorrectly decided. he has not even attempted to argue that the statutory penalty in this case was disproportionate to his individual culpability. (people v. dillon (1983) 34 cal.3d 441, 480.) we adopt the conclusion of martinez, zepeda, and other courts, that the imposition of a 25-year term under section 12022.53 does not constitute cruel and unusual punishment. disposition the trial court judgment is affirmed. bigelow, p. j. we concur: rubin, j. flier, j 