filed 1/14/13 p. v. hernandez ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. fernando hernandez, defendant and appellant. b233440 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta109824) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, john t. doyle, judge. affirmed as modified and remanded with directions. deborah l. hawkins, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey, shawn mcgahey webb and taylor nguyen, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant, fernando hernandez, appeals his conviction for murder, premeditated attempted murder (2 counts), possession of a firearm by a felon, dissuading a witness, and aggravated assault, with firearm and gang enhancements (pen. code,  187, 664/187, 12021 (former), 136.1, subd. (c)(1), 245, 12022.53, 186.22).1 hernandez was sentenced to state prison for a term of 205 years to life. the judgment is affirmed as modified and remanded with instructions. background viewed in accordance with the usual rule of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established the following. 1. the shooting. rosemary avalos and anthony castillo were members of the dog patch gang. on march van. castillo noticed an older, dark blue camry or nissan sentra pass him going the opposite direction. he later told police he recognized the driver as defendant hernandez, a member of the rival compton varrio tortilla flats gang. castillo had known h unaware the blue car had made a u-turn and was now coming up behind him, castillo pulled over on elburg street to talk to his friend paul in front of paurear view mirror, castillo noticed the blue car had stopped in a driveway on elburg, a few houses down from the corner of elburg and downey avenue. then castillo heard gunshots. avalos slumped in her seat, and the van rolled forward and hit a parked car. castillo went to her aid. 1 all further references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 3 dave arellano lived on elburg. he saw a white minivan and a dark, late model car with fancy rims drive down the street. a minute and a half later, an older, four-door at least two people in the front and three people in the back. someone rolled down the front passenger window and arellano saw a hand with a gun in it. the gun, a revolver, the camry stayed still with its engine running during the shooting. at trial he acknowledged having said this to the police, but also testified that had been a mistake and, actually, he did not hear anybody yell anything. avalos survived the shooting, but a bullet had lodged in her spine and rendered her a quadriplegic. thereafter, she required a ventilator to breathe. after her hospitalization, avalos was cared for by her family at home, where she died in january 2009 when her ventilator tube became dislodged as she was sleeping. 2. a week after the shooting, hernandez was spotted by police officers on the street. he jumped a fence and fled, but they caught him. officer kasey woodruff retrieved a .357-caliber ruger revolver hernandez had tossed away during the chase. on february 10, 2009, woodruff arrested steven guzman in an unrelated matter. guzman said he had information about the avalos/castillo shooting. woodruff took a statement and contacted the detectives who were investigating the case. in october 2009, hernandez and several others assaulted guzman. 3. forensic evidence. the pontiac grand prix. the back window of the van had been shattered by a bullet. this hitting avalos. a police diagram of the crime scene estimated that the distance between 4 250 feet. the van was towed from the scene on a flatbed truck, which had to position the van at a steep angle during the towing. criminalist tracy peck subsequently examined concluded this bullet jacket had been fired from the gun hernandez tossed away when the officers were chasing him. after the shooting, there was a new half-inch hole in the left rear bumper of the pontiac grand prix that castillo had been driving. 4. the jailhouse phone conversations. during a march 26, 2009, recorded jailhouse phone conversation between hernandez and his girlfriend, evelyn lopez, sh . smoking dope when i had told you what happened the day [sic]? . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . smoking dope. fernando. your mom knows the story, i know the story, and you know the story. so you . . . . . fucking digging yourself into a lopez also advised hernandez that someone named cartoon needed to talk to him. cartoon was a tortilla flats gang member. 5 during a subsequent phone conversation with lopez on may 7, 2009, hernandez to clavo about steven. my uncle . . flats shot caller. before joining the tortilla flats gang. 5. gang evidence. deputy sheriff daniel morris testified as a gang expert. the tortilla flats gang had about 500 members and their primary activities included murder, robbery, carjacking, drug trafficking, possession of firearms, and vandalism. hernandez belonged to this gang. in 2007, hernandez had been the victim of a shooting while in the company of steven guzman, another tortilla flats gang member. hernandez and guzman both lived in paramount, territory which was claimed by the rival dog patch gang. as such, they could expect to be challenged by any dog patch members they encountered. asked what with the shot caller in that ga . morris opined the avalos/castillo shooting had been carried out for the benefit of tortilla flats for a number of reasons. the tortilla flats members were driving in dog patch territory with a gun in their car, and both castillo and avalos belonged to the rival g a tortilla flats gang member that he had banged on in having been disrespected . . put in work or defend your territory or defend the name of your gang. if you do not do something in 6 retribution for morris opined the jail beating of guzman had been for the benefit of the tortilla flats gang because guzman was being punished for snitching. responding to a hypothetical question which assumed only that guzman had given unspecified information to the police about the avalos/castillo shooting, morris testified guzman would have been viewed as a snitch merely for meeting with the police in this situation. 6. the defense. hernandez did not present any evidence at trial. contentions attempted murder of castillo. 2. the trial court erred by denying a new trial motion based on ineffective assistance of counsel. 3. the trial court erred by denying a new trial motion based on prosecutorial misconduct. 4. the vicarious firearm use enhancement based on gang participation is unconstitutional. 5. hernandez is entitled to an additional day of presentence custody credit. 6. hernandez was improperly convicted of both a greater and a lesser included offense. [issue raised by the attorney general.] 7. a sentencing error must be corrected. [issue raised by the attorney general.] discussion 1. there was sufficient evidence hernandez attempted to murder castillo. hernandez contends there was insufficient evidence to sustain his conviction for the attempted murder of castillo. this claim is meritless. 7 a. legal principles. in assereview the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidence that is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the federal standard of review is to the same effect: under principles of federal due process, review for sufficiency of evidence entails not the determination whether the reviewing court itself believes the evidence at trial establishes guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, but, instead, whether, after viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the standard of review is the same in cases in which the prosecution relies mainly on circumstantial of the jury to acquit a defendant if it finds that circumstantial evidence is susceptible of two interpretations, one of which suggests guilt and the other innocence [citations], it is the jury, not the appellate court[,] which must be convinced of the def court that the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding does not warrant a rev people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 11.) f the trial court can be set aside for the insufficiency of the evidence, it must clearly appear that on no hypothesis whatever is there sufficient substantial evidence to support the people v. sanghera (2006) 139 cal.app.4th perhaps the most fundamental rule of appellate law is that the judgment demonstrate error. [citation.] thus, when a criminal defendant claims on appeal that his conviction was based on insufficient evidence of one or more of the elements of the 8 crime of which he was convicted, we must begin with the presumption that the evidence of those elements was sufficient, and the defendant bears the burden of convincing us otherwise. to meet that burden, it is not enough for the defendant to simply contend, . . that the evidence is insufficient to itation.] rather, he must affirmatively demonstrate ibid.) an attempt to commit a crime consists of (1) the specific intent to commit the target crime, and (2) a direct but ineffectual act done towards its commission. (people v. swain (1996) 12 cal.4th 593, 604.) specific intent must often be inferred from circumstantial evidence. (people v. cole (1985) 165 cal.app.3d 41, 48.) people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15, a murder case, discussed the following types of premeditation and deliberation evidence2the type of evidence which this court has found sufficient to sustain a finding of premeditation and deliberation falls into three basic categories: (1) facts about how and what defendant did prior to the actual killing which show that the defendant was engaged in activity directed toward, and explicable as intended to result in, the killing activity; (2) prior relationship and/or conduct with the victim of motive, together with facts of type (1) or (3), would in turn support an inference that -reful thought and weighing [citation]; (3) facts about the nature of the killing from which the jury could infer that the manner of killing was so particular and exacting that the defendant must have 2 ree murder for purposes of determining whether there is sufficient evidence of premeditation people v. herrera (1999) 70 cal.app.4th 1456, 1462, fn. 8, disapproved on other grounds in people v. mesa (2012) 54 cal.4th 191, 198.) 9 a (1) or (2). [] analysis of the cases will show that this court sustains verdicts of first degree murder typically when there is evidence of all three types and otherwise requires at least extremely strong evidence of (1) or evidence of (2) in conjunction with either (1) or id. at pp. 26-27.) b. discussion. the evidence that hernandez was guilty of the attempted murder of castillo was more than sufficient as all three anderson factors were present. the motive evidence was strong because, not only were the victims from a rival gang, but castillo hernandez during a prior encounter and hernandez was honor-bound to avenge this weapon and then making a u-was a typical drive-and kept the car still so the gunman would have a good shot at the two rival gang members who were a fair distance down the street; evidence showed the gunman took very deliberate aim before firing. the shooting did not arise out of any immediately-prior confrontation; rather, the attackers snuck up on the victims and essentially astily people v. anderson, supra, 70 cal.2d at p. 27.) pointing to the fact castillo told police he did not think the gunman had been officers . . . found the . . . grand prix within fifteen to twenty feet of the avalos van, west of the van, ahead of it, closer to anderson.3 the only damage to the [grand prix] was a small hole in . . . the bumper . . . [whereas the] back window of the avalos van had 3 the shooting occurred on elburg street, between anderson and downey. of the block. anderson was the next cross street on elburg after downey. 10 been we are not persuaded by this theory the intended victim was avalos and that castillo just happened to be in the way. indeed, the evidence tended to show the opposite scenario was far more likely. castillo was driving a loud car with flashy rims, which was avalos was driving. hernandez, in particular, had a special reason for wanting to kill nick the bumper of the grand prix, does not necessarily infer anything different. (see people v. smith (2005) 37 cal.4th 733, 741 [that victim may have escaped death due castillo himself may not have believed the gunman was trying to kill him did not trump other inculpatory evidence (see, e.g., people v. renteria (1964) 61 cal.2d 497, 499 [store prosecution because other evidence showed this was untrue]), particularly given the post). approximately 250 feet away from the van when the shooting occurred. this distance renders the 10 to 15 foot gap between the van and the grand prix negligible, even ignoring the fact ththe gunfire. in addition, the jurors had been instructed on implied malice murder based on the natural and probable consequences doctrine, and it would have been quite rational for them to have concluded the attackers intended to shoot castillo and only hit avalos because of her proximity to him. there was sufficient evidence to prove hernandez was guilty of the attempted murder of castillo. 11 2. there was no ineffective assistance of counsel. hernandez contends the trial court erred by denying his new trial motion based on a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel for not adequately cross-examining the a. legal principles. people v. fosselman (1983) 33 cal.3d 572 . . . , the supreme court established effectiveness should be presented to the trial court on a motion for new trial, even though the new trial statute (pen. code,  1181) does not include this as one of the enumerated grounds for the motion. [citation.] [] it has been stated often that a motion for new trial is addressed to the sound discretion of the trial court and that its decision will not be reversed unless a clear abuse of discretion is shown. [citations.] while this rule undoubtedly is correct in the context of a statutory motion for new trial, the proper scope utory motion based upon an allegation of denial of constitutional rights is not so simple. we find the analogy to the procedures on motions to suppress evidence pursuant to penal code section 1538.5 compelling, and we hold that a similar two-step process is appropriate in these cases. [] in the first step, the trial court must find the relevant facts . . . . on appeal, all presumptions favor the trial testimonfindings, express or implied, will be upheld if they are supported by substantial evidence. people v. taylor (1984) 162 cal.app.3d 720, 724.) ep of the process, the trial court will have decided whether, on the facts which it has found, the defendant was deprived of his right to adequate assistance of counsel, that is, whether the defendant has shown that . . with reasonable competence and that it is reasonably probable a determination more . . [] to the extent that these are questions of law, the 12 responsibility . . . to measure the facts, as found by the trier, against the constitutional standard . . . exercises its people v. taylor, supra, 162 cal.app.3d at pp. 724-725; accord people v. albarran (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 214, 224-225, fn. 7 [it is proper to review denial of new trial motion de novo when claims of constitutional magnitude are raised].) that counsel made errors so serious that counsel was guaranteed the defendant by the sixth amendment. second, the defendant must show that the deficient performance prejudiced the defense. this requires showing that nt of a fair trial, a trial whose show that there is a reasonable probability different. a reasonable probability is a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in (williams v. taylor (2000) 529 u.s. 362, 390-391 [146 l.ed.2d 389].) in evaluating a claim that defense counsel should have presented particular all too temptinhas proved unsuccessful, to conclude that a particular act or omission of counsel was unreasonable. [citation.] a fair assessment of attorney performance requires that every effort be made to eliminate the distorting effects of hindsight, to reconstruct the counse13 the wide range of reasonable professional assistance; that is, the defendant must oveeffective assistance in any given case. even the best criminal defense attorneys would strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 689 [80 l.ed.2d 674].) b. background. cross-examining tracy peck, the prosecuthe trial court held an evidentiary hearing at which hernandez presented expert testimony from criminal defense attorney nancy sperber. se he did peck about a 2008 report from the national research council (nrc), an arm of the national academy of sciences, challenging the accuracy of ballistics identification procedures. sperber testified defense counsel should have utilized this report and asked other technical ballistics questions. the trial court denied hernandhave revealed by further questioning of prosecution witnesses or examination of defense experts that would have produced a more favorable result at trial. such claims must be supported by declarations or other proffered testimony establishing both the substance of the admitted evidence and its likelihood for exonerating the accused. [] you did proffer something. you put on ms. sperber. but . . discretion and rarely implicate inadequacy of representation. now, i thought . . . for a moment that ms. sperber was going to testify that ballistics evidence was just unreliable parlance. if i cross examined him, i could have done a better job. i would have asked 14 him this. i would have asked him that. i would have gone into other things . . the other things that counsel did. he specifically objected . . . to the chain of custody. he . . . cross examined ms. peck and also i believe the tow yard owners on the issue of the chain of custody and the bullet not being found immediately at the scene but found at the tow yard and whether or not the path of travel through two headrests and the bullet not being found immediately on the scene . . . might have undermined the reliability of ms. c. discussion. he could have elicited an admission that firearm identification is not an exact science, and sperber identified was showing the jury that a ballistics expert could not opine with certainty that a quate cross- than a difference of opinion in trial strategy. [] . . . unlike ms. choice, which was to challenge the science of tool marking, trial counsel chose to challenge the chain of custody of the test bullet jacket by putting forth the theory that three days after the shooting while it sat unlocked in a tow yard evidence bay. [] counsel also chose to challenge the reli-examining her on the multitude of guns from which the bullet jacket could have been fired, and the existence of scratches and markings on the bullet jacket from impact with attorney general is echoing a point made in stricklandstrickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 689.) 15 moreover, as the trial court pointed out, sperber did not purport to believe the nrc report entirely undermined the field of fired-bullet comparisons. rather, citing u.s. v. taylor (d.n.m. 2009) 663 f.supp.2d 1170, hernandez merely asserts the nrc report one federal court to mean that forensic science, in its present state of development does not allow an expert to state with absolute e limited so that they do not state a match to an absolute strongest, evidence placing hernandez at the crime scene. hence, defense counsel was not ineffective for chbeen very incriminating when considered in conjunction with the other inculpatory evidence. finally, even if defense counsel had been deficient, which we doubt, there was no resulting prejudice because, entirely apart from the ballistics evidence, there was -by shooting. castillo was acquainted with hernandez and identified him as the driver. there was an extremely strong gang motive arising out of the past personal relationship between hernandez and steven guilt. lacked all credibility. castillo testified he did not know how to make a dog patch hand a there any 16 talked to the investigating detectives and, after hearing a recording of his police reasonable jury would have believed his alleged recantation. claim of ineffective assistance of counsel. 3. there was no prosecutorial misconduct. hernandez contends the trial court erroneously denied his new trial motion based on prosecutorial misconduct during closing argument. these claims are meritless. a. legal principles. the trial court or the jury, and it is reasonably probable that without such misconduct, an outcome more favorable to the defendant would have resulted. [citation.] under the federal constitution, conduct by a prosecutor that does not result in the denial of the such as a comment upon thinvocation of the right to remain silent but is otherwise worthy of condemnation, is not unfairness as to make the resulting conviction a denial of due pr (people v. riggs (2008) 44 cal.4th 248, 298.) people v. welch (1999) 20 cbased on remarks to the jury, the defendant must show a reasonable likelihood the jury understood or applied the complained-of comments in an improper or erroneous manner. [citations.] people v. frye (1998) 18 cal.4th 894, 970, disapproved on another ground 17 in people v. doolin does not render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair is prosecutorial misconduct under people v. espinoza (1992) 3 cal.4th 806, 820.) b. discussion. (1) (a) background. hernandez contends the prosecutor committed misconduct by arguing to the jury that herna during closing argument, the prosecutor suggested the cross-examination of prosecutor asked, march 17th, 2008 shooting? were you working that day? did you respond to the scene? 4 4 on cross-examination, woodruff testified he had not taken part in the investigation of the avalos/castillo shooting. despite this answer, defense counsel proceeded to ask: th, 2008 had you done any investigation into the shooting of ms. avalos? correct? 18 the prosecutor continued: conspiracy . . . . [i]f i see it happening in court and i see the defense trying to back door case of police conspiracy, find that man not guilty. . . . if you find . . . that the [bullet] jacket was planted, that the gun was planted, that the evidence of ballistics was made up, find him not guilty. but if at the end of the day this gun, the defense could have requested that the weapon be tested, the defense expert to confirm for the evidence, your honor. let there be no mistake. i have the burden of proof. but if . . back door the argument of police conspiracy or back door the argument that this is not the gun, then have your analyst test the gun. then have your analyst look at the jacket. have your analyst come into court and say this is not a match. . the defense never rests. . . and you know why? because the defense has an obligation to put on a defensecontest that. if you have a hundred witness (b) discussion. griffin [v. california (1965) 380 u.s. 609 (14 l.ed.2d 106)], forbids argument jupeople v. avena (1996) 13 cal.4th 394, testify in his or her own defense. [citation.] but the prosecutor may comment on the state of the evidence, including the failure of the defense to introduce material evidence people v. mincey 19 permitted . . ial evidence or call presented evidence that he was somewhere else when the crime was committed, the present material evidence. people v. brown (2003) 31 cal.4th 518, 554.) own expert was a proper comment on a failure to produce logical evidence, and hernandez did not object people v. wrest (1992) 3 cal.4th 1088, 1105.) ous statement a timely objection could have allowed the prosecutor to explain he had merely become entangled in his the defense never rests metaphor, and that he did not intend to contradict his acknowledgment of the correct burden of proof. (2) the guzman issue. a pretrial hearing was held on the question of what evidence could be admitted to prove the charge of dissuading a witness (136.1, subd. (c)(1)) which arose out of steven ng in jail. the prosecutor told the trial court guzman had given the hanging out with some shot callers from tortilla flats when [hernandez] returned with the shot [] and other statements to the effect that there were people bragging about the shooting 20 september 17, 2009. steven guzman was not called as a witness at either the failed to appear, was arrested, and wound up in lock-up on october 14, 2009 . . . . on that date, he was assaulted by appellant and others in the holding cell. mr. guzman was not available in the instant trial because he was murdered on december the jury heard nothing about either gugave the police about the avalos/castillo shooting. the jury knew only that guzman had spoken to the police about the shooting. during closing argument, defense counsel countered the witness intimidation charge by pointing out there was no evidence of what guzman said to the police. defense counsel suggested hernandez had probably assaulted guzman for some reason unrelated to the avalos/castillo shooting, and hinted that if guzman had had anything incriminating to say in may of last year? we were all here. same parties here. where was he? we know he was in jail. so he could have easily been brought over . . . . there was a trial in around. well, we know he was in jail what? in october? he was in the area last year. have we heard one the prosecutor responded by telling the jury: the defense. not our job to prove anything here. [] . . . [] the defense does not have a burden to call any witnesses or put on any evidence, your honor, and we rested on the state of the evidence. 21 ou once again this did not constitute prosecutorial misconduct. the prosecutor was fairly knew he would not have incriminated hernandez. the evidence, including the gang t guzman spoke to the police, even if what he told them was unknown, would have been considered a breach of gang ethics. hernandez present unavailability and talking only about the fact he could have been called as a witness at some earlier point in time. this did not constitute prosecutorial misconduct. 4. gang-related vicarious firearm use enhancement did not violate equal protection. hernandez contends the 25-year-to-life terms imposed pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (e)(1), must be reversed because imposition of a gang-related vicarious firearm use enhancement violated his right to equal protection. this claim is meritless. a. legal principles. protection clause, [a defendant] first must show that the state has adopted a classification that aconsidering whether state legislation violates the equal protection clause of the fourteenth amendment . . . we apply different levels of scrutiny to different types of classifications. at a minimum, a statutory classification must be rationally related to a legitimate governmental purpose. [citations.] classifications based on race or national 22 origin . . . and classifications affecting fundamental rights . . . are given the most exacting scrutiny. between these extremes of rational basis review and strict scrutiny lies a level of intermediate scrutiny, which generally has been applied to discriminatory people v. wilkinson (2004) 33 cal.4th 821, 836-837.) a showing that the state has adopted a classification that affects two or more similarly situated groups people v. hofsheier (2006) 37 purpos id. at pp. 1199- persons are not similarly situated for purposes of the law, an equal protection claim fails at the people v. buffington (1999) 74 cal.app.4th 1149, 1155.) b. discussion. hernandez contends subdivision (e)(1) of section 12022.53 violates equal protection by imposing vicarious firearm enhancements on gang aiders and abettors, but not on aiders and abettors who are not gang members. this claim is meritless. subdivision (e)(1) of section this section shall apply to any person who is a principal in the commission of an offense if both of the following are pled and proved: [] (a) the person violated subdivision (b) of section 186.22 [the gang enhancement statute]. [] (b) any principal in the offense this statute imposes a vicarious firearm enhancement on an aider and abettor if a criminal street gang allegation has been pled and proved. subdivisions (d) and (e)(1)(b) when read together require the trial court to impose a consecutive 25-years-to-life sentence enhancement when a defendant is convicted of murder for the benefit of a crimi[a]ny . . death, to any person 23 abettor who is found guilty of murder is subject to the 25 years to life enhancement even though he or she did not personally and intentionally discharge a firearm causing death if the offense personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing death. in all other killings subject to section 12022.53, subdivision (d) that is, killings not for the benefit of a criminal street gang a principal, including an aider and abettor, is only subject to the 25-year enhancement if he or she personally and intentionally discharged a firearm people v. hernandez (2005) 134 cal.app.4th 474, 480, fns. omitted.) the same legal argument hernandez makes has been rejected elsewhere. (see people v. gonzales target offense resulting in a murder, defendants committed their crime with the purpose people v. hernandez, supra, 134 cal.app.4th at pp. 481-482 [even if criminal street gangs are similar to drug cartels or terrorist organizations, legislature is not required to outlaw all possibly comparable crimes].) we agree with the reasoning of these cases. citing people v. olivas (1976) 17 cal.3d 236, hernandez argues these cases were nion in people v. wilkinson, supra, 33 cal.4th at pp. 837-olivas could be interpreted to require application of the strict scrutiny standard whenever one challenges upon equal protection grounds a penal statute or statutes that authorize different sentences for comparable crimes, because such statutes always implicate the olivas properly has not been read so broadly. . . . [a] broad reading of olivas, as advocated by defendant people v. ward (2008) 167 cal.app.4th 252, y rejected the argument that the olivas protection grounds a penal statute or statutes that authorize different sentences for 24 comparable crimes, because such statutes always rational basis test applies to equal protection challenges based on sentencing there was no equal protection violation. 5. presentence custody credits were miscalculated. credit is unauthorized and mpeople v. taylor (2004) 119 cal.app.4th 628, 647; see also people v. acosta (1996) 48 cal.app.4th 411, 428, fn. jurisdictional error which may hernandez was arrested on february 24, 2009, and he remained in custody until his sentencing on may 17, 2011. for this period of time, he was entitled to 813 actual days of presentence custody credit, not the 812 days he was awarded. (see people v. morgain people v. browning (1991) 233 cal.app.3d 1410, 1412 [day of sentencing counted for presentence custody credits even though it was only partial day].) we will order the judgment modified to correct this error. 6. hernandez was improperly convicted of a lesser included offense. 2 (attempted murder of avalos) must be reversed because this was a necessarily lesser included offense of his count 1 conviction for murdering avalos. multiple convictions may not be based on necessarily included offenses. (people v. montoya (2004) 33 cal.4has . . . leaving it to the sentencing court to determine whether to stay execution of sentence on one or more convictions pursuant to section 654 in order to avoid multiple punishment for the same act. [citation.] a defendant, however, cannot be convicted of both an 25 offense and a lesser offense necessarily included within that offense, based upon his or her commission of the identpeople v. sanchez (2001) 24 cal.4th 983, 987, disapproved on other grounds by people v. reed (2006) 38 cal.4th 1224, 1228.) people v. davidson (2008) 159 cal.app.4th 205, 210; see also in re sylvester c. (2006) 137 cal.app.4th 601, we will vacate the conviction and sentence on count 2. 7. improper minimum parole eligibility term imposed on count 4. the attorney general correctly points out the trial court erred by using the gang enhancement statute ( 186.22, subd. (b))5 to impose a 15-year minimum parole 4 conviction for the attempted murder of castillo. subdivisions (b) through (d) of section 12022.53 impose enhancements on defendants who personally use a firearm during the commission of an enumerated offense. subdivision (e)(1) of that section extends these enhancements to any defendant who is also found guilty under the gang enhancement statute if a principal used a firearm. however, subdivision participation in a criminal street gang . . . shall not be imposed on a person in addition to an enhancement imposed pursuant to this subdivision, unless the person personally used as people v. salas (2001) 89 cal.app.4th 1275, 1281-1282, explained: section 186.22 [the gang enhancement] has been found to be applicable, in order for section 12022.53 to apply, it is necessary only for a principal, not the accused, in the commission of the underlying felony to personally use the firearm; personal firearm use by the accused is not required under these specific circumstances. 5 section 186.22, subdivision (4), any person who violates this subdivision in the commission of a felony punishable by imprisonment in the state prison for life shall not be paroled until a minimum of 15 26 however, as a consequence of this expanded liability under section 12022.53, subdivision (e), the legislature has determined to preclude the imposition of an additional enhancement under section 186.22 in a gang case unless the accused personally here, the trial court imposed a 15-year minimum parole eligibility term on count 4 despite the fact hernandez was not found to have personally used a firearm. this parole eligibility term must be stricken. disposition the judgment is affirmed as modified and remanded with instructions. hernandez is entitled to one additional day of actual presentence custody credit, for a total of 813 days. the conviction and sentence on count 2 are vacated. the 15-year minimum parole eligibility term imposed in connection with count 4 is vacated. the clerk of the superior court is directed to prepare and forward to the department of corrections and rehabilitation an amended abstract of judgment. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: kitching, j. aldrich, j. 