filed 4/26/12 p. v. diaz ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. anthony carlos diaz, defendant and appellant. b233986 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va115709) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. wade d. olson, judge. affirmed. law offices of pamela j. voich and pamela j. voich for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and louis w. karlin, deputy attorneys general for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant anthony carlos diaz appeals from a judgment entered after he was found to be in violation of probation based on new criminal behavior. he contends that the trial court abused its discretion because its determination was not supported by background in 2009, defendant was convicted in orange county superior court case no. 09nf2966 of unlawful possession of ammunition in violation of former penal code section 12316, subdivision (b)(1).1 imposition of sentence was suspended and defendant was placed on probation for three years, under specified terms and conditions, including the condition that he obeys all laws. in june 2010, the case was transferred to the los angeles county superior court, as defendant was then residing in this county. and charged with willful infliction of injury on his former girlfriend and mother of their mutual child in violation of section 273.5, subdivision (a), and making a criminal threat in violation of section 422. the trial court held the probation violation hearing jointly with the preliminary stified that she and defendant had been in a relationship in 2009 and were the parents of a two-year-old daughter. on april 29, 2011, doe asked defendant to come to the home of her ex-mother-in-mother), to talk to her about their daughter. defendant arrived between 8:00 and 9:00 p.m., and persuaded doe to go with him in his car by promising to take her to her for about 10 minutes, ignoring her request to let her out of the car. defendant drove into the dark, secluded, vine-covered driveway of a house belonging to a neighbor of his grandmother where defendant had taken doe before to beat her. as soon as defendant parked the car, he began beating doe, hitting her many times on the face with the back of his hand and with a clenched fist. defendant then 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code, unless otherwise indicated. 3 placed himself on top of her and choked doe with both hands around her neck until she the blood from her face and hands, and then told her he was going to kill her. defendant s afraid, although she had not feared for her life when defendant had beaten her in the past. doe explained that it was different this time and she was very frightened of him. defendant then drove doe to a motel where he brought her a bucket of ice to apply to her face. doe did not go to the police until the next day, when she filed a report and photographs were taken. at the hearing doe identified the photographs and testified that she looked better in them than she had the day before because she had iced her face all night. one photograph showed marks on her neck. doe claimed that her nose was broken, although she had sought no medical treatment. she explained that she could feel on cross-examination doe admitted that she had used methamphetamine on april 27, 2011, but denied that she was still under the influence of the drug at time of the beating. she acknowledged that her children had been removed from her custody by authorities the day before the beating, and that she was alleged to have had methamphetamine in her system. doe admitted that she had never told anyone about sheriff about the past beatings when she reported the april 29 incident, however. doe admitted that she did not tell the deputy that her nose was broken and that she was advised to see a doctor, which she did not do. the trial court held defendant to answer on the new charges and found him to be in violation of probation. on june 23, 2011, the trial court sentenced defendant to the middle term of two years in prison, with total custody credits of 88 days. the court imposed mandatory fines and fees and ordered defendant to provide specimens and samples as required by section 296. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal. 4 discussion unsupported by substantial evidence and was thus an abuse of discretion. . . . that the person has violated any of the conditions of his or her probation . . . (people v. rodriguez (1990) 51 cal.3d 437, 440, fn. omitted.) the prosecution must establish a violation of probation by a preponderance of (people v. rodriguez, supra, 51 cal.3d at pp. 444-should an appellate court interfere with the discretion of the trial court in the matter of denying or revoking probation. . . id. ll not be reversed unless it was arbitrary or capricious. (people v. chandler (1988) 203 (people v. urke (2011) 197 cal.app.4th 766, 773.) defendant argues that the courevidence test is applied when the trial court is required to resolve conflicting evidence. (people v. kurey (2001) 88 cal.app.4th 840, 848.) defendant has not shown that such a review is required here, as the evidence was not in conflict with other evidence and the sole witness did not contradict her own testimony in any significant respect. regardless, a review of the evidence to support a revocation of probation would be substantial evidence of solid value, contradicted or uncontradicted, which will support the that regard, we give great deference to the trial court and resolve people v. kurey, supra, 88 cal.app.4th at pp. 848-849, fns. omitted.) further, any substantial evidence argument must begin witruling. (see people v. johnson (1980) 26 cal.3d 557, 576.) 5 contrary to such standards of review, defendant gives very little deference to the the past, drawing the inference that she was not telling the truth on this occasion. defendant also argues that had she experienced past beatings, doe would not have called him to come see her and would not have gotten into his car. defendant also infers a lack attention, and claiming also called into question by her admission to having used methamphetamine, as well as the removal by authorities of her children from her custody. in addition, defendant claims that doe des-- testimony -- which we have read without finding such facts. we have found no testimony in the record to the effect that the attack was immediate. in fact, doe testified request to be let out of the car, and suggesting that defendant attacked her for no apparent reason or that defendant was calm afterward. direct evidence of one witness who is entitled to full credit is sufficient for proof of any corroboration in this case. on 411 is a matter for the trial court to determine in the first instance. (people v. hunter (1989) 49 6 le. (people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181.) the events described by doe were clearly not impossible. to be found inherently improbable, the testimony must be shown to be people v. ennis version of the beating was impossible, and as his argument is comprised solely of inferences and deductions, he has failed to show inherent improbability. (ibid.) we must defendant concedes that the photographs in evidence show that she sustained injuries. defendant argues that these injuries do not corroborate her testimony because they were minor and she did not seek medical treatment. defendant cites no authority to support his suggestion that a severe injury is an essential element of a violation of section 273.5. a injury, including, but not limited to, injury as a result of strangulation or suffocation, whether of a minor or serious nature, caused by a physical force. for purposes of this subd. (c), italics added.) the photographs show doe with a swollen eye and a mark on her neck. although the injuries do not appear to be severe, they are sufficient to satisfy the traumatic condition element of section 273.5. (see people v. wilkins (1993) 14 cal.app.4th 761, 769 [redness about the that defendant hit her in the face and strangled her until she was unconscious. we conclude from the evidence that the trial court did not act arbitrarily or capriciously in determining that there was reason to believe that defendant had violated a term of probation. defendant has thus failed to establish an abuse of discretion. 7 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. ___________________________, j. chavez we concur: ____________________________, p. j. boren ____________________________, j. ashmann-gerst 