filed 8/6/12 p. v. miller ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. hardy miller iii, defendant and appellant. b233624 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya075706) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, eric c. taylor, judge. affirmed. california appellate project and jonathan e. demson, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 hardy miller iii appeals from the judgment entered following his pleas of no contest to two counts of possession for sale of cocaine base (health & saf. code,  11351.5) and his admission that, during the second count, he had been released from custody on bail or his own recognizance (pen. code,  12022.1). the trial court sentenced miller to 7 years, 4 months in prison, suspended imposition of sentence and placed miller on probation for a period of three years. after a contested hearing, it was determined that miller had violated the terms of his probation, probation was revoked and the 7 year, 4 month sentence was placed in full force and effect. we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. facts. at approximately 12:16 a.m. on july 31, 2009, los angeles county deputy sheriff douglas herb was on duty in the vicinity of 1709 imperial highway in los angeles. herb and his partner, deputy jordan, stopped miller for a traffic violation and, during the stop, jordan searched miller. during the search, jordan recovered from miller -white rock like substance resembling rock various denominations. herb read to miller his miranda1 rights and miller indicated that he understood them. he agreed to speak to the deputies and told them that he possessed the rock 2 herb, an experienced narcotics officer, was of the opinion that miller possessed the rock cocaine for the purpose of sale. 1 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 2 it was stipulated that the substances recovered by the officers were tested by victor wong, a senior criminalist, on august 3, 2009. they were determined to contain approximately 5.11 grams of a solid substance containing cocaine in the base form. 3 3 that miller had no paraphernalia in his possession with which to use the cocaine, that miller had $200 in his possession, that miller did not appear to be under the influence of a narcotic or any other substance and that miller indicated he sold the cocaine to help support his family. at approximately 7:30 a.m. on november 8, 2009, los angeles deputy sheriff juan carlos parra was on duty in the area near 106341 vermont avenue in los angeles. as he drove into the entrance to the parking lot of the paradise inn, parra and his partner, deputy lopez, saw miller standing next to a vehicle. after they saw miller discard something, which then dropped to the ground, the deputies got out of their car and detained miller. deputy lopecontaining an off-4 there were three rocks: one large and two opinion on the quantity ograms. miller was in possession of roughly 80 doses. in addition, he was carrying a cellular telephon 2. procedural history. on march 1, 2010, miller was charged by information in case number ya075706, with two counts of felony possession for sale of cocaine base in violation of health and safety code section 11351.5. in count 1, it was alleged that the offense occurred on july 31, 2009. count 2 alleged that the offense occurred on november 8, 2009. it was further alleged as to count 2, that, at the time of the commission of the offense, miller was 3 denominations which is indicative of street level narcotic dealers for quick and easy hand 4 it was stipulated that claussen, a senior criminalist, on november 9, 2009 and found to contain approximately 4 on october 8, 2010, miller filed a pitchess[5] motion with regard to count 2 requesting all complaints regarforce, or attempted violence or excessive [force], racial bias, gender bias, ethnic bias, sexual orientation bias, coercive conduct, violation of constitutional rights, fabrication of charges, fabrication of evidence, fabrication of reasonable suspicion and/or probable cause, illegal search/seizure; false arrest, perjury, dishonesty, writing of false police reports, writing of false police reports to cover up the use of excessive force, planting of evidence, false or misleading internal reports including but not limited to false overtime or medical reports, and any other evidence of misconduct amounting to moral turpitude within the meaning of people v. wheeler (1992) 4 cal.4th 284 against los angeles co after some discussion regarding the broad nature of the motion, the prosecutor defendant and, second, the charge against [the defendant] is possession of cocaine for sales which is completely irrelevant to force complaints. . . . [] . . . [] . . . [w]e would reiterate that the declaration is insufficient because there is no alternative actual scenario that is plausible offered in the declaration. the declaration merely denied that defendant warrant pitchess hat it where the drugs came from or why the deputies would particularly pick out the defendant e counsel, who was standing in for counsel regularly assigned to the case, indicated that counsel did 5 pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531. 5 factual scenario to justify granting of the motion. [] just to speak to counsel about the use of force, . . . it is relevant because it does tend to show a certain habit or character that is department read to the trial court all complaints which had been made against both deputies. after the court listened to the evidence, some of which was given in great miller then brought a motion to sever count 1 from count 2, asserting that they were two separate arrests involving unrelated incidents and four different police officers. anything more than two unrelated incidents. [there is] no evidence that this is a part of some type of grand scheme. there are absolutely no witnesses in common [and] no evidence in common. [they occurred] three to four months apart [at] different locations . . consolidate these two cases, what cases could you? they are not only the same class of court denied the motion to sever. at proceedings held on january 4, 2011, both counsel announced that they were ready for trial. the prosecutor then indicated that an offer had been submitted on may 18 indicating that he is a drug user, miller indicated that he wished to make a counteroffer. defense counsel stated that miller had never been to state prison and he had had one trial, in 1994, in which he had been acquitted. counsel further indicated that miller is suspended sentence perhaps or . . 6 after a discussion off the record, the trial court indicated that it had spoken to both sides about the program at delancey street. the people objected, believing that miller should serve some time in prison. however, the trial court indicated that if miller was accepted to delancey street and he wanted to participate in that program, the court would impose a term of 7 years, 4 months, suspended. after waiving his right to a jury trial, his right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses against him, the right to present a defense, the right to use the subpoena power of the court to obtain witnesses or evidence on his behalf at no cost to him, and the right d open to the court; [that he would] receive a [two-year] drug treatment program through delancey street . . . [] . . . [a]nd miller pled no contest to two counts of possession for sale of cocaine base in violation of health and safety code section 11351.5 and admitted that the second count had been committed while he was out on bail or his own recognizance pursuant to penal code section 12022.1. the trial court placed him on probation, then advised him that offer of three years and, if not, he would go to trial. finally, the trial court warned miller lose the benefit of [his] plea and would likely be sentenced to the maximum term 7 was referred to delancey street earlier this week. he went there and they tentatively accepted him, but they said they think he should go to a detox prior to . . . being admitted but i thought that was part of the program, the trial court concluded that he had not been accepted. counsel agreed, but programs for people.benefit or become eligible, we do have resources to find him a place to get him ready to it was an allegation of sales. . . . [] apparently the defendant has been back to delancey street and it would have been apparent to [him] that he needed to come back [to court] with an acceptance letter, and it seem[ed] highly unusual that he would not have [one] if to be suitable at this time. [] so just because these are [sales] charges does not . . . mean some other issues, but there have always been drug usage issues. and his record in after a discussion between the trial court, defense counsel and miller, it was determined that miller would have an interview at delancey street the following tuesday. the trial court then spoke with a representative from delancey street and to me by the afternoon. so i want [miller] back here on the 3rd and, if he is not accepted 8 on february 3, 2011, the trial court indicated it had received a letter accepting miller to delancey street. as he was required to report to delancey street on the day of sentencing, the trial court set sentencing proceedings for february 8, 2011. on that day, the trial court awarded miller three years formal probation, two years of which were to be spent in delancey street. miller was ordered to pay a $200 restitution fine (pen. code,  1202.4, subd. (b)), a stayed $200 probation revocation restitution fine (pen. code,  11372.5) and a $150 drug program fee (health & saf. code,  11372.7). the trial court read to miller the conditions of his probation, including that he was to report to delancey street within 24 hours. at a hearing held on february 14, 2011, a warrant which had been issued for prison term and, as miller did not have a minute order demonstrating that, he had been unable to enroll in the program at delancey street. the warrant had been issued because, instead of returning to court to obtain such a minute order or attempting to check into them in hopes that he would his counsel had not told him to do that and the trial court had not told him to do that. the trial court determined that the sentence should be suspended and that miller needed to go to delancey street or at least come back to the court. [] . . . [] the question is whether or not he is in violation [of probation] for not going to delancey [or the] setting of [a] violation. you all can talk to the detective and, if the detective told 9 because it could have been confusing. but there was nothing confusing about what the court said for him to do and i put [sentencing] off so that he would have time to get his affairs in order so that he [could] go to delancey street. . . . [s]imply not to go is not acceptable. [] he is ordered to delancey street within 24 hours. . . . we will have a settin sure exactly what happened which is why i wanted to give you both time to figure out what exactly [miller] was at a hearing held on february 22, 2011, the trial court indicated that delancey street was no longer willing to accept miller. defense counsel stated that, although the court had specified delancey street, another live-in program might suffice. the trial court indicated that the order had been for delancey street. after hearing argument from both parties, the trial court indicated it intended to remand miller. tinstructions. but for the fact that he failed to go to delancey street when he was told, he would have been in the program. all the efforts that we put forth to get him in that too late in the day to have him remanded, miller was ordered to appear the following day the following day, the trial court again indicated that delancey street had about his delay in coming, . . . then subsequent tthey were also concerned about his attitude mr. 10 after the trial court cleared the courtroom, the detective which miller had gone to see on february 11, 2011, testified that miller had called the detective and indicated that he had some information about some drug dealers. miller then told the detective that he had been arrested. the detective called the court and was told that miller needed to go back to court to get a minute order and some paper work to submit to delancey street. because the detective did not know if miller was to report to delancey street that night or the following morning, he told miller to come to the station the following morning. and gave to the detective some information regarding drug dealers in the area. the go to delancey street. the trial court noted that the detective had been brwhat he told [miller] with respect to delancey street, but we still have another stage, which is what to do with mr. miller at this point. just to be clear, i said it yesterday, too, i intend to remand him. he is not at dreally specific infin which miller had been convicted and granted probation, which he had already violated. d [detective], trying to do something on another case and completely ignoring what i told trial court remanded miller and set the matter for another hearing. 11 at proceedings held on may 6, 2011, the trial court again closed the court room and held an in camera hearing. the detective to which miller had reported testified that he had been contacted by miller who indicated he might be able to provide some information that would be of benefit to law enforcement. miller indicated that he was involved in a case and committed to a program. he was not, however, sure whether it was a live-in program and, if it was, he did not wish to go. the detective contacted the als that were selling later that day, the detective received a call from miller, who stated that he had with miller that evening, it was his understanding that miller was to go to court at some point the next day. the detective told miller to come and see him before he went to court. the two met that morning, then spoke on the telephone three or four times after that over the next few days. miller called the detective several times and each time he indicatthat miller wished to work with him, but that he was unsure what the court would do. in as the day [miller] left there and went straight to delancey street with the minute order that he had. and [the detective] arrived at that conclusion because [miller] called [the detective] that night and . . . mentioned . . . a ticket and [that was the same day the detective] received a [that] when [miller had ] told him [that] he 12 according to the detective, miller never resolved the issue with the ticket. miller informed ective] know and [they would] ultimately decide, along with the court, if [they would] even work court proceedings. knight had gone to court with miller on the day he had entered his plea. after the court proceedings, knight had taken miller to the probation office to register, then to delancey street. an individual at delancey street had given miller instructions then miller and knight left the facility. knight took miller back to delancey street on the following two days and each time he had conversations with some of the personnel there. because during one conversation, delancey street personnel had told cket, knight had driven him to the long beach court house. the court, however, had been closed. miller had told knight that he did not wish to participate in a live-in program. care of everything they [told] him to do . . . . then[,] the last time he went, they just [told him miller, himself, chose to testify. he stated that, when he entered the plea, he nrollment at delancey street was something that [he] and, after he was finished there, went back to the court to obtain the necessary minute order. he then went to delancey street. however, an individual there told him that he needed to come back with some additional paper work from the court. 13 citation ticket in [his] wallet and . . . [need] to do is photocopy everything, go get your insurance, registration and get the ticket signed off by highway patrol and put it in an envelope with [a] $50 money order miller testified that, on the day he entered the plea, he first went to the probation department immediately behind the courthouse. after a couple of hours there, he went to pick up his children and to get some food. when, approximately one and one-half hours later he returned to the courtroom to get the minute order he needed for delancey street, the court room was locked. he decided to go to room 170, where he was able to obtain a copy of the minute order. as, by this time it was approximately 4:00 p.m., miller went home. he planned to report to delancey street the following day. on his way home, miller received a message from the detective he had spoken with earlier. after miller arrived at his home, he telephoned the detective, who told him to come see him the following morning. the scheduled to remained for the rest of the day. the following day, miller again went to see the detective. after the two drove around for a couple of hours, miller returned home. the that his lawyer and the district attorney were looking for him. the detective told miller that 14 because he believed he had a scheduled hearing, miller returned to court on february 14, 2011. there, he received a different minute order and, the following day, disrespecting the court and [he] was just trying to do it, the right thing, but [he] did it the following lengthy argument by both parties, the trial court indicated that, after it of idelancey street or serve . . . four years on count 1 and the total with all the things pay the various fines previously imposed. he was awarded presentence custody credit for 220 days. miller filed a timely notice of appeal on june 8, 2011. contentions after examination of the record, counsel filed an opening brief which raised no issues and requested this court to conduct an independent review of the record. by notice filed april 3, 2012, the clerk of this court advised miller to submit within 30 days any contentions, grounds of appeal or arguments he wished this court to consider. no response has been received to date. 15 review on appeal we have examined the entire record and are satisfied counsel has complied fully (smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 278-284; people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, 443.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. aldrich, j. we concur: klein, p. j. kitching, j. 