filed 7/23/12 p. v. santoyo ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. enrique silva santoyo, defendant and appellant. b233850 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa068738) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, harvey giss, judge. affirmed. rachel lederman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and viet h. nguyen, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant, enrique silva santoyo, appeals the judgment entered following his plea of no contest to cultivating marijuana and theft of services over $950 (health & saf. code,  11358; pen. code,  498, subd. (b)). he was sentenced to state prison for a term of 16 months. the judgment is affirmed. background1 on september 10, 2010, los angeles fire captain randall james beach responded to a 911 call about a structure fire. upon arriving at the location, beach smelled burning marijuana and saw smoke coming from the backyard of a house. the front door of the house was open. beach went through the house and into the backyard where he saw the building that had burned, a small detached garage. beach . . but no active burning. there was nothing that was still beach entered the garage. the temperature inside was warm, and one of the walls was charred and burned. he saw many marijuana plants. the fire apparently started when one of the heavy grow lights hanging over the marijuana plants short-circuited and overheated a plug. the combination of water and electricity in the garage had created a for these other lights. . . . i had to have my firefighters go in and find the electrical panel in the back of this room so we could actually turn these . . . lights off individually or unplug them from their little transformers which again was dangerous. i was afraid of electricity and water because they were walking on water where the hose had been put in to us because we had water now 1 the background facts are taken from evidence presented at the suppression hearing. 3 because of the marijuana plants, beach asked for a police unit to be dispatched to the scene. officers arrived within 20 crew was still working when that might be behind any electrical plug to make sure there was no hidden fire. [] the [] the wit beach testified that although there were no visible flames when he first arrived at when a fire is out is there still a continuing danger that embers from a recently put out fire will ignite again and start further fire damage? [] a. sure. we . . . had to open up the wall. we made holes [with hatchets] to make sure there was no fire burning inside the wall which . . . is part of our job, is to make sure the fire is completely out. so we actually tore open the wall and made sure that there was no unseen fire burning still. we made sure it was completely beach also noticed conduit coming out of one of the walls, which indicated the occupants might have bypassed the electrical meter in order to obtain power to run the there is really no way to turn it off. . . . so even if the whole house was on fire, we could los angeles police officer nelson ramaya responded to the call for police assistance. he did not know the assistance call had anything to do with marijuana. upon arrival, he saw firefighters inside the detached garage, and he smelled smoke and marijuana. beach met him in the backyard. through a broken window in the side of the garage, ramaya could see numerous marijuana plants. he entered the garage and saw tables with fire-damaged marijuana plants on them. there was an elaborate lighting system, a ventilation system, and a large air conditioning system. there were nine 1000-watt lights and nine ballasts. a ballast is a form of lighting used for marijuana 4 ruben chacon, a theft investigator with the los angeles department of water and power, testified he was called to the scene to investigate a possible illegal electrical bypass and to rule out any safety hazards it might be causing. when he arrived, police and firefighters were at the scene. he pulled the electrical meter, which was attached to the house, and confirmed there was an illegal bypass. chacon testified this kind of there was more electricity being use contention discussion santoyo moved to suppress all the evidence flowing from the warrantless observations ramaya and chacon made at the fire scene. in denying the motion, the trial court concluded the plain-view observations of both men were admissible because they had been made during exigent circumstances. the trial court was right. 1. legal principles. persons, houses, papers and effects, against unreasonable searches and seizures, shall not be violated . . . the fourteenth amendment to the federal constitution and is applicable to the states. [citation.] a similar guarantee against unreasonable government searches is set forth in the state constitution (cal. const., art. i,  13) but, since voter approval of proposition 8 in june 1982, state and federal claims relating to exclusion of evidence on grounds of unreasonable search and seizure are measured by the same state constitution thus forbids the courts to order the exclusion of evidence at trial as a remedy for an unreasonable search and seizure unless that remedy is required by the 5 federal constitution as interpreted by the united (people v. camacho (2000) 23 cal.4th 824, 829-action of the lower courts, we will uphold those factual findings of the trial court that are supported by substantial evidence. the question of whether a search was unreasonable, id. at p. 830.) inside a home payton v. new york (1980) 445 u.s. 573, 586 [63 l.ed.2d 639, 100 s.ct. 1371], fn. omitted.) however, the . . . when exigent circumstances require prompt action by the popeople v. bacigalupo (1991) 1 cal.4th danger to life or serious damage to property, or to forestall the imminent escape of a suspect or destruction of evidence. there is no ready litmus test for determining whether such circumstances exist, and in each case the claim of an extraordinary situation must be people v. ramey (1976) 16 cal.3d 263, 276.) one well-recognized that a warrantless entry by criminal law enforcement officials may be legal when there is compelling need for official action and no time to secure a warrant. [citations.] similarly, in the regulatory field, our cases have recognized the importance [] a burning building clearly presents an exigency of sufficient proportions to render a must secure a warrant or consent before entering a burning structure to put out the blaze. and once in a building for this purpose, firefighters may seize evidence of arson that is in michigan v. tyler (1978) 436 u.s. 499, 509 [56 l.ed.2d 486, 98 s.ct. 1942].) 6 tyler made it clear that this exigent circumstance does not automatically cease hough the michigan supreme court appears to have accepted this principle [i.e., that a fire constitutes an exigent circumstance], its opinion may be read as holding that the exigency justifying a warrantless entry to fight a fire ends, and the need to get a warrant begins, with the dousing of the last flame. [citation.] we think this view of the firefighting function is unrealistically narrow, however. fire officials are charged not only with extinguishing fires, but with finding their causes. prompt derecurrence, as through the detection of continuing dangers such as faulty wiring or a defective furnace. immediate investigation may also be necessary to preserve evidence from intentional or accidental destruction. and, of course, the sooner the officials complete their duties, the less will be their subsequent interference with the privacy and the recovery efforts of the victims. for these reasons, officials need no warrant to remain in a building for a reasonable time to investigate the cause of a blaze after it has been extinguished. and if the warrantless entry to put out the fire and determine its cause is constitutional, the warrantless seizure of evidence while inspecting the premises for these michigan v. tyler, supra, 436 u.s. at pp. 509-510, fn. omitted.) amendment requirements. [citation.] once a fireman has lawfully entered a burning this is not to say there are no limits on what police may do once inside a fire-damaged area that the fire fighters were not justified in entering . . . search any area the fire fighters were not justified in searching. they may only venture into areas affected by the flames and places where evidence of arson might reasonably be people v. glance (1989) 209 cal.app.3d 836, 845-846.) 7 2. discussion. santoyo contensuppressed because they did not fall within the exigent circumstance exception set forth in michigan v. tyler. we disagree. santoyo cites united states v. hoffman (9th cir. 1979) 607 f.2d 280, as demonstrating the trial court here erred. however, his reliance on that case is misplaced. in hoffman, a police officer arrived at the scene of a trailer fire after it was already under control. when one of the firefighters told the officer there was a sawed-off shotgun seizing the weapon. hoffman held the trial court should have suppressed the shotgun: the blaze or to investigate . . was to seize evidence of an greater than that of the firemen does nid. at p. 284, fn. omitted.) well after the fire had been put out and the firefighters had eliminated any hazard by turning off and unplugging the lights and other appliances in the garage. chacon did not assist in safety efforts in any way, but was clearly there only to document uti these arguments are without merit. the evidence clearly showed both chacon and ramaya made their observations while engaged in fire-related activities undertaken while the firefighters were still making sure the fire would not be rekindled.2 moreover, 2 for ile 8 both of the crimes to which their observations were pertinent, the marijuana operation and the illegal utility bypass, appeared to be directly related to the cause of the fire. hence, this was very different from the illegal weapon in hoffman, which was unrelated to the cause of the fire. firemen were still determining whether the fire was completely out when the police hoffman is distinguishable on this point as well because there the evidence tended to show all firefighting efforts had ceased before the officer entered the trailer to seize the shotgun. ed in the suppression hearing, firemen were still going in and out of the trailer, but it was not clear what they were doing inside the trailer at that time. there is no intimation in the record that the firemen were continuing to fight united states v. hoffman, supra, 607 f.2d at p. 282.) here, when officer ramaya arrived, the firefighters were still chopping holes in the walls and checking electrical plugs for hidden flames. n. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: kitching, j. aldrich, j. 