filed 8/13/12 p. v. wright ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. levitius daniel wright, defendant and appellant. b233874 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va109176) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, philip h. hickok, judge. affirmed. marcia c. levine, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, linda c. johnson and robert m. snider, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 levitius daniel wright appeals from the judgment entered following his conviction on one count of first degree murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a))1 and one count of attempted murder with premeditation and deliberation ( 664/187, subd. (a)). on appeal, he challenges only the sufficiency of the evidence to support the gang enhancement ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)). we affirm. factual and procedural background on february 6, 2006, around 9:00 p.m., carl arline received a telephone call from a friend, santwone, who was a member of a gang called the b-bop bloods. santwone asked arline to come to his location on pace avenue because santwone felt he was having a problem with some people he saw there. arline had been friends with santwone most of his life. arline was a member of a rival gang to the b-bops. arline walked to an apartment complex at 93rd street and belhaven avenue that was known as a hangout for the b-bops. when he arrived, he encountered appellant, who was his childhood friend and a b-which stood for crip killer. arline mentioned the phone call to appellant, and arline and appellant began walking toward pace avenue, and they were joined by two other childhood friends, martis childs and markease williams. childs and williams were members of the b-bops. as the group walked down pace avenue, they saw a group of people standing on the sidewalk in front of a house. the group consisted of troy daniel, joseph bryant, trarel mathis, jermaine scorza, and nikita wheaton; they were 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 arline, childs, and williams. most of the people standing in front ohouse did not know appellant, arline, childs, and williams. scorza was concerned that the group approaching them might think bryant was a member of the crips because he was wearing blue clothing. childs lifted his sweatshirt and revealed a gun in his waistband to the group which was understood to be a gang challenge. daniel answered that they did not bang or were from nowhere, which meant that they were not gang members. to th childs pulled out his gun, moved appellant out of the way, and began shooting at bryant. bryant tried to run away, but he fell to the ground. childs shot bryant again, and everyone ran away. mathis was struck by a bullet in his upper back as he ran away. bryant was killed. the jury found appellant guilty of one count of first degree murder and one count of attempted murder, and found firearm and gang allegations to be true. appellant filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion support the gang enhancement because there was insufficient evidence of the 4 conclude that the evidence was sufficient to support the enhancement and therefore affirm. e record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable trier of fact [citation.] we resolve all conflicts in the evidence and questions of credibility in favor of the verdict, and indulge every reasonable inference the jury could draw from the evidence. [citation.] this standard applies whether direct or circumstantial evidence is involved. [citation.] it also applies when determining whether the evidence is sufficient to sustain a jury finding on a gang enhancement. sufficient substanpeople v. mendez (2010) 188 cal.app.4th 47, 56.) ongoing organization, association, or group of three or more persons, whether formal or informal, having as one of its primary activities the commission of one or more of the criminal acts enumerated in paragraphs (1) to (25), inclusive, or (31) to (33), inclusive, of subdivision (e), having a common name or common identifying sign or symbol, and whose members individually or collectively engage in or have the commission of one or more of the statutorily enumerated crimes be one of the listed in section 186.22, subdivision (e) is sufficient to esta 5 activities. on the other hand, proof of only the occasional commission of crimes circumstances of the charged crime, have some tendency in reason to prove the people v. duran (2002) 97 cal.app.4th 1448, 1464-1465 (duran), quoting people v. sengpadychith (2001) 26 cal.4th 316, 320, 323-324.) appellant relies on in re alexander l. (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 605 (alexander l.), in which the court held that there was insufficient evidence of the alexander l. testified that he knew the gang had been involved in certain crimes, but there was no evidence of the circumstances of the crimes or how the expert obtained his information. on appeal, the court held that the testimony lacked an adequate foundation because there was no evidence establishing the reliability of id. at p. 612.) in alexander l., the gang expert testified that he knew the gang had been involved in crimes such as assindeed, on cross-examination, [he] testified that the vast majority of cases connected to [the gang] that he had run aalexander l., supra, 149 cal.app.4th at p. 612.) testified that he first became aware of the b-bops in 2000. since that time, he had arrested b-bop members and become familiar with members and their families. 6 which they either tattoo on their body, spray paint on the walls or sidewalks are --bop watts, b-bop bloods, and the seen gang members at a certain apartment building. sergeant bates testified that he had spoken with other officers about the b-of firearms; assault with a deadly weapon, firearms; assault with a deadly weapon, appellant contends that the evidence is insufficient because sergeant bates did not explain how he knewas no foundation for his opinion that the gang consistently and repeatedly committed this crimes. we disagree. unlike alexander l.primary activities. also in contrast to alexander l., sergeant bates testified about his many years of experience with the b-bops, arresting gang members and familiarizing himself with their families, rivals, and activities. (see people v. martinez (2008) 158 cal.app.4tyears dealing with the gang, including investigations and personal conversations with members, and reviews of reports suffices to establish the foundation for his xpert, founded on his or her conversations with gang members, personal investigation of crimes committed by gang members, and information obtained from colleagues in his or her own and mary duran, supra, 97 cal.app.4th at p. 1465.) we conclude the evidence was sufficient to support the gang enhancement. 7 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports willhite, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. suzukawa, j. 