filed 5/22/12 p. v. youseef ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. ahmad mustafa yousef, defendant and appellant. b233613 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va109147) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, john a. torribio, judge. affirmed. david r. greifinger, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, kenneth c. byrne and dana m. ali, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________ 2 ahmad mustafa yousef appeals from the judgment entered following his conviction by a jury for making a criminal threat (pen. code,  422)1 with special findings by the court in a bifurcated proceeding that he had suffered a prior serious felony -(i); 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)) and section 667, subdivision (a)(1). yousef contends his enhanced sentence as a second strike offender was unauthorized because his prior conviction was not for a serious felony under section 1192.7, subdivision (c), and denial of his request to represent himself at sentencing was reversible error. we affirm. factual and procedural background yousef was charged in an information filed september 4, 2009 with one count of making a criminal threat after he became involved in a confrontation at a bar and threatened to kill the bar owner in december 2008. the information specially alleged yousef had suffered a prior serious felony conviction (attempted arson,  455) within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (a)(1), and the three strikes law and he had served one separate prison term for a felony ( 667.5, subd. (b)). yousef, represented by retained counsel, charles e. mullis, pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. on october 2, 2009 yousef appeared with mullis, who declared a conflict of interest making him unable to represent yousef. the trial court relieved mullis as counse on october 26, 2009 yousef failed to appear in court, and a bench warrant was issued. on march 25, 2010 yousef appeared in court, represented by a deputy public defender, and the bench warrant was recalled. the trial court remanded yousef into custody and set a pretrial hearing. at the april 29, 2010 pretrial conference yousef appeared with a deputy public defender and moved to discharge his appointed counsel (people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 (marsden). after a closed hearing the motion was denied. the court trailed the trial date from may 14 to may 17, 2010. 1 statutory references are to the penal code. 3 on may 14, 2010 yousef appeared in court, represented by retained counsel john mcdonald. the public defendeyousef was represented at trial by mcdonald. after jury selection and a full day trial, yousef was convicted of making a criminal threat. in a bifurcated proceeding yousef admitted the prior conviction allegations, specifically admitting he had been convicted of 2 2 though the court participated in the questioning. code section 455, case no. ka064533, date of conviction, may 23, 3004, do you admit that prior? empted. penalty and also adding five years. purposes of sentencing]. is that it is a potential consequence. 4 on july 27, 2010 yousef appeared in court with mcdonald for sentencing. the trial court granted the defense motion for a continuance. at the continued hearing on august 18, 2010 mcdonald declared a conflict. the court relieved mcdonald as counsel of record, continued the sentencing hearing. on october 7, 2010 yousef appeared represented by retained counsel ryan v. continued the hearing to november 9, 2010. thereafter, the court granted two defense requests to continue sentencing for a hearing on a new trial motion. at the sentencing hearing scheduled for january 12, 2011 kinderman declared a conflict. the trial court grand then asked yousef whether he had the means to retain private counsel. yousef the sentencing hearing was continued yet again. obtained a further continuance of the hearing. either hire a private attorney attorney? me off. i do not have the money to file a motion i wanted to file, ineffective assistance of counsel on mr. mcdonald, and he refused to do it. i cannot proceed. if you want to sentence fair. 5 you asked him to file? counsel. mr. mcdonald, when he brought me in here, into your courtroom that oing to come in and dismiss the case and refile it. i was brought in, rushed into trial. no supposedly the victim. he was on the stand for five minutes. the question i askeweek to call the police? if you are so scared mr. yousef is going to kill you, you the jury. he refused to do it because of his plan for me to lose. his plan for me to picking jury, opening statement, and closing argument everything was one day. what does that tell you? ht. i agree. after yousef and im conferred, the trial court reviewed with yousef his history of private counsel. the attorneys, and back to the public defender, and your request to continue to hire a new attorney is denied, sir. the history of this case is that you have changed attorneys almost willy-nilly. i find this is merely a sham to try to delay the inevitable based on the history of the record in this matter, this matter has been continued numerous times since the as a going to deny that. your request to continue the matter in an attempt to hire an attorney 6 going to deny that. i find this is done strictly to be dilatory and delay the case and not made in good faith. strike conviction for attempted arson (people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497, 531 (romero). the court denied the new trial motion, but agreed to trail the romero motion to allow the parties to submit further briefing. at the sentencing hearing on april 8, 2011 yousef appeared with retained counsel charles e. mullis, who had represented yousef at the preliminary hearing in 2009. the defense motion to continue the pending matters with no further continuances. at sentencing on may 3, 2011 yousef appeared with mullis. the court heard and denied the romero motion, declining to dismiss the prior strike conviction for attempted arson. the court sentenced yousef to an aggregate state prison term of 11 years, consisting of six years for making a criminal threat (the three-year upper term doubled under the three strikes law), enhanced by five years for the prior serious felony conviction. discussion 1. present himself a criminal defendant has the right under the sixth and fourteenth amendments to waive the right to counsel and to represent himself or herself. (faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806, 819 [95 s.ct. 2525, 45 l.ed.2d 562] (faretta) t]he sixth amendment does not provide merely that a defense shall be made for the accused; it criminal case possesses two constitutional rights with respect to representation that are mutually exclusive. a defendant has the right to be represented by counsel at all critical stages of a criminal prosecution. [citations.] at the same time, . . . because the sixth amendment grants to the accused personally the right to present a defense, a defendant (people v. koontz (2002) 27 cal.4th 1041, 1069.) 7 -representation, however, is absolute only if he or she knowingly, voluntarily and intelligently invokes that constitutional right a reasonable time prior to the start of trial (people v. lynch (2010) 50 cal.4th 693, 721, overruled on other grounds in people v. mckinnon (2011) 52 cal.4th 610, 637) or sentencing proceedings (people v. miller (2007) 153 cal.app.4th 1015, 1024 (miller)). otherwise, a -representation is addressed to the sound discretion of the trial court. (people v. windham (1977) 19 cal.3d 121, 127-129 (windham).) when a request for self-representation is untimely, the trial court must inquire sua sponte into the reasons for the request and exercise its discretion in light of certain factors identified in windham. the defendant, the defrequest, the length and stage of the proceedings, and the disruption or delay which might windham, supra, 19 cal.3d at p. 128; accord, people v. lynch, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 722, fn. 10.) also (people v. bradford (1997) 15 cal.4th 1229, 1365) and any apparent equivocation or ambiguity of the request (people v. barnett (1998) 17 cal.4th 1044, 1109-1110). the supreme court in windham, decline[d] to mandate a rule that a trial court must, in all cases, state the reasons underlying a decision to deny a motion for self-representation which is based on nonconstitutionawindham, supra, 19 motion is properly affirmed if substantial evidence in the record otherwise supports the inference the court had those factors in mind when it ruled. (people v. scott (2001) 91 cal.app.4th 1197, 1206.) this is true even if the trial court failed not only to state the reasons for its decision to deny the motion but also to make the sua sponte inquiry generally required. thus, in people v. dent (2003) 30 cal.4th 213, a motion for self-representation was denied without a windham inquiry solely because it was a death court denied the request for an improper reason, if the record as a whole establishes 8 dent, at p. 218.) ultimately the supreme court concluded the record in dent did not otherwise support denial of the motion. nevertheless, dent sanctions appellate review of the entire record to determine whether the trial court abused its discretion in denying a motion for self-representation, even when the trial court based its denial of self-representation on an improper ground and without a windham inquiry. citing people v. miller, supra, 153 cal.app.4th 1015 yousef contends the denial of his request for self-representation at sentencing on march 30, 2011 was reversible error. miller held a sentencing hearing is a proceeding separate from trial and an unequivocal request for self-representation made in advance of a sentencing hearing was timely and should therefore be granted as a matter of right if the defendant has knowingly and intelligently waived his or her right to counsel. (id. at p. 1024.) in an apparent acknowledgement his request for self-representation was untimely, yousef contends his counsel could submit additional briefing on the romero motion. alternatively, yousef argues, if his request were untimely, then the trial court abused its discretion by denying it for invalid reasons. made only after repeated continuances of the sentencing hearing at his request or on his behalfwas neither timely nor improperly denied. in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390 (doolin), a capital case, on the day of sentencing the defendant made a marsden motion to replace appointed counsel, which the trial court denied. the defendant then made a request for self-representation, which the court also denied. in its opinion the supreme court noted isusing the motion to id. at p. 454.) the court recognized, while it had not previously addressed the timeliness of a request for self-representation made after the penalty phase verdict but before sentencing ibid.) the doolin 9 court explained the defendant had never requested self-representation during the guilt or penalty phases of the trial; only when his efforts to secure new appointed counsel and a continuance failed, did he seek self-representation and only then with the appointment of o help him prepare various motions. the defendant was not prepared to proceed and could give no estimate of when he would be ready to proceed with sentencing. (id. at pp. 454-455.) based on these circumstances, the doolin court 3 (id. at p. 455.) in this case, although the trial court made no formal windham inquiry, the record -representation was similar to that of the defendant in doolinmanifestly untimely and intended solely as a delaying tactic. deputy public defender im advised the court yousef wanted either to represent himself or f said he could not afford to hire private counsel. yousef then explained his request for self- 3 the doolin court distinguished millerself-representation are in stark contrast to a recent court miller, the defendant moved for self-representation after the jury rendered its verdict and a new trial motion was made and denied, but more than two months before the scheduled sentencing hearing. at the time he made his motion, the defendant indicated to the court he planned to conduct his own investigation and he would be prepared on the date the motion as untimely, the court observed that concerns about trial delay or disruption do not apply was required to grant his request for self-representation, which was unequivocal, as long having been apprised of the dangers of self--representation at sentencing was not doolin, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 455, fn. 39.) 10 nald had ceased to represent yousef more than six months earlier, and neither yousef nor any of his counsel during that period suggested any such motion was contemplated. (mcdonald himself had filed a motion for new trial in august 2010 based on the insufficiency of the evidence to support the verdict.) moreover, yousef had never before requested self-representation in this case, instead demonstrating a proclivity to substitute counsel by switching between appointed and retained counsel both before and after mcdonald was relieved as counsel of record. as a result, yousef benefitted from multiple continuances of his sentencing. finally, although yousef purportedly wanted to represent himself, he volunteered he was not ready to proceed if his request for self-representation were granted. ruling was well within its discretion. (see people v. burton (1989) 48 cal.3d 843, 852 misusing the motion to unjustifiably delay trials or obstruct the orderly administration of 2. yousef was not improperly sentenced yousef contends the trial court imposed an unauthorized sentence by erroneously doubling his base term under the three strikes law and enhancing his sentence by five years under section 667, subdivision (a)(1), because his prior conviction for violating section 455, which he admitted, does not equate to attempted arson, which is defined instead by sections 664 and 451,4 and therefore is not a serious felony within the meaning of section 1192.7, subdivision (c). 4 violation of section 455, may not qualify as attempted arson because arson as defined by personal property unless (see  451, subd. (d).) he then argues there was no evidence before the court his 11 in people v. flores (1995) 39 cal.app.4th 1811, our colleagues in division six of this court held an attempted arson must be charged under section 455, the specific statute the burning of any structure, forest land or property, or [commission of] any act people v. alberts (1995) 32 cal.app.4th 1424, we held that section 455 was a special statute concerning attempted arson which prevailed over section 664, the general attempt statute. [citation.] we reasoned that punishment of such aare included in the specific statute ( 455). since these sections cannot be reconciled, flores, at p. 1814.) the flores court then held a violation of ecause subdivision (c)(14) lists arson as a serious felony and former subdivision (c)(27), now flores, at p. 1814.) we agree and decline youdepart from the holding of flores. however, not only did yousef expressly admit his prior conviction was for attempted arson and a serious felony, but also his romero motion conceded that fact. moreover, as had attempted to burn a structure. yousef pleaded guilty to that charge. 12 disposition the judgment is affirmed. perluss, p. j. we concur: zelon, j. jackson, j. 