filed 2/26/13 p. v. vick ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. joshua vick, defendant and appellant. b233361 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba255265) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. bob s. bowers, jr., judge. affirmed. thomas t. ono, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii and kathy s. pomerantz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________________________ 2 after a court trial, defendant was found guilty of three counts of special circumstance murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)1; counts 1, 2 & 3); one count of second degree robbery ( 211; count 5), one count of attempted second degree robbery ( 664/211; count 8), and three counts of criminal threats ( 422; counts 9, 10 & 11). the trial court found true the firearm enhancement allegations pursuant to section 12022.5, subdivision (a)(1) in counts 1, 2, 3, and 5. the trial court found true the firearm enhancements pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivisions (b), (c), and (d) in counts 1, 2 and 3. the trial court sentenced defendant to state prison for three consecutive sentences of life without the possibility of parole (lwop), plus 75 years to life, plus seven years six months. the sentence consisted of the following: in counts 1, 2 and 3, lwop plus 25 years to life on each count for the firearm enhancement; in count 5, a consecutive midterm sentence of three years plus four years pursuant to section 12022.5, subdivision (a); in count 8, a consecutive midterm sentence of six months; and in counts 9, 10 and 11, a concurrent midterm sentence of two years for each count. defof his right to proceed in propria persona is reversible error; and (2) there was insufficient evidence in support of the criminal threat charges in counts 9 and 11. facts prosecution evidence on january 13, 2005, defendant was living with his parents, gabriel and mary vick in los angeles.2 would not eat because he thought he was being poisoned, and he would stare at the wall and talk to his sister rather than look at her. he was not taking medication regularly. 1 all further references to statutes are to the penal code unless stated otherwise. 2 3 when he got arrested, he would be given medication, but when he was released, there were no resources for it. on january 14, 2005, police received a late-night call to the apartment complex blood trail and ballistics evidence indicated that mary had been shot inside the apartment before going outside and falling down the stairs, where she was shot again. gabriel was found lying face down on the floor near the bathroom. he had been shot once in the head. he was breathing but unconscious. he eventually died from his wounds. michael bradley3 was friends with tesha collins, who was in a relationship with defendant. collins and defendant had a child who was around two years old in 2005. nuary 2005, collins was living both in her own 4 in pasadena, where bradley bradley testified that defendant kept calling the house in pasadena and 2004, they had to have the los angeles police department go with them to change the defendant ran out the back door, and the police stayed with the women while they m that they lled the pasadena police 3 4 4 early in the morning of january 14, 2005, defendant went to the school and forced collins to leave with him at gunpoint. on the same day, defendant approached lemuel jackson, a service technician for the phone company, while jackson was standing at his truck. defendant brandished a .22-and fled. also on the same day, defendant approached roberto orantes with a gun while orantes waited at a bus stop. defendant demanded money, and orantes told defendant he did not have any. defendant patted him down, found no wallet, and left in his car. on january 15, 2005, at around 8:55 a.m., officer james williams of the los the area of 88th street and main street. officer williams ordered defendant to stop the car, throw out the keys, and get out with his hands on his head. defendant complied and began walking backwards toward the officer in very small steps, all the while looking inside the vehicle. officer williams assumed defendant was speaking to the female passenger, later identified as collins. when defendant was almost at the rear of the car, he ran forward and jumped inside the car. he struggled with the female passenger. at one point she broke free, and officer williams heard a gunshot. after the gunshot, officer williams and other officers began firing. when the shooting stopped, collins was outside the vehicle, lying against the passenger door. defendant was still inside. officer williams ordered defendant to exit his car. officer williams then heard two gunshots aeventually pulled out of the car and handcuffed. he had been shot and was taken to the hospital. police found a number of .32-caliber shell casings at the scene of the shooting semiautomatic .32-caliber pistol was also found in -caliber ammunition. detective dennis english interviewed defendant in the hospital. the interview was recorded. defendant confessed to the murders of his parents and the kidnapping and shooting of collins. defendant killed collins because he knew he was either going to 5 prison or would be killed for murdering his parents, and he could not bear the thought of her living. defendant killed his mother because he thought she was poisoning his food, and she would not give him money to buy milk. defendant killed his father because he did not want his father to live without his mother. defendant also admitted to committing numerous armed robberies. defense evidence defendant testified on his own behalf. he testified that he was taking depakote and other medications he could not name. he did not kill his parents or collins. defendant and collins were in the car because they were going to do laundry. he did not kidcar. as defendant was walking back to the police, he heard some gunshots go off inside car and defendant was taken to the hospital, but he did not speak with detective english. defendant had heard the recording of a conversation that purported to be between him and the detective but that was not his voice on the recording. he had no idea who murdered his parents. defendant did not think he had a mental illness. procedural history on march 28, 2005, an 11-count indictment was filed against defendant, and he pleaded not guilty to all charges and denied all special allegations. on september 7, 2005, the prosecution announced it would seek the death penalty. on january 23, 2006, 1368, and two doctors were appointed to examine defendant pursuant to evidence code section 730. 6 on april 6, 2006, defendant waived trial by jury. on the same day, the trial court found that defendant was not mentally competent to stand trial within the meaning of section 1368. the trial court recommended placement in patton state hospital. on july 11, 2006, the medical director of patton state hospital filed a report defendant was mentally competent to stand trial under section 1368. competence, and the trial court concurred. two doctors were appointed to examine defendant. the court read the reports and declared defendant mentally competent to stand trial on october 3, 2006. on october 16, 2007, defendant requested to proceed in pro. per. the trial court request to represent himself at trial. at the trial request to proceed in propria persona. the trial court appointed a doctor to evaluate defendant to see if he was competent to waive his right to an attorney and proceed in pro. per. on april 3, 2008, the trial court found defendant was competent to waive his right to faretta motion.5 on june 6, 2008, the tr2008, states that the peop6 indiana v. edwards (2008) 554 u.s. 164 (edwards). on january 8, 2009, the trial court denied another request by defendant to represent himself. 5 faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806 (faretta). 6 -sentence 7 2010, the trial court appointed doctors to examine him. defendant was found to be competent on october 12, 2010. on january 27, 2011, the prosecution announced it was no longer seeking the death penalty. defendant waived his right to a jury trial. on april 27, 2011, the trial court dismissed the robberies charged in counts 6 and 7 pursuant to section 1385. the trial court acquitted defendant of count 4 (kidnapping to commit another crime). it found defendant guilty of the remaining charges. discussion faretta rights defendant contends the trial court committed reversible error when it revoked his right of self-representation. citing people v. johnson (2012) 53 cal.4th 519 (johnson), e. therefore, defendant argues, the error is reversible per se, and the judgment must be reversed. b. relevant authority a trial court must allow a defendant to represent himself if he knowingly and intelligently makes an unequivocal and timely request. (faretta, supra, 422 u.s. at pp. 835-836; people v. valdez (2004) 32 cal.4th 73, 97-self-representation right by insisting upon representation by counsel at trial on the ground that the defendant lacks the mental capacity to conduct his defense unless represented. (edwards, supra, 554 u.s. at p. 174.) california courts have discretion to deny self-representation to these so-called gray-area defendantsthose who are mentally competent to stand trial if represented by counsel but not mentally competent to conduct the trial themselvesedwards johnson, supra-representation, we must defer largely to the triaid 8 evidence. (ibidfaretta people v. valdez, supra, 32 cal.4th at p. 98.) c. told defendant that it had read and considered edwards. the trial court noted that at he believed his parents were killed as a result of a burglary, and that his girlfriend had committed suicide. the court stated that, since being granted the right to represent himself, defendant had not asked for or done the types of things that the court would believe a person charged with these crimes would do or request from the court in preparation for trial. the court, based on its observations and the history of the matter, did not believe that defendant had a sound understanding of exactly what it was he was charged with or how to defend representation would fundamentally undercut one of the prime objectives in a criminal trial, and that is to provide a fair trial. for those reasons, the pro. per. status at this point defendant renewed his request to represent himself on january 8, 2009. the trial believe, based upon what i have seen, that in my opinion as a bench officer, not so much case of this d. no abuse of discretion we believe that the trial court correctly applied edwards to the circumstances of 7 johnson, which was decided 7 respondent argues that defendant forfeited this claim. although defendant did not object to the revocation of his pro. per. status immediately, at the next proceeding he again requested his faretta rights. under these circumstances, we cannot say that 9 that preceded the edwards decisioncases such as dusky v. united states (1960) 362 u.s. 402 (dusky), drope v. missouri (1975) 420 u.s. 162 (drope), godinez v. moran (1993) 509 u.s. 389 (godinez), and faretta itselfall cases that the edwards court found not particularly helpful in deciding the issue presented. because the rationale of edwards is at the heart of the issue in this case, we believe a more thorough analysis of edwards and johnson than that engaged in by defendant is called for. in edwards, the united states supreme court stated that its precedents did not answer the question as to whether the federal constitution prohibits a state from insisting that the defendant proceed to trial with counsel (and denying the defendant the right to represent himself) when the state court finds the defendant mentally competent to stand trial if represented, but not mentally competent to conduct the trial himself. (edwards, supra, 554 u.s. at pp. 167, 169.) the chief precedents on the standard for mental competency (dusky, supra, 362 u.s. 402, and drope, supra, 420 u.s. 162) did not consider the relation of the mental competence standard to the right of self-representation. (edwards, supra, 554 u.s. at pp. 169-170.) the foundational self-representation case, faretta, did not answer the question for two reasons: it did not consider the issue of mental competency, and faretta and later cases made clear that the right of self-representation is not absolute. (edwards, at pp. 170-171; see also people v. butler, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 825.) nor did godinez, supra, 509 u.s. 389, answer the question. (edwards, at p. 173.) the court recognized that its emphasis in godinez on the waive the rightconduct a trial stemmed from the fact that the godinez defendant sought only to change defendant forfeited the right to represent himself. (see, e.g., people v. butler (2009) 47 cal.4th 814, 826, fn. 3.) 10 ference. (edwards, at p. 173.) in addition, constitutional holding was only that a state may permit a gray-area defendant to represent himself. it did not tell a state whether it might deny the same type of defendant the right to represent himself, which was at issue in edwards. (edwards, at p. 173.) the consideration of various factors, taken together, led the edwards court to hold competent enough to stand trial under dusky but who still suffer from severe mental illness to the point where they are not competent to conduct trial proceedings by edwards, supra, 554 u.s. at p. 178.) in explaining its rationale, edwards first observed that ability to consult with his attorney and assumed representation by counsel, which suggested that, when such a defendant sought to forego counsel, a different standard was called for. (id. at pp. 174-175.) the court pointed out that faretta conclusion in part upon pre-existing state law set forth in cases all of which are consistent with, and at least two of which expressly adopt, a competency limitation on the self-repreedwards, at p. 175.) secondly, the complex nature of mental illness and mental competency, with its tendency to vary in degree and over time as well as in its effect on the individual, cautions against employing the same standard for determining whether a represented defendant can stand trial and whether a defendant must be allowed to represent himself at trial. (id. at p. 175.) third, allowing a defendant with an uncertain mental state to represent himself would not affirm the dignity and autonomy of the individual, which are the underpinnings of the right to represent oneself. (id. at p. 176.) the edwards court also observed that self-representation by a defendant who edwards, supra, 554 u.s. at pp. 176-177.) moreover, the trial must not only be fair, its fairness must be apparent to all. (id. at p. 177.) the edwards court concluded that there was little reason to believe that 11 application of basic mental competence standard was sufficient. (edwards, at p. 177.) the court believed that the trial judge would often be the most able to make the necessary, finely tuned decisions with respect tid. at p. 177.) in johnson, the california supreme court decided that california courts may edwards dard of mental competence for self-johnson, supra, which, of course, is subject to the united states constitutionhas long been that criminal defendants have no right of self-representation . . . california courts may deny self-representation when the united states constitution permits such denial. (ibid.) (italics added.) the standard trial courts should apply when deciding whether to exercise their discretion to deny self-where he or she cannot carry out the basic tasks needed to present the defense without the id. at p. 530.) trial courts may order a psychological or psychiatric for self-representation. (ibidfor an incompetence finding. (id. at p. 531.) the denial of self-representation, however, must not be done lightly, or for the purpose of increased efficiency or even fairness. (id. ibid.) in the instant case, unlike in edwards and johnson, we do not have a defendant edwards, supra, 554 u.s. at pp. 176, 179; johnson, supra, 53 cal.4th at pp. 532-533 & fn. 2.) we do not have a record of bizarre or disruptive behavior in the courtroom. (see johnson, at p. 525.) nor do we have the convenience of a finding by the instant trial court like the one made 12 by the trial court in johnson, which employs the exact wording of the amicus brief by the american psychiatric association (apa) quoted in edwards.8 revocation of defendafaretta right, although the evidence differs from that of edwards and johnson. the trial court presided over this case beginning april 5, 2005, faretta right on october 17, 2008. both the court and eclared doubts over his competency to stand trial several times. by the time faretta rights were rescinded, the court had considered approximately six presided over several faretta motions. the court had ample opportunity to observe defendant, an opportunity this court did not have. and although defendant was passive in court, he was barred from the pro. per. unit s deputies because he was a danger to the safety of others. this occurred just prior to the rescission of his pro. per. status. the trial court was clearly concerned that self-representation by defendant would of a fair trial, and it expressly so stated. (see edwards, supra, 554 u.s. at pp. 176-177.) in fact, defendant had not done anything in furtherance of his defense. as its comments indicated, the trial court clearly believed that defendant, due to his mental illness, was not capable of carrying out the basic tasks required to present a defensetasks such as organizing a defense, making motions, and questioning witnesses. (see edwards, supra, at p. 176; johnson, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 530.) defendant cites people v. teron (1979) 8 the edwards expressive abilities, anxiety, and other common symptoms of severe mental illnesses can -edwards, supra, 554 u.s. at p. 176.) the trial court in johnson used this paragraph as the basis for -representation status. (johnson, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 525.) 13 -representation teron court actually case, is one which a competent id. at p. 108, italics added.) the record shows that the trial court had granted defendant his pro. per. status reluctantly. the trial court cited the rule of godinez that the competence required of a defendant seeking to waive his right to counsel is merely the competence to waive the right. the court also noted that, under godinez to represent himself this point . . . it has no other choice but to grant mgodinez may have said it all at the point when the trial court faretta right, the united states supreme court had more to say. with the handing down of edwards approximately two and a half months later, the trial court was given another choice. defendant discusses at length the sealed report provided by dr. markman for the purpose of aiding the court in its determination of whether to grant defendant pro. per. status. this court allowed appellate counsel to read the report but ordered that the report remain sealed. it is true that dr. markman ultimately stated that defendant was competent to waive counsel. this occurred prior to the edwards decision, however, when godinez was the only authority on the subject. at the hearing where the trial court faretta rights, it noted that dr. markman had grave reservations and misgivings. the trial court demonstrated a clear understanding of the rationale of edwards, and applied the edwards standard cautiously, as later mandated by johnson. (johnson, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 531.) because defendant was not obstreperous in court, the trial edwards, 554 u.s. at p. 14 per. status for reasons of efficiency or to level the playing field. (see johnson, at p. 531.) the trial court obtained expert evaluation, as urged by johnson. (id. at p. 530) without citing specifically from the sealed report, we believe it reveals that dr. the waiver itself, as the state of the law at that time required. (godinez, supra, 509 u.s. at p. 399.) we conclude that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in revoking ii. sufficiency of the evidence in counts 9 and 11 defendant contends the evidence was insufficient to prove the criminal threat charges in counts 9 and 11, and reversal of these counts is required. defendant asserts there was no substantial evidence that either collins or pittman were aware of any purported threat by defendant or that the threat caused either of them to be in sustained fear of her safety or that of her immediate family. b. proceedings below defendant was charged in counts 9, 10, and 11 with making criminal threats in violation of section 422 against collins, bradley, and pittman, respectively. as noted in the facts section of this opinion, bradley testified that, while collins was staying at collins changed tspoke with bradley. he said that they had his keys and if they did not take his keys to his approximately on november 20, 2004. c. relevant authority light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses evidence that is 15 reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable trier of fact could find the people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, evidence proves guilt beyond a people v. mincey (1992) 2 cal.4th 408, 432.) the same standard applies regardless of whether the evidence is direct or circumstantial. (people v. thompson (2010) 49 cal.4th 79, 113.) reversal is only warranted where it clearly appepeople v. bolin, supra, 18 cal.4th at p. 331.) commit a crime which will result in death or great bodily injury to another person, with the specific intent that the statement, made verbally, in writing, or by means of an electronic communication device, is to be taken as a threat, even if there is no intent of actually carrying it out, which, on its face and under the circumstances in which it is made, is so unequivocal, unconditional, immediate, and specific as to convey to the person threatened, a gravity of purpose and an immediate prospect of execution of the threat, and thereby causes that person reasonably to be in sustained fear for his or her imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed one year, or by imprisonment in the state not enacted to punish emotional outbursts, it targets only those who try to instill fear in the accused did not personally communicate a threat to the victim, it must be shown that in re ryan d. (2002) 100 cal.app.4th 854, 861.) 16 c. evidence sufficient defendant disputes the elements of a violation of section 422 that require the victim to be aware of the threat and to be in sustained fear of his or her own safety or that of his or her immediate family. he states that in re david l., cited by the trial court as is inapposite, since in that case, the prosecutor proved in re david l. (1991) 234 cal.app.3d 1655, 1658.) because there was no evidence here that bradley conveyed the threats to collins or pittman, he argues, there was no substantial evidence that either woman was in sustained fear as a result of the threat conveyed to bradley, and the verdicts in counts 9 and 11 must be reversed. in the instant case, there was substantial evidence that the people proved all of the in re ryan d., supra, 100 cal.app.4th at p. 860; see also people v. felix (2001) 92 cal.app.4th 905, 913; in re ricky t. (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 1132, 1137-communication include such things as the prior relationship of the parties and the manner in re ryan d., at p. 860.) the circumstances of the call defendant made to bradley show that all three womenbradley, collins, and pittmanhome. defendant knew collins was staying there and that the other two women had helped her change the locks to her apartment. although defendant spoke only to bradley, he clearly intended his threat to kill all three of the women (unless he got his keys) to be communicated to all of them, and he intended for all three women to understand his words as threats. the fact that the women contacted the police department demonstrates that they did suffer from a sustained fear that defendant would carry out his threat. as stated in in re david lapply only to threats made by the threatener personally to the victim nor is such a limitation reasonably inferrable from its language. the kind of threat contemplated by section 422 may as readily be conveyed by the threatener through a third party as personally to the intended victim. where the 17 threat is conveyed through a third party intermediary, the specific intent element of the statute is implicated. thus, if the threatener intended the threat to be taken seriously by the victim, he must necessaripp. 1658-1659.) her friends, bradley and pittman, and the fact that defendant knew to contact collins through brintended his threat to be taken seriously, and that he therefore intended bradley to be the the disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. boren, p.j. we concur: ashmann-gerst, j. chavez, j. 