filed 9/28/12 p. v. huerta ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. joshue huerta, defendant and appellant. b234998 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba368359) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. craig j. mitchell, judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part. linda acaldo, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr. and stephanie a. miyoshi, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______________________________________ 2 joshue huerta appeals from the judgment after a jury convicted him of attempted voluntary manslaughter and found true the alleged gun and gang enhancements. on appeal huerta contends the trial court erred in declaring the victim-and admitting his preliminary hearing testimony. huerta also contends the gang enhancement is not supported by substantial evidence. we reverse the gang enhancement and affirm the judgment in all other respects. facts and proceedings below a. preliminary hearing testimony of the victim, luis fernandez fernandez testified that late one night he was riding with his friend, chuckie, in wearing a baseball cap backwards. the cap had the letter 1 fernandez did not belong to a gang. when chuckie pulled into a gas station and convenience store in south los angeles a black car drove slowly by and the occupants gave fernandez and -2 chuckie went into the store to pay for the gas. while fernandez waited in the truck he saw defendant huerta and another man come from the direction that the black car had driven and enter the store.3 at first huerta and the other man talked to chuckie. then a fight broke out and fernandez went to help his friend. as he approached the store he heard a gunshot and saw huerta standing outside the store with a gun in his hand. huerta raised the gun and 4 1 subsequent evidence showed that chuckie was a member of a gang called the bud smokers only or bso. 2 feunderstand the term to mean looking at a person in a hard or threatening manner. 3 subsequent evidence showed that huerta and his companion were members of the chakalosos (cks) gang. 4 the undisputed evidence, however, showed that the only bullet that struck fernandez entered through the front of his leg, not the back as it would have if he had been shot while running away from huerta. 3 as discussed more fully below, the prosecution could not locate fernandez and procure his attendance at triand admitted his preliminary hearing testimony into evidence. b. gang enhancement testimony testified as the prosecutionbud smokers only (bso) gang. he identified huerta as a member of a rival gang, the chakalosos (also known as cks). the primary activities of cks included murders, drive-by shootings, robberies, and narcotics sales. aguirre testified that the gas station shooting of fernandez benefited cks. huerta and his companion would have recognized chuckie as a bso member by the letter b on his cap. his wearing the cap backward was another notch to the violent types of crimes they commit in their area and outside their c. gas pipes, and i while huerta was standing in line at the counter waiting to buy his pipe, the man in line in front of him (later identified as chuckie) turned his cap around. to huerta, this gesture meant that the man was a gang member and there was going to be a confrontation. when the man turned around and faced him, huerta believed the man was going to pull a gun or otherwise attack him. huerta shoved the man away and the man fell to the floor. still fearing the man was going to pull a gun, huerta drew his own gun 4 huerta left the store. huerta testified that when he exited the store the first thing he saw r pocket when fernandez turned and began running away huerta fired his gun twice more, aiming into the air. huerta contended that he shot at fernandez in self-defense or at the very most in imperfect self-defense. the court instructed the jury on both theories. on the latter murder is reduced to attempted voluntary manslaughter if the defendant attempted to kill a person because he acted in imperfect self- d. verdict and sentence the jury found huerta not guilty of attempted murder but guilty of attempted voluntary manslaughter. it also found true the allegations that in the commission of the crime, huerta inflicted great bodily injury on fernandez, personally used a firearm, personally and intentionally discharged a firearm and committed the crime for the benefit of a criminal street gang. the court sentenced huerta to the low term of 18 months for the attempted voluntary manslaughter plus 10 years for personal weapon use, 3 years for inflicting great bodily injury and 5 years for the gang enhancement. discussion i. the court did not err in finding fernandez unavailable as a witness at trial testimony is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule if the declarant is unavailable as a n 240, subdivision 5 the proponent of his or her statement has exercised reasonable diligence but has been attempting to locate fernandez, declared him unavailable and admitted his preliminary hearing unavailability. (people v. sandoval (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 1425, 1432.) a. the prosecution attempted to locate fernandez before trial, the court held a hearing concerning the admipreliminary hearing testimony. the prosecution produced evidence of its efforts to locate fernandez in the six months prior to the hearing. huerta concedes that the prosecution fulfilled its duty in conducting a local search for fernandez but maintains it failed to make a good faith effort to search for fernandez in mexico where his family claimed he was living. the search for fernandez was principally conducted by detective aguirre. in april 2011, two months before the start ostepfather, victor hernandez, that fernandez could possibly be in nayarit or veracruz, number] of who [fernandez] was staying winformation his contacts in mexico could not help him locate fernandez. at one point, close to the date of trial, hernandez told aguirre that fernandez was in tijuana and would be illegally crossing the border into california in the next few days. hernandez said he did not know how to contact fernandez in tijuana and aguirre obtained no further information about the possible border crossing. including a call on or about june 7, 2011, advising his family that he was in tijuana and would be crossing the border in a few days. despite the information that fernandez frequently called his stepfather aguirre did not attempt to obtain records of calls from 6 -examination that it might b. due diligence did not require the prosecution to attempt to huerta argues that due diligence in attempting to locate fernandez required the numbers of declarant, the obligation of good faith may ohio v. roberts (1980) 448 u.s. 56, 74, italics in original.) we do not view roberts as requiring the prosecution in this case to try to obtain a wire tap or telephone records. the roberts court merely observed that where there exists a remote possibility of producing the witness, good faith may require the prosecution to explore that possibility depending on the totality of the circumstances. (ibid.) we also note that the roberts court went on to (ibid.) as the trial court correctly observed it was not reasonably probable that a magistrate would have issued a wire tap order under the circumstances of this case. ephone records would have turned up information that could have been used to locate fernandez in mexico. would have told him that the police were looking for him. under those circumstances it is not likely that he would have left a trail that those seeking his testimony could follow such as placing telephone calls from the telephone at the place where he was staying. further, according to his step father, he was moving from place to place in mexico so any telephone number retrieved would have been a cold lead once the machinery to follow the lead had been engaged. 7 c. huerta forfeited his argument based on the treaty of cooperation between the united states and mexico and in any event the prosecution made a reasonable effort under the treaty to enlist the assistance of mexican officials huerta contends that the prosecution did not act in good faith because it failed to invoke the assistance of the mexican authorities in locating fernandez under the treaty of cooperation between the united states of america and the united mexican states for mutual legal assistance (the treaty). this contention is forfeited because, as he admits in his brief on appeal, his trial counsel maintains that we have discretion to ignore the forfeiture of an important constitutional issue such as the right to confrontation under the sixth amendment (see people v. allen (1974) 41 cal.app.3d 196, 201, fn.1) but should we hold that the issue is forfeited then his counsel rendered ineffective assistance. we reject both contentions. even important constitutional rights can be waived if the new argument invokes facts or legal standards different from those that the trial court was asked to apply. (people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 979-unavailability. furthermore, as discussed below, we need not decide whether defense did all she reasonably could have done to obtain the assistance of mexican authorities in locating fernandez. (see strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 697 [a court prejudice suffered by the defendant as a result of the alleged deficiencies].) ould find them wanting. huerta first argues that the mexican consulate gave ta misleading advice when its tatement was correct as it pertained to appearance in a united states court, the consulate did not advise ta that 8 under article 7 of the treaty the mexican authorities could compel fernandez to appear in a mexican court and testify by teleconference in hue(people v. sandoval, supra, 87 cal.app.4th at pp. 1442-incomplete advice did not affect the search for fernandez because the record shows that ta and detective aguirre continued to seek fernandez in mexico even after receiving the inaccurate advice from the consulate. huerta next argues that the prosecution should have invoked the terms of the treaty imposing a duty on mexican authorities to attempt to locate fernandez. huerta is apparently referring to article 13, section 1 of the treaty which provides: requested party [i.e. mexico] shall take all necessary measures to locate or identify persons who are believed to be in that state and who are needed in connection with an investigation, prosecutioshows, however, that the prosecutor contacted the mexican consulate in los angeles and they needed more information to assist, i.e. the town/city in veracruz where [fernandez] information before attempting to locate fernandez.5 in any case, whether the treaty so permitted, the consulate imposed those requirements. finally, huerta argues that the prosecutor should have made her request for assistance through the united states department of justice, not directly to the mexican consulate, because the department of justice is the united states under article 2, section 1 of the treaty. nothing in the treaty specifies to whom and by whom requests for assistance may be made. 5 the treaty provides that a request for assistanecessary and possible [the] . . . whereabouts of a person to be located . . . and location of 9 d. due diligence did not require ordering fernandez to appear at each court proceeding subsequent to the preliminary hearing huerta contends that the prosecutor knew when fernandez testified at the should have asked the court to order fernandez each proceeding thereafter in order to keep tabs on his whereabouts. if fernandez failed to appear at any court session, huerta reasons, a bench warrant for his arrest could have been issued. how this would have prevented fernandez from disappearing into mexico, huerta does not explain. ii. the evidence is insufficient to support the gang enhancement the california street terrorism enforcement and prevention act provides enhanced punishment upon proof that a charged of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific (pen. code,  186.22, subd. (b)(1).) huerta contends that the expert testimony and other evidence in this case did not support the gang finding. we agree. record in the light most favorable to the judgment below. [citation.] we review to determine if substantial evidence exists for a reasonable trier of fact to find the counts in re frank s. (2006) 141 be reasonable, credible, and of solid value. [citation.] we also presume the existence of every fact the [jury] could ibid.) the gang enhancement requires the people to prove that the underlying crime was 10 detective aguirre testified that and shooting his companion (ferenhancing its reputation for reputation theory is that it could be said about nearly every crime a gang member have consistently rejected this premise. (e.g., in re frank s., supra, 141 cal.app.4th at -protection did not benefit his gang); people v. morales (2003) 112 cal.app.4th 1176, 1198 [gang substantial evidence does not support a finding that huerta committed voluntary manslaughter for the benefit of a criminal street gang. fernandez, who was waiting not know the cause of the argument between huerta and chuckie inside the store and could not say that the altercation between the two men was gang related. the record is absent any evidence that the shooting was precipitated by any other criminal conduct gang incident. the victim was not a gang member. huerta did not flash a gang sign or shout a gang slogan before or after the shooting. there was no evidence that he was wearing gang attire. there was no evidence that the shooting was planned or approved by other gang members. for these reasons we conclude that the evidence does not support a finding huerta shot fernandez for the benefit of a criminal street gang. 11 disposition the gang enhancement is reversed. in all other respects the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. rothschild, j. we concur: mallano, p. j. chaney, j. 