filed 7/20/12 p. v. reyes ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. eutimio reyes, defendant and appellant. b234367 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba369536) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. frederick n. wapner, judge. affirmed. janice wellborn, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii and kathy s. pomerantz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________ 2 defendant eutimio reyes appeals his convictions of three felonies arising out of an assault on his former girlfriend allyson f., and one count of felony stalking, also of allyson f. his sole contention on appeal is that none of the convictions is supported by substantial evidence. we disagree and affirm. factual and procedural background the violent episode that gave rise to the most serious convictions took place in 2009. defendant and allyson, however, first started dating in late 2002, when allyson was a sophomore in college. the early part of the relationship has some bearing on the incident in question, so we start our factual discussion there. shortly after they began dating, dnear downtown los angeles. the relationship soon turned sour, and defendant became regularly. in early 2003, the abuse became physical, and allyson often had bruises on -sleeved sweaters on warm days in an apparent effort to hide her injuries. dalila an olympic boxer failed to materialize. allyson testified that during 2003-2006, while they were living together, defendant choked, shoved, hit, slapped, kicked, and pushed her. the first incident about which allyson provided some detail occurred in february defendant starting arguing on the way home from dinner. the disagreement escalated did not pursue charges. following the november 2004 fight, allyson began recording 3 incidents of domestic the next incident that allyson recounted occurred the night of october 27, 2006, as she drove defendant back to their home. an argument eventually prompted defendant to strike allyson in the face while she was driving. the blow split her lip and caused photographs of herself with her cell phone, but did not call the police. the photographs were admitted into evidence. stated reason for his departure was that defendant had two pit bulls and the homeowners association would not allow the dogs to stay. after defendant moved out, the two continued to date, eventually breaking up in september 2007. between 2007 and 2009, defendant made several threatening calls and left threatening text messages, even after some of the events we describe next. in several of the phone calls, defendant told allyson he had either been watching her on a date with another man, or knew what she was wearing, or had watched her in her apartment. the assault which formed the basis of the principal charges against defendant occurred in the late evening of september 9 and the early morning hours of september 10, 2009. several days before, defendant had called allyson at 2:00 a.m., sounding out of sorts and saying he was stuck and needed someone to pick him up. agreed to get him. when allyson arrived at where defendant had been stranded, he got in the car, and she started to drive around but defendant would not say where he wanted to go. eventually she allowed him to spend the night at her condominium. he became verbal, but not physical, and the two were not romantic with each other. defendant left in the morning. he next called on september 8, apologizing for his conduct a few days earlier, and offering to take her to dinner in appreciation for having picked him up late at night. at 4 dinner that evening, defendant became verbally abusive, and the two left the restaurant early. allyson dropped defendant off some place that she could not remember. defendant called the next day, the 9th, apologizing for the night before and asking he second dinner. allyson testified that the two of going out at that time and him not being rude or calling me a bitch or being mean. he to rent a movie and go back to her condo. defendant started drinking allyson did not and eventually became drunk and belligerent when there was no more orange juice for the vodka. allyson asked defendant to leave and he did so without incident. moments later, defendant called from the condominium garage on a house phone upstairs, and started yelling at her. after searching for the phone without success, allyson agreed to let defendant back into the apartment to look for himself. allyson looked in the bathroom, but the phone was not there. as she turned around to leave the the blade was towards her neck. the knife had come from the kitchen and was the largest one allyson owned. allyson was petrified and screamed. defendant started to tand returned the knife to its holder in the kitchen. allyson had a close relationship with d but got only an answering machine. defendant took the phone from her and threw it against the wall, breaking the phone. he then destroyed her cell phone and ripped the wires from the house phone (the one that had been used to talk to defendant in the garage and which could be used to call night security). 5 defendant laid down on a futon in the front room and pretended to sleep, but allyson did not leave, out of fear for what defendant might do to her apartment and her pets. eventually defendant got up and allyson started to lead him towards the front door. at that point defendant stopped, turned and dragged allyson up and over the living room couch. defendant pulled her by the legs to a place near a turtle tank. he got on top of her and started to choke her by pressing his forearm across her neck. allyson was screaming and asking him to stop. at that point defendant said to fuck up, he will snap my neck in 21 places, or he will put my head in the turtle tank and was going to kill himself. defendant let up, and allyson freed herself. she ran to the front door but it was locked and latched. (defendant apparently had put on the dead bolt and the chain.) going to jump out. there was no other way for me to get out. and i knew he was gonna kill me, so i thought i may as well jump. i have better a [sic] grabbed at her, and as he pulled her away from the sliding door, the door handle broke and they both tumbled backwards. the momentum of the fall resulted in a cut opening the front door again. he prevented her from leaving and dragged her to the master his own neck, and laid down on his stomach. then he gave allyson the belt, but she dropped it and finally was able to open the front door and ran out. she called the doorman on the elevator phone and eventually ran to where the doorman was stationed. the doorman, sam payne, testified that allyson seemed panicked when she was on the phone and when he saw her in person she looked scared. he saw blood over her 6 face and hair, bhe hit his head on the floor. prosecution witness alicia s. testified she was assaulted by defendant in october 2000. she had dated defendant for four years while they were in high school, but by 2000 they would only see each other occasionally and were not dating. on halloween night she came home from work late and felt she was being watched. she arrived in her apartment where a male work colleague was staying for a few days. there was no romantic involvement. as she was getting ready for bed, she heard a loud noise and then saw defendant standing in the apartment. he threatened and pushed the male friend who left. defendant forced alicia into her bedroom and threatened her life. defendant pushed her to the ground, straddled her, and put a pillow over her head. he then took off his belt and wrapped it around her neck. at that point the police arrived, and defendant was taken away. afterwards defendant continued to telephone alicia, but she refused to take his calls. prosecution witness sandra baca, an expert on intimate partner battering nor had she read police reports. she said battered partners often minimize threats and battering. they often blame themselves for the violence, rationalizing that if a person who i love has done this, it must be because i deserve it. victims often stay in a relationship, buoyed by the good times, convinced that things have turned around. victims also stay because they are afraid of being killed if they try to leave. police officers were called by both sides. they generally corroborated the events as described by allyson. there were some inconsistencies between what allyson testified to and what she either told police or they had observed. telephone records defense witness ann p. testified to an incident in 2006 where allyson stormed romantic relationship. she said that allyson yelled at both of them and eventually 7 vandalizing the cell phone. defendant was charged with seven counts. all but one arose out of the september 9-10, 2009, incident. these six charges were false imprisonment with violence (pen. code,  236); making of criminal threats (pen. code,  422); corporal injury to a cohabitant (pen. code,  273.5); destruction of a cell phone (pen. code,  591.5); cutting a utility line (pen. code,  591); and assault with a deadly weapon (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(1)). the seventh charge, stalking (pen. code,  646.9 subd.(a)) was alleged to have occurred between february 1, 2007, and march 30, 2010. defendant was convicted of false imprisonment with violence, criminal threats, assault with a deadly weapon, and stalking. he was found not guilty of destruction of a cell phone and mistrials were declared as to the two remaining counts, which were then dismissed. defendant received a five-year sentence, composed of the midterm three years on the assault with a deadly weapon charge and eight months consecutive on the other three convictions. discussion defendant makes a single contention on appeal: that the evidence was insufficient as to all counts. he asserts both state and federal constitutional error. as such, we apply the familiar rules of appellate review. to determine the sufficiency of the evidence to support a conviction, an appellate court reviews the entire record in the light most favorable to the prosecution to determine whether it contains evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value, from which a rational trier of fact could find the defendant evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 we are bound to give due deference to the trier of fact and not retry the case ourselves. . . . it is the exclusive function of the trier of fact to assess the credibility of 8 people v. sanchez (2003) 113 cal.app.4th 325, 330, citing jackson v. virginia (1979) 443 u.s. 307, 318-319, other citations omitted.) particular element of any particular count was legally insufficient. (see tecklenburg v. appellate division (2009) 169 cal.app.4th 1402, 1413 [sufficiency of the evidence as to one element]; people v. dupre (1968) 262 cal.app.2d 56, 58 [evidence insufficient because prosecution failed to prove the element of knowledge].) instead, he argues that such, his argument must overcome perhaps the most stringent rule of appellate review: -contradiction, or other grounds of impeachment, or by the manner of testifying, or by of fact to determine, not for the appellate court. (see 6 witkin & epstein, cal. criminal law (3d ed. 2000) criminal appeal,  151, at p. 398.) while an appellate court can theoretically reverse a judgment when it concludes the evidence is inherently improbable, people v. ennis (2010) 190 cal.app.4th 721, 728.) witness who has been believed by a trial court, there must exist either a physical impossibility that they are true, or their falsity must be apparent without resorting to inferences or deductions. ibid., citing people v. huston (1943) 21 cal.2d 690, 693, overruled on another point in people v. burton (1961) 55 cal.2d 328, 352.) neither is present here. version of events: 1. she testified at trial that she called the doorman, sam payne, from the to be unlocked with a key; and 9 2. payne said that allyson told him she got blood on head injury when he slipped and fell on the floor. at trial, she said the injury might have been caused by the handle that had broken off in her hand as defendant was grabbing her. she was certain of that version when she sought a temporary restraining order against defendant. her trial testimony on the point was generally confirmed by the reports and testimony of police offices. these inconsistencies if they were inconsistencies were for the jury to resolve. as to defendawas wrong about the time when locks were added to the elevator phones. or the jury might have disbelieved allyson about whether defendant had smashed her cell phone they could not reach a verdict on the utility charges and concluded that she used the cell phone to make the call to payne. either way, payne said allyson sounded panicked on the phone, reasonable testimony considering the events that had just transpired. whether or not allyson used the elevator phone had little bearing on the weight of the other testimony. as to how defendant got injured, the testimony from allyson, the police, and payne had a single common denominator: there was a struggle at the patio door, allyson took hold of the handle to try to get to the balcony, defendant grabbed her, the handle came off and as the two of them fell backwards on to the floor, defendant cut his head either by the handle striking it or by the force of the fall onto the floor. the precise etiology was simply not important. allyson never claimed the blood was hers. any inconsistency notwithstanding, as expert witness baca explained, the testimony provided eerily similar details to what allyson testified: attack against a former girlfriend, in her apartment, straddling the victim and using a belt. there was more than enough evidence to convict defendant beyond a reasonable doubt. 10 disposition the judgment is affirmed. rubin, acting p. j. we concur: flier, j. grimes, j. 