filed 5/4/12 p. v. trujillo ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. fernando trujillo, defendant and appellant. b234294 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na071027) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, richard r. romero, judge. affirmed. lynda a. romero, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, xiomara costello and stephanie c. brenan, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant, fernando trujillo, appeals the denial of his motion for a new trial following his conviction for second degree murder, with criminal street gang and firearm use enhancements (pen. code,  187, 186.22, subd. (b), 12022.53).1 the judgment is affirmed. procedural background in his first appeal, (people v. trujillo et al. (oct. 6, 2009, b207534) [nonpub. opn.]), one of the issues raised was a claim the trial court had erred by -verdict request to substitute retained counsel for the purpose of bringing a new trial motion. pursuant to people v. ortiz (1990) 51 cal.3d 975, we concluded the trial court had abused its discretion by denying this substitution request. as a result, we ordered the judgment conditionally reversed and remanded to the trial court so trujillo could renew his request for substitute counsel. on remand, the trial court gave trujillo leave to obtain substitute counsel. that attorney filed a new trial motion claiming there was insufficient evidence to murder conviction. the trial court denied the new trial motion and this appeal followed. factual background 21, 2006, shooting in wilmington. between 80 and 100 people were attending a party in the backyard of a house. among the party guests were defendant trujillo and codefendant michael robles, both members of the eastside wilma gang. about 10 or 20 other eastside wilma members were also at the party. miguel amezcua and two of his friends, willie and louis, were selling beer at the party. when an argument broke out, apparently about paying for the 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 3 beer, miguel took the beer cooler into the house. at that point, willie and louis were was ended. arguing with a gang member named michael gonzalez. seven or eight gang members, including trujillo, began punching and kicking miguel. luis then heard a shot from the area where miguel was being beaten. the gang members suddenly stopped fighting and miguel fell to the ground. robles then stepped up and shot miguel three times with a handgun. miguel suffered a fatal gunshot wound to the head. he also sustained a gunshot wound to the back and blunt force trauma to the head. krystal barriga saw trujillo start the fight in the backyard. barriga subsequently saw the same people who had been involved in the backyard fight beating up someone in the front yard. barriga saw robles produce a handgun and shoot the person who was being beaten. deborah navarro and maricela madrigal were inside the house when the party ended. looking out the window they saw someone in the front yard being beaten by seven or eight people. navarro then saw someone produce a handgun and fire two or three shots at the beating victim who was lying on the ground. madrigal also witnessed the shooting. los angeles police detective walter mcmahon testified luis amezcua told him he saw his brother miguel arguing with gonzalez in the front yard. miguel was then attacked by four to six other gang members; they knocked him to the ground, and punched and kicked him. luis heard a gunshot, saw his brother lying on the ground, and then heard two more gunshots. an expert on criminal street gangs opined the shooting of miguel amezcua had been committed for the benefit of the eastside wilma gang. 4 trujillo was convicted of second degree murder for the killing of miguel amezcua.2 in addition, the jury found the murder had been committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang. contention trujillo contends the trial court erroneously denied his new trial motion because there was insufficient evidence to sustain the gang enhancement. 1. legal principles. may move for a new trial on various statutory grounds including that the verdict is contrary to the law or evidence. ( 1181.) a trial court may grant a motion for new trial only if the defendant demonstrates reversible error. [citation.] with regard to claims of sufficiency onew trial, the trial court must weigh the evidence independently. [citation.] it is, however, guided by a presumption in favor of the correctness of the verdict and proceedings supporting it. verdict . . . but instead . . . should consider the proper weight to be accorded to the evidence and then decide whether or not, in its opinion, there is sufficient credible evidence to support the ruling on a motion for new trial is reviewed for abuse of discretion. [citation.] its discretion clearlpeople v. guerra (2006) 37 cal.4th 1067, 1159-1160.) 186.22, subdivision (b)(1) imposes additional punishment when a defendant commits a felony for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang. to establish that a group is a criminal street gang within the meaning of the statute, the people must prove: (1) the group is an ongoing association of three or more persons sharing a common name, identifying sign, or symbol; (2) one 2 robles, who was convicted of first degree murder, is not a party to this appeal. 5 enumerated criminal offenses; and (3) people v. duran (2002) 97 cal.app.4th 1448, 1457.) the gang statute then requires two further elements: association and evidence the felony was committed specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang 186.22, subd. (b)(1).) 2. evidence of gang involvement presented at trial. trujillo argues the evidence showed nothing more than a personal dispute over the sale of beer, a dispute spontaneously escalating into a larger fight which then concert with other gang members, or that the gang had orchestrated the fight, because even the gang name being mentioned. there was no evidence the victim was a gang member. in fact, there was evidence he was not. in addition, the altercation did not occur in rival or hostile gang territory. nothing about the case showed gang activity argument which blew up into an out-of-control drunken melee is belied by the record. although the initial spark may have been a personal dispute over the beer, the evidence showed the eastside wilma gang members acted together as a group by collectively attacking the victims. a. eyewitness testimony. eastside wilma gang members in the backyard. louis and willie were knocked to the ground and then punched and kicked by the gang members. afterward, in front of the house, luis saw his brother miguel arguing with a group of six to eight gang members, 6 including trujillo. this group started punching and kicking miguel. other than miguel and the gang members, no one else was involved in the altercation. krystal barriga descrihe was trying [to defen . . saw . . . they were just beating him up really, really bad, and then i saw somebody pull out a the floor [sic already down was not fighting back and appeared to be unconscious. b. testimony from the gang expert. the gang expert, mark maldonado of the los angeles police department, testified the eastside wilmas were a large gang, with about 550 members, consisting of five different homicide, attempted homicide, robbery, assault with deadly weapons, grand theft auto and drug trafficking. at the time of this shooting, a gang injunction was in effect with regard to the eastside wilmas and the injunction had been served on both trujillo and robles. the shooting occurred within territory claimed by the eastside wilmas. maldonado explained the proper gang protocol should an eastside wilma member become involved in a physical altercation: 7 re going to jump into the fight, also. wilma gang members have been involved? or shootings where eastside wilma gang members have been involved? members to escalate into shootings or stabbings? s to come out second in any kind of confrontation. asked a hypothetical question based on the evidence presented, maldonado because anybody else who was at that party is gonna learn the very hard lesson that onna happen to you. it just continues the ongoing intimidation in the community, keeps that is there. so they are an association. [] it also benefits the individuals who . . . are involved. respect is everything in the gang world, and the way you get it is being violent. the more e next time people in the . involved. they saw what happened to the last guy. they had a front row view of 8 3. discussion. the evidence here was plainly sufficient to sustain the gang enhancement. the expert explained the eastside wilmas would attack non-gang members at a neighborhood gathering within their own territory in order to intimidate the community. and the eyewitness evidence demonstrated this message of intimidation had been effectively communicated without any need to flash gang signs or shout out gang names. antonio quijada, the dj who provided the music for the party that night, testified he had lived in wilmington for 12 years. he was not a gang member, but he was familiar with both the eastside wilmas and the westside wilmas, and he testified it was not hard to tell if someone belonged to one of these gangs. that night, quijada noticed a group of six or seven gang members in the backyard. luis amezcua testified eastside wilmas and the westside wilmas. he knew people who were gang members and he could tell whether or not a group of people were gang members by the way they spoke, carried themselves and dressed. at this party, luis saw a group of 10 to 20 eastside wilmas members. although luis had never seen trujillo before, he could tell trujillo was a member of the eastside wilmas. melee or free-for-all; rather, the evidence showed a collective attack by gang members on individual victims. what took place were not fights, but a series of beatings that culminated in a fatal shooting. the eastside wilmas because he acted in combination with robles and other fellow gang members. (see people v. albillar together as gang members to attack [the victim] and, thus . . . they committed these crimes in association with tpeople v. galvez (2011) 195 cal.app.4th . . explained by [the gang expert]9 people v. vazquez (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 347, murder elevate the status of the gang within gang culture and intimidate neighborhood in court, or even report . . obviously, makes it easier for the gang to continue committing the crimes for which it is known, from graff people v. morales benefit the gang is not did commit the charged felony with known members of a gang, the jury may fairly infer that the defendant had the specific intent to promote, further, or assist criminal conduct by those gang members. here, there was ample evidence that defendants intended to attack [the victim], that they assisted each other in raping her, and that they were each members of the criminal street gang. accordingly, there was substantial evidence that defendants acted with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist people v. albillar, supra, 51 cal. 4th at p. 68; see also people v. villalobos commission of a crime in concert with known gang members is substantial evidence which supports the inference that the defendant acted with the specific intent to promote, further or in sum, we conclude the trial court did not abuse its discretion when it denied gang enhancement. 10 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: kitching, j. aldrich, j. 