filed 1/7/13 p. v. mendez ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. daniel mendez et al., defendants and appellants. b234396 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba358068) appeal from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, robert j. perry, judge. modified and, as so modified, affirmed. richard a. levy, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant daniel mendez. robert d. bacon for defendant and appellant carlos garcia. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and herbert s. tetef, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendants and appellants daniel mendez and carlos garcia appeal their convictions for murder and attempted murder. mendez and garcia were sentenced to prison terms of 90 and 80 years to life, respectively. both appellants contend the trial court erred by refusing to instruct the jury on voluntary intoxication; the prosecutor committed prejudicial misconduct; and the trial court imposed an unauthorized sentence when it failed to stay or strike a minimum parole eligibility period. mendez further contends the trial court improperly excluded evidence. garcia further contends evidence of jailhouse conversations between him and mendez should have been excluded, and the trial court abused its discretion by denying his request for post-trial discovery, a continuance, and his motion for a new trial. the people concede that the trial court erred by imposing minimum parole eligibility periods. we modify the judgment to correct the sentencing error. in all other respects, we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. facts. a. viewed in accordance with the usual rules governing appellate review (people v. johnston (2003) 113 cal.app.4th 1299, 1303-1304; people v. robinson (1997) 53 cal.app.4th 270, 273), the evidence relevant to the issues presented on appeal established the following. appellants were members of the westside 18th street criminal street gang. the gang claimed a territory south of the 10 freeway, between la cienga and la brea. its primary activities included murder, assault with a deadly weapon, and drug dealing. bloods gangs were its rivals. mendez had a large, gang-related tattoo of red lips louisa bolanos dated 18th street gang member jimmy arias. she owned a black jeep cherokee automobile. on the evening of may 7, 2009, she fell asleep at the spot after getting drunk. mendez, who was also at the spot that evening, took the keys to the wheel and garcia in the front passenger seat. mendez, who was on parole, was wearing a 3 gps tracking anklet that was monitored by the state parole office. it transmitted his location every minute. mendez drove west, into the territory of rival bloods gangs. (i) the hit-and-run accident. at shortly after 7:00 p.m., mendez drove at a high speed down carlin street. he attempted a turn but was going too fast, and hit a parked car near the intersection of carlin and cochran streets. he backed up and drove off, laughing and smiling. filiberto emilia identified mendez as the driver in a pretrial photographic lineup. (ii) the murder of thomas wade. mendez and garcia drove on through the neighborhood. near the intersection of 27th and cimarron streets, the jeep failed to stop at a stop sign and drove into the path of was in the intersection. wade turned sharply to avoid a collision. he stopped his car and leaned out the window, apparently saying something to and wade facing each other. mendez and wade appeared to exchange words. mendez partially exited the jeep and shot wade. mendez then sped off. the incident was jury. wade, a 34-year-old african-american, died of multiple gunshot wounds. he had been shot once from the side or behind, and once in the upper chest. police found two .380-not a gang member. menand cimarron at 7:18 p.m. zoila marcos, who was at a second story apartment at 27th and cimarron, heard gunshots and observed the jeep speeding away from the scene. she saw that the front seat passenger was wearing a black baseball cap with a red logo. he was looking out the photographic lineup. 4 (iii) the attempted murders of t.m. and r.m. a few minutes after the wade murder, 17-year-old cousins t.m. and r.m. were crossing 27th street at arlington boulevard. neither was a gang member. the jeep came speeding down the street, travelling at 75 to 80 miles per hour. it slowed and pulled up approximately 10 to 12 feet away from the youths. the front seat passenger heard gunshots. a bullet grazed t.m.r.m. saw a bullet fly past his face. the distance between the site of the wade murder and 27th and arlington could be west of 27th and arlington at 7:19 p.m. (iv) eighteenth street gang member arias, who was initially a suspect in the case, told police that sometime after may 7, 2009, he and his girlfriend, bolanos, encountered appellants at the spot. bolanos accused appellants of taking her jeep without permission a rival black p-stone gang member and shot him in the chest four or five times. they 1 (v) jailhouse conversations between mendez and garcia. los angeles police department detectives ronald kingi and robert lait arrested and interviewed garcia and showed him the videotape of the wade shooting. afterwards they placed mendez and garcia in a cell together and surreptitiously recorded their conversation, which included the following stateyou fool, it has me] . . . they showed me all the way to like everything . . . [even] when 1 in exchange for his testimony, police relocated arias. 5 the car, remember, was moving bjust looked like you walked up to the car and shot . . admitted the hit and run, because (vi) other surreptitiously recorded conversations. in one recorded telephone conversation with his girlfriend, angie perez, mendez discussed what story she should tell the probation officer. in another call, an unidentified woman told mendez that bolanos wanted to know what to tell police. mendez advised that she should say she always had her car and she did not know him. (vii) firearms and fingerprint evidence. firearms analysis of cartridge casings found at the scene of the t.m./r.m. front door, and on a can of wax in the cargo compartment. (viii) gang evidence. when presented with a hypothetical based upon the facts of the case, a gang expert opined that the crimes were committed for the benefit of the westside 18th street gang. the locations where the shootings occurred were in the territory of the bitty stone the purpose of the trip to rival gang territory was to shoot at anyone perceived as a member of a rival gang, thus intimidating the community and enabling the gang to commit crimes with impunity.2 2 because appellants do not challenge the sufficiency of the evidence offered in support of the gang enhancement, we do not further detail it here. 6 b. defense evidence. jose rodriguez testified that he saw the hit-and-run accident at carlin and cochran. when shown a pretrial photographic lineup, he identified arias as the driver of the jeep, and a person other than garcia as the passenger. a month later, police showed rodriguez a different photographic lineup and he identified mendez as the driver. a gang expert called by garcia testified that the shootings were not typical gang shootings; tha-bloods gang member. at trial, mendez did not dispute that he was the driver of the jeep and fired shots at wade. 2. procedure. mendez and garcia were tried together by a jury. both appellants were convicted of the murder of wade. (pen. code,  187, subd. (a).)3 as to mendez, the jury found the murder to be in the first degree; as to garcia, the jury found the murder to be in the second degree. both men were also convicted of the attempted murders of t.m. and r.m. the jury found the attempted murders were deliberate and premeditated; that during all the crimes a principal personally discharged a firearm ( 12022.53, subds. (c), (d) & (e)(1)); and that all the crimes were committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with, a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)). the trial court sentenced mendez to a term of 90 years to life in prison, and garcia to 80 years to life. as to both defendants, the court imposed restitution fines, suspended parole restitution fines, criminal conviction assessments, and court security assessments. mendez and garcia appeal. 3 all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 7 discussion 1. the jailhouse conversations. prior to trial garcia brought two separate motions seeking to suppress or exclude the statements he made during the interview with detectives, as well as the recorded jailhouse conversations, on the grounds they were (1) the fruit of an illegal arrest, and (2) the fruit of a coercive interrogation. the trial court denied both motions. the people did not seek to introduce the police interview at trial, but did present evidence of the jail-cell conversations. garcia contends this was constitutional error. we disagree. a. the jailhouse conversations were not the fruit of an illegal arrest. (i) additional facts. garcia initially moved to suppress on the ground the jail-cell conversations were the fruit of an illegal detention and arrest. the trial court conducted an evidentiary hearing, at which detective kingi and two parole officers testified. kingi testified that arias whouse, and arias had been known to drive it in the past. police therefore arrested arias as a suspect. detectives kingi and lait conducted a tape recorded interview of arias on may 14, 2009, a few days after the shootings. arias stated that mendez and garcia were involved in the shootings. bolanos had told arias that mendez and garcia took the jeep went to a kingi contacted parole agent roger kemp and told him garcia was a suspect in a shooting. kingi learned from kemp that tracking imonitor showed mendez was at the locations of the two shootings at the times they occurred. kingi confirmed this information by reviewing the gps data himself. when garcia came into the parole office on may 18, 2009, kingi and lait arrested him. after considering the testimony and the arguments of the parties, the court denied the suppression motion. it concluded that, based on the evidence known to detectives, 8 device, probable cause existed to arrest garcia. (ii) discussion. turning on the assessment of able cause is a people v. scott (2011) 52 cal.4th 452, 474; maryland v. pringle (2003) 540 u.s. 366, 371; people v. celis (2004) 33 cal.4th 667, 673.) on review of a denial of a suppression motion, we defer to the trial exercise our independent judgment to determine whether, on the facts found, the seizure was reasonable under the fourth amendment. (in re h.m. (2008) 167 cal.app.4th 136, 142.) challenges to the admissibility of a search or seizure must be evaluated solely under the fourth amendment. (people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1114, 1141.) the locations of the murder and shooting at the times they occurred. they knew from jeep, the vehicle used in the crimes. mendez and garcia had told gang associates that and shooting someone perceived to be a rival gangster in the chest. these facts would readily lead a person of reasonable caution to conclude mendez, accompanied by garcia, had committed the wade murder. there was ample probable cau while the court did reference certain facts that, while accurate, were not admitted in 9 evidence or testified to by the witnesses at the suppression hearing, as we have discussed the facts that were in evidence established probable cause.4 b. the jailhouse conversations were properly admitted. (i) the interrogation. after driving garcia from the parole office, detectives kingi and lait interviewed him at the police station in an interview room. kingi advised garcia of his miranda sinterview was not being recorded, and disingenuously and repeatedly assured him that he was being straightforward. during the first portion of the interview, kingi falsely told garcia that eyewitnesses had identified him as the passenger in the car. he also showed garcia a fabricated six-accurately related that police had a videotape of the shooting and knew who the driver was because he had been wearing a gps anklet. kingi urged garcia to explain what had happened, suggesting the shooting was unplanned and garcia was an unwitting passenger himself and his family, including his two young daughters. he urged that if garcia failed 4 in an earlier hearing, the trial court tentatively held that because garcia was a parolee, he had limited constitutional rights and could be detained for any legitimate reason without probable cause. the people urge this provided an alternative basis for the probable cause finding was amply supported. 10 had been hunting for persons to shoot. garcia professed ignorance and expressed skepticism that police actually had a videotape depicting him. he stated he wanted to see for this . . . ir for you to not have to see your family, to watch your daughters the detectives then tried a different tactic. they showed garcia a photograph that made it falsely appear as istated that the detectives had interviewed mendez, and that mendez had not been booked for murder. kingi implied that mendez wanted garcia to tell detectives the shooting had been in self-defense, thereby exculpating mendez. kingi also stated that garcia had been uess is if the story is a lot like what [mendez] said, thenlike my partner referenced the fact that garcia had just been fitted with a gps tracking device at the parole office, and stated that the detectives were still conducting the investigation. the detectives took a break, during which they showed garcia the videotape of the wade shplate number was readable; in fact, the number was not clear on the tape. when garcia pointed out that he could not be seen on the videotape, kingi falsely reiterated that he had been identified by witnesses. shortly thereafter garcia told detectives that before the shooting wade had called out his gang name and brandished a gun. garcia claimed he could not recall much else, and had been intoxicated. garcia indicated he had no more . . . 11 taking another break, the detectives questioned garcia about the shooting involving t.m. and r.m. garcia refused to provide further information. three times during the interview, garcia referenced obtaining an attorney, but did not unambiguously request counsel.5 going to (ii) garcia moved in limine to exclude the interview and jailhouse conversations on various grounds, including that his statements were involuntary. after an evidentiary hearing at which a defense police interrogation expert testified, the trial court denied the comments that suggested a promise of leniency, but found that such admissible because there was a clear break between the interrogation and the jail-cell conversation. (iii) applicable legal principles an involuntary confessionoverborneis inadmissible at trial under the due process guarantees of the united states and california constitutions. (people v. massie (1998) 19 cal.4th 550, 576; people v. smith (2007) 40 cal.4th 483, 501.) leniency, whether express or implied, is involuntary and therefore inadmissible, but 5 those statements were as follows. when kingi assured garcia that he was being . . 12 merely advising a suspect that it would be better to tell the truth, when unaccompanied by (people v. davis (2009) 46 cal.4th 539, 600; people v. holloway (2004) 33 cal.4th 96, 115; people v. maury (2003) 30 cal.4th 342, 404-405.) detectives may point out the benefits that flow naturally from a truthful and honest course of conduct. (people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 993.) the vthe circumstances. (people v. tully, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 993.) the relevant factors lomental health. (people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 635, 660.) no single factor is dispositive. (people v. williams (2010) 49 cal.4th 405, 436.) questioning may include confrontation with contradictory facts, debate, and even exaggerated statements implying that the police have more knowledge about a crime than they actually possess. (people v. williams, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 443; people v. holloway, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 115; people v. jones under all the circumstances, are so coercive that they tend to produce a statement that is people v. smith (2007) 40 cal.4th 483, 501.) the people have the burden of establishing the statement was voluntary. (tully, supra, inferences, as well as its evaluations of credibility, if substantially supported. we independently determine from the facts found by the trial court whether the challenged statement was legally obtained. (smith, supra, at p. 502; tully, supra, at p. 993.) (iv) voluntariness of the statements made during the police interview. garcia complains the interrogation was so coercive as to render his statements involuntary. we view the question as close. the interview commenced shortly before 6:00 p.m., included two breaks, and was relatively brief. neither its duration nor the hour of day suggested coercion. garcia was advised of his miranda rights and adequately waived them. (people v. cruz (2008) 44 13 cal.4th 636, 667-668.) garcia was not a nave youth lacking experience with the criminal justice system; he was four days shy of his 27th birthday, had previously been incarcerated, and had been a gang member since the age of 12. his sophistication was lot of timemental or physical infirmities. his statements strongly suggested he was not actually did n-cell comments do not suggest he had been coerced or intimidated. these aspects of the people v. williams, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 442.) we disagree that several of the factors cited by garcia indicate coercion. garcia argues that his requests for counsel were ignored, which indicated coercive interrogation. ambiguous, and the detectives had no obligation to stop the interview or ask clarifying questions. (see people v. bacon (2010) 50 cal.4th 1082, 1105; davis v. united states (1994) 512 u.s. 452, 459; people v. williams, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 427; people v. sapp (2003) 31 cal.4th 240, 266.) because the detectives did not act improperly, their conduct cannot have contributed to a nondeceptive, and do not appear to have motipeople v. kelly (1990) 51 cal.3d 931, 953.) involuntariness. (people v. musselwhite (1998) 17 cal.4th 1216, 1240-1241; people v. thompson lies told by the police to a suspect under questioning can affect the voluntariness of an ensuing confession, but they are not per se people v. farnam (2002) 28 cal.4th 107, 182; people v. lee (2002) 95 cal.app.4th 772, 785.) where the deception is not of a type reasonably likely to procure an untrue statement, a finding of voluntariness is warranted. 14 (farnam, not of a type likely to induce an untrue statement, especially given that police actually did have evidence the jeep was the car used in the crime and garcia was the passenger. n fact, result in untrue statements statement falsely represented that if garcia told detectives the shooting had been in self-defense, he would be released. this promise of lenience amounted to more than simply pointing out the benefits flowing from a truthful course of conduct; the detectives knew -defense. the suggesting the detectives were still investigating, and could arrest garcia again. but there was certainly a chance garcia would understand the comments to imply he would -later statements suggest this was precisely how he interpreted the remarks. interrogation were voluntary. even assuming arguendo that they were not, the jail-cell conversationsthe portion of the evidence challenged herewere clearly admissible.6 people v. jefferson (2008) 158 cal.app.4th 830 and people v. terrell (2006) 141 cal.app.4th 1371 are on point. in terrell, an 18-year-old defendant admitted during a police interrogation that he had committed murder and robbery. at the conclusion of the police interview, he asked if he could call his mother. the officers agreed, but surreptitiously taped the call. during the call the defendant confessed the killing to his 6 ements during the interrogation. 15 mother and other family members. (id. at p. 1376.) he successfully moved to suppress his confession made during the police interview, on the ground his miranda rights had id. at p. 1382.) the confessions to the mother and other relatives were not the product of coercion or a custodial interrogation, and the defendant had initiated the call on his own. (id. at pp. 1377, 1382.) the court rejected the argument that the phone call was id. at p. 1379.) the police did nothing to prompt the call. the defendant did not know the call was being recorded. ended, and he was having a private conversation with his family. his motivation in speaking to his family members was entirely different from his motivation when confessing to police: he was not seeking to avoid reprisals or obtain more lenient treatment. (id. at p. 1385.) thus, his voluntary decision to telephone his family and confess was an intervening circumstance that broke the causative chain. (ibid.) in jefferson, police separately interviewed two gang members suspected of committing a drive-by murder together. police gave each man false information about the evidence, telling one that gunshot residue had been found in his suburban automobile (the car used in the murder), and the other that his fingerprint had been found inside the suburban. (people v. jefferson, supra,158 cal.app.4th at p. 835.) officers then put the men together in a surreptitiously bugged jail cell, where they discussed the crimes and the information that had been given to them by police. jefferson rejected the argument that placing the men in the cell together, where it was reasonably likely they would make incriminating statements, was a form of interrogation. (id. at p. 840.) settled law shows compulsion is missing when a suspect speaks freely to someone the suspect thinks is a ibid. 16 opposite of compulsion. they were candid because they thought no one else was listening, not because they were getting the third degree. it was, as the officers hoped, a (id. at p. 841.) accordingly, the statements were voluntary. terrell and jefferson compel the same result here. the detectives did not continue (people v. terrell, supra, 141 cal.app.4th at p. 1386, quoting rhode island v. innis (1980) 446 u.s. 291, 302; people v. jefferson, supra, 158 cal.app.4th at p. 840.) the jail-cell conversation did not take place under conditions resembling a custodial interrogation or its functional equivalent. (terrell, at p. 1386). no coercion or police prompting was used to elicit the jail-cell statements. garcia did not know the jail-cell conversation was being taped. (terrell, at p. 1386 [there can be no coercion when the defendant is subjectively unaware of police involvement in eliciting or recording his interrogation had ended. (id. at p. 1385.) as in jeffersonpoint of view, was the opposite of compulsion. while garcia is correct that many of the incriminating jail-cell statements pertained to information provided to him during the police interview, this does not compel exclusion; the same was true in jefferson. (jefferson, at pp. 835-836.) that the police interview in jefferson was not coercive is, in not have beterrell, at p. 1386.) moreover, the jail-cell conversation did not occur until after garcia had been booked and moved to a jail cell, a more definitive break than that present in terrell. as in terrell, there was an id. at p. 1385.) garcia urges that this case more closely resembles people v. hogan (1982) 31 cal.3d 815, disapproved on another point in people v. cooper (1991) 53 cal.3d 771, 836, in which the ca-interrogation telephone 17 conversation with his wife was inadmissible. (people v. hogan, supra, at p. 843.) but, as terrell explained at length, hogan is distinguishable. the coercive police conduct at issue in hogan included a series of three interrogations occurring over two days, interspersed with several conversations between the defendant and his wife. (id. at pp. 835-838.) police the wife with information leading her to believe her husband was guilty, and then setting up the follow-up conversations in which she could elicit further incriminating evidence from him. in essence, the wife unwittingly ing them people v. terrell, supra, 141 cal.app.4th at p. 1384.) here, in contrast to hogan, the detectives did not prompt the jail-cell conversation and did not use a family member as a tool to continue a de facto interrogation. 2. contentions related to voluntary intoxication. mendez contends the trial court erred by precluding testimony from a lay witness that the driver of the jeep appeared to be drunk. both defendants contend that the trial court erred by denying their request that the jury be instructed on voluntary intoxication. on the instruction, we consider the issues seriatim. a. e defense witness jose rodriguez testified that he observed the hit-and-run accident. he saw a car speeding down cochran street at 50 to 55 miles per hour. the car attempted to turn on carlin, but was going too fast, missed the turn, and crashed into a speed and the turn and the collision, was that consistent with or like the driver was grounds, and the court sustained the objection. mendez assumes that rodriguez would have given an affirmative answer, and incorrect. a non-expert witness may offer his or her opinion if it is 18 people v. bradley (2012) 208 cal.app.4th 64, 83.) the decision whether to permit lay opinion rests in the sound discretion of the trial court. (bradley, at p. 83.) based on his perceptions. rodriguez observed, from a distance, the jeep speeding and miss a turn. from these limited observations, rodriguez could not have rationally formed an opinion about whether the driver was drunk. as mendez appears to acknowledge, it is an unfortunate fact that sober persons, as well as intoxicated drivers, sometimes drive at excessive speeds and have accidents. without a further basis for the holding that lay witnesses are permitted to give their opinion on intoxication is unhelpful. (see, e.g., people v. williams (1992) alcohol, slurcommonly recognizable signs, nor was he close enough to the jeep to have been able to make such observations. there was no error. b. refusal to instruct on voluntary intoxication. appellants requested that the trial court instruct the jury with calcrim no. 625, regarding voluntary intoxication.7 the trial court denied their request on the ground there 7 evidence only in deciding whether the defendant acted with an intent to kill[,] [or] [the defendant acted with deliberation and premeditation[,]] [[or] the defendant was unconscious when (he/she) acted[,]] [or the defendant _________________ <insert other specific intent required in a homicide charge or other charged offense>.] [] a person is voluntarily intoxicated if he or she becomes intoxicated by willingly using any intoxicating drug, drink, or other substance knowing that it could produce an intoxicating 19 was insufficient evidence to support the instruction. appellants contend omission of the instruction violated their constitutional rights to due process, to present a defense, and to jury trial. a trial court must instruct, sua sponte, on the general principles of law that are closely and openly connected to the facts before the court and that are necessary for the people v. moye (2009) 47 cal.4th 537, 548; people v. boyer (2006) 38 cal.4th 412, 468-469.) a defendant has the right to an instruction that pinpoints the theory of the defense. (people v. roldan (2005) 35 cal.4th 646, 715, disapproved on other grounds in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22.) however, a court is not obliged to instruct on theories that lack substantial evidentiary support. (people v. burney (2009) 47 cal.4th 203, 246.) substantial evidence is evidence sufficient to deserve consideration by the jury, that is, evidence that a reasonable jury could find persuasive. (people v. benavides (2005) 35 cal.4th 69, 102; people v. ross (2007) 155 cal.app.4th 1033, 1049-people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1200.) doubts about the sufficiency of the evidence to warrant an moye, at p. 562.) we independently review the question of whether the trial court erred by failing to instruct on a defense. (people v. johnson (2009) 180 cal.app.4th 702, 707; people v. oropeza (2007) 151 cal.app.4th 73, 78.) in deciding whether an instruction is required, we do not determine the credibility of the defense evidence. (people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 585; people v. salas (2006) 37 cal.4th 967, 982.) or not the defendant actually formed a required specific intent, or, when charged with murder, whether the defendant premeditated, deliberated, or harbored express malice effect, or willingly assuming the risk of that effect. [] you may not consider evidence 20 people v. roldan, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 715;  29.4, subd. (b).) ntoxication and the (roldan, at p. 715, italics added; people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 635, 677.) here, the only evidence offered in support of the instruction was the following. testified that the culprits were laughing and appeared to be lost. on cross-examination during the recorded jail-cell conversation, garcia stated that he had told the detectives he was drunk at the time of the crimes. assuming arguendo that this evidence was sufficient to show appellants were intoxicated at the time of the crimesas opposed to some other period during their two- or three-it provides no evidence that they were so intoxicated they did the evidence shows that a defendant ingested drugs or was drinking, unless the evidence also shows he became intoxicated to the point he failed to form the requisite intent or people v. ivans (1992) 2 cal.app.4th 1654, 1661-1662, and cases cited therein ; people v. williams, supra, 16 cal.4th at pp. 677-678 insufficient evidence his intoxication affected his mental state]; people v. ramirez (1990) 50 cal.3d 1158, 1179-1181 [that defendant drank 8 to 10 beers was insufficient evidence intoxication had an effect on his mental state].) the evidence that mendez drove too fast 21 and hit another car was insufficient to show either appellant had not formed the requisite intent. omission of the instruction was proper. 3. prosecutorial misconduct. deliberation. in the course of that argument, she statemore than that because we have gang members, . . . the instruction tells you the amount of time required for deliberation, premeditation can vary from person to person and according to the circumstances. what that tells you is that you can look to all the other evidence about these particular defendants that you know to consider whether or not they deliberated. [] a gang member is different than an ordinary person because at some point in time that person decided to join a gang. and when they do so, they know that crimes. and as soon as they join a gang, they have to thinkof reflective person, they have to they decided this when they . . . got together, put a gun in the car or put it in their prejudicial misconduct and violated their rights to confrontation and due process. they admissible only to prove intent, purpose, knowledge, or motive, but not character.8 in 8 of gang activity only for the limited purpose of deciding whether: [] the defendants acted with the intent, purpose, and knowledge that are required to prove the gang-related enhancement charged; [] or [] the defendants had a motive to commit the crimes charged. [] . . . [] you may not consider this evidence for any other purpose. you may not conclude from this evidence that a defendant is a person of bad character or that 22 apppeople who kill, that is, they have a propensity or character for violence and murder. vidence, the applicable federal and state standards regarding prosecutorial misconduct are conduct by a prosecutor that does not render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair is (people v. samayoa (1997) 15 cal.4th 795, 841; people v. vines (2011) 51 cal.4th 830, 873; people v. redd (2010) 48 cal.4th 691, 733-734.) when a claim of misconduct focuses on comments the prosecutor made before the jury, the question is whether there is a reasonable likelihood the jury construed or applied any of the complained of remarks in an objectionable fashion. (samayoa, at p. 841.) we must place the challenged statement in context and view the argument as a whole. (people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1203.) when the defense fails to object to asserted prosecutorial misconduct and request that the jury be admonished, the claim ordinarily is forfeited on appeal. (people v. mckinzie (2012) 54 cal.4th 1302, 1358; people v. souza (2012) 54 cal.4th 90, 122.) they have forfeited their prosecutorial misconduct claims. (mckinzie, at p. 1358; souza, does not suggest an objection would have been futile. (see generally people v. redd, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 745.) failure to object, their attorneys provided ineffective assistance. to prevail on an 23 fell below an objective standard of reasonableness, and resultant prejudice. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687; people v. hernandez (2012) 53 cal.4th 1095, 1105; people v. bradley, supra, 208 cal.app.4th at pp. 86-87.) the prosecutor did not commit prejudicial misconduct. while it is misconduct for a prosecutor to argue evidence outside the record (people v. thomas (2011) 51 cal.4th 449, 494; people v. ellison (2011) 196 cal.app.4th 1342, 1353), that did not occur here. comment upon the evidence, including reasonable inferences or deductions that may be people v. dykes (2009) 46 cal.4th 731, 768; people v. thomas, supra, that the primary activities of the 18th street gang included murder and attempted murder; that in the gang culture, respect is of paramount importance, and must be earned by committing crimes for the gang, such as shootings, murders, and other activities; that it is important for gang members to feel that their fellow gang members know they are capable of committing violent crime; and that if gang members travelled into a rival reasonable inference that persons mired in the gang culture are often called upon to commit shootings for their gangs and must be willing to do so if they are to earn members take a vow to kill. nor do we think there is a reasonable likelihood jurors would have interpreted the choose to join a gang do so knowing that they may be called upon to commit violent acts for the gang, and therefore must have considered, before joining, whether they were inference and comment on the evidence, and was not prohibited character evidence. while it would perhaps have been prdeceptive, reprehensible, or egregious, and did not infect the trial with unfairness. 24 as not objectionable, defense counsel did not people v. torrez (1995) 31 cal.app.4th 1084, 1091.) 4. the discovery request and motions for a continuance and a new trial. a. additional facts. pursuant to a standard court procedure followed in cases in which a gang enhancement is alleged, in the interests of witness safety the contact information was not disclosed, but the people agreed to make the witnesses available for interview. -in-chief, defense witness marcos testified that the front seat passenger in the jeep wore a black baseball cap with a red logo. on the day arias testified, the prosecutor informed the defense that she had the defense examined the photographs in court. one of the pictures showed a black argument, defense counsel displayed the photograph for the jury and argued it was possible arias was the front seat passenger. defense counsel did not seek to recall marcos after obtaining the photograph. seeking contact information for marcos and her parents, eulalia and jose. defense counsel averred that the information was necessary in order for her to prepare a motion for a new trial. counsel averred that eulalia and jose, who did not testify at trial, had also stated that the front seat passenger wore a black cap with a red logo. counsel stated nce on the same grounds. 25 at the hearing on the motions, the prosecutor stated that the photographs had been referenced in the police report. the defense had been in possession of the photographs during trial but never requested a continuance and did not seek to call additional witnesses, recall marcos, or interview eulalia and jose. the prosecutor observed that the to be part of the uniform. the prosecutor also noted that during the jail cell conversations, garcia had stated that he had been wearing a dark hat with a logo. the were to be found in los angeles. garcia subsequently filed a motion for a new trial on the grounds of, inter alia, prosecutorial misconduct.9 the misconduct alleged was that the prosecutor did not turn over the 155 phmarcos and, presumably, her parents. had the photographs been turned over, counsel could have questioned marcos and the other witnesses about the cap, potentially establishing arias was in the front passenger seat and was the person who shot at t.m. and r.m. the trial court denied the motion. it concluded the trial evidence was particularly the fact that garcia stated in the jail cell conversation that he was in the car. moreover, there was no prosecutorial misconduct. the defense was able to use the photograph of the cap at trial. garcia now contends denial of all three motions was error. we disagree. b. the discovery request. there is no general constitutional right to discovery in a criminal case. (people v. valdez (2012) 55 cal.4th 82, 109- 9 the motion also averred that new evidence had been discovered suggesting arias was a passenger in thit pertained to that ground. 26 1054 et seq., provide the exclusive means for discovery. ( 1054, subd. (e); people v. superior court (pearson) (2010) 48 cal.4th 564, 570.) with the exception of section 1054.9, which does not apply here, the reciprocal discovery statutes do not provide for post-conviction discovery. (people v. superior court (pearson), supra, at pp. 570-572.) he purposes of the discovery statutes cannot be furthered where, as here, a jury has already rendered its verdict on the substantive charges against the defendant . . . . rather, addressed by available posttrial remedies such as an appeal from the judgment [citation], a motion for new trial [citation], or a petition for habeas corpus [cipeople v. bowles (2011) 198 cal.app.4th 318, 327.) garcia therefore failed to establish he was entitled to the requested discovery. furthermore, the prosecutor did, in fact, disclose the photographs during trial and had apparently offered to make the three witnesses at issue available for an interview. remedy. the discovery statute requires that the prosecution disclose specified categories of information to the defense 30 days before trial. (people v. bowles, supra, 198 cal.app.4th at p. 325.) the trial court may enforce the discovery statutes by ordering immediate disclosure and a variety of sanctions. (ibid.) if garcia felt additional discovery, accommodations, or sanctions were warranted, he could easily have sought them during trial, but failed to do so. c. the motion for a continuance. a continuance of a criminal trial may be granted only for good cause, and the trial court has broad discretion to determine whether good cause exists. ( 1050, subd. (e); people v. alexander (2010) 49 cal.4th 846, 934; people v. mungia (2008) 44 cal.4th 1101, 1118.) we revof discretion. (people v. mungia, supradeciding when a denial of a continuance is so arbitrary as to violate due process. the answer must be found in the circumstances present in every case, particularly in the 27 id. at p. nsider is ibid.) the trial court did not abuse its discretion here. first, as best we can tell, garcia sought the continuance in conjunction with the discovery request so he could show the three witnesses the photograph of the black hat. as the court properly denied the immediately after the trial court denied the motions for discovery and a continuance, defennecessity for a further delay. d. the new trial motion. section 1181, paragraph (5), provides that a new trial may be granted when the judicial misconduct during the trial thereof before a abuse-of-discretion standard. (people v. lightsey (2012) 54 cal.4th 668, 729.) a trial on for new trial will not be disturbed absent a manifest and unmistakable abuse of discretion. (lightsey, p. 729.) we discern no abuse of discretion here, because the new trial motion lacked merit. we have set forth the standard governing prosecutorial misconduct claims ante. while the prosecutor should have turned over the photographs 30 days before trial ( 1054.7), her failure to do so was inadvertent. the tardy production of the photographs cannot be characterized as deceptive or reprehensible, nor was it an egregious pattern of conduct that rendered the trial unfair. (see people v. vines, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 873.) garcia claims that, had he possessed the photograph earlier, he would have asked marcos if the cap resembled the one worn by the witnesses for the same purpose. although garcia postulates that the cap evidence was significant in the way the case was litigated, we do not see how timely discovery of the photograph could have bolste 28 believe it was the one worn by the shooter. despite the tardy disclosure, the defense introduced the photograph into evidence and argued its significance to the jury. given that the jury had a photograph of the hat, and knew that the front seat passenger was wearing similar headgear, it is unlikely the testimony of marcos or her parents would have added much to the case. further, as the trial court reasoned, the hat was not a unique item. finally, given the evidence of the jail-cell statements in which garcia admitted he was present or ariashad a similar cap was unlikely to impress the jury. the new trial motion was properly denied. 5. the minimum parole eligibility period. at sentencing, the trial court imposed a 15-year minimum parole eligibility requirement on both appellants. they contend this was error, and the people concede the point. we agree. section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5) provides for a 15-year minimum parole eligibility period for persons who commit felonies punishable by life imprisonment where the gang enhancement is found true. however, here both appellants received additional terms under section 12022.53 for the personal use of a firearm. an enhancement for participation in a criminal street gang . . . shall not be imposed on a person in addition to an enhancement imposed pursuant to this subdivision, unless the person personally used or personally found, as to both appellants and each count, that a principal personally discharged a firearm. accordingly, the 15-year minimum parole eligibility requirement should be stayed. (people v. valenzuela (2011) 199 cal.app.4th 1214, 1238.) because the 15-year parole eligibility requirement is not reflected on the abstracts of judgment, their modification is unnecessary. 29 disposition the judgments are modified to stay the 15-year minimum parole eligibility requirement. in all other respects, the judgments are affirmed. not to be published in the official reports aldrich, j. we concur: klein, p. j. croskey, j. 