filed 9/25/12 p. v. gilreath ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. suzanne gilreath, defendant and appellant. b234123 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la061894) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, barry taylor, judge. reversed. rene paradis, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, linda c. johnson and ryan m. smith, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant suzanne gilreath appeals from the judgment entered following her conviction for grand theft by embezzlement following a court trial. (pen. code,  487 subd. (a).)1 defendant contends that her conviction must be reversed because she did not waive her right to a jury trial in the manner required by article i, section 16 of the california constitution. she also contends that if her conviction is affirmed, the matter must be remanded for a new sentencing hearing because the court failed to consider a complete presentence probation report. we conclude that defendant did not expressly waive her right to a jury trial and reverse the judgment. factual and procedural history2 eliminary hearing. the preliminary hearing transcript was admitted into evidence at the court trial. defendant was employed by all american kitchens as a bookkeeper from may 2005 through april 2008. she was responsible for all accounting duties. her responsibilities included preparing checks used to pay company employees and the payroll and operating expenses. defendant was never authorized to issue checks to herself, to pa in april 2008, christopher zepatos, the owner of all american kitchens, asked defendant to transfer funds from the operating account to the payroll account. a short time later, zepatos received a call from the bank informing him that he did not have sufficient funds in the operating account to make the transfer. zepatos thought it was odd that defendant did not know how much money was in the operating account and decided 1 all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 as defendant does not challenge the sufficiency of the evidence, we set forth an abbreviated version of the facts. 3 informed defendant that he was bringing in an additional bookkeeper. an hour later, defendant told zepatos that she needed to leave work because her husband was having a heart attack. defendant left the office and never returned. the next day, the other bookkeeper went over the accounts and discovered several discrepancies. zepatos then hired a new bookkeeper to replace defendant. the new bookkeeper reviewed the accounts from the time defendant began working for the company and found 35 unauthorized checks from the payroll account issued to defendant. in addition, the bookkeeper discovered that funds designated in 34 unauthorized checks had been periodically withdrawn from the operating account between june 2005 and october 2007. these 34 unauthorized checks were either made payable to defendant or accounts of his business. on february 28, 2011, the court held a scheduling hearing to determine the trial this statement was followed by a brief discussion regarding scheduling. the court then . . miss gilreath, you do have a right to have a jury trial. a jury o nd a reasonable doubt that the people have proved their case, but it will just be me doing it. do you understand? 4 the court trial was scheduled for march 21, 2011, and it began on march 28, 2011. defendant testified on her own behalf. on march 29, 2011, the court found defendant guilty as charged. the court then continued the matter for sentencing and ordered defendant to go to the probation department in order for the department to prepare a presentence probation report. on june 23, 2011, at the sentencing hearing, imposition of sentence was suspended and defendant was granted three years of formal probation on the condition that she serve 365 days in county jail. the court imposed a restitution fine of $200 ( 1202.4, subd. (b)), a parole revocation fine of $200 ( 1202.45), which was stayed, a court security fee of $40 ( 1465.8, subd. (a)(1)), and victim restitution of $112,646 ( 1202.4, subd. (f)). defendant filed a timely appeal. discussion defendant contends her conviction must be reversed because she did not expressly waive her right to a jury trial in open court. we agree. under article i, section 16 of in a criminal cause by the consent of both parties expressed in open court by the of the right to a trial by jury must be expressed personally through the use of language and will not be implied from conduct alone. (people v. holmes (1960) 54 cal.2d 442, 443-444 (holmesmust be used, no particular language is necessary as long as the words employed disclose (people v. di blasi (1961) 198 cal.app.2d 215, 223.) if a defendant is advised that he or she has the choice between the two types of trial and selects trial by the court instead of trial by jury, then he or she has just as effectively waived trial by jury as if he or she had id. at p. 222.) 5 citing holmes, defendant asserts she did not expressly waive her right to a jury trial. in holmes, the defendant was asked whether he understood that he had a right to a jury trial with respect to the underlying charge and the allegation he had suffered a prior convicaffirmatively when asked if he joined in the waiver. (holmes, supra, 54 cal.2d at p. in the manner required by the california constitution, the supreme court determined that been uniformly held that the waiver must be so expressed and will not be implied from a id. at pp. 443-444.) was giving up and that the trial court would be determining the outcome of her case, constituted an express waiver of her right. in other words, [defendant] clearly confirmed we are not persuexpress waiver of a jury trial. we see little difference between the defective waiver in holmes and the one here. in both cases, the defendants were asked whether they understood their right to a jury trial. although we acknowledge that the trial court in the instant case took greater pains to explain the difference between a jury and a court trial, the fact remains that at no time did defendant affirmatively choose a court trial over the alternative. she merely indicated that she understood the procedural differences between the two types of trials. thus, in order to find a jury waiver in this case, we would have to imply that defendant waived her right to a jury trial by participating in the court trial without objection. as discussed, the holmes that a jury waiver be expressed personally through the use of language. under the circumstances of this case, we recognize that our conclusion exalts form over substance. there is no question defendant willingly took part in the court trial, fully 6 understanding that the judge would be evaluating the evidence and rendering judgment. e constitutional right to jury trial is involved, we have required an express waiver even in cases in which the circumstances make it apparent that all involvedthe trial court, the prosecutor, defense counsel, and the defendantassumed that the defendant people v. french (2008) 43 cal.4th 36, 47.) the judgment must be reversed. as a result, we need disposition the judgment is reversed. not to be published in the official reports suzukawa, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. manella, j. 