filed 12/10/12 p. v. valenzo ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jahziel valenzo, defendant and appellant. b234081 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka090612) appeal from an order of the superior court of the county of los angeles, george genesta, judge. affirmed in part, and remanded with instructions. laura s. kelly, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, blythe j. leszkay and john yang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury found defendant and appellant jahziel valenzo (defendant) guilty of first degree murder and further found true, inter alia, a gang enhancement allegation. on defendant also contends that the trial court abused its discretion when it refused to allow defense counsel to argue that defendant acted out of fear when he shot the victim. and defendant contends that the trial court erred in imposing a 10-year sentence enhancement pursuant to penal code section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c).1 we hold that substantial evidence supported the true finding on the gang allegation and that the trial court did not err in allowing the gang expert to testify concerning the gang allegation. we further hold that the trial court did not abuse its discretion when it did not permit defense counsel to argue that defendant acted out of fear. and we agree with the parties that the trial court erred when it imposed a 10-year sentence enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c). factual background a. the shooting of preciado defendant, who went by the nickname smashtheir relationship twice. after the second break-up in march 2010, she began dating the victim, ruben preciado, who was her co-worker. she dated him for a month or less. jessica sensed that there was hostility between preciado and defendant, and while she preciado for about a month, jessica decided that she wanted her son to live together with 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 his father and mother, so she resumed her relationship with defendant, who moved into accothat evening, defendant and perez told jessica they were going out in front of the house, but at around 8:30 p.m., she noticed they had left that location. investigators assigned to investigate the shooting of preciado. he interviewed mauricio miramontes2 at school on may 18, 2010. during the interview, miramontes provided the following information about the shooting of preciado: on the day of the shooting, defendant and michael marquez approached miramontes at school. defendant was upset with preciado and he asked miramontes to arrange a fight between defendant and preciado to settle their differences. defendant told miramontes that, regardless of the outcome of the fight, miramontes should not talk to the police about it. defendant and miramontes agreed that the fight would take place early that evening at a nursery. but after the meeting, defendant called miramontes, changed the location of the fight to a bridge, and changed the time of the fight to 8:00 p.m. defendant called miramontes again at 8:00 p.m. and postponed the fight until 8:30 p.m. when it would be dark, and he 3 2 miramontes testified at trial, but was uncooperative. detective hernandez therefore testified as to the information miramontes provided about the shooting during a tape recorded interview, and the recorded interview was played for the jury. 3 interview with miramontes suggests that miramontes changed the location of the fight to the projects, not defendant. 4 that evening, miramontes was at a carport in front of the agreed upon location of the fight4 with approximately five other males. he saw defendant, perez, and marquez arrive at the carport on bicycles. defendant asked miramontes where preciado was located. defendant then walked into the apartment complex, while perez and marquez waited outside near miramontes and the other males. according to miramontes, marquez looked nervous and he had a gun in his waistband. at that point, miramontes ramontes ran toward his house. preciado, who had been shot three timestwice in the back and once in his chestwas found lying face up in the rear yard of the apartment complex on north rockvale and died at the scene. at about 9:30 p.m. that night, marqnervous, pale, and sweaty. when jessica asked marquez where defendant was, he said they were being chased by azusa 13 gang members. because she had lived in azusa her entire life, jessica knew azusa 13 was a gang in azusa. jessica and her mother went to their car and drove around their neighborhood looking for defendant. when they could not locate defendant, they went home and jessica tried to call defendant on his cell phone. she contacted defendant around 10:00 p.m. and told him to come home. room, she saw defendant place a gun wrapped in a black shirt or sock under a drawer. jessica told defendant to remove the gun from her house, and defendant said he would remove the gun the next morning. when jessica informed defendant that marquez had told her that defendant was being chased, defendant denied being with marquez that evening. jessica and defendant then fell asleep, but jessica was awakened by defendant talking on his cell phone to a female. she waited for him to finish the call and then asked him why he denied during the conversation that he was in azusa. she further inquired why the female called 4 the confrontation took place in the backyard of an apartment complex located at 603 north rockvale avenue, azusa. 5 denied that he was involved. defendant explained it was perez who shot preciado three times. when jessica told defendant it could not have been perez who shot preciado, house. she left the room and turned on the television to determine if there were any news reports about the shooting. seeing no news reports, she returned to her room and again asked defendant to leave. defendant replied that he would leave in the morning. the next morning defendant left for his school and jessica left for her school a short time later, thinking preciado was in the hospital. but at school, jessica heard that preciado had been killed. she next called her mother and asked her to come to school and pick her up. she told her mother that someone had killed preciado. but when jessica went home and fell asleep. her sister awakened her and told her the police were at the door. the officers told jessica they were looking for defendant, and she told them she was unsure of his whereabouts, but thought he was at school. the officers took jessica and her sister outside and searched the house. following the search, jessica went inside the house with detective hernandez. she informed the detective that defendant had been there the night before and left a gun under a drawer in her room. detective hernandez recovered the gun5 from that location. city of azusa police detective robert landeros worked on an interagency task force that conducted drug and gang investigations. based on his past experience as a patrol deputy working a gang detail in azusa and his current assignment, he was familiar with a juvenile tagging crew known as bso, or bud smokers only, based in the city of 5 the parties stipulated that the three shell casings recovered at the scene had been fired from the gun rec 6 glendora.6 he was also very familiar with a criminal street gang in azusa known as a tagging crew into a street gang. based on his experience, deputy landeros explained that fck engaged in primary criminal activities such as felony vandalism, assault with a deadly weapon, shootings, and attempted murder. he was also aware of a fck gang member being involved in drug sales. according to detective landeros, there was a rivalry between fck and azusa 13, a street gang that controlled the streets of azusa since the 1950s and 1960s. fck was the only hispanic gang to rival azusa 13 in the city of azusa. azusa 13 engaged in the same types of crimes as fck. gangs like fck and azusa 13 claimed territory, and those two gangs were in conflict over territory within azusa. as a result of the rivalry, one of rdered and there was an attempted murder of detective landeros and his partner. fck gang members had tattoos and used graffiti or symbols to signify their gang azusa and primarily in the area of 6th street and rockvale, an area claimed by fck. fck had approximately 30 members or associates. defendant was a documented member of fck whose nickname or moniker was liz, or dust, who did not - detective landeros was very familiar with perez and marquez. perez was a - based on the facts of this case, detective landeros opined that the shooting of shooting6th street and rockvalewas within territory fck claimed and the shooting at that location was a direct challenge to azusa 13, which also claimed that territory. that preciado, the shooting victim, belonged to the rival bso crew that also tagged that 6 during his tape recorded interview with detective hernandez, miramontes suggested that he and preciado were members of bso. 7 territory, further demonstrated that the shooting was gang motivated. moreover, although iend jessica, such a potential personal motivation for the shooting would not alter the conclusion that it was gang-related because gang was an overt sign of disrespect toward defendant which, if defendant did nothing about it, would cause defendant to lose credibility within fck and potentially to suffer retaliation by other members of the gang. detective landeros confirmed that fck gang member miguel gonzales, or demon, was convicted of attempted murder in 2009. he also confirmed that fck gang member benjamin castro had a juvenile petition for assault on a police officer sustained in 2009.7 procedural posture in an information, the los angeles county district attorney charged defendant8 with murder in violation of section 187, subdivision (a). the district attorney alleged that, in the commission of the murder, defendant: personally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury and death within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivision (d); personally discharged a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivision (c); and personally used a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivision (b). the district attorney further alleged that the murder was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, and in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further, and assist in criminal conduct by gang members. 7 petition was sustained actually shows that it was dismissed because castro was deceased. 8 perez and marquez were also charged with murder in the information. 8 defendant pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. following trial, the jury found defendant guilty of first degree murder and found true each of the special allegations. the trial court sentenced defendant to an aggregate term of 60 years to life comprised of a 25 years to life sentence for the murder charge, an additional, consecutive 25 years to life sentence based on the discharge of a firearm causing great bodily injury and death enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (d), and a consecutive 10-year sentence enhancement based on the gang allegation. the trial court also imposed but stayed sentence enhancements based on the firearm allegations under section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (c). discussion a. sufficiency of evidence in support of true finding on gang allegation finding that the shooting of preciado was gang-the gang -related and the the facts othe judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidenceevidence that is reasonable, credible and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence. [citation.] [] the same standard of review applies to cases in which the prosecution relies primarily on circumstantial evidence and to special circumstance allegations. may not be reversed simply because the circumstances might also reasonably be 9 reweigh evidence or ([people v.] guerra [(2006)] 37 cal.4th [1067,] people v. houston (2012) 54 cal.4th 1186, 1215.) section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1) requires a two-prong showing to prove a gang the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang members, shall, upon conviction of that felony, in addition and consecutive to the punishment prescribed for the felony or attempted felony of which he or she has been convicted, be punished as follows: . . the required statutory showing. here, there was sufficient evidence to satisfy the first prong of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1), i.e., defendant committed the shooting in association with a criminal street gang. defendant was a documented fck gang member who was known to -girlfriend and the mother of his son in the recent past, conduct which the gang expert characterized as disrespectful toward defendant. accompanied by marquez, defendant a bso tagging crew memberagreeing to both a time and location. in doing so, he cautioned miramontes not to discuss the plans for the fight with the police, regardless of the outcome of the fight. but, as the agreed-upon time for the fight drew near, he changed the time and location of the fight twice. the ultimate location agreed upon was in a territory claimed by both fck and azusa 13. despite challenging preciado to a fist fight, defendant -member, perez, and a member of another gang who was also armed, marquez. perez and marquez waited outside the backyard where the fight was to take place to ensure that 10 miramontes and the males with him did not interfere with the planned shooting. in the backyard, defendant shot preciado at close range three times. 9 the foregoing evidence supported a reasonable inference that defendant, in association with fellow fck gang member perez, planned the murder of preciado to shooting, in disputed gang territory, supported that inference, as did the cold blooded and vicious nature of the shooting. there was evidence which suggested that, by brutally murdering a disrespectful member of a rival tagging crew in disputed gang territory, defendant and perez enhanced the reputation of fck in that territory and the larger community, and at the same time instilled fear in members of the community, all of which showed that the shooting benefited fck. there was also evidence sufficient to support a reasonable inference that defendant acted with the requisite specific intent to promote, further, or assist gang members in the commission of the crime. the evidence showed that he committed the shooting in concert with another fck gang member, perez, and marquez, a known members is substantial evidence which supports the inference that the defendant acted with the specific intent to promote, further or assist gang members in the commission of the crime. (people v. morales (people v. villalobos (2006) 145 cal.app.4th 310, 322.) as noted above, the evidence also showed that defendant knowingly entered disputed gang territory and committed a preplanned and vicious murder. that evidence suggested that defendant acted, at least in part, to enhance or promote the reputation of his gang for ruthlessness and violence in the community. y of the gang evidence is based on the assertion that the gang expert failed to specify the primary criminal activities of fck as 9 the autopsy evidence supported a reasonable inference that defendant shot preciado at close range twice in the back as he tried to flee and a third time in the chest as he lay helpless on the ground. 11 provided under section 186.22, subdivision (f), which requires the prosecution to prove merit to this contention. during direct examination of the gang expert, the following exchange took place: u said [fck] evolved from a tag crew into a criminal street gang; is that correct: tagging crew, primarily theythey tag their monikers, their crew name and other types of what they would call artwork onto public and private property. and most of them are juveniles, teenage years, middle schooland high school-aged. that would be a juvenile tagging crew. q. and a criminal street gang, in your experience and opinion? a. well, my opinion and experience, a criminal street gang includes those types of vandalism where they tag monikers, gang names on private and public property, but they engage in other patterns of criminal activity. q. including primary activities with this particular crew or group? what types of activities have you learned they engage in? a. felony vandalism, assault with a deadly weapon, shootings-- q. shootings could involveexcuse me for interruptinga negligent discharge of a weapon, attempted murders, murders. could involve that range of things. what specifically, in your experience, have that testimony supported a reasonable inference that the primary criminal activities in which fck engaged included acts of felony vandalism, assaults with deadly weapons, shootings, and attempted murders, each of which is a crime enumerated in section 186.22, subdivision (e). b. jury instruction on pattern of criminal activity defendant contends that the trial court erred by instructing the jury that the crimes introduced by the prosecution to show the requisite pattern of criminal activity did not need to be gang-related crimes. according to defendant, when, as here, the prosecution 12 relies on the charged crime as one of the enumerated crimes that may be used to show a pattern of criminal activity, the charged crime must be gang-related. relevant to the issues raised by people v. blair (2005) 36 cal.4th 686, 744.) if a jury instruction is a correct statement of the law, and the defendant fails to request a clarifying instruction, the defendant forfeits any challenge to the instruction on appeal. clarification of an instruction that is otherwise a correct statement of law forfeits an appellate claim of error people v. rundle (2008) 43 cal.4th 76, 151, disapproved on other grounds in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22.) defendant does not contend that the instruction on the requisite pattern of criminal activity was an incorrect statement of the law. he contends that given the facts of this case, the instruction should have been clarified by additional language explaining that to the extent the prosecution was relying on the charged crime as one of the enumerated crimes necessary to show a pattern of criminal activity, the prosecution was required to show that the charged crime was gang-related. because defendant did not request such a clarification at trial, he has forfeited his challenge to the instruction on appeal.10 c. due process challenge to gang expert testimony defendant maintains that because the prosecution did not elicit information showing the shooting was gang-related prior to the testimony of the gang expert, it was admission of those unsupported opinions denied him due process of law. 10 the attorney general contends that people v. gardeley (1996) 14 cal.4th 605, 625, footnote 12, should be read to mean that the predicate offense need not be gang-related for purposes of establishing a pattern of criminal activity, but still had to be gang-related to prove that the crime was for the benefit of or in association with a gang. 13 1. background allowed to testimony showing that the shooting was gang-related. the trial court considered the webut based upon the facts introduced at the time for him to render an opinion. [] ieve the evidence that has been introduced. the jury has a right[] the question becomes, what weight is given that opinion? and we have an instruction in terms of the assumed opinion is reasonable. we do have an instruction to cover that point. [] but for this court to prevent him from testifying as a matter of law, based upon the testimony that i listening to opinions and conclusions based whether some evidencequestioning about, what basis can he render an opinion? we have a protective instruction in that regard, and there are future instructions, if any need to be done. [] anything further by the people on that subject? [] [prosecutor]: no. submitted. . . . [] the 2. analysis opinion testimony is admissible only if it sufficiently beyond common experience that the opinion of an expert would assist the 14 people v. watson (2008) 43 cal.4th 652, 692 [76 cal.rptr.3d 208, 182 p.3d 543], quoting evid. code,  801, subd. (a)expert opinion is offered, much people v. carpenter (1997) 15 cal.4th 312, 403 [63 cal.rptr.2d 1, 935 p.2d 708].) the trial court has broad discretion in deciding whether to admit or exclude expert testimony (people v. bui (2001) 86 cal.app.4th 1187, 1196 [103 cal.rptr.2d 908]), and its decision as to whether expert testimony meets the standard for admissibility is subject to review for abuse of discretion. (people v. alcala (1992) 4 cal.4th 742, 788-789 [15 cal.rptr.2d 432, 842 p.2d 1192] (alcala); see people v. lindberg people v. mcdowell (2012) 54 cal.4th 395, 425-426.) testimony went to the weight to be accorded that testimony, not its admissibility. shooting was gang-related. jessica testified that marquez told her shortly after the shooting that he, defendant, and perez were being chased by members of azusa 13, and crew. moreover, the expert himself provided key factual information showing that the shooting was gang-related. for example, the expert confirmed that fck was an established gang in azusa that engaged in primary criminal activities, as was azusa 13. he also testified that azusa 13 and fck were rivals and that the location of the shooting was in a territory claimed by both gangs. and he confirmed that defendant and perez jessica would have been considered by fck gang members as a serious sign of disrespect toward defendant that called for some act of retaliation. based on the evidence, including the testimony of the gang expert, it was not an abuse of discretion to allow the gang expert to testify, particularly when the jury was subsequently instructed as 15 d. sixth amendment challenge to gang expert testimony sixth amendment and crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36. but as defendant clause does not prohibit experts from testifying about testimonial hearsay that forms the basis of their opinions. (see, e.g., people v. sisneros (2009) 174 cal.app.4th 142, 153-154; people v. thomas (2005) 130 cal.app.4th 1202, 1209-of expert opinion is simply not the sort of testimonial hearsay the use of which crawford people v. ramirez (2007) 153 cal.app.4th 1422, 1427.) therefore, the e. defendant contends that the trial court abused its discretion by preventing his counsel from arguing that he shot preciado out of fear. according to defendant, the evidence supported an argument that he acted out of fear which motive, if accepted by the jury, would have resulted in a different outcome, i.e., a guilty verdict on second degree murder rather than first degree murder. 1. background argument slide showing a jury panel and a thought or comment bubble above one of the jurorwould you state them for the record so that there is a record of what those slides said? [] [defense counsel]: one slide has a jury panel. in one of the commenting bubbles urt: the court inquired of counsel what he meant to argue fear, and your response was when he rode up 16 to the carport, he saw five people and you can infer fear from that. [] [defense counsel]: yes. [] the court: the question is, what is the relevance of that in terms of your argument? [] [defense counsel]: and my response was that fearthe specific intent to kill that it, in fact, disabled that, because there was no planning or malice aforethought for the killing untili think it would be reasonably inferred that my client may have felt fear in that-- five people, left them, went searching for one and somehow he transferred that fear to the . . . victim? [] [defense counsel]: yes. based on the totality of the circumstances, if friends of the victim. [] the court: who are not present anymore. [] [defense ] the court: and that goes to what? [] [defense counsel]: it goes to the specific intent, forming specific intent before the fight, that-- [] the court: the court would, under 352, find that misleads the jury in terms of where fear comes into play in regards to people outside at a different location, separate from all the other people and no one else is present. [] it raises the issue of imperfect self-reasonable 2. analysis in support of his argument that the evidence supported a reasonable inference that he shot preciado out of fear, defendant cites four facts from the record: (i) preciado was larger than defendant; preciado had more cohorts at the location of the fight than defendant, who was accompanied only by marquez and perez; defendant told jessica the night of the shooting that when he saw the numb 17 during his argument in support of the disputed slide in the trial court, however, preciado had more people on his side the night of the fight. based solely on those two facts, the trial court ruled that it would be speculative for defense counsel to argue that defendant acted out of fear. but the trial court made no ruling with respect to the other two factsarranged fight. the number of cohorts on his side, we conclude that the trial court did not abuse its discretit as otherwise provided by statute, all relevant evidence is admissible (evid. code,  351; see tendency in reason to prove or test of relevance people v. cash [(2002)] people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 1010.) as for the fact that preciado was larger than defendant, it was not unreasonable for the trial court to conclude that arguing fear based on that fact was speculative. the evidence showed that defendant challenged preciado to the fight, arrived at the fight armed, and went straight to the backyard to confront preciado, none of which suggests cohorts, the trial court reasonably concluded that it would be speculative to infer that the nu 18 he entered the backyard to confront preciado who was alone. there was no evidence that preciado or any of his cohorts were armed, whereas there was substantial evidence that did not support a reasonable inference that defendant entered the backyard and shot as for the two statements that defendant raises and relies upon for the first time on appeal, even assuming the trial court erred because those statements would have supported an argument that defendant acted out of fear, any such error was harmless. (chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24; people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, were both in evidence and the jury was properly instructed concerning premeditation. therefore, assuming those statements supported a reasonable inference that defendant acted out of fear, the jury was free to draw that conclusion, but it instead concluded that defendant acted with premeditation notwithstanding those statements. moreover, defendatherefore could not have premeditated the murder of preciado. by contrast, the evidence of premeditation was strong and compelling. defendant challenged preciado to a fight and intentionally changed the time of the fight so that it would occur at night. defendant and at least one of his cohorts then arrived at the prearranged location for the fight armed, while preciado and his cohorts were unarmed, presumably because they believed a fist fight had been arranged between defendant and preciado. under the cover of darkness, defendant went to the backyard of the prearranged location alone with preciado. once there, he pulled out the handgun he had brought with him and shot preciado twice in the back and then once in the chest while preciado was lying helplessly on the ground mortally wounded. 19 murder of preciado. therefore, even if the trial court had allowed his counsel to argue that defendant acted out of fear based on the statements of jessica and miramontes, it is not reasonably likely that a jury would have made a different finding on the issue of premeditation. as noted, the two statements did not constitute evidence of fear that would have been sufficient to overcome the plain inference from the other evidence that defendant premeditated the murder. f. 10-year sentence enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c) defendant contends, and the attorney general agrees, that the trial court erroneously imposed a 10-year sentence enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4). according to defendant, section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5) was applicable to the charged crime in this case, and it exempts felonies punishable by life imprisonment, such as murder, from imposition of the 10-year sentence enhancement under section 186.22. we agree with the parties that the trial court erred in imposing the 10-year sentence enhancement under section 186.22. we therefore remand the matter to the trial court with instructions to modify the abstract of judgment by deleting the 10-year sentence enhancement under section 186.22. 20 disposition the matter is remanded to the trial court with instructions to modify the abstract of judgment to delete the 10-year sentence enhancement under section 186.22. in all other respects, the judgment of conviction is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports mosk, j. we concur: turner, p. j. armstrong, j. 