filed 10/30/12 p. v. shirk ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. tammy lynn shirk, defendant and appellant. b234828 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma052101) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, charles chung, judge. affirmed. d. inder comar, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, michael c. keller and eric j. kohm, deputies attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________ 2 defendant tammy lynn shirk appeals her convictions for burglary (pen. code,  459)1 and receipt of stolen property ( 496, subd. (a)). she contends the trial court failed to instruct on the affirmative defense of mistake of fact, and she is entitled to reason. we affirm. factual background and procedural history on march 8, 2011, defendant was charged by information with one count of first degree residential burglary. ( 459.) the information further alleged that defendant had suffered two prior convictions within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). on june 15, 2011, the information was amended to add one count of receipt of stolen property. ( 496, subd. (a).)2 1. prosecution case anthony solis owned property in lancaster on third street. on march 6, 2011, after being burglarized five or six times at the property, he was in the process of moving. the property is a vacant house, and is surrounded by a chain link fence in the rear and a concrete block wall around the front. there is a rolling wrought iron gate in the front and a chain link fence gate in the rear. the driveway is in the front. at about 4:45 p.m., he went to his property with his coworker luis zapata. zapata remained in the car. the previous evening solis had secured the property and the garage. he saw a toyota 4runner in the driveway. solis parked in a manner that would block the 4runner. he saw two women next to the 4runner. he saw that the vehicle was loaded with several boxes and bags that he recognized as his property, many of his things were strewn on the ground, and the garage doorwhich had been boarded upwas broken 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 in the record, the counts are labeled as count 2 and count 3, respectively, in an information filed april 19, 2011, as defendant was initially charged in an information 3 view, and he asked what she was doing there and why his property was in her car. lis asked her what she was doing, and defendant responded that she was not doing anything wrong. during a previous burglary, a set of keys had been stolen from the property. solis longing to him. he reached for them, and defendant pushed him out of the way. she grabbed the keys, and solis backed away to call the police. defendant made a cell phone call and jogged a third woman came from the garage carrying a bin full of items belonging to solis. deputy sheriff scott peterson responded to the scene. while en route, he and his partner were flagged down by a person who told him someone had just thrown some keys on his property, which was the islamic center.3 department drove around the containment area that had been set up. he was advised that deputy peterson had some keys. detective bishop got the keys and gave them to solis, who identified them as belonging to him. 3 posing of the keys. at trial, deputy peterson testified that he statement was not offered for the truth of the matter asserted, but rather to explain deputy no further hearsay objection was made: deputy peterson testified that the person at the islamic center had seen someone run by and throw a set of keys on the property, and the person gave the keys to deputy peterson. when deputy peterson received the keys, he placed them in his pocket and made a containment area for the person who had fled from the islamic center. this latter evidence was admitted. (people v. geier (2007) 41 cal.4th 555, 611 [failure to object to hearsay forfeits objection to admission of evidence].) both the prosecution and defense referenced this testimony in argument on the for the truth of the matter asserted. 4 2. defense case defendant testified that she was at home on the morning of march 6, 2011 with her friend corrie mccaslin. later in the day they went to a swap meet near littlerock, where they met up with simona when defendant got back to her car, defendant saw that it had items in it that had not previously been there and which were not hers. she did not believe the items were stolen property because simon sho permissible for them to be on the property. simon told defendant that someone named had seen the receipt, so she did not believe anything was wrong. then defendant saw solis come in the driveway and she told solis they were there to meet sam and had a receipt for the items. to call the police, but did not do so because at that time the deputies were arriving. at this time, she realized that the items in the truck were possibly stolen. defendant did not realize she had dropped the keys after she left the property. defendant called police officers from the motel 6, and spoke to a detective the next morning. for the next three weeks, she called the police every day. 3. rebuttal detective bishop testified that on march 6, 2011, a radio call went out that a suspect was headed away from the victimarea. the keys recovered from the islamic center consisted of a large key ring with about 20 keys. the key ring was not like a typical key ring containing three or four keys, such as a house key and a car key. 5 the jury found defendant guilty of both counts. defendant admitted the prior conviction allegations. the court sentenced defendant to a total of five years, consisting of the upper term of three years on the burglary count, stayed sentence on the receiving stolen property count, and imposed two years for the prior conviction enhancements. discussion i. mistake of fact instruction defendant contends the court erred in failing to instruct on the defense of mistake of fact. she claims that her belief that the items in the 4runner had been paid for at the swap meet negates the knowledge and intent elements of the burglary and receipt of of the instruction, we find the omission was not prejudicial. in a criminal case, a trial court has a duty to instruct the jury on general principles ected with the evidence and which are people v. estrada (1995) 11 cal.4th defense for which the record contains supeople v. salas (2006) 37 instruction, the trial court doibidwhether defendant presented substantial evidence to support the claimed defense and thus people v. federico (2011) 191 cal.app.4th 1418, 1422.) section 26 provides in relevant partcrimes except those belonging to the following classes: [] . . . [] . . . persons who committed the act or made the omission charged under an ignorance or mistake of fact, 6 istake of fact must be reasonable. (people v. reed (1996) 53 cal.app.4th 389, 396; people v. castillo (1987) 193 cal.app.3d 119, 124 [reasonableness is assessed by objective standard].) an honest but unreasonable mistake of fact may negate the specific intent necessary to prove a crime. (see people v. tufunga (1999) 21 cal.4th 935, 943.) burglary is a specific intent crime. (people v. hill (1967) 67 cal.2d 105, 117.) on the other hand, receiving stolen property is a general intent crime, but with the specific mental state of knowledge that the property at issue was stolen. (people v. russell (2006) 144 cal.app.4th 1415, 1425.) defendant relies on people v. russell, supra, 144 cal.app.4th 1415 to support her argument that there was substantial evidence supportive of her mistake of fact defense. in russell, the defendant was convicted of receiving a stolen motorcycle. (id. at p. 1419.) the defendant testified that he had seen the motorcycle located outside a repair shop. (id. at p. 1420.) he spoke with a salesperson at a neighboring business, who told him that it was not one of their motorcycles. (id. at p. 1422.) defendant repaired the motorcycle and attempted to contact the registered owner, including visiting the address where the registered owner had lived, but the apartment manager said the registered owner had not lived there for 18 months. defendant was also told by the police that the motorcycle had not been reported stolen. (ibid.and the apartment manager. (id. at p. 1423.) the court found that defendant presented substantial evidence from which a jury could have inferred defendant had a good faith belief that the motorcycle was abandoned because defendant testified repeatedly that he thought the motorcycle was abandoned, the condition and location of the motorcycle a good faith belief it was abandoned. (id. at p. 1430) here, like people v. russell, suprafact defense was supported by substantial evidence based on a good faith belief that the property in her car had been legitimately acquired or that she and her companions had a 7 right to be on the solis property. defendant testified she believed the items in the 4runner had been legitimately purchased by simon because she was shown a receipt for the items and simon told her someone had helped to put the items into the vehicle; they were going to ta nonetheless, any error in failing to give a mistake of fact instruction was harmless, because there is no reasonable probability that the jury would have reached a more favorable verdict if the instruction had been given. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836; people v. russell, supra, 144 cal.app.4th at p. 1431 [erroneous failure to instruct on mistake of fact defense is subject to harmless error test set forth in watson].) the victim solis, defendant inexplicably tried to block his view into the 4runner so that attempt to block his view and her conduct was inconsistent with the knowledge the property had been lawfully acquired. in addition, there is no plausible explanation for defendant purportedly had just come from a swap meet where simon ostensibly his keys, defendant made a cell phone call and ran away and attempted to dispose of the keys by throwing them in the church yard. not only did defendant leave her vehicle at the em away. (see people v. enos obscure stolen property in vehicle provided inference of suspicious circumstance indicating consciousness of guilt]; people v. williams (1997) 55 cal.app.4th 648, 652 [flight readily and logically supports inference of guilt].) 8 for that reason, people v. russell, supra, 144 cal.app.4th 1415, is distinguishable because the defendant in russell displayed no conduct indicating anything other than innocent belief the motorcycle was abandoned. the defendant in russell attempted to find the owner of the property to determine if it was in fact abandoned; the police informed him that the motorcycle had not been reported stolen; and the condition of the motorcycle itself suggested abandonment. to the contrary here, defendant attempted to we conclude the omission of the instruction was not prejudicial. ii. sentencing error defendant argues the trial court failed to provide a basis for the imposition of the upper term sentences on both counts, acted in an arbitrary and capricious manner in imposing sentence, and we therefore must remand for resentencing. she further argues the issue was not waived because her counsel did not have a meaningful opportunity to object, and if an objection was required, counsel was ineffective for failing to object. respondent argues that defendant waived any claim of error by failing to object at the time of sentencing, and in any event, defendant cannot demonstrate error because the court identified the factors it was relying on, was justified in using one factor in aggravation (the prior convictions), and even if there was error, it is not reasonably likely forth a number of aggravating factors, but no mitigating factors. a. factual background at the sentencing hearing, the court asked defense counsel whether he wished to rs on count 1, and eight months on count 2 for a total of three years eight months. the court justified 9 criminal history4 and sophistication involved in this case. b. discussion 1. forfeiture preliminarily, defendant failed to object to the reasons for the sentencing choice at trial, thereby forfeiting the issue on appeal. (people v. scott (1994) 9 cal.4th 331, 351352.) her contention that she had no opportunity to meaningfully object lacks merit as well. in scottthe kinds of claims otherwise deemed waived. . . . this opportunity can occur only if, during the course of the sentencing hearing itself and before objections are made, the parties are clearly apprised of the sentence the court intends to impose and the reasons the id. at p. 356; see also people v. gonzalez (2003) 31 consistent with scott].) the record reflects that when the court announced its sentence, defendant had ample opportunity to interpose an objection, but did not do so. 2. merits defendant contends the reasons given hereher lengthy criminal history and the sophistication of the crimesare too vague under california law to impose an upper term sentence, relying on people v. fernandez (1990) 226 cal.app.3d 669 and people v. salazar (1980) 108 cal.app.3d 992. we disagree. under section 1170, subdivision (b), a trial court has broad discretion in selecting the base term for an offense.5 (people v. sandoval (2007) 41 cal.4th 825, 847.) the 4 a 2004 conviction of violating vehicle code section 10851, subdivision (a) (theft and unlawful driving or tacking of a vehicle) and a 2008 conviction for receiving stolen property. 5 erm, the including reports received pursuant to section 1203.03, and statements in aggravation or mitigation submitted by the prosecution, the defendant, or the victim, or the family of the 10 court may consider the record in the case, the probation report, evidence introduced at the single aggravating circumstance is legally sufficient to make the defendant eligible for people v. black (2007) 41 cal.4th 799, 813; people v. osband (1996) 13 cal.4th 622, 728.) imposition of an upper term sentence is permissible black, at p. 818.) a requirement that reasons be stated to support a sentencing decision facilitates people v. martin (1986) 42 cal.3d 437, 450.) hence, section 1170, subdivision (b) and california rules of court, rule 4.420(e) require the trial court to set forth its reasons in imposing sentence. here the court properly relied on two permissible factors in selecting the upper term: the crimes involved planning and sophistication (cal. rules of court, rule 4.421(a)(8)); and dedid not explain why it found the crimes sophisticated. however, the record supports an interference of sophisticated planning because the house had been burglarized previously and the burglars knew it was unoccupied and thus vulnerable, and defendant had been one of the burglars on at least on one prior occasion as evidenced by her possession of soli victim if the victim is deceased, and any further evidence introduced at the sentencing interests of justice. the court shall set forth on the record the reasons for imposing the term selected and the court may not impose an upper term by using the fact of any 11 choice of aggravating factor adequately explained. for that reason, people v. fernandez, supra, 226 cal.app.3d at pp. 678679 is distinguishable because in that case, the court merely incorporated the probation report by reference without stating what factors it was relying on; similarly, people v. salazar, supra, 108 cal.app.3d at pp. 10001001 is likewise inapposite because there, the trial court stated it had referred to the probation reasons] should be complete by itself and should not refer to written documents for however, even when the sentencing court fails to state its reasons for a sentencing result more favorable to the [defendant] would have been people v. sanchez (1994) 23 cal.app.4th 1680, 1684.) defendant has not established that the court would have imposed the midterm in this instance. the court clearly signaled its reasons for imposing upper term on the burglary count when it stated it found the crimes showed sophistication failure to state reasons for making a particular sentencing choice, including the imposition of consecutive terms, reviewing courts have consistently declined to remand cases where doing so would be an idle act that exalts form over substance because it is not reasonably probablpeople v. coelho (2001) 89 cal.app.4th 861, 889; see also people v. blessing (1979) 94 cal.app.3d 835, 838839 sentence choice].) based on the record in this case, it is not reasonably probable that the 3. ineffective assistance of counsel the right to effective assistance of counsel derives from the sixth amendment right to assistance of counsel. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 684686 [104 s.ct. 2052, 80 l.ed.2d 674]; see also cal. const., art. i,  15.) to demonstrate 12 hen measured against the standards of a reasonably competent attorney, and (2) prejudice adversarial process that the trial cannot be relied on as having produced a just res(people v. mayfield deferential, and strategic choices made after a thorough investigation of the law and facts in re cudjo (1999) 20 cal.4th . . . errors, the in re harris (1993) 5 cal.4th 813, 833.) under these circumstances as discussed above, since we would not remand for the sole purpose of requiring an explicit statement of reasons for the sentence on a record disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. johnson, j. i concur: rothschild, acting p. j.not to be published chaney, j., dissenting. with her professed knowledge that the property had been lawfully acquired. i respectfully disagree because defendant provided such an explanation. under people v. watson o the id. at p. 836.) watson ilities as to (people v. mower (2002) 28 cal.4th 457, 484.) posttrial review of the reasonable could do, but what such a jury is likely to have done in the absence of the error under consideration. in making that evaluation, an appellate court may consider, among other things, whether the evidence supporting the existing judgment is so relatively strong, and the evidence supporting a different outcome is so comparatively weak, that there is no reasonable probability the people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 177.) to evaluate whether the evidence supporting the existing judgment is so relatively strong, and the evidence supporting a different outcome is so comparatively weak, we must consider both sides. anthony solis testified defendant tried to block his view of her truck by moving side to side as he attempted to peer around her into the vehicle. solis side floor of her truck. when he reached for them, defendant pushed him out of the way, 2 grabbed the keys, made a cell phone call, and, while still on the phone, jogged away with the keys. deputy sheriff scott peterson testified he was flagged down by a security guard who told him (peterson) that someone had just thrown a set of keys onto his property. but w1 therefore, contrary to the majorit 1 the colloquy was as follows: tell us what happened when you contacted [the security guard]. i exited my vehicle and went to contact him. he was very, very excited. he was yelling. i told him if he could calm down and take a deep breath. he was saying that somebody had just ran. ion; hearsay. move to strike. overruled. [] folks, this is not offered for the truth of the matter the individual, his name was mustapha. he said somebody had just ran eastbound on l-4 and had thrown a set of keys on to his property, which is the islamic center. he said he recovered the keys and he handed them to me right away. contrary to the majobjection, indicates petersoncourt ruled on the objection, peterson resumed his answer where he had left off. the objection was necessary. acquiescence to the limiting instruction make it clear both counsel believed the evidence was to be limited. 3 for her part, defendant testified the property was put into her car by simona simon, who possessed a receipt and had explained she purchased the property at a swap meet. defendant had no idea the property was stolen and would not have permitted it in the resident had more things for them. it was not until solis drove up behind her, blocked her vehicle and demanded the property that she realized simon might have stolen it. her, pushed her against the door, injuring her arm, ignored her attempt to explain that she had acquired the property at a d to him. defendant testified she left the scene because solis acted aggressively, and it was dawning on her that simon might have lied about having purchased the property. she to get out defendant explained that although only two keys on the key ring were hers, she thought the others might have belonged to simon, who had borrowed the ring to load the hicle. defendant did not notice the additional keys at first, she testified she did not realize until after she left the scene that keys other than hers were on the rthey might have been keys away. example, i do not think it inexplicable or even particularly surprising that a person would try to block someone from attempting to rip the keys from the ignition of her vehicle. neither is it improbable that that person, once she has been injured by someone who has 4 testimony that defendant tried to block his view of the property in her vehicle and that she fled the scene. the evidence that she did not know the property was stolen was her blocking maneuver on solis was merely an attempt to fend off his attack. defendant testified she left the scene because she had begun to suspect the property was stolen, but this belated suspicion was irrelevant for purposes of trial because proof of the crime of receiving stolen property requires a showing that the accused knew the property was stolen at the time she received it, not when she is confronted by the victim. (caljic no. 14.65.) threw the keys away, the conflicting testimony on that point results in a toss-up at best. the purpose of a watson evidence supporting the existing judgment is so relatively strong, and the evidence supporting a different outcome is so comparatively weak, that there is no reasonable probability people v. breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 177.) when the evidence consists of conflicting plausible testimony falling evenly on two sides of an issue, neither side can be considered ovproperty legally is at least rational. we therefore have no cause to conclude that no accor-of-fact defense affected the result. (people v. watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 837.) because the mistake-of-fact defense would negate the knowledge element of the offenses for which defendant was convicted, she needed only to raise a reasonable doubt about it. (people v. mower, supra, 28 cal.4th at pp. 479-480.) but the jury was not instructed that 5 negate the knowledge element of burglary and receiving stolen property. such an instruction would have clarified the knowledge element and drawn the juryfacts that could raise a reasonable doubt about her guilt. (people v. russell (2006) 144 cal.app.4th 1415, 1433.) i think it is thus at least reasonably probable that defendant would have obtained a more favorable result had the instruction been given. i would therefore reverse. chaney, j. 