filed 11/1/12 p. v. reyes ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jonathan reyes, defendant and appellant. b234833 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba360669 ) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, michael e. pastor, judge. affirmed. john scott cramer, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and steven d. matthews, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant, jonathan reyes, appeals the judgment entered following his conviction for receiving stolen property (pen. code,  496).1 he was sentenced to state prison for a term of two years. the judgment is affirmed. background viewed in accordance with the usual rule of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established the following. esaud miranda testified that on january 16, 2009,2 he had driven to a party near 82nd and main in los angeles. as he was parking his 2000 hyundai sonata, a van drove past him, made a u-turn and came to a stop. two men from the van walked toward miranda, while a third man came up behind him. the men were wearing take the carparty house, apparently in response to a noise complaint. miranda spoke to them, but by the time they returned to the crime scene his hyundai was gone. the following day, police responded to a report that some people were stripping an automobile in the middle of a street. defendant reyes was found with plates had been removed; the doors were open, the keys were in the ignition and the trunk was open. the license plates were inside the trunk. a computer check on the hyundai confirmed the car had been stolen. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 2 all further calendar references are to the year 2009 unless otherwise specified. 3 detective javier vargas interrogated reyes, who initially denied any knowledge of the robbery. but after vargas pretended the victim had already picked reyes out of a photo array, reyes admitted he had been driving the van that night. the van belonged to a friend of his, but reyes had been borrowing it for six months. he admitted driving two companions to 82nd and main that night, but claimed he had no idea what they were planning. after his companions exited the van, reyes drove home alone. when he met up with his companions the next day, they were standing in the street next to a car. all of a sudden the police arrived and made arrests. miranda subsequently went with detective vargas to a police impound yard having been taken from the hyundai.3 reyes did not testify or present any evidence. contentions 1. the trial court erred by failing to advise reyes about the immigration consequences of going to trial rather than accepting a plea bargain offer. 2. defense counsel rendered ineffective assistance by failing to advise reyes about the immigration consequences of going to trial. discussion 1. procedural background. offer and being convicted at trial, he is now being deported by federal authorities. down a plea bargain offer under which he would have received three years probation after serving 240 days in county jail. jury selection then began and 3 some bottles of car c 4 reyes was ultimately convicted of receiving stolen property ( 496).4 the trial court sentenced him to two years in state prison. reyes now claims that, had the trial court and defense counsel done their jobs properly, he would have accepted the offered plea bargain and would not now be facing deportation. however, under federal law reyes would still be facing deportation even if he had accepted the plea bargain offer. that is, although reyes is currently subject to deportation under title 8 of the united states code section 1227(a)(2)(a)(iii) because he was sentenced to one year or longer in prison on a theft conviction,5 even if he had accepted the plea bargain offer he would still have been deportable, under title 8 of the united states code section 1227(a)(2)(a)(i), for having been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude for which a sentence of one year or longer could have been imposed.6 4 although reyes was convicted on two counts of receiving stolen property, they were based on the same incident and the trial court dismissed the second count. 5 title 8 of the united states code section 1227(a)(2)(a)(iii) provides: any alien who is convicted of an aggravated felony at any time after admission is burglary of(united states v. echavarria-escobar (9th cir. 2001) 270 f.3d 1265, 1269.) 6 title 8 of the united states code section 1227(a)(2)(a)(i) makes deportable is convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude committed within five years (or 10 years in the case of an alien provided lawful permanent resident status under section 1255(j) of this title) after the date of admission, and [] (ii) is convicted of a crime for which a sentence of one year or 5 2. there was no trial court error. reyes contends the trial court erred by failing to advise him about the possible immigration consequences of rejecting the plea bargain and going to trial. this claim is meritless. clear cut and stark. yet the trial court failed to apprise appellant of the immigration reyes argues he was entitled to a warning about the immigration consequences of rejecting the plea bargain offer which would have been analogous to the required section 1016.5 warning about the immigration consequences of accepting a plea offer. nolo contendere to any criminal offense, the trial court must advise the defendant that if he or she is not a united states citizen, conviction of the offense may result in deportation, exclusion from admission to the united states, or denial of naturalization. the statute allows the defendant to move to vacate the judgment if the trial court fails to give the required advisements. in people v. superior court (zamudio) (2000) 23 cal.4th 183, 203-204 . . . , we recognized that a motion to vacate a judgment under section 1016.5 may be brought in the trial court after people v. totari (2002) 28 cal.4th 876, 879, fn. omitted.) zamudiopeople v. totari, supra, 28 on a motion to vacate under section 1016.5, a defendant must establish that (1) he or she was not properly advised of the immigration consequences as provided by the statute; (2) there exists, at the time of the motion, more than a remote possibility that the conviction will have one or more of the specified adverse immigration consequences; and (3) he or she was id. at p. 884.) 6 section 1016.5, however, is designed to be given to defendants who intend to plead guilty or no contest. reyes cites no case authority requiring such a warning for a defendant who has rejected a proffered plea bargain offer in favor of going to trial, nor have we found any such authority. hence, we conclude the trial court did not err. in any event, as explained post, reyes could have been deported whether or not he accepted the plea bargain offer. 3. reyes was not denied effective assistance of counsel. reyes contends his attorney rendered ineffective assistance by not adequately advising him about the immigration consequences of rejecting the plea have accepted the plea offer and would not now be exposed to mandatory the record demonstrates that, had reyes been given a full immigration advisement, he would have realized his best hope of avoiding deportation was to stand trial. a. legal principles. first, showing that counsel made errors so serious that counsel was not functioning as the defendant must show that the deficient performance prejudiced the defense. this result of the proceeding would have been different. a reasonable probability is a (williams v. taylor (2000) 529 u.s. 362, 390-burden of proof that the defendant must meet in order to establish his entitlement to 7 relief on an ineffective-(people v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d 171, 218.) b. discussion. as reyes points out, castillo-cruz v. holder (9th cir. 2009) 581 f.3d 1154, 496 is not categorically a crime of moral turpitude because it does not require an intent to federal deportation analysis does not stop there. as the attorney general points 496 constituted a deportable crime of moral turpitude if he intended to permanently deprive miranda of his property. although federal law dand the duties owed between persons or to crimes are of two types: those involving fraud and those involving grave acts of robles-urrea v. holder (9th cir. 2012) 678 f.3d 702, 708.) the fraud category includes theft offenses. (castillo-cruz v. holder, supra, 581 f.3d at p. 1157; sanusi v. gonzales (6th cir. 2007) 474 f.3d 341, 343, fn. 2.) comparison of the elements of the state statute of conviction to the generic definition of a theft offense in order to determine whether the full range of conduct (alvarez-reynaga v. holder (9th cir. 2010) 596 f.3d 534, 536.) the ninth circuit concluded section for grand theft or petty theft under cal. penal code  484 requires, in common with he victim of his code  496(a) has no such requirement, but rather permits conviction for an intent 8 castillo-cruz v. holder, supra, 581 f.3d at p. 1160.) [prosecution] theory of the case . . . , and whether these facts satisfy the elements of robles-urrea v. holder, supra, 678 f.3d at p. 712.) the shed by the judicially noticeable documents in the record of conviction, make his conviction one ibid.) applying the modified categorical approach to this case, it is clear the jury could not have convicted reyes without having found he acted with an intent to permanently deprive miranda of his property. the two counts of receiving stolen 2) and the theft of the items taken from his car (count 1). the jury was required to find, as an element of receiving stolen property, that reyes knew the property had been stolen. the jury either a robbery or a theft, both of which required the jury to find reyes had acted with the specific intent to permanently deprive the victim of his property. the the carjacking and, therefore, on the following day he must have known the property being taken from the hyundai and placed into the van had been stolen. hence, the record shows reyes was deportable whether he accepted the plea bargain offer or not, and at least by going to trial there existed the possibility of being acquitted. reyes has not demonstrated he suffered ineffective assistance of counsel. 9 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: croskey, j. aldrich, j. 