filed 4/15/13 p. v. lazcano ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. adan lazcano, defendant and appellant. b234366 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta113013) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. richard r. ocampo, judge. affirmed. john a. colucci, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, linda c. johnson and robert m. snider, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________ 2 adan lazcano appeals from the judgment upon his conviction of murder in the first degree and of penal code section 12022.53 firearm discharge allegations.1 appellant asserts that his judgment should be reversed because the lower court erred: (1) in admitting evidence of alleged prior uncharged criminal conduct; (2) in failing to instruct the jury on the lesser included offense of heat of passion manslaughter; and (3) during sentencing to orally pronounce that the parole revocation fine was suspended. appellant also claims that his trial counsel was ineffective for failing to request a pinpoint instruction with calcrim no. 522 on provocation. as we shall explain, only ntention about his sentence has merit. nonetheless, remand is unnecessary because the abstract of judgment reflects the proper suspension of the fine. accordingly, we affirm. factual and procedural background a. tattoos, and is not a gang member. appellant and jesus abarca have been good friends francisco abarca in march 201together and were like brothers.2 appellant and chuy became friends. b. life and then i learned to similar boasts in groups of friends. appellant said he was a pistolero, meaning gunman. chuy thought appellantviolence and the mafia. in spring 2010, chuy told appellant he had a .22-caliber 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 3 handgun. appellant told chuy that appellant once had a nine-millimeter handgun and still had bullets for it. c. night of the murder on the night of june 26, 2010, chuy hosted a backyard rave at an abandoned house in compton, across the street from his residence. chuy brought his girlfriend, about 80 people attended the party. guests were purchasing nitrous oxide balloons filled from tanks.3 1. events leading up to the murder and the murder in - brother christiaappellant).4 then jauregui and two of his friends, one of whom was pedro martinez 5 approached chuy. acting under the belief that chuy owned the house, jauregui confronted chuy about a nitrous oxide tank that someone was preventing them from bringing onto the premises. jauregui said he had a .45-caliber weapon in the event that he was met with resistance. frightened, chuy retrieved a .22-caliber revolver from his residence across the street and brought it to the party for protection. appellant asked to hold it several times, 3 nitrous oxide is an inhalant used to cause lightheadedness and dizziness for a 4 they will be referred to by their first names for clarity. 5 in the record as both pedro martinez and pedro hernandez. due to this disparity and because he is the victim in this case, 4 drinking, doing drugs, or using nitrous oxide during the party.6 in the past, chuy had lent the weapon to appellant when asked. when chuy finally handed appellant the handgun, huy said he was having problems had a gun. confrontational, disturbing other guests with his behavior. he had been pushing and cutting ahead of guests lined up to buy nitrous oxide balloons, grabbing balloons out of lant that victim had confronted him and asked what gang he was affiliated with. appellant believed victim was a gang victim then initiated a fight with manzo. victim stepped on her feet, and upon his statement that he was from compton, she said she was from compton too. victim then balloon in each of his hands. victim shoved her with closed fists. when manzo responded by when chuy responded to the cries, victim turned his attention away from manzo and on to chuy, and appellant stood behind chuy to observe. victim came within five he never actually hit chuy or manzo. chuy began to argue with victim. chuy was afraid that victim was going to hit him. while stepping back with his hands open, chuy 6 the record reflects that appellant had been smoking marijuana at the party. 5 uy and victim argued for about a minute, but victim neither hit nor attempted to hit chuy. while holding the balloons, victim reached into his waistband, saying he had a .45, but nothing was withdrawn. appellant stated that he saw victim trying to reach for something, but that he did not see victim holding any balloons nor a weapon. appellant toward victim, reached into his own waistband, withdrew his gun, extended it toward appellant said he saw victim acting crazy and thought victim was going to hurt ellant took a close shot because he did not want to shoot someone else accidentally. victim fell to the ground and died from that single gunshot wound to his head. victim had been unarmed, had not thrown any punches, or said or done anything threatening.7 appellant testified that he was afraid victim might shoot him, manzo, chuy, chuito, or javier.8 as appellant approached victim, appellant saw victim trying to reach for something. appellant was afraid that since victim had been inhaling nitrous oxide, he could have caused harm to manzo or chuy if he had a gun. appellant was scared and acted quickly, without thinking about whether victim had a gun or what victim was going to do.9 victim never approached appellant, and appellant never heard him threaten to kill anyone. 7 she never stated that victim had been holding two inflated balloons. 8 this is directly contradicted by other witness testimony, which stated that appellant did not express any fear of victim. 6 2. aftermath of the murder appellant was momentarily frozen, then ran across the street; chuy and manzo d manzo walked home. a deputy sheriff responded to the murder, where he found a couple dozen people leaving. two men were in his backyard, chuy came across javier, chuito, christian, and appellant. appellant was calm, quiet, and relaxed. appellant stated that he appeared calm but was 10 one, .45, but he never claimed he was defending himself, chuy, or manzo.11 appellant told chuito that he knew it was wrong, but that he was scared and snapped when he shot victim. appellant asked that no one tell his girlfriend what happened. around 1:00 a.m., he returned the d. murder investigation ramirez and his partner spoke with chuy after cdenied owning a .22-caliber handgun, saying that the found casings came from a shooting range. chuy was taken into custody and was arrested for murder. manzo then told the 9 this is also directly contested by other witness testimony claiming that appellant 10 appellant, however, claimed that he never boasted about the shooting. 11 upon two that victim had a .45-caliber weapon. 7 police the shooter was appellant, not chuy. chuy also told detectives that appellant had 1. questioning appellant on june 29, 2010, police arrested appellant. appellant did not contact investigators prior to that date. detectives recorded a series of conversations with appellant, and these recordings were played for the jury. appellant had never been questioned before, and was scared when interviewed about the homicide. he was afraid of being punished. in the first conversation, appellant denied shooting anyone. following a break, detective ramirez asked appellant if he wanted to discuss the incident k further about what happened or why. -12 appellant admitted to shooting victim, stating several times that he was afraid and scared. when asked whether he shot victim because he believed victim was going to hurt chuy, appellant answered no. appellant also stated that while it appeared to him that victim and chuy were going to fight, the two were only arguing and it had not yet escalated to physical violence. when asked whether he thought victim had a gun or whether he had heard that obtained the gun from chuy and had returned it after the shooting; he waited until the end of the interview because he did not want to get chuy in trouble. during the interview, appellant repeatedly told the officers that he shot victim because he was scared, that he police that he acted in self-defense or in defense of his friends. 12 - 8 2. chuy is granted immunity chuy subsequently admitted to detective ramirez that he had provided the gun. when the detectives asked chuy to retrieve it, he agreed. however, on his paadvice, he moved the gun and did not produce it for the detectives. chuy was then charged as an accessory after the fact. chuy signed an immunity agreement, which required his truthful testimony in exchange for three years probation, with credit for time served in custody and no additional confinement absent a probation violation. on february 11, 2011, chuy reaffirmed to detectives that he provided the murder weapon. later, with the consent of his attorney, chuy attempted to recover the gun, but it had been discarded. e. charges against appellant on december 3, 2010, the los angeles county district attorney charged appellant with murdering victim in violation of section 187, subdivision (a). the information filed also alleged that appellant personally used and intentionally discharged a firearm, causing great bodily injury and death to hernandez, pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) through (d). appellant pled not guilty and denied special allegations, and on april 1, 2011, a jury trial commenced. following argument, the people moved to add a special allegation pursuant to section 12022.5, subdivision (a); the court granted the special allegation. the court instructed the jurors about imperfect self-defense, voluntary manslaughter, and homicides justifiable in self-defense or in the defense of another. 1. section 402 hearing a pretrial hearing was held pursuant to evidence code section 402 regarding that he was relevant and extremely probative to the central issue in this case as to why the defendant 9 rove that he is the tough guy that he believed appellant objected pursuant to evidence code section 352, as well as state and sothe statement would make it difficult to rebut the truth of the statement with independent evidence, and that it would be unfair to allow uncorroborated evidence to be provided by witnesses granted with immunity. the court agreed that the statement allegedly uttered 352 problem. to remedy this, the prosecutor stated that witnesses testifying to the statement did not believe appellant to be someone who had killed before, and would testify to the fact that he was simply attempting to prove himself to be a tough guy to his friends. following a defense voir dire, the court found the admissimore probative than prejudicial, holding that the statement would be permissible as long as there was no evidence of a prior murder, the statement was not being used to show appellant was involved with a prior murder, and there would be jury instructions to that effect. all parties agreed to have the court provide limiting instructions to the jury. chuy testified to the relevant statements made by appellant, stating that appellant chuy continued to speak of appellantinstruction that the statement was not to be used for the truth of the matter; the statement could only be interpreted to explother reason. on redirect examination, chuy reiterated that those comments by appellant were never believed, but rather taken as a boast in an effort to fit in with the group. 10 chuy further testified to the fact that appellant told him he used to have a gun, and that appellant still had bullets for it. chuy stated that appellant had said this in reply to mistrial based on this evidence showing a propensity to own guns or shoot people, the brag, that its relevance outweighed its prejudicial effect, and that there was no harm in allowing the jury to hear it. prejudicial character evidence was being put before the jury. the court rejected the of mind. the prosecutor then clarified for the jury that javier believed appellant was simply bragging, and was not asserting the truth of the statement. 2. on the night of the incident, chuy called appellant to tell appellant about the party n dropped him off at the party at approximately 9:30 -15 minutes of 13 were present at the party. -boyfriend. appellan 13 ion is posed by a person usually affiliated with one particular gang to find out whether the person being asked is affiliated with any gang. 11 victim having an argument, but he could not hear what was said because of the loud music that was playing. appellant saw victim shove manzo, which caused her to move back; manzo looked at chuy and chuy walked over to her. appellant then walked over to stand beside chuy, as chuy and victim stood face-to-face. appellant walked 12 steps toward victim, pulled the gun out of his back pocket, and shot victim once, in the head. when chuy gave appellant the gun, chuy had told victim, appellant believed victim was going to hurt chuy or manzo. he was scared that victim might have a gun, and that he might shoot manzo, chuy, chuito, javier, or himself. when asked if he was angry with victim or if he was in fear for chuy and manzo, appellant again stated that he was in fear for manzo, chuito, chuy, javier, and for himself. hands because it was too dark, he also stated that he saw victim reach for something. appellant stated that he panicked and had to act quickly because he was in fear, but that he never heard victim say to anyone that victim was going to kill them. appellant further testified that he shot victim from close range because he did not want to hurt minutes before others arrived. appeand that he did not brag about the incident. at the house, chuy thanked appellant for police officers investigating the shooting, but instead of telling the officers that he had shot victim in self- 12 appellant did not attempt to contact the police to explain what had happened. when the police arrested appellant two or three days later, appellant was initially scared. at first, appellant denied shooting victim, but ultimately admitted to it. appellant did not mentiotrouble. appellant repeatedly told the police that he was afraid of victim because he believed that victim was a gangster. appellant again stated that he was acting in an attempt to protect chuy and manzo. the jury convicted appellant of first degree murder and found true the allegation that he personally and intentionally discharged a firearm, causing death. at sentencing, the trial court denied appellant probation and sentenced him to 25 years to life in state prison and, consecutively, 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement, for a total term of 50 years to life imprisonment. the court imposed fines and fees upon appellant. appellant received presentence credit for 377 actual days in local custody. appellant timely filed this appeal. discussion i. trial court did not err in admitting evidence of prior purported uncharged criminal conduct section 1101, because the statements portray appellant as a violent character with a propensity to commit violent crimes; and (2) because the evidence was unduly prejudicial under evidence code section 352. the attorney general counters that the evidence was murder, rather than to show his character as one with the disposition to commit murder and that the evidence was more probative than prejudicial under evidence code section 352. 13 a. standard of appellate review upheld on appeal unless the court abused its discretion, that is, unless it exercised its people v. thomas expressly weigh prejudice against probative value or even expressly state that it has done so, if the record as a whole shows the court was aware of and performed its balancing people v. hinton (2006) 37 cal.4th 839, 892.) additionallyevidence of other crimes, under evidence code section 1101, is also abuse of discretion. (people v. hovarter (2008) 44 cal.4th 983, 1004.) this presents a significant burden upon the requisite balancing of probative versus prejudicial value of the facts presented. b. evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b) the evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b) challenge centers on whether the commit murder or whether they were presented to prove that he had a homicidal motive or mindset at the time of the murder. motive of showing off to prove himself to the others at the time of the murder. under evidence code section 1101, his or her character (whether in the form of an opinion, evidence of reputation, or evidence of specific instances of his or her conduct) is inadmissible when offered to prove his or her conduct on a specifiethen being tried is barred by evidence code section 1101 if it is offered to prove the but not if it is offered to prove a material disputed issue 14 people v. hayes (1990) 52 cal.3d 577, 617, internal citations omitted.) of the murder rather than to prove that appellant had committed prior crimes. in fact, fictitious nature and because they merely refer to the unspecified and unsubstantiated possibility of prior bad acts, the statements do not run afoul of evidence code section 1101. specifically, chuy testified that appellant had repeatedly bragged about killing people; he further stated that he never believed appellant actually did kill anyone and, in fact, believed appellant made the statements in an effort to impress him. javier testified appellant was just bragging. chuy also testified that while appellant had mentioned that he used to own a gun and still had bullets for it, he never produced details about his gun time of the murder and his intent. additionally, admipunishing him for having a criminal propensity. first, appellant himself had admitted to shooting victim, so there was no need for the jury to rely on vague, unsubstantiated, and alleged prior bad acts referenced in witness testimony in order to decide if he had the character to commit such a crime. second, both witnesses providing testimony of the statements concurrently testified they did not believe the statements to be true. thus there was no danger that a juror might take those words to mean appellant had actually committed any prior crime. finally, to minimize any improper use of the evidence or potential prejudice the court admonished the jury on the limited purpose of this evidence. abundant evidence of his guilt as well as the precautionary measures taken by the court and the prosecution. the court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the statements for 15 c. evidence code section 352 court abused its discretion by not accounting for the risk of prejudice and instead, acted in a patently absurd manner. in doing so, appellant ignores the balancing process required of the court, and instead asserts that all prejudicial evidence of this nature should be inadmissible, regardless of probative value. evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger 352.) when appellant objected to the admission of the statements at issue, the court held an evidence code section 402 hearing to determine the admissibility of the statements. central issue in this case as to why the evidence was to prove that his state of mind was deliberate and premeditated, precluding the anticipated defense of accident or defense of himself or others. though the court initially expressed a concern that there might be an evidence code section 352 problem, after conducting a defense voir dire, it found the admission of the statements to be we agree with the trial court that this evidence was probative to issues of statements that they viewed them as false braggadocio and by the limitations and admonitions that the court placed on the evidence. the trial court admitted the statements with the proviso that no evidence of a prior murder was brought forth; the statement was thus not being used to show appellant was involved with a prior murder. the court also admonished the jury as to the proper use of the evidence. indeed, during 16 that the truth of the statements was not at issue. the trial court here took sufficient precautions in an effort to decrease the risk of prejudice. the court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the evidence under evidence code section 352. ii. trial court did not err by refusing to instruct on the lesser included offense of heat of passion manslaughter a. elements for jury instructions on heat of passion manslaughter human bedefendant acts in a sudden quarrel or heat of passion, or when the defendant kills in unreasonable self-defense the unreasonable but good faith belief in having to act in self-people v. blakeley (2000) 23 cal.4th 82, 87-provided that the provocation is sufficient to cause an ordinarily reasonable person to act rashly and without deliberation, and from passion rather than judgment. [citation.] similarly, when a defendant kills in the actual but unreasonable belief that he or she is in -(people v. cruz (2008) 44 cal.4th 636, 664, citing  192.) trial court is obligated to instruct the jury on all general principles of law relevant to the issues raised by the evidence. [citation.] it is error for a trial court not to instruct on a lesser included offense when the evidence raises a question whether all of the elements of the charged offense were present, and the question is substantial enough to merit consideration by the jury. [citation.] when there is no evidence the offense committed was less than that charged, the trial court is not required to instruct on the lesser included people v. booker (2011) 51 cal.4th 141, 181.) lesser included 17 fendant committed the lesser people v. depriest (2007) 42 cal.4th 1, 50; see people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 162, 165-169; people v. barton (1995) 12 cal.4th 186, 194, 195.) substantial evidence, in this people v. breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 162, internal quotation marks omitted; see also people v. barton, supra(people v. wilson (1992) 3 cal.4th 926, 942.) if the evidence supporting the proposed lesser included offense is minimal and insubstantial, the trial court need not instruct on its effect. (people v. jackson (1980) 28 cal.3d 264, 306, overruled on other grounds by people v. cromer (2001) 24 cal.4th 889, 898.) a claim that the trial court erred by failing to instruct on a lesser included offense is reviewed de novo. (people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 733.) b. analysis at trial, appellant argued that he was not guilty of murder because he had acted in defense of himself and his friends. appellant did not make any argument in the trial court that he committed the crime in the heat of passion. nonetheless, before this court, appellant contends that the trial court erred for failing to instruct on heat of passion manslaughter. we disagree. appellant overlooks the fact that there must be substantial evidence of the lesser offense that would lead the fact finder to believe that the lesser, and not the greater, offense was committed. (cruz, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 664.) the doctrine of imperfect self-that he or she is in imminent danger of death or great cruz, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 664.) appellant asserted such fearful belief and intention to act upon that victim was a gang member, that victim was acting crazy, and that victim was going to 18 statements, that the theory upon which appellant rested his case was that of self defense. appellant now speciously [appellant] acted in the heat of passion in the midst of a quarrel with his friends provoked passion manslaughter. such an instruction would be required only if there was, in fact, substantial evidence that the lesser included offense occurred rather than the greater the heat of be aroused in the mind of an ordinarily reasonable person under the given facts and people v. rogers (2009) 46 cal.4th 1136, 1168-1169.) the record below provides neither justification for any objective cause of heat of passion, nor evidence to prove that appellant subjectively acted under the heat of passion. evidence of provocation directed at appellant. thus, no heat of passion instruction was cause an [citations.] the provocation must be such that an average, sober person would be so inflamed that he or she would lose reason and judgment. adequate provocation must be people v. thomas, supra, 53 cal.4th at 813; citing people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 163, and people v. lee (1999) 20 cal.4th 47, 60.) the record reflects no such provocation. appellant testified that when he saw 19 was in response to the threat of injury he feared for himself and his friends rather than in response to a provocation. in fact, appellant testified that victim never approached him, victim never threatened to kill anyone, and appellant did not see victim holding anything at the time of the killing (though others testified to the fact that he was holding balloons in both hands). appellant further testified that he took a close shot because he did not want to shoot someone else accidentally. this deliberate action shows thought and consideration that does not support the assertion of acting in the heat of passion. while a he trial judge below to, as in people v. moyeevidence in order to find that the jury should consider whether the defendant subjectively killed in the heat of passion, when no substantial evidence supported that theory of people v. moye (2009) 47 cal.4th 537, 554.) accordingly, the lower manslaughter. iii. counsel was not ineffective for failing to request pinpoint instruction with calcrim no. 522 on provocation a criminal defendant has the right to the effective assistance of counsel. (u.s. const., amend. vi; cal. const., art. i,  15; mcmann v. richardson (1970) 397 u.s. 759, 771, fn. 14.) to reverse a conviction due to ineffective assistance of counsel, a convicted reasonable under prevailing professional norms; and (2) that the deficient performance prejudiced the defense due to errors so serious as to deprive the defendant of a fair trial. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687-688.) when faced with the contention that a judgment should be reversed because counsel was ineffective, there is a id. at p. 690.) 20 to show ineffective assistance of counsel, the defendant must first prove that considering all the circumstances. (strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 688.) or omissions of counsel that are alleged not to have id. at p. 690.) once counsel actions have been established to be unreasonable, the defendant next must show that the result of the proceeding would have been different. a reasonable probability is a probability sufficient id. at p. 694.) thus, id. at p. 695.) on appeal, this cidentified acts or omissions were outside the wide range of professionally competent strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 690.) in doing so, the court work in the particular case. at the same time, the court should recognize that counsel is strongly presumed to have rendered adequate assistance and made all significant decisions id. at p. 690.) appellant states that the trial court failed to instruct the jury with calcrim no. request that instruction indicates ineffective assistance of counsel. appellant does not claim the trial court had a duty to instruct on the issue of provocation, as calcrim no. 522 is a pinpoint instruction.14 instead, he claims that his counsel was ineffective for not requesting the instruction. 14 defendant premeditated or deliberated. because [the instruction] relates the evidence of 21 second degree [and may reduce a murder to manslaughter]. the weight and significance of the provocation, if any, are for you to decide. if you conclude that the defendant committed murder but was provoked, consider the provocation in deciding whether the crime was first or second degree murder. [also, consider the provocation in deciding whether the defendant committed murder or manslaughter.] [provocation does not apply california criminal jury instruction 522.) a. competence cnd we have the context of available people v. weaver (2001) 26 cal.4th 876, 925-circumstances faced by defense counsel or the range of legitimate decisions regarding how best to represent a criminal defendant. any such set of rules would interfere with the constitutionally protected independence of counsel and restrict the wide latitude strickland, supra, 466 u.s. at pp. 688-689.) exhaustive paper trail for the sake of the record. rather, competent counsel should realistically examine the case, the evidence, and the issues, and pursue those avenues of rogers, supra, 39 cal.4th at pp. 878-879, citations omitted.) 22 defense that, to their best and reasonable professional judgment seem appropriate under people v. anzalone (2006) 141 cal.app.4th 380, 394.) here, the record does not indicate why trial counsel did not ask for pinpoint instruction on provocation. counsel may have made a tactical choice to not do so because counsel was pursuing a theory of self-defense. we cannot say, as a matter of law, based on the record before us on appeal, that counsel displayed incompetence. as the california supreme court has often noted, claims such as those made by appellant are better suited to a petition for writ of habeas corpus than to an appeal: l is appropriately raised in a petition for writ of habeas corpus (see, e.g., people v. mendoza tello (1997) 15 cal.4th 264, 266-267), where relevant facts and circumstances not reflected in the record on appeal, t pursuing a particular trial strategy, can be brought to light to inform the two-pronged inquiry of but for counselpeople v. snow (2003) 30 cal.4th 43, 111; see, e.g., in re cordero (1988) 46 cal.3d 161 [habeas corpus proceeding exploring whether defense counsel failed to defense of intoxication]; in re avena (1996) 12 cal.4th 694 [habeas corpus proceeding exploring whether defense counsel should have rug intoxication during crimes and whether he should have challenged admission of taped confession].) the supreme court made clear in mendoza telloverdict, and brand a defense attorney incompetent unless it can be (people v. mendoza tello, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 267.) counsel. 23 b. prejudice in any event, appellant has not shown the requisite prejudice. to establish the would have been different; to assess the prejudicial value, the appellate court must evidence in aggravation against the totality of available mitigating wiggins v. smith (2003) 539 u.s. 510, 534.) here, evaluating the evidence before the trial court and highlighting any possible mitigating evidence would not alter the result of the trial. the only evidence appellant testimony as to his ready-to-respond state of mind and his own assertion that he acted out not necessarily mean he was provoked. nothing in the record shows, nor does appellant point to any evidence, that he was personally confronted. instead, when appellant saw victim in an argument with his friends, appellant walked toward victim and shot him at close range. even if his counsel had requested an instruction on provocation and the instruction been given, we are not convinced there is a reasonable probability that the result of the proceeding would have been different. iv. the parole revocation fine under section 1202.45, for a person convicted of a crime and whose sentence court shall at the time of imposing the restitution fine pursuant to subdivision (b) of section 1202.4, assess an additional parole revocation restitution fine be ibid.) here, both parties agree that pursuant to section 1202.45, it was appropriate for the court to suspend the parole revocation fine. while the abstract of judgment and the minute order properly reflect the suspension of the fine, the trial court apparently misspoke in failing to state that the fine was suspended when it orally pronounced the sentence. as a result, an inconsistency appears between the oral pronouncement and the 24 abstract of judgment. however, the abstract of judgment reflects the proper sentence and controls in this instance. as a result, remand is unwarranted in this case. disposition the judgment is affirmed. woods, acting p. j. we concur: zelon, j. jackson, j. 