 filed 7/20/12 p. v. galdamez ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division 3 the people plaintiff and respondent, v. jose a. galdamez defendant and appellant. b234993 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba370565) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, judith champagne, judge. affirmed. vanessa place, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and eric j. kohm, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 appellant jose a. galdamez was convicted of committing a lewd or lascivious act grounds. appellant contends the trial court erroneously excluded certain evidence him. he also argues the judgment must be reversed because of prosecutorial misconduct. we reject both arguments and affirm the judgment. summary of facts appellant began dating nancy o. in july 2009. a month later the couple moved -year old daughter, adriana c., immigrated to the united states from guatemala and moved in with them. on march 2, 2010,1 appellant drove adriana from her school to their apartment. adriana and appellant were alone in the apartment because nancy o. was working. at some point, appellant went to take a nap on his bed. what happened next was vigorously disputed at trial and lies at the heart of this case. adriana claims that she approached appellant and asked him to put his mouth on her breast. she had seen this conduct on television in guatemala and was curious about it. appellant then kissed and sucked her bare left breast. adriana also contends that 2 1 appellant claims the incident occurred on february 26, 2010. 2 -trial statements to a social worker, nurse, and police officers stated that appellant placed his pinky finger on her vagina. one police officer reported at 3 appellant tells a different story. he contends when he woke up he found 3 he then pushed adriana away and vehicle and brought her back home. appellant did not immediately inform nancy o. about the incident. shortly after they arrived at the apartment, adriana called her mother into the bathroom to help her take tags off of new pajamas. while adriana was changing, nancy o. noticed a red mark arwhen nancy o. asked what caused the mark, adriana first claimed she was hit by a ball. upon further inquiry, adriana said that she caused the mark herself with her mouth. finally, adriana admitted that appellant caused the mark. nancy o. emerged from the bathroom and approached appellant. before she said said this. nancy o. had adriana show the mark on her breast to appellant. he responded by saying that maybe the soap adriana was using caused the mark. at some point after the incident appellant stopped living in the apartment he shared with nancy o. and adriana. appellant contends he moved out on the day after the incident. nancy o. contends appellant left the apartment on march 5, 2010. it is undisputed that appellant moved out of the apartment before nancy o. reported his alleged molestation of adriana to the police. 3 and . . . she was witindicating otherwise. for example, when the prosecutor asked appellant whether he was 4 nancy o. did not report the incident to anyone until march 8, 2010. on that date, interviewed her, adriana and appellant. a social worker from the los angeles county department of children and family services began an investigation. adriana was regarding the incident, which was recorded by the police. finally, with his attorney present, appellant gave a recorded statement to a police officer at a police station. at the end of this interview, appellant was arrested. the people began their prosecution shortly afterwards. tpenal code section 288, subdivision (a),4 ng of pursuant to penal code section 1203.066, subdivision (a)(8) on the ground that appellant the trial court held a jury trial on the amended information. the jury returned a verdict of guilty on count 1 but could not reach a verdict on count 2. the trial court thus declared a mistrial on the second count and dismissed the special allegation. the court sentenced appellant to three years in state prison less time for good behavior and time served. appellant filed a timely notice of appeal. 4 penal code section 2lewdly commits any lewd or lascivious act . . . upon or with the body, or any part or member thereof, of a child who is under the age of 14 years, with the intent of arousing, appealing to, or gratifying the lust, passions, or sexual desires of that person or the child, 5 discussion 1. a. as that nancy o. had a motive to assert false allegations against appellant and to cause her daughter adriana to do the same. specifically, appellant argued that nancy o. sought revenge against appellant because he had decided to end their relationship and withdraw his financial support for her and her daughter. reliance on him. he testified, for example, that he paid for the rent and utilities for their joint apartment, and that he earned about $850 a week from his two jobs while she earned less than $500 a week from her two jobs. appellant also presented evidence that he moved out of the apartment he shared with nancy o. before she contacted the police. appellant contends, however, that the trial court inappropriately limited the trial court erroneously excluded evidence showing that before nancy o. reported the alleged molestation to b. in his briefs, appellant does not describe in detail the trial court rulings he contends were erroneous. before we can analyze whether the trial court erroneously excluded evidence, we must review the rulings themselves. (i) girlfriend during the trial the people played an audiotape for the jury of officer hector -trial interview of appellant regarding his alleged molestation of adriana. a redacted transcript of the interview was also given to the jury. subsequently, outside the presence of the jury, the court heard arguments from lawyers representing appellant and the people regarding whether portions of pages 34 and 35 of the transcript should be 6 redacted. unfortunately, the record does not contain an un-redacted transcript, and thus we do not know the exact contents of the disputed testimony. it appears from the -girlfriend was receiving from nancy o.5 the court ruled that section 352. (ii) o. reported ap following colloquy took place: mr. patale: were there occasions when you had conflicts with nancy prior to the end of february [2010]? yeah. almost at the end. what were these conflicts about? objection. relevance. i am not going to spend much time. at the moment, we are not going to spend any time. i am going to subsequently, outside the presence of the jury, the court held an evidence code section 402 hearing regarding the conflicts between appellant and nancy o. in february 2010. appellant testified as follows: 5 madrigal, the defendant mentioned that ms. [o.] was allegedly calling his ex-girlfriend and speculated that ms. [o.] was the person calling his ex-girlfriend, hanging up, and making statements to the ex- 7 arguments with nancy [o.] starting on or about february 1st through the end of february on the 28th, where the issue of you moving out and leaving them on their own came up? yes. there was some conversations about it. she needs to get out of there. i am talking about when you were living together. jealous. i was with somebody else. i was more concerned about taking off before i left the house. i am specifically talking about things that perhaps an argument or a conflict no. -- that you had with appeal. the hearing ended without the trial court making an express ruling on whether appellant could testify about the nature of the conflicts between appellant and nancy o. at the end of february 2010. after the evidence code section 402 hearing, appellant was not asked any further questions about his conflicts with nancy o. in february 2010. c. standard of review ngs excluding evidence under an abuse of discretion standard. (people v. fuiava (2012) 53 cal.4th 622, 667.) further, in reviewing a uphold a judgment, and it is defendanerrorpeople v. tang (1997) 54 cal.app.4th 669, 677.) finally, under evidence code section 354, a judgment cannot be reversed by eous exclusion of evidence, unless the error resulted in a relevance of the excluded evidence was made known to the court by the questions asked, an offer of proof, or by any other means; [] (b) the rulings of the court made 8 compliance under subdivision (a) futile; or [] (c) the evidence was sought by questions asked during cross-examination or recross- d. the trial court did not abuse its discretion by excluding - alleged statements as explained ante, we cannot ascertain from the record precisely what evidence was excluded in the redacted portions of pages 34 and 35 of the transcript of the recorded statement appellant gave to officer madrigal. because appellant did not provide an adequate record, he did not meet his burden of affirmatively demonstrating the trial court erroneously excluded this evidence. (people v. green (1979) 95 cal.app.3d 991, 1001 people v. akins (2005) 128 dequate record to permit review of a claimed error].) ex-girlfriend told him nancy o. was calling her, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in excluding this evidence. the statements were clearly inadmissible hearsay. (evid. code,  1200.) on this basis alone, the trial court acted within its discretion. in addition, the trial court did not abuse its discretion by excluding the statements redacted on the transcript pursuant to evidence code section 352. there was little or no probative value of the statements. this is because there was no evidence in the record that nancy o. knew of any alleged reconciliation between appellant and his former girlfriend before she reported the molestation incident to the authorities. the statements thus appear to at most show that nancy o. had an acrimonious relationship with , which is hardly a strong motive to manipulate her seven-year-old daughter to go through the ordeal of falsely charging appellant with sexual 9 molestation.6 conversely, the potential of unnecessarily consuming time, of confusing the jury and of unduly prejudicing the jury against nancy o. was substantial. the trial court therefore also acted within its discretion to exclude this evidence pursuant to evidence code section 352. e. the trial court did not abuse its discretion by precluding appellant from testifying about being involved with another woman appellant argues the trial court erroneously prohibited him from testifying about being involved with his former girlfriend before nancy o. reported the alleged molestation incident to the authorities. the trial court, however, never issued a ruling specifically excludinappellant whether he was involved with another woman and, if so, whether nancy o. knew about it. nancy relevancy objection to this question but instead directed a short adjournment of the trial before appellant was permitted to answer. the trial court did so in order to conduct an evidence code section 402 hearing regarding the relevancy of the nature of the conflicts between appellant and nancy o. in late february 2010. counsel asked him whether he and nancy o. had a conflict at the end of february 2010. did not ask appellant any further questions about the issue. counsel ostensibly assumed, based on appe 6 adriana underwent a nearly four-hour exam at a rape treatment center, was interviewed at length by a social worker and several police officers, and testified at the preliminary hearing and trial. 10 appellant left nancy o. r girlfriend is that it provided nancy o. with a motive to bring false charges against appellant and to cause her daughter to do the same. there was no evidence in the record, however, that nancy o. knew about the alleged reconciliation before march 8, 2010the hold an evidence code section 402 hearing regarding the nature of conflicts between appellant and nancy o. was not an abuse of discretion. f. rights violated his sixth amendment rights to confront witnesses and present a defense. he forfeited this argument, however, because he did not raise it in the trial court. (people v. vasquez (2012) 205 cal.app.4th 609, 628.) even if it were not forfeited, the argument fails on the merits. the sixth amendment provides that in all criminal prosecutions, the accused shall (u.s. const., 6th amend.) we shall discuss these two rights separately. the confrontation clause gives criminal defendants the right to confront the -examine such witnesses. (delaware v. van arsdall (1986) 475 u.s. 673, 678; people v. king (2010) 183 cal.app.4th 1281, 1314.) here, appellant does not claim he was denied the right to confront and cross-trial court pre 11 -examine himself. thus under the plain text of the sixth amendment, the confrontation clause is not implicated. (u.s. const., 6th amend.) without merit. the application of ordinary rules of evidence does not infringe upon a ue process, including the right to present a defense. (people v. boyette (2002) 29 cal.4th 381, 427-evidence on a minor subsid. at p. 428.) here, the trial court permitted appellant to call any testimony on one topiceven if they were erroneous (they were not)do not implicate id. inflate garden-.) g. miscarriage of justice and offer of proof because we conclude that the trial court did not abuse its discretion by excluding resulted in a miscarriage of justice and (2) whether appellant made an adequate offer of proof or was excused from doing so because it would have been futile. 2. alleged prosecutorial misconduct in her closing argument, the deputy district attorney argued that nancy o. was not motivated by money or jealousy.7 appellant contends this argument constituted make this argument in the trial court. appellant thus forfeited the argument on appeal. (cf. people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 1000.) 7 otivating? the witnesses. nancy [o.] told you there is no civil lawsuit pending. nancy and her daughter are here because they are seeking justice. they are not looking for money. [] . . . [] is nancy [o.] that mother he defendant, and she is going to put her child up to that 12 people v. huggins (2006) 38 cal.4th 175, d draw inferences from the evidence at trial. [citation.] whether the inferences the prosecutor draws are reasonable is for the jury to people v. dennis (1998) 17 cal.4th 468, 522.) nothing the prosecutor stated at closing argument in this case went beyond the wide latitude given to attorneys in her position. there was no prosecutorial misconduct. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports kitching, j. we concur: klein, p. j . aldrich, j. 