filed 10/1/12 p. v. juarez ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. henry dominguez juarez, defendant and appellant. b234578 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va112098) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, dewey falcone, judge. affirmed as modified. j. kahn, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, michael r. johnsen and allison h. chung, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________________ 2 the jury found defendant and appellant henry dominguez juarez guilty in count 1of second degree murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)),1 attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder in counts 2-5 ( 664, 187, subd. (a)), and possession of a firearm by a felon in count 6 ( 12021, subd. (a)(1)). as to all counts, the jury found true allegations that defendant personally used and intentionally discharged a handgun ( 12022.53, subds. (b) & (c)) and committed the offenses for the benefit of, at the direction of, and in association with a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(4)). an allegation that defendant personally and intentionally discharged a handgun causing great bodily injury and death to the victim ( 12022.53, subd. (d)) was dismissed on the motion of the prosecution. the trial court denied probation and sentenced defendant to 15 years to life as to count 1, enhanced by a consecutive term of 20 years pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (c). defendant was sentenced to a consecutive sentence of 15 years to life as to count 2, also enhanced by a consecutive term of 20 years pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (c); three concurrent terms of 35 years to life as to counts 3-5; and one concurrent term of 2 years as to count 6. the court struck the section 12022.53, subdivision (b) allegations as to counts 1-5 and stayed imposition of the gang enhancement. the total sentence imposed was 70 years to life. defendant argues his conviction for the attempted murder in count 5 must be possessed the requisite specific intent to kill. defendant further argues that the attempted murder convictions in counts 2-5 must be reversed because the trial court erred in failing to restrict the use of the transferred intent instruction contained in caljic no. 8.65 to the murder charge in count 1. our review of the appellate record reveals that an amended abstract of judgment was filed on january 5, 2012, erroneously referring to the firearm use allegations under 1 unless otherwise indicated, all statutory references are to the penal code. 3 should be corrected to reflect the correct section. in all other respects, we affirm. facts stephanie reyes on may 27, 2009, stephanie reyes, the girlfriend of murder victim javier crystal methamphetamine, which he and defendant intended to sell. reyes was a drug addict at the time and had smoked methamphetamine that day. she knew that gonzales was a member of the los nietos gang. once gonzales had the drugs, reyes drove him to defendantterritory partly claimed by the jim town gang. defendant was waiting outside his house. defendant and gonzales conversed for about ten minutes. reyes and gonzales then house at the corner of bexley drive and norwalk boulevard. reyes noticed that one of the men was bald. the area was in territory claimed by the quiet village gang, a rival to both the los nietos and jim town gangs. after they passed the men, gonzales called gonzales and defendant to bexley drive and norwalk boulevard, where the group of men were still standing around. gonzales directed reyes to drive to a street below bexley drive. she made a u-turn on a side street and stopped along the curb on norwalk boulevard, about 18 feet defendant got out of the car and sprinted to the corner, both facing bexley drive and firing guns. reyes did not see either of the men duck down or move to the ground as 4 they were shooting. reyes could not see the men who had been standing in the yard from where the car was parked. when gonzales and defendant returned to her car, neither gonzales with a .32-caliber handgun. reyes quickly drove away from the scene. she heard gonzales say to defendant, drive to whittier presbyterian hospital. defendant implored her to take him to his freeway off-ramp, defendant ran out of the car. whecar with assistance from the hospital staff. after gonzales was taken into the hospital, not know if the methamphetamine was still in the car. while she was waiting at the hospital, gonzales was pronounced dead. daniel davidson, taylor clark, and raymond quevedo daniel davidson, taylor clark, raymond quevedo, and richard guzman2 were talboulevard on the night of may 27, 2009, at about 10:30 p.m. the men were standing driveway. gonzales and defendant came up to the group from behind some dense shrubbery at the corner of the yard. they both pointed handguns at the group, and either gonzales the group. no one in the group was hit with a bullet or injured. 2 guzman did not testify. 5 clark testified he dropped to the ground and took cover behind his car when he saw muzzle flash. he heard eight or more gunshots and could also hear bullets striking the cars and breaking glass. during the shooting, he saw guzman duck and run toward quevedo testified he heard the man who challenged the group and saw the shooters come out from behind the bushes in the corner of the yard. he heard gunshots quevedo, davidson got down on his stomach to see if anyone was walking toward them after the gunfire ceased. davidson did not see anyone, so he and quevedo jumped over davidson testified he saw the two men come out from behind the bushes and heard one of them challenge the group. no one responded, and within less than five seconds, the two men began shooting at the group. davidson turned around when he heard the challenge, but when he saw muzzle flash, he ducked. he heard many shots fired in quick succession and also heard the whistling sounds of bullets flying past him. while staying the car to see if the two men were pursuing him. he then saw car wheels driving toward the highway. at some point during the shooting, davidson saw guzman jump the fence and run into the back yard. maria soto and roberto robles the night of the shooting, she heard two to four gunshots. the shots were fired in quick succession, but the last gunshot may have been fired a few seconds after the others. all of the gunshots were loud, but the final shot was not as loud as the others. she looked out her holding or shooting guns. 6 roberto robles lived directly across the street from davidson. on the night of the shooting, he heard three gunshots fired in quick succession. the shots sounded equally loud. he looked out his window and saw three men hiding behind a car. the men got up, walked to the front of the house, and started talking to one another. he did not see any of the men holding, firing, or disposing of a gun. he recognized two of the three men as his neighbors. police investigation deputy ryan malone responded to the crime scene first. there were four men, rried or disposed a gun. there were casings to the side of the residence, and cars at the scene appeared to have been damaged by gunfire. detective robert john gray responded to the scene after the four men voluntarily station for questioning. he noted the lighting conditions were good. there were dense bushes and a fence made of wrought-iron posts fence that faced out toward the street. expended bullet was recovered inside the passenger door. two more expended bullets were recovered at the scene, one of which was recovered on norwalk boulevard. ten casings were found at the sceneone was recovered on the sidewalk in front of house, two were found on the east curb of norwalk boulevard, and the remainder were found on norwalk boulevard. 7 discussion sufficiency of evidence defendant argues his conviction for attempted murder in count 5 must be reversed because there was insrequisite specific intent to kill guzman. defendant asserts the prosecution failed to under the people v. bland (2002) 28 cal.4th 313, 328-330 (bland). defendant is incorrect. the fifth and sixth amendments, which apply to the states through the fourteenth amendment, require the prosecution to prove all elements of a crime beyond a reasonable doubt. (sullivan v. louisiana (1993) 508 u.s. 275, 277-278.) a conviction supported by insufficient evidence violates the due process clause of the fourteenth amendment and must be reversed. (jackson v. virginia (1the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the determining whether a reasonable trier of fact could have found defendant guilty beyond existence of evethe same standard also applies in cases in which the prosecution relies primarily on people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1175 (young).) we review the record in the light most favorable to the prosecution to determine whether the challenged conviction is supported by substantial evidence, meaning people v. johnson (19people v. marshall 8 circumstances also might reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding . . . warrant rpeople v. proctor (1992) 4 cal.4th 499, 528-529.) the reviewing court does not reweigh the evidence, evaluate the credibility of witnesses, or decide factual conflicts, as these are the province of the trier of fact. (people v. culver (1973) 10 cal.3d 542, 548; in re frederick g. (1979) 96 cal.app.3d 353, 367.) young, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 1181.) the jury convicted defendant of attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder pursuant to sections 664 and 187, subdivision (a). the specific intent to kill and the commission of a direct but ineffectual act toward people v. smith (2005) 37 cal.4th 733, 739 (smith).) the burden is on the prosecution to prove the defendant acted with the specific intent to kill the individual victim. (id. at pp. 751-752.) where multiple counts of attempted murder are charged, the trier of fact must evaluate the intent to kill independently as to each victim. (bland, supra, 28 cal.4th at pp. 327-328.) transferred intentthe transfer of intent to kill from an intended target to an unintended murder victimdoes not apply to attempted murder. (ibid.) however, e the evidence establishes that the shooter used lethal force designed and intended to kill everyone in an area around the targeted under such circumstances, a rational jury could conclude beyond a reasonable doubt that the shooter intended to kill not only his targeted victim, but also all others he knew were smith, supra, 37 cal.4th at pp. 745-746.) defendant argues that under smith, there is insufficient evidence to prove he intended to kill guzman because the record does not contain evidence that guzman was visible to defendant or in his line of fire. he contends the prosecution presented no solid evidence that guzman w 9 guzman. desmith theory of intent requires the victim be visible to the perpetrator and in his line of fire is misplaced. in smith, the defendant was charged with the attempted murder of a woman infant, who was in a car seat in the back. the defendant conceded he saw both the mother and the child in the car when he approached it. as the woman began to drive away, the defendant fired a single bullet at the rear window, narrowly missing both the woman and her child. (smith, supra, 37 cal.4th at pp. 736-737.) the smith court concluded the evidence was sufficient to support both attempted murder convictions based on the firing of a single bullet. (id. at p. 746.) in so doing, it rejected utilization of ibid.) smith held that two attempted murder convictions may be sustained where there is evidence the perpetrator fired a single bullet at two victims who were one behind the other in his line of sight. (id. at p. 748.) the smith decide under what factual circumstances, if any, the firing of a single bullet might give rise to multiple convictions of attempted murder under id. at p. 746, fn. 3.) because smith presented a very different factual scenario than the case at bara single shot at two victiten shots at four victims in proximity of two cars in a drivewayand because the smith here. additionally, we agree with the attorney general that the existence of evidence unfavorable to the prosecution is irrelevant. our task is not to reweigh the evidence but rather to determine whether there is substantial evidence to support the verdict irrespective of any contrary evidence. viewing the evidence in the light most favorable 10 for attempted murder in count 5. clark, quevedo, and davidson testified that all four men were out of the bushes. they also testified that the shooting began within seconds of the shooters coming out and issuing their challenge. the evidence shows that multiple shots were fired in the direction of the group, with several shots causing damage to the cars where guzman and the other victims were standing. substantial evidence therefore began. transferred intent instruction defendant contends the attempted murder convictions must be reversed because the trial court erred in failing to restrict the use of the transferred intent instruction contained in caljic no. 8.65 to the murder allegation. this argument is without merit. we review a claim of instructional error de novo. (people v. cole (2004) 33 proper test for judging the adequacy of instructions is to decide whether the trial court whether error has been committed in giving or not giving jury instructions, we must consider the instructions as a whole . . . [and] assume that the jurors are intelligent persons and capable of understanding and correlating all jury instructions which are support the judgment rather than defeat it if they are reasonably susceptible to such people v. martin (2000) 78 cal.app.4th 1107, 1111-1112.) preliminarily, we claim by failing to object to the instruction at trial, because defendant claims the instruction stated the law incorrectly, which would have affected his substantial rights. ( 1259; people v. ramos 11 argument fails because the trial court did not err in instructing the jury pursuant to caljic no. 8.65. to kill a certain person and hits a bystander instead is subject to the same criminal liability bland, supra, 28 cal.4th at pp. 320-321.) transferred intent applies to murder, but not attempted murder. (id. at p. 331.) in determining whether an attempted murder conviction should be sustained, the court must analyze the ndant intended to kill that person rather than another. (id. at p. 328.) the jury was instructed under caljic no. 8.65, which accurately states the law: different person, the crime, if any, so committed is the same as though the person which the perpetrator kills a person other than the intended victim. it relates to murder and does not mention attempted murder or refer to a situation in which the victim is not, in fact, killed. because the instruction correctly states the law with respect to transferred intent, the trial court did not err in instructing the jury. moreover, it is not reasonably likely that the jury misunderstood the instruction or mistakenly applied it to the attempted murder charges. (see young, supra, 34 cal.4th at likwe reiterate that the plain language of caljic no. 8.65 makes clear that transferred intent applies to murder, rather than attempted murder. additionally, as the attorney general argues, caljic no. 8.65 was given in conjunction with other instructions with the murder charge. there is no reason to believe the jury misunderstood or misapplied the instruction. 12 people v. czahara (1988) 203 cal.app.3d 1468 (czahara) is inapposite. czahara held that it was error for the trial court to instruct the jury as to transferred intent where there are multiple attempted murders arising from the same act. (id. at p. 1471.) none of the victims in czahara had been killed, thus there was no justification for instructing the jury on transferred intent. in the instant case, defendant was charged with murder to which transferred intent properly applies. we therefore hold the trial court did not err in not further emphasizing the application of caljic no. 8.65 was restricted to the murder allegation. disposition the trial court is instructed to correct the amended abstract of judgment to properly reflect that sentencing enhancements were imposed pursuant to 12022.53, subdivision (c). the clerk of the superior court shall send a copy of the corrected abstract of judgment and minute order to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. kriegler, j. we concur: turner, p. j. mosk, j. 