filed 4/24/12 p. v. khachian ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. mambereh khachian, defendant and appellant. b234650 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa069913) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. dalila corral lyons, judge. reversed. richard l. fitzer, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and david zarmi, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________________________ 2 after the trial court denied his motion to suppress, mambereh khachian pleaded no contest to one count of possession of a controlled substance. on appeal, he argues that the trial court erred in denying his motion to suppress evidence of the heroin because its seizure was the product of an unlawful arrest and an involuntary consent to search. we t under the circumstances, their handcuffing him turned the detention into a de facto arrest for which they lacked probable cause, thereby rendering the subsequent search unlawful. the judgment is reversed. facts and proceedings below an information charged khachian with one count of possession of a controlled substance (heroin). khachian moved under penal code section 1538.5 to suppress evidence of the heroin obtained by the police following his arrest for walking in the middle of a residential street. (see veh. code,  21956.)1 at the hearing on the motion, the prosecution called los angeles police department (lapd) officer anthony potts as its sole witness. officer potts testified as follows. at approximately 10:25 p.m. officer potts and his partner, officer rivera, were on patrol in a residential neighborhood that had recently experienced a string of burglaries. the officers observed khachian walking in the middle of the street clad in a dark jacket, dark pants and a dark hat. khachian was talking on a cellular phone, had one hand in his pocket and was looking at the houses on both sides of the street as he walked by. achian. the officers stopped their patrol car but did not activate the siren or flashing speak with them. khachian acknowledged the officers but ignored their commands. 1 as we discuss below, the people concede that walking in the middle of a residential street is not a crime. 3 after one or two orders to put down the cellular phone and take his hand out of his pocket, khachian obeyed. as soon as he complied with their order the officers pedestrian in the middle of the street. after conducting a pat-down search and finding nothing to indicate criminal conduct, officer rivera asked khachian if he could search him further. khachian rch rivera recovered a permission, rivera searched the cigarette package and found a bindle containing a black tar-like substance. (khachian earlier stipulated for purposes of the preliminary hearing that the substance was heroin.) it is undisputed that the officers never drew their guns or batons. no contest to one count of possession of a controlled substance. the court suspended proposition 36. khachian filed a timely appeal from the denial of his suppression motion under penal code section 1538.5, subdivision (m). discussion i. the standard of review the standard for reviewing the denial of a suppression motion is well settled. we defer to the trial court on all its factual findings if they are supported by substantial evidence.2 once the facts are determined, we decide de novo whether the search or seizure was reasonable under established constitutional principles. (people v. ayala (2000) 24 cal.4th 243, 279.) 2 area over contrary testimony from the defense investigator. 4 ii. the officers were justified in detaining khachian for investigation under terry v. ohio (1968) 392 u.s. 1, 21, 30, an officer may stop and briefly detain a person for investigative purposes if the officer has a reasonable suspicion, the person to be stopped is engaged in that activity, even if the officer lacks probable cause to arrest. people concede on appeal that khachian violated no law by walking in the middle of a residential street (veh. code,  21956, subd. (a); people v. cox (2008) 168 cal.app.4th 702) and that khhim. based on that concession khachian argues that the evidence seized from his person had to be suppressed because, even if the officers acted in good faith, there is no good faith exception to the reasonable suspicion requirement. (in re tony c. (1978) 21 cal.3d 888, 893; cf. people v. carmona (2011) 195 cal.app.4th 1385, 1394, [because the traffic stop was illegal, the evidence obtained as a result of the traffic stop must be excluded].) we agree with the rule but that is not the end of the analysis. terry standard being one of objective reasonableness, we are not limited to what the stopping officer says or to evidence of his subjective rationale; rather, we look to the record as a whole to determine what facts were known to the officer and then consider whether a reasonable officer in those circumstances would u.s. v. mckie (d.c. cir. 1991) 951 f.2d 399, 402.) in this case, the officers were wrong in believing khachian was violating the law by walking down the middle of the street but they nevertheless had objectively reasonable grounds for stopping and questioning him. the officers observed khachian at 10:25 p.m. in an unlit residential area that had recently experienced several burglaries. he was dressed in dark neighborhood. thus, the information the officers possessed rendered the initial stop 5 constitutionally permissible. the deterrence function of the exclusionary rule would not be advanced by suppression when an officer has correctly ascertained the facts but picked the wrong legal theory. iii. the evidence must be suppressed because it was the product of an unreasonable seizure. it is undisputed that officer potts handcuffed khachian immediately after he his hand out of his pocket. it is also undisputed that after handcuffing khachian the officers conducted a pat- [they] could inside the pack rivera found a white bindle containing a tar-like substance resembling heroin. in his testimony, potts did not explain the reason for handcuffing khachian other breaking the law by walking in the middle of the street. even assuming that it was constitutionally permissible for the officers to briefly handcuff khachian while they conducted a pat-down search, it has been clear at least since davis v. mississippi (1969) 394 u.s. 721 that investigatory seizures without probable cause violate the fourth amendment. (see also brown v. illinois (1975) 422 u.s. 590, dunaway v. new york (1979) 442 u.s. 200; people v. mcgaughran (1979) when extended beyond what is reasonably necessary under the circumstances which -down search of khachian, and finding no weapons or contraband, the officers were obligated to let him go on his way if he chose to. keeping him by the side of the road in handcuffs while they conducted a further search constituted a seizure without probable cause. therefore, the 6 evidence discovered must be suppressed. (wilson v. superior court (1983) 34 cal.3d 777, 783-784, 791; in re antonio b. (2008) 166 cal.app.4th 435, 442.) disposition the judgment is reversed. not to be published. rothschild, acting p. j. we concur: chaney, j. johnson, 