filed 5/22/12 p. v. scott ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. lester scott, defendant and appellant. b234000 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba378112) appeal from the judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. barbara r. johnson, judge. affirmed. ann krausz, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., supervising deputy attorney general, and robert c. schneider, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________ 2 defendant lester scott was convicted by jury of possession of cocaine base in violation of health and safety code section 11350, subdivision (a). the court suspended provisions of proposition 36, to receive substance abuse treatment. on appeal, defendant contends the court committed reversible error in violation of his fourth amendment right to be free of search and seizure when the court denied his motion to suppress (1) a rock of cocaine that was recovered after defendant dropped it down the back of his shirt, and (2) all statements made to the detaining officers. additionally, defendant seeks our independent review of the in camera pitchess1 proceedings for discovery of police personnel records. is well established. we defer to twhere supported by substantial evidence. in determining whether, on the facts so found, the search or seizure was reasonable under the fourth amendment, we exercise our independent judgment. [citatio people v. weaver (2001) 26 cal.4th 876, 924; people v. glaser denying the motion. the suppression hearing consisted of the uncontradicted testimony of los angeles police officer christina fuentes, who was assigned to the newton division narcotics enforcement detail. officer fuentes testified that while she and another officer and a detective were observing a known narcotics location, at about 3:00 p.m. on november 10, 2010, they saw defendant riding his bicycle eastbound on east 47th place, toward the location they were surveilling at 150 east 47th place. they watched defendant ride his bicycle toward the rear of the location. the officers never lost sight of him, and they did not see him have any contact with anyone. the officers decided to contact defendant since they saw him go to the location they had previously investigated as a narcotics 1 pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531 (pitchess). 3 location, so they followed defendant in their vehicle when he left the location, riding his bicycle westbound on east 47th place. the officers drove past him, parked, got out of the car, identified themselves with their police badges and told defendant to stop as his bicycle approached alongside their vehicle. officer fuentes saw defendant drop down the back of his shirt a small, off-white, roundish rock resembling cocaine that he held in his fingers. her partner, detective erik armstrong, recovered the rock while it was still his waistline. the officers did not display their guns when they told defendant to stop. the trial court denied the motion to suppress on the ground that the defendant did not stop riding his bicycle until after the officers saw him drop the rock of cocaine down his shirt, at which point they were entitled to detain defendant to investigate what it was officers, after seeing the defendant go to what they believe is a known narcotic location, like anything more than they stopped the car, got out, and showed badges. [] before they really could have any kind of encounter, before the defendant gets off his bike, before he does anything, he puts the rock, which they see in his hand, behind his neck and down his shirt. at that point based on that movement and based on what they saw they in judged the credibility of the witness and testimony proffered. (people v. superior court lly supported by the testimony of officer fuentes. moreover, based on a review of the record, we independently conclude the detention of defendant was reasonable within the meaning of the fourth amendment. in order for an investigative detention to withstand such as would cause a reasonable law enforcement officer in a like position, drawing when appropriate on his or her training and experience, to suspect that criminal activity 4 has occurred, is occurring, or is about to occur and that the person to be stopped or people v. conway (1994) 25 cal.app.4th 385, applicable to the particular suspect to be detained. (people v. perrusquia (2007) 150 cal.app.4th 228, standard . . . people v. conway, at p. 388.) the totality of the factual circumstances must be considered in determining the reasonableness of the detention. (people v. souza (1994) 9 cal.4th 224, 230; united states v. cortez (1981) 449 u.s. 411, 417-activity is an appropriate consideration in assessing whether an investigative detention is upon which an individual is detained. (people v. souza, at p. 240.) whether or not an individual displays nervous or evasive behavior, including fleeing from law enforcement, is also appropriately considered. (illinois v. wardlow (2000) 528 u.s. 119, 124-125.) simply because the circumstances presented to an officer might also be consistent with lawful behav suspicion of criminal conduct. indeed, the principal function of [police] investigation is to resolve that very ambiguity and establish whether the activity is in fact legal or illegal . . . people v. souza, at p. 233, italics added.) here, the totality of circumstances supported a reasonable suspicion that defendant possessed rock cocaine. the officers saw defendant ride his bicycle toward the back of a known narcotics location they were surveilling. they did not see him make a hand-to-hand transaction or have any other contact with anyone, but they were entitled to stop him for a consensual encounter. there was no evidence the officers behaved in a way that may be fairly characterized as a seizure until after they saw defendant drop the rock down his back. they drove ahead of defendant, parked, got out of the vehicle, displayed their badges, and told defendant to stop. there was no evidence that defendant complied with the order to stop or dismounted his bicycle until after the officers saw him drop the 5 he did not stop riding his bicycle until after he dropped the rock. we agree with the trial court that the officers had probable cause to detain defendant after they saw him drop the officers detained him before he dropped the rock by arriving suddenly, surrounding him and waving their badges in the air. lastly, we conducted an independent examination of the pitchess proceedings to determine whether any responsive documents were wrongly withheld. such a review is authorized under people v. mooc (2001) 26 cal.4th 1216. we have reviewed the record review of the recordpitchess materials were correct. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports grimes, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. flier, j. 