filed 1/3/13 p. v. jones ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. timothy jones, defendant and appellant. b234534 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta115558) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, ricardo r. ocampo, judge. affirmed. lisa holder, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, marc a. kohm and tita nguyen, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 timothy jones appeals from the judgment entered following his conviction by jury on one count of kidnapping (pen. code,  207, subd. (a)) and one count of pandering by encouraging (pen. code,  266i, subd. (a)(2).) he was sentenced to a term of eight years on the kidnapping charge and a consecutive term of 1 year 4 months on the pandering charge. he contends that the trial court erred in admitting into evidence recordings of his jailhouse telephone calls. we disagree, and affirm the judgment. factual and procedural background prosecution evidence house at 51st and figueroa streets in los angeles and took a bus to a restaurant at manchester and figueroa. after eating, she began walking on flower street to catch a bus home. she took flower instead of figueroa because she knew figueroa was frequented by prostitutes. ne refused. as she tried to leave, another man got out of the car. he and appellant picked her up and put her in the back seat of the car. was only trying to get home. appellant sat next to birdine in the back seat while the other man drove. birdine screamed, kicked, and tried to get out of the car, but the door would not or him. he appellant was sitting close to birdine, holding her hands, his face only inches from 3 hers. he was wearing a royal blue beanie, royal blue shirt, and blue jeans. at trial, birdine was certain of her identification of appellant. they drove around for five to ten minutes. the driver told appellant they should let birdine out. they eventually parked on 94th street, and appellant said, t out of the car and called 911. while birdine was on 94th street talking to the police, she saw the men drive past two more times. she gave the police a description of the car, a silver chevy equinox with nevada license plates. los angeles police officer james doull and his partner responded to the 911 call. they observed appellant, who was wearing clothes matching the they detained him and called for another unit to bring birdine for a field showup. at the scene, birdine identified appellant and the vehicle. officer christopher jordan testified about a separate incident involving appellant that occurred in august 2008. on that occasion, officer jordan was in an undercover vehicle on 95th street near figueroa, observing a woman, who he identified as christine phillingham, standing on the corner, waving at passing cars and occasionally talking with men who stopped at the curb. appellant rode up to phillingham on a bicycle and talked to her. phillingham then walked away and crossed to the other side of the street, near where officer jordan was parked. appellant crossed the street and started talking with phillingham again. officer jordan heard appellant tell phillappellant rode away on his bicycle, but he returned and gave phillingham his phone number. appellant and phillingham were later arrested. 4 officer kristin humphris, assigned to the vice division in the human trafficking and prostitution unit, testified that pimps sometimes recruit prostitutes by kidnapping someone off the street. she also defined terminology used by pimps and prostitutes, and she explained the meaning of various parts of the recorded jailhouse calls made by appellant which were played for the jury. we discuss contents of those calltrial court erred in admitting them into evidence. her boyfriend and the father of her two children. she denied that she had ever worked as a prostitute for him or given him any proceeds from prostitution, although she acknowledged that she had been convicted of prostitution in 2010. toussain identified her voice in two of the recorded calls with appellant. she testified that appellant was angry in the phone calls because he was in custody. defense evidence between 12 and 1 and stayed until midnight, when he was arrested. he did not have a car there, and he never left. around 11:15 p.m., he and two friends were in the front yard when some officers pulled up. the officers asked them to lift their shirts to check if they had guns and then left after a few minutes. forty-five was arrested by different officers. the officers said they arrested him because he was walking by a vehicle that fit the description of a vehicle involved in a crime. appellant denied being a pimp and kidnapping birdine. he testified that he was upset during the recorded conversations with toussain because he thought she 5 was involved in prostitution instead of taking care of their children. he explained that some of the recorded conversations involved him trying to get his witnesses to come to court to testify on his behalf, saying that he did so at the request of his attorney, who was unable to locate them based solely on their nicknames. p.m., and about 30 minutes later, she heard that he had been arrested. he was at the party with appellant from about noon to midnight. he saw the police officers talk with appellant around 11:00 p.m. and then leave. theo saw appellant spolice stop appellant and detain him. theo testified that appellant had not left the party before that and had not been in a vehicle. , testified that he was also at the party with appellant. cyprian arrived around 6:00 p.m. and left around 12:30 a.m., after appellant was arrested. he testified that appellant did not leave the party at all before he was arrested. cyprian saw appellant get arrested when he left to walk down the street. discussion appellant contends that the trial court erred in admitting into evidence recordings of five telephone conversations he had while in jail pending trial. we are not persuaded. on the recorded calls, appellant discussed prostitution activities and his alibi defense. defense counsel objected, arguing that defendant was merely organizing witnesses and that his discussions about prostitution, which were laced with 6 vulgarity and comments demeaning to women, did not suggest that he was a pimp or that he kidnapped birdine. the court reviewed transcripts of the five calls and concluded that the in the conversations to moving motel rooms because of traffic or locations; whether appellant recruited witnesses to support his alibi. the court ordered the women, because the prejudicial effect of this threat of violence substantially outweighed its probative value, but the court otherwise found the phone calls relevant and admissible. the court reasoned that other threats to women heard in not, i guess, following what they are supposed to be doing.redacted as ordered and played for the jury. evidence code1 exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of exclude evidence under section 352 for abuse of discretion. [citation.] we will people v. branch (2001) 91 cal.app.4th 274, 281-282 (branch); see also people v. geier (2007) 41 cal 1 all further statutory references are to the evidence code unless otherwise specified. 7 its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that resulted in so sweeping as to include any evidence the opponent finds inconvenient. evidence is not prejudicial, as that term is used in a section 352 context, merely because it to do so is what makes evidence relevant. the code speaks in terms of undue to evidence which uniquely tends to evoke an emotional bias against the defendant as an individual and which has very little effect on the issues. in applying section damage to a defense that naturally flows from relevant, highly [citation.] . . . in other words, evidence should be excluded as unduly prejudicial when it is of such nature as to inflame the emotions of the jury, motivating them to use the information, not to logically evaluate the point upon which it is relevant, . in such a circumstance, the evidence is unduly prejudicial because of the substantial branch, supra, 91 cal.app.4th at p. 286.) 8 in the present case, the recordings contain language that is highly offensive. however, that language is inseparable from the powerfully incriminating evidence contained in the recordings, and actually enhances the probative value of the evidence by its obvious authenticity. appellant was charged with pandering by encouraging in violation of penal code section 266i, subdivision (a)(2). that is guilty of pandering . . . : [] (2) by promises, threats, violence, or by any device or scheme, causes, induces, persuades, or encourages another person to got what you got and you said you fucking the room only cost $45, man, so you ver hotel they were at was noticing that they were bringing in clientele. because most most of the clientele are going to be lone go to the same hotel room. so probably the management noticed that they were fucking ended up again with different bitches and shit though. how you end up with a different ho i swear to god all these bitches you out there you act like they swear twhy you running around with them faggots? . . . you stay running with a pack of 9 faggots, like you not a faggot too, . . . fucking must be since you running with officer humphris testified that her interpretation of this discussion was that there to enforce them. . . . [h]e assumes she is going renegade which is working of rare here in los angeles because we have so many kidnappings. if a pimp sees in the same conversation, apher for like a fucking whole not fucking even fucking . . . in a second c in yet 10 drive them, he fuckithe girls walking on the track or the street where they commit prostitution constantly. . . . [] get a little motel right there off the track and work out of to let the bottom girl, which is terminology for the most senior prostitute, to shuttle have big ass chains like pt got or bigger . . . fucking major money. all the niggas buy yourself some fucking chains and shit you need . . . a bitch supposed to make at leas obviously, the vulgarity in the conversations was integral to their probative value: these are the words of a pimp attempting to run his business from jail. the conversations provided extensive evidence that thpimp, encouraged birdine to become a prostitute. (branch, supra, 91 cal.app.4th at p. 286.) the trial court did not err in admitting these and other like conversations into evidence. moreover, several portions of other calls were relevant to show that appellant manufactured his alibi defense. in one call, appellant and theo what time it came at 11 6:00 or 7:00 and then another one came about 15 to 30 minutes after, but, i mean, like 8:30, i got arrested at 12:01, fool. the police had to be on the block the first police had to be on the block about either 10 something almost 11:00 or something like that, 10:30 had to be like it had to be in between 10:00 . . . and 11:00 . . . . you know, first police car came, it was we was still outside posted for a minute and then the fucking talk to yg, man, he fucking he was they remember what time it was what. what time i ing paris shit was off and your shit was fucking off, i think paris shit was kind of on but the lady was like your shit off. . . . he must have been drunk as fuck that night, . . . she was reading the statements, paris said we had a bbq, people playing dominos, cards and hanging out. and t said his time was kinda off when the police came too, i think. i think those two niggas, fucking either faded or forgot what time it was or in another call, appellant told theo that he would be released soon and rizo, his shit his story was fucking on point, man. . . . [] . . . tell him to talk to remember what 12:01, so the police came on the block at like probably like 10:00, then they came 12 from these conversations, the jury could reasonably infer that appellant was doing more that merely trying to organize his witnesses. he was coaching so as to manufacture consistent alibi testimony among his witnesses. in short, the probative value of the recordings was not substantially outweighed by the probability of undue prejudice, confusion of the issues, or misleading of thwith the possibility of an emotional response to the proposed evidence that would innocence. [citation.]people v. gunder (2007) 151 cal.app.4th 412, 417.) although the recordings contain contemptuous and demeaning references toward women, racial slurs, and other vulgarities, such language is integral to the probative value of the evidence, constituting candid and unvarnished statements by appellant proving him to be a pimp and proving his alibi to be fabricated. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the recordings. 13 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports willhite, acting p. j. we concur: manella, j. suzukawa, j. 