filed 10/19/12 p. v. wilson ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. mark dwayne wilson, defendant and appellant. b234013 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la067265) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, barry a. taylor, judge. affirmed. brandie g. devall, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and seth p. mccutcheon, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant, mark dwayne wilson, appeals his conviction for robbery, with deadly weapon use, prior serious felony conviction and three strikes findings (pen. code,  211, 12022, 667, subd. (a)-(i)).1 wilson was sentenced to state prison for 10 years. the judgment is affirmed. background viewed in accordance with the usual rule of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established the following. magnolia market in los angeles was owned and operated by sanjay patel and his two brothers. patel was familiar with the defendant mark dwayne wilson, who had been a customer for approximately 20 years. the two of them often engaged in a joking exchange of name-calling when wilson came into the store. patel testified wilson the patel brothers allowed many customers, including wilson, to run a tab at the store. customers usually paid off their tabs on a monthly basis. before putting particular items on their tabs, the customers would ask for permission. patel was working at the store on february 26, 2011, when wilson came in, picked up some beer from a cooler and brought it to the front counter. believing wilson was intoxicated and that it was illegal to sell beer to someone who was intoxicated, patel refused to sell him the beer. an argument ensued. wilson came around behind the counter and grabbed patel. because patel did not think wilson was merely joking around, he told him to leave the store. just then ricky oriol, another long-time customer, came in. oriol saw wilson, who seemed to be drunk, behind the counter and threatening not white trash. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 3 to six minutes . . . so i got him away from the counter, away from [patel]. and on the the cops. what are when oriol was asked if, upon first entering the store, it appeared to him that w wilson returned to the magnolia market a short time later. oriol was no longer there. see called 911. wilson left the area as patel was making the call. police officer jason haggis responded to the robbery report. he saw wilson being detained by other officers. an open bag of funyon chips and a nearly empty can of wilson did not testify or present any evidence. contention the trial court erred by withdrawing a jury instruction on grand theft person as a lesser included offense of robbery. 4 discussion deliberations, to withdraw an instruction on grand theft person as a lesser included offense of robbery. he claims: (1) the instruction should have been given because grand theft person was a necessarily lesser included offense of robbery; (2) the instruction should not have been withdrawn during jury deliberations; and (3) the trial court should have reopened closing argument so defense counsel could address the withdrawal of this 1. background. a. jury instructions. the jury was instructed before the attorneys delivered their closing arguments. jurors were told the single charged offense was robbery, but that they had the alternative of convicting wilson on either of two lesser included offenses -- grand theft or petty theft. from the possession of another, against the will and from the person or immediate presence of that person, accomplished by means of force or fear and with the specific could, if not overcome by violence or prevented by fear, retain possession of the subject ructive possession does not require actual possession, but does require that a person knowingly exercise control over or the right to control a thing either directly or through another person or persons. the law as it relates to the crime of robbery is that all 5 regarpersonal property of any value from the person of another is grand theft. a taking of property is from the person if the property was either on the body or in the clothing worn or in a container carried by the person from whom it was taken. if you are not satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt the defendant is guilty of the crime charged, you may nevertheless convict him of any lesser crime if you are convinced beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant is guilty of the lesser crime. [] the crime of grand theft from the person is a lesser crime to the crime of robbery. the crime of petty theft is a lesser crime to the crime of robbery. [] thus, you are to determine whether the defendant is b. closing argument. after these jury instructions, the attorneys gave their closing arguments. the prosecutor argued all of the required elements of robbery had been proven. defense into question: a courtroom demonstration showed patel could not have seen a knife in which is inconsistent with the fact he was also holding the beer and chips; during the 911 call patel did not say wilson had a knife, but only that he thought wilson had a knife; contradicted by his preliminary hearing testimony and his history of joking around with wilson. defense counsel also argued the of robbery was missing, either because the evidence showed wilson believed the cost of the beer and chips would just be added to his running tab, or because his intoxicated condition negated his ability to form the requisite specific intent. 6 defense counsel told the jurors they should acquit wilson of robbery and instead rding the force and fear for robbery, grand theft person may be the reasonable lesser included crime or more descriptive of c. final instructions and jury question. after closing arguments, the trial court gave the jury a few final instructions, w. when property is taken by theft and the value of the property taken exceeds $400,2 the [crime] is grand theft; the item is under $400, the crime is petty theft. that $400 restriction does not apply to grand theft of a person . . . the jury began de . . . instruction, defense counsel objected. in response, the trial court noted grand theft person container being carried by the person. the trial court also pointed out the jury was hardly going to find wilson guilty of grand theft based on the value of the property taken since that had merely been one beer and a bag of chips. but defense counsel argued that 2 the parties subsequently pointed out to the trial court that the statutory minimum for grand theft had been increased to $950 in 2010. 7 . . i argued the way that the instructions were given, and now the trial court overruled the defense objection, said it would withdraw the grand theft perclosing argument. question. and after further reflection on it, i determined that it does not properly does not. so for grand theft person, it has to be particularly taken from the person, from his clothing, or rt or something like that. and more refers to the distinction between petty theft and grand theft. in other words, if you grand theft from the persoinstruction grand theft from the person . . . is withdrawn. so 2. discussion. a. grand theft person was not a proper lesser included offense. wilson initially contends his conviction must be reversed because withdrawing the lesser included offenses. citing people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 162 court errs if it fails to instruct, sua sponte, on all theories of a lesser included 8 problems wit3 instructions given, a reasonable juror could have concluded that the theft/taking was trial, wilson could not have been properly convicted of grand theft person and, under the breverman people v. haley (2004) 34 cal.4th 283, 312.)4 people v. mcelroy (1897) 116 cal. 583 . . . , where the defendant took $17 from a wallet in the pocket of the trousers as a pillow. the person, concluding the defendant had not taken the property from the person of the victim. [citation.] according to the court, the obvious purpose of making theft from the approach of the pickpocket, the purse-snatcher, the jewel abstracter, and other thieves of like character who obtain property by similar means of stealth or fraud, and that it was in contemplation that the property shall at the time be in some way actually upon or attached to the person, or carried or held in actual physical possession such as clothing, apparel, or ornaments, or things contained therein, or attached thereto, or property held or carried in the hands, or by other means, upon the person; that it was not intended to 3 ry was not met because patel testified that he and appellant often joked in an aggressive nature also evidence that there was no actual threat with a knife because patel told the 911 knife, or that he even saw a knife, a difference that patel confessed under cross examination. at trial patel also provided conflicting testimony about when he saw the 4 nor could wilson have been properly convicted of straight grand theft because he did not take personal property worth $950 ( 487, subd. (a)). 9 include property removed from the person and laid aside, however immediately it may be retained in the presence or constructive control or possession of the owner while so laid away from his person and out of his hands. . . . had the [l]egislature intended that the offense should include instances of property merely in the immediate presence, but not in the manual possession about the person, it would doubtless have so provided, as it has in people v. geter (2012) 202 cal.app.4th 1430, 1434.) it is clear a conviction for grand theft person would not have been a permissible verdict in this case. person. . . . there was no evidence offered that suggested the items appellant took were on pateldispute that this is the state of the evidence. hence, the trial court did not err by concluding it should not have instructed on grand theft person. b. trial court properly withdrew jury instruction after closing argument. wilson next contends the trial court erred by withdrawing the grand theft person instruction after closing arguments were given and while the jury was deliberating. this claim is meritless. various statutes govern the proper chronology of trial proceedings: sworn . . . the trial shall proceed in the following order, unless otherwise directed by the court: [] . . . [] (e) when the evidence is concluded . . . the district attorney, or other counsel for the people, and counsel for the defendant, may argue the case to the court and jury . . . . [] (f) the judge may then charge the jury, and shall do so on any points of law pertinent to the issue, if requested by either party . . . . at the beginning of the trial or from time to time during the trial, and without any request from either party, the trial judge may give the jury such instructions on the law applicable to the case as the judge court with a jury, all requests for instructions on points of law must be made to the court 10 and all proposed instructions must be delivered to the court before commencement of argument. before the commencement of the argument, the court, on request of counsel, must: (1) decide whether to give, refuse, or modify the proposed instructions; (2) decide which instructions shall be given in addition to those proposed, if any; and (3) advise counsel of all instructions to be given. however, if, during the argument, issues are raised which have not been covered by instructions given or refused, the court may, on request other case, for good reasons, and in the sound discretion of the court, the order prescribed section . . they desire to be informed on any point of law arising in the case, they must require the officer to conduct them into court. upon being brought into court, the information required must be given in the presence of, or after notice to, the prosecuting attorney, and the defendant hence, the penal code both prescribes a particular order for the unfolding of a trial, and permits that order to be altered when the need arises. as our supreme court for consultation they may be called into court for further instructions . . . people v. stouter (1904) 142 cal. 146, 149.) so, for instance, people v. ardoin (2011) 196 cal.app.4th 102, held a trial court did not err by modifying a felony murder instruction so it applied to both defendants, instead of ju . . upon -murder rule as applied to id. at p. 127.) ardoin inquir id. at pp. 127-128.) 11 the same thing happened here. when the jury asked about the applicability of the realized the undisputed evidence in the case would not support a conviction for grand 1094), acted properly by withdrawing the erroneous instruction even though the jury had already begun to deliberate. c. wilson not prejudiced when trial court refused to reopen closing argument. withdrawing the grand theft person instruction while the jury was deliberating, the court erred by refusing to reopen closing argument so defense counsel could respond to the a supplemental instruction introduces new matter for consideration by the jury, the parties should be given an opportunity to argue the theory. [citations.] the converse is also true, if a supplemental instruction withdraws a crucial matter from consideration by the jury particularly after deliberations have commenced, counsel should be given the we agree with the general premise that a defendant can possibly be prejudiced when the jury is reinstructed after closing arguments. as ardoin unfair prejudice, if a supplemental instruction introduces new matter for consideration by the jury, the parties should be given an opportunity to argue the theory. [citations.] sixth and fourteenth amendments to the united states constitution and article i, section 15 of the california constitution guarantee a criminal defendant the right to the effectuate the constitutional rights to counsel and to due process of law, an accused must . . if supplemental or curative instructions are given by the trial court without granting defense counsel an opportunity to object, and if necessary, offer additional legal argument to respond to the substance of the new instructions, the spirit . 12 people v. ardoin, supra, 196 cal.app.4th at p. 129, fn. omitted, italics added.) however, the cases reversing convictions in this situation have been ones where, -this is the kind of thing that occurs when reinstruction expands, in some way, the people v. stouter, supra, 142 cal. at pp. 148-150 [child molesting charge was based on allegation defendant inserted his finger would suffice, trial court instructed on attempted child molestation and jury found defendant guilty]; people v. sanchez (1978) 83 cal.app.3d supp. 1, 7 [in prosecution for sexual battery on undercover officer, trduring closing argument]; united states v. gaskins (9th cir. 1988) 849 f.2d 454, 459 [defense counsel should have been allowed to address new aiding and abetting instruction g a defendant as a principal or convicting a united states v. oliver (6th cir. 1985) 766 f.2d 252, 254, italics added [in prosecution efense counsel expressly tailored his closing argument upon the alleged failure of the government to prove a critical element of the crime, i.e. that the letter had in fact been delivered, as directed by the original jury charge. when the court subsequently omitted that element as a prerequisite for conviction [saying defendant only had to have deposited the letter for delivery], the defense attorney was left with the impossible task of rearguing to the jury points which he had conceded during his first ar 13 defense counsel relied heavily on the grand theft instruction . . . . when the trial court subsequently withdrew the instruction on grand theft, after defense couthat grand theft was a reasonable description of what had occurred, the court essentially the defense case was that the prosecution had failed to prove although defense counsel urged the jury to find wilson guilty of grand theft person instead of robbery, even after that instruction was withdrawn there remained an alternative lesser included offense -- petty theft. as we noted, antereasonable doubt the defendant is guilty of the crime charged, you may nevertheless convict him of any lesser crime if you are convinced beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant is guilty of the lesser crime. [] the crime of grand theft from the person is a lesser crime to the crime of robbery. the crime of petty theft is a lesser crime to the crime of robbery. [] thus, you are to determine whether the defendant is guilty or not guilty of the crime charged in count 1 or any in addition to that explicit explanation of the possible verdicts from which it could choose, the jury was additionally informed by other instructions that grand theft person and petty theft were alternative robbery of which the defendant is accused in count 1 or that of grand theft or petty theft, which are lesser crimes thereto, or in the allegation that the defendant used a deadly or dangerous weapon, a necessary element is the existence in the mind of the defendant of the specific intent to permanently deprive and/or use a . . either grand theft or petty theft. if you find the defendant guilty of theft, you must determine whether the crime was grand theft or petty theft and state which it is in your verdict. [] if you find the defendant guilty of theft, but unanimously have a reasonable doubt as to 14 even without resorting to the usual rule that an appellate court must assume the people v. mckinzie (2012) 54 cal.4th 1302, 1364), in this case there is no reason at all to think the jurors would have simply disregarded all these instructions when grand theft person was withdrawn, and somehow believed their only choice was to either convict wilson of robbery or acquit him completely. although wilson argues defense counsel relied on the grand theft person anything of value because it was virtually undisputed wilson had committed some kind of theft offense.5 because the reinstruction in this case did not materially alter the scope of criminal court did not err by refusing to reopen closing argument. moreover, even when a reinstruction does affect a crucial matter, and closing argument should therefore be reopened, the defendant is not necessarily prejudiced. in people v. ardoin, supra, 196 cal.app.4th 102, where the trial court added a felony-murder instruction after closing argument, the court of appeal acknowledged there was an . . that once the trial court decided to clarify the felony-murder instruction to include both defendants, fairness id. at p. 129.) nevertheless, ardoin found the defendant had not been prejudiced: her defense to the jury or was substantially misled in formulating and presenting 5 the suggestion wilson might have legitimately believed patel was going to put the beer on his tab is not credible; the evidence plainly showed patel refused to sell wilson the beer not because he thought wilson could not pay for it, but because wilson was drunk. 15 [citation.] we conclude that ardoin was not substantially misled in formulating or presenting closing argument, nor was he unfairly prevented from imparting his defense to the jury. [citations.] moreover, from our reading of the record we do not perceive that defense cou-murder issue would have appreciably differed id. at p. 134.) the same is true here. the only thing defense counsel was prevented from telling the jury would have bperson instruction, you should still find the prosecution failed to prove all the elements of a robbery and you should instead convict wilson of petty theft for shoplifting beer and chips fante, the jury had been well-instructed on petty theft as an alternative lesser included offense. the trial court even told the jury, e see no reason why the jury would have ignored all these instructions just because the grand theft person instruction was withdrawn. and even though defense counsel told the jury, believe the jury would have ignored the possibility of convicting wilson of petty theft. hence, any error in failing to reopen closing argument was harmless because (people v. ardoin, supra, 196 cal.app.4th at p. 134.) 16 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: croskey, j. aldrich, j. 