filed 4/24/12 p. v. serrano ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. samantha jo serrano, defendant and appellant. b234994 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya078847) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mark s. arnold, judge. reversed and remanded. richard l. fitzer, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, blythe j. leszkay and taylor nguyen, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 samantha jo serrano was charged by information with one count of possession of methamphetamine and one count of possession of a smoking device. (health & saf. code,  11377, subd. (a), 11364, subd. (a).) after her motion to suppress evidence under penal code section 1538.5 was denied, appellant pled no contest to both counts. she appeals from the judgment, contending that the trial court erred in denying her motion to suppress evidence. (pen. code,  1538.5.) we agree and reverse. factual and procedural background on august 14, 2010, around 10:30 p.m., los angeles county deputy sheriff ernesto castaneda and his partner were driving in a patrol car past the marquis motel in gardena, california. deputy castaneda saw appellant and another person, mr. medina (medina), in front of the motel. deputy castaneda saw medina flick a lighted cigarette to the ground, so the deputies stopped to investigate him for littering. medina and appellant told the deputies that they did not have identification, but they lived in room 119 at the motel. the deputies locked appellant and medina in the back of the patrol car because they did not have identification. according to deputy castaneda, appellant and medina were detained in order to find their identification so the deputies could issue a littering ticket to medina. when the deputies went to room 119, the occupants did not know medina and appellant. the deputies then learned that medina and appellant actually lived in room 219. serrano (serrano), who confirmed that appellant and medina lived there. while 3 castaneda saw a glass pipe, commonly used to smoke methamphetamine, on a table in the living room. the deputies asked serrano if he was on probation or parole, and serrano stated that he was on probation for forgery with a search condition. they detained serrano for a probation compliance check and searched the room. deputy castaneda found a wd-40 can containing methamphetamine in the bedroom. in the living room, he found a white purse. because he wanted to obtain identification for appellant (on the theory that she was in the company of medina, who had littered) and because he had already discovered the pipe and can containing methamphetamine, deputy castaneda searched the purse. inside, he a plastic baggy containing what appeared to be methamphetamine. appellant was charged in count 1 with possession of methamphetamine and in count 2 with misdemeanor possession of a smoking device. (health & saf. code,  11377, subd. (a), 11364, subd. (a).) the information further alleged as to count 1 that appellant had suffered a prior conviction within the meaning of penal code sections 667, subdivisions (b)-(i), and 1170.12, subdivisions (a)-(d). appellant filed a motion to suppress the evidence found in her purse, pursuant to penal code section 1538.5. she argued that there was no cause to detain her, her illegal detention was unduly prolonged, and that the search of her purse exceeded the scope of the probation search of serrano. at the hearing on the motion to suppress, the prosecutor conceded that an unlawful detention. however, he argued that the evidence found in her purse was admissible under the theory of inevitable discovery. in particular, he asserted 4 deputy castaneda accordingly was entitled to look for his identification in the motel room in which he resided. when deputy castaneda ascertained that medina lived in room 219 and went there, he encountered serrano, saw the pipe in the living room in plain view, and learned that serrano was on probation with a search condition. deputy castaneda could therefore legally enter the room to conduct a probation search, pursuant to which he found a can containing methamphetamine. at that point, the prosecutor conceded, deputy castaneda could not rely on s male found the pipe and the can containing methamphetamine, deputy castaneda would have searched the purse anyway for additional methamphetamine, and was entitled to do so. her was on probation coupled with the finding of the meth pipe properly entitled [deputy castaneda] to search the entire room and everything that the court thus denied app appellant then entered a plea of no contest to both counts. the court dismissed count 2 pursuant to the plea negotiation. the court granted the tion of sentence, and placed appellant on probation. appellant filed a timely notice of appeal from the denial of her motion to suppress. 5 discussion appellant contends that the trial court erred in concluding that the inevitable discovery rule applied to the discovery of the pipe and methamphetamine in her purse, and that therefore the court erred in denying her motion to suppress. we agree. the record in the light most favopeople v. davis (2005) 36 cal.4th 510, 528-independent judgment to determine whether, on the facts found, the search or people v. strider (2009) 177 cal.app.4th 1393, 1398.) the exclusionary rule is relied upon to exclude evidence obtained as a result of unlawful police concourse is needed to deter police from violations of constitutional and statutory nix v. williams (1984) 467 u.s. 431, 442-discovery doctrine operates as an exception to the exclusionary rule: seized evidence is admissible in instances in which it would have been discovered by the people v. superior court (walker) (2006) 143 den of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that evidence otherwise unlawfully obtained would id. at p. 1217.) of the tr[the discovery of the pipe in the living room and the can containing 6 methamphetamine in the bedroom], deputy castaneda could reasonably determine that the motel room was being used for a criminal enterprise. at that point, the condition on the reasonable belief that [serrano] had joint use of the purse, or, at least, access to it. [citation.] indeed, [serrano] was in the room alone with the purse while appellant was outside the motel, and he had the opportunity to secrete we disagree that the search of appethat law enforcement agents are lawfully in possession of containers [such as a purse] does not give them authority to conduct a warrantless search of the contents people v. wilkinson (2008) 163 cal.app.4th people v. smith (2002) 95 cal.app.4th 912 (smith). but the circumstances in smith were very different from those presented here. in smithofficers found six people in the residence. they limited their search to a bedroom that the defendant and the probationer shared. after the officers found various items containing narcotics scattered throughout the bedroom, the defendant told the officers there was a gun in a safe in the bedroom closet. she said the key was inside her purse, and she gave an officer permission to retrieve the key from her purse. after the officer retrieved the key, the officer placed the purse on the bed, and a narcotics police dog subsequently indicated there were narcotics in the purse. when the officers searched the purse, they discovered a bag of methamphetamine. the appellate court upheld the search, concluding that it was reasonable for the officers to assume the probationer and the defendant had joint control over the 7 items in the bedroom. (smith, supra, 95 cal.app.4th at p. 918.) the court pointed ibid.) the court also relied on the significance of the gun hidden in the safe and, especially, the fact that the key to id. at pp. 918-919.) these (id. at p. 919.) in the instant case, by contrast, there were no similar circumstances that reasonably suggested that the probationer, serrano, exercised joint ownership, the motel room in which serrano was present and gone downstairs with medina. and, true, before searching the purse, deputy castaneda had found a narcotics pipe and a wd-40 can containing methamphetamine in the room. but these facts do not reasonably suggest the tyappellant as described in smith, and certainly do not suggest that serrano shared we find people v. baker (2008) 164 cal.app.4th 1152, 1156 (baker) more applicable to the instant case. there, the court held that the search of a car the car in which the defendant was a passenger was stopped for speeding, the parolee driver told the officer that he was on parole. the officer decided to conduct a parole search of the car and asked the defendant to exit the car. her purse was sitting at her feet, but she did not remove it from the car. the officer found nothing in the car, but he searched the purse and found a small amount of methamphetamine. 8 the court in baker explained the principles involved in the search of a ing a parole or probation search, the searching officer may look into closed containers that he or she reasonably believes are in the complete or joint control of the parolee or probationer. [citations.] this is true because the need to supervise those who have consented to probationary or parolee searches must be balanced against the reasonable privacy expectations of those who reside with, ride with, or otherwise associate with parolees or probationers. we acknowledge that passengers in automobiles have a lesser expectation of privacy in automobiles than in a residence. [citation.] however, a purse has been recognized as an inherently private repository for personal items. [citations.] while those who associate with parolees or probationers must assume the risk that when they share ownership or possession with a parolee or probationer their privacy in these items might be violated, they do not abdicate all expectations of privacy in all personal property. the key question remains: whether there is joint ownership, control, or possession baker, supra, 164 cal.app.4th at p. 1159.) baker reasonable suspicion that the purse belonged to the driver, that the driver exercised control or possession of the purse, or that the purse contained anything belonging baker, supra, 164 cal.app.4th at p. 1159.) similarly, in the present case, as we have explained, there were no circumstances that indicated the probationer, serrano, exercised joint ownership, control, or people v. veronica (1980) 107 cal.app.3d 906, 909 [acknowledging that, although there might be circumstances indicating a 9 there was no evidence that the probationer exercised joint contmotion to suppress should have been granted. disposition the judgment is reversed and the matter remanded for further proceedings. appellant is to be allowed to withdraw her no contest plea, and the trial court is instructed to grant her motion to suppress the evidence. not to be published in the official reports willhite, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. suzukawa, j. 