filed 11/13/12 p. v. bassurto ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jeffrey bassurto, defendant and appellant. b235792 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba380922) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, craig e. veals, judge. affirmed as modified. kevin d. sheehy, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and timothy m. weiner, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________ 2 jeffrey bassurto was convicted by a jury of assault with a firearm, shooting from a motor vehicle and unlawful possession of a firearm by a felon with a special finding he had personally used a firearm in committing the aggravated assault. in a bifurcated proceeding bassurto admitted he had suffered two prior serious or violent felony subdivision (a)(1), and had also served three separate prison terms for felony convictions. the court sentenced him to an aggregate, indeterminate state prison term of 45 years to life. on appeal bassurto contends the trial court violated his fundamental right to a trial before 1during trial. we affirm the judgment as modified.1 factual and procedural background 1. evidence at trial e apartment complex in which natasha miller and her three-year-old child lived. bassurto spent a ing.2 in late august 2010 laurisa received a telephone call from a tenant urging her to o going down. no words were exchanged. at the apartment she spoke with miller, whose nose 1 bassurto and the people agree the trial court miscalculated his presentence custody credit as 422 days (367 actual days of custody plus 55 conduct days), rather than 423 days (368 actual days and 55 conduct days). we order the judgment modified to reflect the actual presentence custody credit earned by bassurto. 2 because laurisa balam and her husband, jose balam, who also testified at trial, share the same last name, we refer to them by their first names for convenience and clarity. (see people v. jones (1996) 13 cal.4th 535, 538, fn. 2.) 3 ice and he will go to . . . as laurisa was leaving bassurto came back up the stairwell holding a chrome-building with this sister and got into the backseat of a car parked outside. laurisa asked him to call the police emergency number. while still on the telephone with the 911 operator, jose went outside to get the license number of baapproached the car, bassurto thrust his hand out the window and fired four shots at him. the car then drove away. laurisa also testified that some time after the shooting she returned to her apartment and was told by her husband that he had been threatened by several men who warned him not to go to court to testify against bassurto. following the threat, she and her family moved from the building and entered a witness protection program. jose testified after his wife and confirmed her account of the shooting incident. he also testified he had told the men who visited the apartment that he would not go to court but explained the detectives might pick him up and make him go. he was then told, bassurto did not testify in his own defense. his mother testified bassurto was at home with her at a barbecue party when the crimes allegedly occurred. two other guests at the party also testified bassurto was there during the relevant time period. 2. the challenge to juror no. 5 after the court excused the jury on friday afternoon, july 15, 2011, at the the day from juror no. 5. the note that i experienced an extreme emotional reaction to this case, one that i did not expect. i 4 think that i am not the right person to sit on this jury and would request that i be dismissed with sincere apologies. also, i unintentionally mentioned my reaction to the court initially asked defense counsel and the prosecutor whether they wanted to discuss the note at that time or to hold it over until the next court day (monday). no. 5 be replaced by an alternate. the court replied, . . . do you want to question her first at some point, perhaps on monday, and see exactly communication of this sort before concluding that replacement was necessary. the people completed their case and rested on monday, july 18, 2011. neither the court nor either counsel raised the issue of juror no. 5. the trial was in recess on tuesday, july 19, 2011. on wednesday morning, july 20, 2011, before the jury was called into the courtroom, the prosecutor reminded the court it had no yet addressed juror no. rmine the case. she brief inquiry unless perhaps the court would allow us to stipulate to remove her at this the court called juror no. 5 into the courtroom, had her sit in her seat in the jury box and questioned her about the note, initially asking her whether the extreme emotional reaction she had initially experienced still existed. juror no. feel that i know. just with the opening remarks and because i couldi the weekend i sort of relaxed. i feel how important it is. i feel much better, so i feel 5 okay about it. i just was overwhelm following exchange then occurred: . . now, as far as being fair to both sides, that still obviously is our main objective. we impaneled you or selected you to serve on the case? i think it was i reacted to the whole idea of it before i even knew what was happening. ashamed about that. the court then turned to the portion of the note in which juror no. 5 said she had unintentionally mentioned her reaction to another juror. juror no. belime like i was crazy. and oh, i realized i was still reacting emotionally. . . . and i just . 5 her because i be 6 after telling juror no. 5 she had not done anything terrible, the court asked both lawyers whether there was any furth trial resumed with juror no. 5 participating throughout deliberations and verdict. 5, and no formal order by the court denying the earlier request to replace her with an alternate juror. discussion people v. earp (1999) 20 cal.4th 826, 852; see in re hitchings e accused of the contrary, the court conducted a reasonable inquiand acted well within its discretion in permitting her to remain on the jury. is found to be unable to perform his or her duty, the court may order the juror discharged (people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153id. at p. 232.) as discussed, although defense counsel initially moved for juror no. be held in abeyance and the juror questioned regarding the meaning of her note and her ability to be fair following the weekend recess. thereafter, defense counsel did not 7 declined an invitation to ask the juror any follow-up questions. to the extent bassurto now argues the claim has been forfeited. (see people v. russell (2010) 50 cal.4th 1228, 1250 because they were improper, intrusive, and coercive is forfeited because defendant failed reaction to the initial phase of the case and confirmed that, after processing her feelings over the weekend, she was no longer overwhelmed by the experience. juror no. 5 finally, the court determined the juror had not breached her obligation not to discuss the case with other jurors before deliberations began. the conclusion that juror no. 5 did not need to be replaced was supported by substantial evidence and fell well within the trial people v. williams, supra, 16 cal.4th at p. 231.) disposition the judgment is affirmed as modified to reflect the actual presentence custody credit earned by bassurto. the superior court is directed to prepare an abstract of judgment and to forward it to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. perluss, p. j. we concur: jackson, j. segal, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 