filed 12/3/12 p. v. rodriguez ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. alfred rodriguez et al., defendants and appellants. b235693 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba358454) appeal from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county. drew e. edwards, judge. affirmed with directions. lynda a. romero, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant alfred rodriguez. deborah l. hawkins, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant israel lopez. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, linda c. johnson and michael c. keller, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________________________________ 2 a jury convicted israel lopez and co-defendant alfred rodriguez of first degree murder and found firearm and gang allegations true as to both defendants. on appeal, each defendant raises evidentiary and sentencing errors and rodriguez challenges the amount of his custody credits. we affirm conviction and remand his case for correction of his custody credits.1 facts and proceedings below victor moreno, a member of the 38th street gang, was gunned down on thursday, may 14, 2009, at approximately 4:30 in the afternoon. there were two witnesses to the shooting: isaac alvarez and ruben zuniga. alvarez, a 38th street member, testified that on the day of the murder he was n a brown expedition drove by and one of the occupants flashed the sign of a rival gang, the florencia 13. a short time later alvarez was standing on vernon avenue near the intersection o fellow gang members moreno and medina. occupants in both cars fired shots into the group. when alvarez heard the first shot fired from the expedition he immediately ran across vernon toward the plaza on the other side of that street. when he reached the other side of vernon, he caught a three or four second glimpse of the passenger in the white car who was shooting at moreno. the white car made a right turn onto vernon and drove away. when interviewed by the police the next day, alvarez described the person shooting from the expedition as bald-ogive the police a description of the shooter in the white car. later, in photographic 1 790 days to 791 days. 3 lineups and at trial, alvarez identified defendant rodriguez as the shooter in the expedition and defendant lopez as the shooter in the white car. on cross-examination, alvarez conceded that he had to look past the driver of the white car in order to see the passenger. he also admitted that when interviewed by the police the day after the shooting he did not give a description of the physical appearance 10 to 15 feet from the white car when he saw its passenger shooting at moreno. alvarez further admitted that he lied at the preliminary hearing and to federal officers when he stated he did not witness the shooting. zuniga testified that he was driving north on long beach boulevard when an expedition swerved in front of him at the intersection of long beach boulevard and tattooed on the arm of the shooter. when shown a photograph of an expedition the shooter in the expedition nor did he see a white car involved in the shooting. the police arrested and interviewed rodriguez a month after the shooting. the prosecution read his interview to the jury. in his statement rodriguez denied been used in the crime. rodriguez told police that on the day of the shooting he drove the expedition to the home of a florencia gang member named huerro and some other the backyard he heard the expedition start up and drive away. rodriguez stood in the alley 30 a tattooed on his arm. 4 the police also arrested and interviewed lopez and his statement too was read to the jury. lopez told the police that on the afternoon of the shooting he was riding in a day. lopez saw the girl and had stomper drop him off. we cannot determine from d him off but it was close enough to the corner of long beach and vernon that lopez claims he could hear the by an suv. the jury found lopez and rodriguez guilty of the first degree murder of moreno and found true various gun enhancement allegations and the allegation that the murder was committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang.2 the court sentenced each defendant to 25-years-to-life on the murder conviction plus a consecutive 25-years-to-life for the personal and intentional discharge of a firearm proximately causing great bodily injury or death. (pen. code,  12022.53, subd. (d).) sentences on the remaining gun enhancements and street gang enhancement were stayed. defendants filed timely appeals. discussion i. implicate each other in the murder. each defendant contends his constitutional right to confront the witnesses against him was violated by the court admitting evidence of his co-police. (see crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36; bruton v. united states (1968) 391 u.s. 123; people v. aranda (1965) 63 cal.2d 518.) we disagree. no violation of the confrontation clause occurs when neither defendant makes statements connecting the other with the murder. (people v. johnson (1989) 47 cal.3d 1194, 1231.) rodriguez 2 er was committed for the benefit of florencia 13, a criminal street gang. because the defendants do not challenge the gang enhancement, we need not discuss the evidence supporting the 5 drive-by shooting. he never mentioned a second car being involved in the crime and never placed lopez anywhere near the scene of the crime much less as a passenger in the suv and the two cars drove off together. lopez did not mention the color of the suv and nothing in his statement implicated rodriguez in the murder. ii. the court erred in admitting an unredacted detectives in which the detectives expressed their belief that rodriguez was lying when he denied involvement in the murder. the error was harmless. objection, the unedited recording of that interview was played for the jury. rodriguez contends the trial court erred by not redacting the portions of the recording containing the statements of opinion but we conclude the error was harmless. rodriguez objected to the following statements by the detectives. you started thinking, sounds kind of f the murder constituted inadmissible opinion evidence. in people v. torres (1995) 33 guilt or innocence of a defendant. it is also well-established that opinions about the people v. melton (1988) 44 cal.3d 6 respondent argues that we disagree with both of these arguments. the cases we cited above holding a witness cannot testify to an opinion about the detectives in this case were not witnesses and their statements were not testimony. in other words, respondent contends a recording in which the detectives express their opinions that rodriguez is lying to them is admissible at trial even though the same detectives would not be permitted to offer such opinions from the witness stand. we reject this argument. material objects, or other things presented to the senses that are offered to prove the 140.) the recorded statements of the y, we see no meaningful distinction between opinions on veracity and guilt expressed in the context of an interrogation at a police station or in the context of direct testimony in open court. the end result is the samenion. opinions on truth or falsity or innocence or guilt. rather, they were included in the reading of the interrogation transcript in order to give the jury context and meaning with provides that if one piece of a conversation is admitted in evidence, any other 7 what rodriguez was telling them. their statements were purely argumentative and accusatory and aimed directly at rodriguez. the third statement, that the detectives ploy but could have been interpreted by the jury as meaning that the police and the e people v. smith (2003) 30 cal.4th 581, 617.) provide jury a limiting instruction. the case respondent relies upon, people v. maury (2003) 30 cal.4th 342, 419-420, is not on point because it pertained to evidence of explanatory statements to the police by the defendant. interrogation, we conclude that this evidentiary error did not render his trial fundamentally unfair (people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 439), and it is not reasonably probable that he would have obtained a more favorable result absent the error. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) rodriguez and the victim, moreno, were member of a rival gang, florencia 13. the two eyewitnesses to the shooting, alvarez and zuniga, tetattooed on his arm. rodriguez has such a tattoo. (rodriguez told the police that huerro, admirodriguez in a photographic lineup and confirmed his identification at trial. 8 iii. evidence. lopez was convicted solely on athat lopez was the shooter in the white car. (see pp. 2-3, ante.) on appeal, lopez because uncorroborated eyewitness evidence is the least reliable of all the various kinds of evidence; alvarez was not a credible witness because he lied to federal law enforcement officers and at the preliminary hearing when he claimed he did not witness the shooting; and it was not possible for alvarez to reliably identify lopez as the shooter from where alvarez stood across the street from the murder scene. the first two arguments can be quickly dismissed. in determining the sufficiency evidence . . . such that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a people v. hatch (people v. johnson (1980) 26 cal.3d 557, 576.) on appeal, the uncorroborated testimony of a single eyewitness is sufficient to sustain a (people v. panah (2005) 35 cal.4th 395, 489.) we do not review the fact-credibility determinations. (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206.) whether alvarez was in a position where he could indentify lopez as the shooter testimony together with the photographic evidence of the murder scene, we conclude that the shooter in the white car. alvarez testified that immediately after hearing the first shots he ran north on long beach avenue across vernon. he stood on vernon watching while the shooter in 9 his vantage point on the other side of vernon, alvarez claimed, he was able to obtain a four or five sec(people v. panah, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 489.) the jury could find that after the shooting started alvarez ran across vernon avenue and then looked back south down long beach avenue to where moreno was standing on the opposite corner of vernon and long beach avenues. assuming this was the case, the white car would have been traveling north on long beach avenue, heading toward alvarez, and then making a right turn on vernon. as the white car traveled north up long beach avenue, the shooter would have either been looking to his right, aiming his weapon at moreno and exposing his profile to alvarez, or looking straight ahead exposing his full face to alvarez. either way the jury could reasonably find that alvarez had a sufficient opportunity to identify lopez as the shooter. iv. it is not a denial of equal protection to punish those who aid and abet gang-related murders more seriously than those who aid and abet murders by other criminal organizations. the jury found true as to both defendants the firearm enhancement allegations under penal code section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) through (e). the court sentenced each defendant to a term of 25 years to life under subdivision (d) and stayed sentencing on the other enhancements including subdivision (e) which applies to aiders and abettors of gang-related murders.3 under the evidence, rodriguez and lopez were either the 3 nding any other provision of law, any person who, in the commission of [murder] personally and intentionally discharges a firearm and proximately causes . . . death, to any person other than an accomplice, shall be punished by an additional and consecutive term of imprisonment in enhancements provided in this section shall apply to any person who is a principal in the commission of an offense if both of the following are pled and proved: (a) the person violated subdivision (b) of section 186.22 [i.e., committed the offense for the benefit of a 10 shooters or they were not involved in the crime at all. there was no evidence that they aided and abetted others in the commission of the murder. nevertheless, the court instructed on the theory of aiding and abetting and the jury found the aiding and abetting allegation under section 12022.53, subdivision (e) to be true. therefore we will briefly against aiders and abettors of gang-related murders by punishing them more harshly than those who aid and abet murders by other criminal organizations such as the medellin cartel, al-qaeda or the klu klux klan. (people v. hernandez (2005) 134 cal.app.4th 474, 480; people v. gonzalez (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 1, 13.) defendants have given us no reason to depart from these decisions. their argument that hernandez people v. olivas (1976) 17 cal.3d 236, 250-251) is mistaken. the hernandez opinion discussed and distinguished olivas. (people v. hernandez, supra, 134 cal.app.4th at p. 483.) criminal street gang and with the specific intent to promote, further or assist in any criminal conduct by gang members]. (b) any principal in the offense committed any act 11 disposition the convictions of israel lopez and alfred rodriguez are affirmed. the trial court, if it has not alreto his entitlement to 791 days of presentence custody credit and to forward a copy of the corrected abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published. rothschild, acting p. j. we concur: chaney, j. johnson, j. 