filed 7/10/12 p. v. bustillos ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. leno bustillos, defendant and appellant. b235542 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka092764) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. geanene m. yriarte, judge. affirmed. lynette gladd moore, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, blythe j. leszkay and john yang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________________________ 2 appellant leno bustillos was convicted of first degree robbery and making criminal threats. the trial court sentenced him to a total of 81 years to life. appellant contends that the trial court should have stayed the consecutive sentence for count 2 and romero1 motion. we affirm. factual and procedural background irving rodriguez (irving) lived with his father in a trailer park in el monte. around noon on deknew where a man named marco was. marco was a former tenant of the trailer park. irving had seen appellant with marco around the trailer park before. irving never had any problems or prior relationship with appellant. irving told appellant he did not know where marco was. appellant then took out a five-trailer as appellant approached. once inside, appellant continued to point the knife at trailer should he try to do anything stupid. appellant stated that he was on the run from stabbed when appellant threatened him. pment was, and began searching the trailer. irving was able to convince appellant not to take his laptop because he needed it for school. nonetheless, irving saw appellant take some money by basket. he then asked irving if he had any tools. irving told him the tools were outside. appellant put on the backpack, took his knife back out, and walked outside with irving. 1 people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497. 3 when appellant approached the storage door for the tools, irving jumped on his back and began to squeeze him. appellant had previously been holding his knife in his left hand. irving was pretty sure that the knife would have stabbed appellant in the neck because of the way that irving had been squeezing him. after wrestling for about 10 straight to the house of the trailer park manager. told the manager and carlos what had happened, a white ford explorer sped out of the with irving and gestured with his hand at him as if simulating the cocking motion of a gun. carlos testified that appellant appeared to be smiling. carlos also noted that the car was appellant because he recognized his voice and the way he looked. irving en he saw appellant because he thought he was going to come right back. when the police arrived, irving returned to his trailer and determined that the backpack appellant had been wearing was gone. the next day, detectives located the white ford explorer in the parking lot of a hospital 10 minutes away. the car was equipment. rathat had been in the car, as his property. detectives arrested appellant when he was discharged from the hospital later that evening. the jury convicted appellant of first degree residential robbery (pen code,  211;2 count 1) and the crime of making criminal threats ( 422; count 2). as to each count, the 2 all further references are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 4 jury found the deadly and dangerous weapon allegation to be true within the meaning of section 12022, subdivision (b)(1). tromero motion and sentenced appellant to a total of 81 years to life. as to count 1, appellant was sentenced to 41 years: a base sentence of 25 years to life plus five-year enhancements for each of rs pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1), plus a one-year enhancement pursuant to section 12022, subdivision (b)(1). as to count 2, appellant was sentenced to 40 years: a base of 25 years to life plus five-year enhancements for each of three priors ( 667, subd. (a)(1)). the trial court struck the punishment for the enhancement under section 12022, subdivision (b)(1) on count 2 in the interest of justice. discussion a. consecutive punishment for criminal threat conviction appellant awhen he told irving not to call the police, he was satisfying the force or fear element of the robbery. appellant thus asserts that the threats were part of the same course of conduct as the robbery and that it was error under section 654 to impose a consecutive 3 other argument. a defendant may only receive punishment for the objective or objectives that his offenses sought to further. (people v. britt (2004) 32 cal.4th 944, 952). if one offense is may not receive punishment for both. (people v. wynn (2010) 184 cal.app.4th 1210, 1215). accordingly, we will not reverse a trial court under section 654 unless we find 3 the specific objective being dissuading the victim from calling the police. 5 incident to more than one objective. (id. at pp. 1214-1215). evident reason for threatening irving during the robbery was so he would be able to carry out his theft. the threats not only worked to instill fear in irving and to prevent him from stopping appellantit also served to prevent the police from being able to enter the scene robbery, the evidence does not show any other intention appellant could have had in ordering irving to not call the police or in threatening to harm him and his home should one objective. nevertheless, we hold that other substantial evidence of a different threat did exist to justify consecutiv at trial, the prosecutor argued to the jury in closing argument that when appellant drove away, gesturing his hand like a shooting gun, he made a criminal threat. appellant contends that such action does not constitute a criminal threat because neither irving nor carlos testified that appellant made any sound when he gestured. for a gesture to amount to a criminal threat under section 422, a verbal sound must accompany it. (people v. franz (2001) was enough to constitute a verbal statement, thus rendering his gesture a criminal threat].) 22 is incorrect. the same objective as the robbery. we find that it was not. appellant made his separate objective clear as he drove past irving, smiling and shooting his hand like a gun directly rather evinced his sole intent to prevent police involvement by threatening harm to irving. we thus conclude that the prosecution 6 separate objective of preventing a report to the police. accordingly, we affirm the trial b. romero motion appellant contends that the nature and remoteness of his prior strikes render him outside the spirit of the three strikes law. appellant thus argues that the trial court we disagree. the purpose of the three strikes law is to punish criminals who have a tendency to commit offenses that pose a threat to public safety. (people v. carmony (2005) 127 cal.app.4th 1066, 1080-ppellant clearly shows that the agree with it (people v. carmony (2004) 33 cal.4th 367, 378). for such a decision to have been reasonably just, however, the trial court must have taken into account the people v. mcglothin (1998) 67 cal.app.4th 468, 474-475). in people v. mcglothin, at page 476, for example, the court abused its -year-to-life people v. carmony, the trial court weighed important current offense was very technical and nonviolent, the court recognized that the defendant nonetheless had substance abuse problems, an extensive criminal history, and poor future prospects. because such an analysis was neither arbitrary nor irrational, our (33 cal.4th at p. at 379.) 7 analysis. (people v. williams (1998) 17 cal.4th 148, 163). for example, in williams, the criminal activity during that span of time, and he did not add maturity to ibid.) here, the trial court outlined its specific considerations and reasoning in denying romero ge. it noted that appellant had already been subject to the three strikes law, yet had evaded a life letters from appellant and his family members. the trial court even praised appellant when it discussed the future of his soldiers for god program. nonetheless, the court pattern and history of criminal activity had not ceased. as a result, the trial court held that appellant was not an exception to the three strikes law. appellant has not shown that the factors the trial court looked at were improper; ly, appellant has failed to show that the trial court made its decision in an irrational or arbitrary an abuse of discretion. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. boren, p.j. we concur: doi todd, j. chavez, j. 