filed 4/16/13 p. v. donis ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. carlos humberto arias donis, defendant and appellant. b235417 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya078947) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. mark s. arnold, judge. affirmed as modified. nancy l. tetreault, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, eric e. reynolds and ana r. duarte, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 carlos humberto arias donis (donis) used a machete to kill one man and severely injure a second man. according to donis, he acted in self-defense. he was convicted of second degree murder (count 1) (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)),1 attempted murder (count 2) ( 664, 187, subd. (a)), and aggravated mayhem (count 3) ( 205). as to counts 1 through 3, the jury found true the allegation that donis used a deadly or dangerous weapon within the meaning of section 12022, subdivision (b)(1). as to counts 2 and 3, the jury found true the allegation that donis inflicted great bodily injury within the meaning of section 12022.7, subdivision (a). on count 1, donis was sentenced to 15 years to life, plus one year for the deadly weapon enhancement. with respect to count 3, the trial court imposed a term of life with the possibility of parole plus one year for the deadly weapon enhancement and three years for the great bodily injury enhancement. the sentence on count 3 was ordered to run consecutive to the sentence on count 1. for count 2, donis received a sentence of seven years plus a one-year enhancement for the use of a deadly or dangerous weapon and a three-year enhancement for inflicting great bodily injury. the sentence on count 2 was ordered to run concurrent with the sentence on count 3. along with various fines, the trial court imposed a single $30 criminal conviction assessment pursuant to government code section 70373. on appeal, donis contends that the trial court tainted the verdict by (1) invading the mental process of the jury when it asked questions to determine why the jury was in a deadlock; (2) requiring a second closing argument on self-defense; (3) coercing juror no. 5 into voting guilty; and (4) giving an improper and unduly coercive allen charge2 to the jury. in addition, donis argues that the separate punishments on counts 2 and 3 violate section 654. the people request that we strike the great bodily injury enhancement imposed on count 3, and that we impose $30 fees pursuant to government code section 70373 on all three counts. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 the term is derived from instructions given to a deadlocked jury in allen v. united states (1896) 164 u.s. 492 (allen). 3 upon review of the evidence, we conclude that the sentence on count 2 for attempted murder should have been stayed pursuant to section 654 because that offense and the aggravated mayhem offense were part of a single, indivisible transaction. per the impose $30 government code section 70373 assessment on each count. as modified, the judgment is affirmed. facts background in august 2010, donis lived in a three-bedroom house in the city of lawndale. he slept in the living room. damian ramos (ramos) shared one of the bedrooms with fernando cruz (cruz) and juan lopez (lopez). marinelli martinez slept in the second bedroom. the third bedroom was shared by ruben donis (ruben) and obdulio marroquin. magdalena ortiz (ortiz), israel donis (israel) and their three children lived nverted garage. a person named daniel slept in the linen closet. ramos and lopez were childhood friends from guatemala. they did not have any problems with donis, nor did cruz. neither ramos, lopez nor cruz carried weapons or had them in their room. according to ortiz, donis played the radio loudly every night for a few second or minutes. she found it annoying. cruz, lopez and ramos, however, never complained. ramos testified that donis was friendly, even when he was drinking alcohol. about a month before august 24, 2010, donis showed lopez a machete. then, a week before august 24, 2010, donis showed it to ramos. lopez was about five feet one or two inches and weighed 128 pounds. ramos was five feet tall and weighed 145 pounds. marco antonio mend 4 the events of august 24 and august 25, 2010 early on the morning of august 24, 2010, cruz, lopez and ramos all went to work. donis went to work with his boss, marciano mederos (mederos), as a gardener. when ramos returned home at 5:30 p.m., he saw donis in the front yard and they exchanged greetings. donis said he was resting. his breath smelled of beer and his eyes were red. ramos went to his room at about 8:30 p.m. and fell asleep. lopez returned home at about 5:30 p.m. and rested. he saw donis and said, watched television. he ate dinner at 7:30 or 8:00 p.m. and then returned to his room. he watched a soap opera with cruz and ramos. none of them had any arguments or fights with donis. cruz kept walking in and out of the bedroom. ramos was asleep by the time that lopez fell asleep at approximately 9:30 or 10:00 p.m. at one point, ortiz watched television, too. at 11:00 p.m., she went to sleep. at approximately 12:40 a.m., on august 25, 2011, mendoza arrived home and saw donis speaking on a cell phone. donis was wearing a white cowboy hat, cowboy boots, black pants, and a white button-up shirt. he called to mendoza and approached him. donis asked how mendoza was and appeared to be normal and calm. mendoza asked and he was expecting the police to look for him and pick him up. mendoza saw donis walk to his house but did not see him go in. at about 1:00 a.m., lopez awakened to what sounded like someone hitting another person with a belt. he heard the noise about 10 times. then he saw donis using all of his strength to hit cruz with a machete. at the time, cruz was lying face up on his bed with his arms over his chest. lopez then saw donis hit ramos with the machete about three or four times. like cruz, ramos was also lying in bed. lopez exited through the door leading to the converted garage and shouted to ortiz that donis had gone crazy and was going after cruz with a machete. lopez left the bedroom and went to call the police. ortiz and israel entered the bedroom. ortiz told donis to stop hitting her nephew, cruz. in response, donis ordered ortiz to stay out of it 5 and threatened her. after the threat, ortiz and israel left the bedroom.)~ lopez returned and ran away. donis knocked ortiz went back to the bedroom and saw cruz convulse and jerk on the bedroom floor and stop moving. she began screaming. israel reentered the bedroom and saw blood squirting frothe bed. mendoza called 911 after ortiz went outside and yelled for help. paramedics arrived at the scene, cruz was dead and ramos was severely injured. ramos was taken to the hospital. the investigation the house was cleared and searched. the deputies did not find any weapons in the bedroom where cruz and ramos were attacked. lopez told the deputies that donis might be couple of blocks away. deputies went there and woke mederos up. he consented to a search of his house and backyard. during the backyard search, deputy casey cheshier saw donis trying to climb over a block wall with barbed wire on top. donis eventually surrendered himself. when deputy juan meza asked donis his that he knew he d stained machete in a pile of sand. the machete belonged to mederos. it was for cutting branches at work. he did not give donis permission to take it. deputy cheshier transported donis to the police station. donis was wearing a brown jacket, white shirt covered with blood, dark pants and cowboy boots. it appeared 6 dr. angela neville, a trauma surgeon, treated ramos. he was in the hospital for a month and five or six days. he had two stomach surgeries and surgery on his face. the machete gave him permanent scars on his scalp, face, arms, legs and back. his right eye was cut. it watered and caused him pain every day. the autopsy on cruz was performed by dr. yong-son kim of the los angeles were consistent with being defensive wounds. they were also consistent with cruz being passive. dr. kim concluded that the cause of death was multiple sharp force injuries. the defense case according to donis, he did not plan the attack and never intended to kill cruz or ramos. donis had many disagreements with cruz, lopez and ramos. when asked about one day when they were smoking marijuana, donis was informed by cruz that he had killed two people in mexico. donis believed that cruz was prone to violence. a few weeks before the attack. donis came home drunk and went to bed. when he woke up, he had a cut on his right temple. a few days before the attack, cruz confessed that he on august 24, 2010, donis worked at a job site in palos verdes. afterwards, he stayed for about half an hour. someone bought him some beer. he did not see cruz, which he said did not affect him. at the bar, he drank three or four beers. upon returning home, he listened to some music while lying down. ortiz was in the kitchen. cruz walked out of his bedroom and went to his car. upon returning, he went into the backyard. donis went out to the street. he came back into the house at about 11:00 or 7 11:30 p.m. ortiz gave him four cigarettes. donis went back outside and smoked. he saw mendoza and they spoke for five or 10 minutes. mendoza asked donis how he was. he said he had a lot of problems with the police. he had a $250 ticket for using the metrolink without paying. the police told him that if he did not pay the tickets, he would be arrested and deported. he had also received a ticket for being drunk. smoked a cigarette together. when donis said he was going to listen to music, the man shook his head and told him to go to sleep. donis lay down and turned on music for a cruz entered the living room and stared at donis. they began arguing and donis stood up from the sofa. cruz said he had killed two people before and that donis would be number three. at some point, lopez and ramos entered the living room. cruz hit donis twice in the stomach with a fist. lopez and ramos started laughing. cruz pulled a six inch knife out of his pocket and showed it to donis. it was the same knife that cruz lopez and ramos started moving in. donis took the machete out from under the sofa. he had taken it from mederos to cut branches. ramos moved closer to donis, and cruz repeated his threat to kill donis. he thought the men were going to take the machete away and kill him with it. the four of them moved into the bedroom that cruz, lopez and ramos shared with each other. any weapons, but he thought that they had knives in their pockets. asked how he felt he ran something. . . . 8 recalled telling a detective that he was thinking about killing cruz and ramos while he was outside watering the lawn on the night of the incident. donis said he did not remember. detective margarita barron of the los angeles county shinterviewed donis. he told her that while he was outside watering the lawn, he was thinking about killing cruz. donis never said that cruz claimed to have killed two people in mexico or that cruz had confessed to cutting donis the week before. donis detective barron, donis said that cruz had been asleep on the couch in the living room waiting for donis to go to sleep and be vulnerable to attack. discussion i. the trial court did not coerce a guilty verdict. donis maintains that the trial court coerced a guilty verdict when it asked about the number and direction of the votes, when it asked about the issue causing the deadlock, when it required the attorneys to give a second closing argument on self-defense, when it admonished juror no. 5 that he needed to listen to the other jurors and act as part of the jury team, and when it gave the jury an improper allen charge. self-defense. these arguments fail. a. relevant facts. 1. the jury note advising of a deadlock; the trial . the jury began deliberating on thursday, july 21, 2011, at 4:20 p.m. in the cannot unanimously agree on any given charge or verdict. [] we have varying views about the self- 9 counsel it intended to ask the jurors about the vote, and whether they wanted additional argument. 2. he deadlock. the jury was called into the courtroom. the trial court asked the foreperson, juror no. 11, if the jury took a vote on the murder count. juror no. 11 said there was a guilty or not guilty. i strictly want to know numbers. what were the numbers on friday? want to know guilty versus not degree wasplease. [] i want to deal with the foreperson. do you not understand, juror [no.] 11, want. we took a count and we put it up on the board. we listed each count, and we put a preliminary were the numbers? 11 answered yes. the trial court then 10 were for second degree and two were for manslaughter. when the trial court said that the did not encompass counts 2 or 3. according to juror no. 11, there was another vote on tuesday. the trial court movino. a vote taken on second . . stuck on the self- 3. . the trial court asked the jury to go back into the deliberation room and discuss of assistance in reconciling your views on self-said that he did not want the jury to feel pressured to answer one way or the other. after the jury returned from the deliberation room, juror no. 11 said nine jurors believed additional argument would help. based on the vote, the trial court decided to permit additional argument. 4. the instruction following additional argument. after the attorneys provided additional argument, the trial court addressed the jury and tomorrow when you come in, discuss amongst yourselves how you feel about these issues. [] each of you has a duty to participate in the deliberations, and just as a 11 about self-defense, complete self-defense, imperfect self-defense, or whether self-defense advocate for one side or the other. both sides are entitled to a fair trial, which means 12 fair-minded, open- 5. the juror notes regarding juror no. 5. late wednesday morning, the trial court held an in chambers conference with the attorneys. the trial court indicated that it had received notes from jurors no. 8 and 9. according to the notes, juror no. 5 said he made the decision to acquit before deliberations began, he refused to deliberate and he was isolating himself. the trial court sthave to investigate. what most concerns me is two jurors have said that this particular 6. the . the trial court called jurors no. 1, 3, 8, 9 and 11 into chambers and interviewed them. afterwards, juror no. 5 was interviewed. the trial court asked if juror no. 5 remembered that the jurors were instructed that they were required to keep an open mind throughout the trial and not form any opinion or express any opinion. he said yes, and that he believed he had followed that instruction. the trial court asked if on monday juror no. 5 ever said that he had made up his mind . . i used . . juror no. 5 said he was trying to listen with an open mind but he wanted to be taken off the jury because the other jurors were frustrated with him, they were calling him desire to be off the jury was not a legal reason to remove him and reminded him he was -juror no. 5 detailed some of his conflict with the other jurors. in response, the trial court 12 about the evidence and talking about the jury instructions and considering the arguments the trial court asked if juror no. 5 ever said he was for acquittal and was not the trial court found that juror no. 5 was willing to deliberate and therefore not guilty of misconduct. 7. the final instruction. at 2:25 p.m., the jury was brought back into the courtroom. the trial court stated: hat you were deadlocked, but it chance you [can] arrive at a decision one way or the other. i want to remind you all of something. some of you may recall this, some . . that are in the jury deliberation room, that you all have an open mind and that you treat each other respectfully. if two jurors have a disagreenames; that accomplishes nothing. so, i am going to send you back in there. listen to each other. listen to what each other has to say. consider what each other has to say. discuss the case fully, intelligently, and treat each other with kindness and respect. others, but nevertheless, . . you have to get through this one way or 13 another. all right? but just 8. the verdict. the jury was sent back to the jury room at 2:27 p.m. it recessed at 2:57 p.m. for an afternoon break. deliberations were recommenced at 3:14 p.m. at 3:57 p.m., the jury sent a note to the trial court asking about the special allegations in the verdict form. at 4:29 p.m., the trial court informed the jury that it had to find the special allegations true or not true. at 4:34 p.m., the jury reentered the jury room. ten minutes later, the jury emerged and juror no. 11 said that the jury had reached a verdict. b. preliminary discussion: there was insufficient evidence of self-defense. donis suggests that he had a viable claim for self-defense that would have swayed the jury if it had not been coerced. the record is to the contrary. homicide is justifiable if a defendant acted in perfect self-defense. to establish this defense, the evidence must establish that the defendant actually and reasonably believed that committing homicide was a necessary response to a danger of death or great bodily injury. (people v. randle (2005) 35 cal.4th 987, 991, overruled on other grounds in people v. chun to a reasonable person in a similar situation and with similar knowledge. . . people v. humphrey (1996) 13 cal.4th 1073, 10821083.) but when a jury finds that a defendant imminent peril to life -people v. blakeley (2000) 23 cal.4th 82, 88; -in re walker (2007) 147 cal.app.4th 533, 537.) the doctrine of imperfect self-defense establishes that tno matter how great the fear and no matter how great the likelihood of the harmwill not 14 imminent danger to life or great bodily injury. iate and present and not prospective or even in the near future. an imminent peril is one that, from appearances, must be instantly dealt with . . [] this definition of imminence reflects the great value our on.] put simply, the trier of fact must find an actual fear of an imminent harm. without this finding, imperfect self-(in re christian s. (1994) 7 cal.4th 768, 783.) -defense are founded in the doctrine of necessity. this foundation gives rise to two closely related rules. . . . first, only that force which is necessary to repel an attack may be used in self-defense; force which exceeds the necessity is not justified. [citation.] second, deadly force or force likely to cause great bodily injury may be used only to repel an attack which is in itself deadly or likely to people v. clark (1982) 130 cal.app.3d 371, 380.) under the version of events presented by donis, cruz issued murder threats, punched donis several times and brandished a six-inch knife in the living room. donis thought lopez and ramos had knives in their pockets, and also thought that the three men would take the machete and kill donis with it. donis never testified that cruz actually tried to cut donis with the knife while they were in the living room. further, donis never explained what happened when the four men went into the bedroom shared by cruz, lopez and ramos. thus, there is no evidence of an imminent threat to donis while he was there. even if there was an imminent threat of harm, the force used by donis exceeded that which was necessary for self-defense. the witnesses testified that donis kept hitting cruz and ramos with the machete when they were lying on their beds in defenseless positions, and the injuries they suffered established that donis kept hitting them long after they posed any threat. the evidence was insufficient to exonerate donis or knock his homicide down to manslaughter. 15 specifically provided by statute. (people v. carter (1968) 68 cal.2d 810, 815.) accordingly, once a cause is submitted, a deadlocked jury cannot be discharged unless, at re is no reasonable people v. pride (1992) 3 cal.4th 195, 265 (priderests in the sound discretion of the trial court. [citation.] the court must exercise its power, however, without coercion of the jupeople v. sheldon (1989) 48 cal.3d 935, 959 (sheldon).) when attempting to determine whether the jury can agree, a trial court can make a neutral inquiry about the numerical division of the jurors. (people v. rodriguez (1986) 42 cal.3d 730, 776 (rodriguez).)3 trial court] pride, supra, 3 cal.4th at p. 265.) thus, when reviewing a coercion claim, we examine indicate[] an opinion on his part as to the guilt or innocence of the defendant, and 3 in connection with federal trials, there is a different rule. pursuant to brasfield v. united states (1926) 272 u.s. 448, 450, a federal court must not inquire about the numerical division of a jury at all. a violation of the rule mbrasfield people v. johnson (1992) 3 cal.4th 1183, 1254 (johnson).) as the united states supreme court explained, brasfield (lowenfield v. phelps (5th cir. 1988) 484 u.s. 231, 240 (lowenfield).) other constitutional provision. the federal courts of appeal have uniformly rejected the notion that reversal approach must be followed when reviewing state lowenfield, supra, at p. 240, fn. 3.) 16 (people v. diaz (1962) 208 cal.app.2d 41, 50.) a trial court can send a jury back to the deliberation room after learning which way the jurors are voting. (pride, supra, at p. 265; sheldon, supra, 48 cal.3d at p. 959.) but there potential for coercion once the trial judge has learned that a unanimous judgment of conviction is being hibid.) waived. (people v. lewis and oliver (2006) 39 cal.4th 970, 1038 [by failing to object to forfeited . . e discuss below, we find no basis to reverse. the trial court asked juror no. 11, the foreperson, for the numerical division of the votes and specifically said it did not want to know guilty or not guilty. but juror no. 11 and juror no. 8 did not understand what the trial court was trying to elicit. they both told the trial court that three jurors voted for first degree murder. when juror no. 11 could not state a neutral division of votes because the jury only took guilty votes, the trial court asked how many jurors voted guilty for first degree murder, second degree murder and manslaughter. as a result, the trial court learned that on both friday and tuesday, 11 jurors wanted to convict donis of a crime and one juror had voted to acquit him. it also learned the number of guilty votes for each type of homicide. subsequently, the trial court asked juror no. 11 if the jury was stuck on self-defense. juror no. 11 said yes. finally, the trial court asked the jurors to discuss amongst themselves whether more argument on self-defense would be helpful. when nine said they thought it would be helpful, the trial court allowed more argument. did not coerce the jury to reach a verdict. like the bench officer in pride, the trial court never commented on the evidence or status of the votes. (pride, supra, 3 cal.4th at pp. 265266 [the direction to continue jury deliberation was not error].) in the beginning, 17 the trial court repeatedly stated it did not want to know how many for guilty or not guilty. the only reason the trial court later asked how the jurors voted was because juror no. 11 could not provide a numerical division. the colloquy sent the message that the particular direction of voting was not relevant. (id. at p. 265 [the trial court strongly suggested that the status of the vote was irrelevant].) nor were constraints placed on the jury. for be reached or sheldon, supra, 48 cal.3d at p. 960.) it bears mention that in johnsondisclose that 11 jurors favored a death verdict. (johnson, supra, 3 cal.4th at p. 1254.) regardless, johnson remotely can be construed as implying a desire that the holdout juror capitulate to the ibid.) all the more so, the same can be said here. because the jury was so fracturedone voted for first degree murder, six voted for second degree murder, four voted for manslaughter and one voted to acquitthe jury could not have believed that the trial court wanted them to reach a particular verdict. moreover, the evidence of guilt was were inconsistent with self-defense. in sum, any violation of rodriguez was harmless error under people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 (watson) because it is not reasonably probable that a result more favorable to donis would have been reached in the absence of that error. (ibid.) in urging reversal, donis posits that the trial court erred because it essentially ordered the jury to divulge its internal disagreements and therefore failed to protect the for the exact vote in terms of guilt and innocence, and the issue causing the deadlock, it essentially told the jurors that their thought processes and assessments of the witnesses and evidence were not secret. jury deliberations are supposed to remain 18 united states v. olano affords jurors the freedom to engage in frank discussions, free from fear of exposure to people v. engelman vidual juror, has deliberated or how a decision was reached id. at p. 443.) the trial court did not invade the mental process of the jury by inquiring into the issue causing the deadlock. though donis suggests that the trial court proactively elicited that information, the record establishes that the jury voluntarily informed the trial court that divergent views on self-defense had prevented it from reaching a unanimous verdict. nor did the trial court invade the mental process of the jury by asking how many jurors voted guilty on first degree murder, second degree murder and manslaughter. by asking those questions, the trial court did not elicit or receive information about how individual jurors or the jury as a whole had assessed the credibility of specific witnesses or the weight of particular evidence. at most, the trial court learned that a majority of jurors believed a crime was committed while one of the jurors did not. thus, the jurors could not have been afraid that the content of their discussions would be exposed to the parties or anyone else.4 d. additional closing argument on self-defense. according to donis, a trial court may not allow additional closing argument when a deliberating jury informs the trial court that there is an issue on which it cannot agree. he argues that the procedure employed by the trial court violated his constitutional right to due process and a fair trial. this same argument was defeated by people v. young (2007) 156 cal.app.4th 1165 (young). in young, the court held that it was proper to ask the jury if additional argument would be helpful, and then to allow additional argument, 4 in his opening brief, donis suggests that when the trial court made its inquiries, it committed structural error requiring automatic reversal. he failed to develop this argument. we deem the argument waived. (nelson v. avondale homeowners assn. (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 857, 862.) 19 when, as here, there were no coercive instructions given, the trial court did not indicate a preference for a particular result, and both sides were given an equal opportunity to argue. (id. at p. 1171.) given young, we easily conclude that the trial court acted well within its discretion. e. the inquiry involving juror no. 5. t a reasonable inquiry into juror misconduct people v. barber (2002) 102 sound discretion of the copeople v. engelman, supra, 28 cal.4th at p. juror should be as limited in scope as possible, to avoid intruding unnecessarily upon the sanctity of jurors, rather than upon the content of the deliberations. additionally, the inquiry should cease once the court is satisfied that the juror at issue is participating in deliberations and people v. cleveland (2001) 25 cal.4th 466, 485 (clevelandt be people v. haskett (1990) 52 cal.3d 210, 238 (haskett).) donis contends that the trial court committed the following errors during its investigation of juror no. 5: it admonished juror no. 5 in a manner suggesting that he had not honored his obligations as a juror; it repeatedly reminded juror no. 5 of his oath to deliberate but failed to mention that he had a right to disagree with the majority and otherwise failed to craft inquiries to safeguard that right; by not investigating other jurors about the inquiry, the trial court implied that it believed juror no. 5 had prejudged the case; and the 20 5 according to donis, reversal is required because the investigation was coercive in light of the analysis employed in haskett. in hasketthaskett, supra, 52 cal.3d at p. 237.) the haskett court disagreed. there was no evidence that juror lizana was identified as the only holdout against the death penalty, nor was there evidence that the trial court knew the numerical disobeying his oath. id. at p. 238.) moreover, the not obeaccusing [juror] lizana of disobeying her orders, and that, by her answers and death.id. at pp. 238id. at p. 239.) it found lizibid.) no. 5 was the sole holdout. it also knew that the issue causing the deadlock was self- 5 calcrim no. 224 provides: conclude that a fact necessary to find the defendant guilty has been proved, you must be convinced that the people have proved each fact essential to that conclusion beyond a reasonable doubt. [] also, before you may rely on circumstantial evidence to find the defendant guilty, you must be convinced that the only reasonable conclusion supported by the circumstantial evidence is that the defendant is guilty. if you can draw two or more reasonable conclusions from the circumstantial evidence, and one of those reasonable conclusions points to innocence and another to guilt, you must accept the one that points to innocence. however, when considering circumstantial evidence, you must accept only reasonable conclusions and reject any that are unreasonable. 21 questions transgress haskett. but nothing in haskett establishes that it would have decided the case differently had the trial court known the numerical split, that juror lizana was the sole holdout, or anything else. the haskett court merely examined the totality of the circumstances to determine whether the inquiry was coercive. it did not purport to provide a model for inquiries, nor could it have. every inquiry into juror misconduct will arise in a unique circumstance. any rules for inquiry must remain adaptable to each particular case. contrary to what donis infers, the trial court never suggested that juror no. 5 had not honored his oath or that he had prejudged the case. the trial court merely asked neutral questions designed to elicit whether juror no. 5 was deliberating, and it reminded juror no. 5 of his oath. we perceive no impropriety. nor can it be said that the trial court was insufficiently sensitive to the possibility that juror no. 5 may have had a good faith reason to vote against the majority. the trial court never suggested that donis should vote with the majority. rather, the trial court reminded donis that he had an obligation to deliberate and keep a fair mind. we reject the suggestion that the trial court was required to specifically tell donis that he had a right to disagree with the majority. such a statement would have unfairly suggested that the trial court supported the holdout be construed as anything but neutral. juror no. 5 never complained that the other jurors were guilty of misconduct and should also be investigated, so he could not have inferred that the trial court was trying to ensure a guilty verdict by placing undue pressure on the only juror contemplating acquittal. finally, the trial court never mentioned calcrim no. 224, nor did it discuss how juror no. 5 should view circumstantial evidence, so we interpretation of that instruction. 22 f. the allen charge. or allen charge. donis claims that the instructions violated the prohibition in people v. gainer (1977) 19 cal.3d 835 (gainer), disapproved on other grounds in people v. valdez (2012) 55 cal.4th 82, 163 (valdez), against an allen consider the numerical division or preponderance of opinion of the jury in forming or reexamining their views on the issues before gainer, supra, 19 cal.3d at p. 852.)6 we cannot concur. the trial court told the jurors to keep an open mind, listen to each other and treat each other with respect. we conclude that the trial court did not violate gainer because it did not tell the jurors that they should reconsider their views based on the numerical division or a majority of votes. donis assigns error to the final instruction on the additional theory that the trial court implied that juror no. 5 must base his decision on the opinion of the majority of jurors and that the jury had to reach a verdict. the implication, donis tells us, arises because the trial court said the jurors were a team, they had to keep open minds and listen to each other, and they would have to get through the deliberations one way or another. this claim lacks merit. the trial court never intimated that the minority jurors should give in to the majority jurors. when the trial court called the jury a team, there was no reason for juror no. 5 to believe that he was being told to vote with the majority. the statement was made in the context of telling all the jurors to respect each other and keep 6 the terallen jury in [allen]. [citation.] the gainer court identified two aspects of allen instructions that introdpeople v. butler (2009) 46 cal.4th 847, 883.) for example, a jury should not consider the expense and inconvenience of a retrial when deliberating, nor should it be told that the case must be decided at some point. (6 witkin & epstein, cal. criminal law (4th ed. 2000) judgment  44, pp. 73-76.) in federal court, an allen charge has been identified as any supplemental instruction given to a deadlocked jury. (u.s. v. nickell (9th cir. 1989) 883 f.2d 824, 828.) 23 you [can] arrive at final instruction in terms of what it thought was possiblethat the jury would possibly convict but it might acquitand never suggested unanimity or a particular result was required or expected. citing jimenez v. myers (9th cir. 1994) 40 f.3d 976, 981 (jiminez), donis argues that the final instruction amounted to what was found to be an impermissible allen charge under federal law. jiminez involved a deadlocked jury. after the first impasse, the trial court determined that the progression of the vote, expressed approval of that progression, and jurors to make every effort to reach a unanimous verdjimenez, supra, 40 f.3d at p. 980.) after a second impasse, the trial court learned that only one juror remained in ntinue deliberating until the end of the day sent a clear message that the jurors in the majority were to hold their position and persuade the single hold-out juror to join in a unanimous verdict, and the hold-out juror was to cooperate in the movement towid. at p. 981.) the court trial. in reaching this conclusion, we do not question the practice of california judges to ask the jury its numerical division after an impasse. we conclude, however, that under established due process standards, the comments and conduct of the trial court in this ibid.) jiminez holds no sway here. the trial court never expressed approval for the progression of the vote, so he did not impliedly instruct the jury to reach a unanimous verdict. nor did the trial court tell the jury to deliberate until a set time. we easily conclude that the context of the allen charge in jiminez is distinguishable. even if we found that the trial court had implied that the jury should reach a unanimous verdict by calling it a team and saying that one way or another, it would have 24 to get through the process, we would not threaten to distort the process of jury decision-instruction prohibited by gainer,] reversal is appropriate only if the reviewing court, valdez, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 164.) here, the jury was previously instructed to reacpeople v. santiago (2009) your mind iwhat your verdict should be. do not take anything i said or did during the trial as an one side or the other. both sides are entitled to a fair trial which means 12 fair-minded, open-and not reach a particular result. moreover, there was strong evidence of guilt and insufficient evidence of self-defense. beyond that, it appears that the jurors deliberated in good faith because the jury continued deliberating for almost two hours after the final instruction and six jurors ended up changing their vote on second degree murder with respect to count 1. also, the jurors found the premeditation allegation to be not true in connection with count 2. finally, counsel for donis did not object to the final instruction. omission indicates that the potential for coercion argued now was not apparent to one on people v. whaley (2007) 152 cal.app.4th 968, 983.) given the context, and gitrial court was harmless under watson. 25 in his reply brief, donis relies heavily on united states v. evanston (9th cir. 2011) 651 f.3d 1080 (evanston). he claims that evanston and his case are markedly similar. it administration of an unsuccessful allen deadlock and then permit supplemental argument focused on those issues, where the evanston, supra, at p. 1082, fn. omitted.) abuse of the discretion accorded dis(ibid.) in a footnote, the evanston question of whether the use of supplemental arguments to address factual matters is necessarily or always an error of constitutional dimension, whatever the circumstances. resulted in impermissible coercion, and consequently an abuse of discretion meriting reversal. we so limit coercion issues has generally emanated from its supervisory powers over the federal id. at p. 1093, fn. 15.) because evanston does not involve constitutional rules or principles that impact state courts, we decline to apply it here. ii. section 654 precludes separate punishments for counts 2 and 3. donis argues that he cannot be punished for both attempted murder and aggravated mayhem in counts 2 and 3 because they involved an indivisible course of conduct and intent. we agree. indivisible course of conduct. [citation.] if all of the crimes were merely incidental to, or were the means of accomplishing or facilitating one objective, a defendant may be punished only once. [citation.] if, however, a defendant had several independent criminal objectives, he may be punished for each crime committed in pursuit of each objective, even though the crimes shared common acts or were parts of an otherwise 26 factual questions for the trial court, and we will uphold its ruling on these matters if it is people v. bui (2011) 192 cal.app.4th 1002, 1015 (bui).) reflect between offenses and each offense created a new risk of harm. [citations.] . . (people v. felix (2001) 92 cal.app.4th 905, 915; people v. gaio (2000) 81 cal.app.4th articularly so where the offenses are temporally separated in such a way as to afford the defendant opportunity to reflect and to renew his or her intent before committing the next one, thereby aggravating the violation of public security or policy already . . i think that the counts 2 and said i agree with [defense counsel] that they merge, i [meant] in the sense that the sentences for counts 2 and 3 should run concurrently with each other. it may be that they could be sentenced consecutively. but since it was the same act occurring at the same time, out of fairness to [donis], i think that he should be sentenced concurrently to count thus, the trial court did not make findings that would avoid section 654. it did not find that the donis had several independent criminal objectives, nor did it find that he had a chance to reflect between the offenses and each offense created a new risk of harm. by finding that the acts occurred at the same time, the trial court rejected the idea that the offenses wbui prohibits separate punishments. in bui, the defendant fired three shots and hit the victim twice. the defendant was found guilty of attempted murder and mayhem. he received consecutive sentences for those offenses. based on section 654, the court reversed. it noted that at the sentencing 27 bui, supra, 192 cal.app.4th at p. 1015.) both crimes were based on the shooting of the victim. all three shots were fired within seconds of each objectives for the two crimes that would justify multiple punishments. in the circumstances, the sentence for the [lesser included count of] mayhem . . . should have ibid.) here, donis used a single weapon against ramos: the machete. every time donis hit ramos with the machete, it was attempted murder and aggravated mayhem. indeed, the trial court expressly found that the two offenses were the same act. thus, the two offenses were indivisible. consequently, we conclude that one offense was the means of accomplishing the other offense. the people argue that the aggravated mayhem was not incidental to the attempted murder. they cite people v. cleveland (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 263 and people v. nguyen (1988) 204 cal.app.3d 181, 192 (nguyen). these cases are distinguishable. they held that attempted murders occurring during robberies did not merge under section 654 because they were not necessary to commit the robberies and amounted to gratuitous violence that could not be called incidental. (people v. cleveland, supra, at pp. 271272; nguyen, supra, 204 cal.app.3d at pp. 190191.) in nguyen, the defendant argued that the victim was shot in order to eliminate him as a witness to the robbery or to facilitate oint the means to and must be considered to express a different and a more sinister goal than mere ibid.) here, the aggravated mayhem was necessary for donis to accomplish the other offense. moreover, attempted murder by machete and aggravated mayhem by machete are equally extreme. the people suggest that the severity and number of cuts went far beyond what was reasonably necessary to achieve only one objective. we fail to appreciate the point. ramos did not die, so none of the hits were sufficient to accomplish the attempted goal, 28 attempted murder of ramos. as for aggravated mayhem, every hit increased the amount of mayhem, so it cannot be said that the later hits were unnecessary to complete the full range of mayhem inflicted. we conclude that the trial court erred when it declined to stay the sentence on count 2 pursuant to section 654. the sentence on count 2 is hereby stayed. the stay extends to the related deadly or dangerous weapon enhancement and great bodily injury enhancement that increased the sentence an extra four years. (people v. guilford (1984) 151 cal.app.3d 406, 410411.) iii. the great bodily injury enhancement for count 3. a great bodily injury enhancement pursuant to section 12022.7, subdivision (a) may not be imposed to enhance a sentence for mayhem. (people v. pitts (1990) 223 enhancement imposed on count 3. iv. assessments under government code section 70373. court facilities, an assessment shall be imposed on every conviction for a criminal offense. . . . the assessment shall be imposed in the amount of thirty dollars ($30) for each misdemeanor t imposed one $30 assessment against donis. a $30 assessment should have been imposed for every conviction for a total of $90. 29 disposition we order the sentence on count 2 stayed pursuant to section 654 and the great bodily enhancement on count 3 stricken. in addition, we order donis to pay a $90 assessment pursuant to government code section 70373, which is $30 for each of his three felony convictions. as modified, the judgment is affirmed. on remand, the trial court is directed to modify the abstract of judgment to reflect that the sentence on count 2 is stayed, the great bodily injury enhancement on count 3 is stricken, and donis shall pay a $90 assessment pursuant to government code section 70373, subdivision (a)(1). the trial court shall forward a copy of the revised abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published in the official reports. ______________________________, j. ashmann-gerst we concur: _______________________________, p. j. boren _______________________________, j. chavez 