filed 8/31/12 p. v. chavez ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. steve chavez, defendant and appellant. ___________________________________ in re steve chavez, on habeas corpus. b235949 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta110847) b241224 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. paul a. bacigalupo, judge. reversed with directions. original proceeding; petition for writ of habeas corpus. paul a. bacigalupo, judge. writ denied as moot. kathy moreno, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and eric j. kohm, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________________________ 2 steve chavez appeals from the judgment after a jury found him guilty of first degree murder, assault with a firearm and second degree robbery and found that he was sane when he committed these crimes. in an accompanying petition for a writ of habeas corpus chavez contends his trial counsel was negligent in failing to properly object to prosecutorial misconduct during closing argument. we affirm the judgment insofar as it finds chavez guilty of the charges against him but reverse the judgment as to sanity and penalty on the ground that evidentiary errors prejudicially affected the verdict and remand the cause to the trial court to retry the issue of sanity. this disposition renders the petition for habeas corpus moot. i. the guilt phase a. facts and proceedings johanna carranza testified as follows. on the evening of february 15, 2010, carranza and her fianc, carlos diaz, planned to go out to dinner. carranza was in her truck waiting for diaz to move his car and join her when she heard gunshots from behind the truck and saw diaz get out of his carranza followed the men into the house. she found chavez standing in the chavez went into the bedroom and looked under the mattress and behind the door mumbling something that carranza could not understand. diaz then entered the bedroom and started wrestling chavez for the gun. carranza joined in the struggle. all three had their hands on the gun and it went off. as they continued to grapple over the gun it went off a second time. this time a bullet struck diaz who fell to his knees. kneeling on the after the shooting chavez ran down the driveway and carranza, who had been grazed by one of the shots, called 911. 3 robert jackson, who lived across the street from diaz and carranza, testified that he saw chavez sitting on a nearby bridge at approximately 1:00 p.m. on the day of the shooting. chavez was making a circular motion with the index finger of his right hand. later that day jackson was sitting on his porch when he saw chavez running up the street toward diaz and take a shot at him. diaz ran into his house and chavez followed him. jackson heard more gunshots and saw chavez come out of the house. chavez was ered ricardo valencia riding a bicycle. chavez pointed his gun at valencia and demanded the bicycle. valencia gave it to him and chavez rode away. chavez was apprehended in phoenix arizona a week later on a charge of car theft. when he was arrested he california. chavez testified in support of his defense of imperfect self-defense. he admitted that he shot diaz who had been his close friend for approximately 11 years. he told the jury that hars chavez also heard gunshots on the other side of the fence. on several occasions chavez phone ringing behind the fence. diaz told chavez the voices worked for him. at first chavez thought diaz was joking but later he changed his mind. chavez began to believe diaz was involved with the voices when diaz told him that once he had drugged him and told chavez: 4 five days before the shooting chavez stole an unloaded gun from his uncle and loaded it. he said he armed himself for protection because someone had shot at him two months earlier. on the day of the shooting he waited on the bridge for a couple of hours for diaz to come home from work. chavez told the jury that he shot diaz because: was in fear for my he saw dia chavez also testified that after the shooting he stole the bicycle and rode it to the metroline where he took a train to long beach. in long beach he stole a car and drove it to arizona. he fled the scene, he stated, because he was afraid that if he was seen with a gun he would be shot by the police or by gang members in his neighborhood. trial was bifurcated on the issues of guilt and sanity. in her rebuttal closing the objection. counsel did not ask the court to admonish the jury with respect to the -defense and found him guilty of first degree murder, assault with a firearm and second degree robbery and found true the firearm use enhancements. the court sentenced chavez to a total prison term of 56 years to life. b. discussion 5 criminal trial,  585, pp. 835-837.) we also agree that in most cases such claim is preserved for appeal only if the defendant objects and requests an admonition. (people v. blacksher (2011) 52 cal.4th 769, 829.) sustained the objection but counsel did not seek an admonition. we conclude, however, changed the outcome of the guilt phase of the trial. panicked. he knetherefore could not have prejudiced him. ii. the sanity phase a. facts and proceedings at the sanity phase of the trial the parties stipulated that the jury could consider the evidence from the guilt phase. it was undisputed that chavez suffered from schizophrenia and that his mental illness was manifested by delusions, paranoia and hallucinations. three psychiatrists called by the defense so testified. (the prosecution did not present any expert testimony on the issue of sanity.) family and friends testified that chavez had been hearing voices and seeing ghosts from the time he was 10 or 11 years old up to the time he shot diaz. hearing voices in his head, but she could not afford to seek help for him. understand that killing diaz was morally wrong at the time of the killing. dr. gordon plotkin testified that in his opinion on the day of the shooting chavez 6 the whether chavez was insane at the time that he stole the bicycle. the court ruled that an expert could not testify as to the ultimate question of sanity. defense counsel did not thereafter ask this witness or the other psychiatric witnesses whether chavez was insane at any time during the shooting or escape. in closing argument the prosecutor told the jury it should find that chavez was not insane if he knew that killing diaz was morally or legally wrong. defense counsel did not object nor did the court correct the prosecutor at that time. fleeing the scene of the crimesand the behavior of mark david chapman, the man who shot john lennon. the prosecutor stated as a fact that, after killing lennon, chapman sat down and read a book until the police arrived. the remaining on the scene reading wrong and the scope of this proceeding what famous people did. it has no bearing on evidence in tion on the ground that b. discussion the court erred in its ruling on both evidentiary issues discussed above. the parallel the prosecutor attempted to draw between the man who killed john lennon and the defendant in this case was irrelevant. what one killer did after shooting more importantly, the court erred in not allowing dr. plotkin to answer this sanity was an ultimate fact for the jury to determine and therefore was an improper 7 subject for an expert opinion. the court agreed and sustained the objection. chavez contends the ruling was error and the opinion should have been admitted. we agree with chavez. although the opinion was the ultimate issue to be decided by the jury, it was nonetheless a proper subject for expert opinion. (people v. kelly (1992) 1 cal.4th 495, test, 1 further, the prosecutor misstated the definition of insanity. (see people v. coddington (2000) 23 cal.4th 529, also encompasses moral wrong, and a defendant who cannot distinguish between moral right and wrong is insane even if he understands his act is unlawful].) these errors taken together were prejudicial. although counsel did not follow up sanity at the time of the killing, once the court ruled that an expert could not testify to the ultimate issue of sanity, it would have been futile to continue this line of questioning. dering the definition of insanity, that all three experts would have opined that chavez was insane at the time of the shooting. we acknowledge that each expert testified to opinions on underlying facts, which, if taken together, supported insanity. nonetheless three expert opinions that chavez was insane would have constituted powerful evidence in favor of a finding of insanity, especially in light of the failure of the prosecution to call an expert to testify ement of the definition of insanity could well require reversal, it did add to the prejudice. thus it is reasonably probable that the errors ng that chavez was not insane at the time of the shooting. 1 legal insanity under the manifested in delusions which render the individual incapable either of knowing the people v. skinner (1985) 39 cal.3d 765, 782.) 8 disposition the judgment is reversed. the case is remanded for a new trial solely on the effect pending the outcome of the sanity trial. if defendant is found sane the court shall reinstate the judgment as to sanity and penalty. if the defendant is found not sane the court shall proceed in accordance with law. the petition for writ of habeas corpus is denied as moot. not to be published. rothschild, j. we concur: mallano, p. j. johnson, j. 