filed 2/4/13 p. v. turner ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. edwin darcell turner, defendant and appellant. b235057 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma049674) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. lisa m. chung, judge. affirmed. william l. mckinney for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and noah p. hill, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * * * * * 2 defendant edwin darcell turner, along with codefendants kevin d. wallace, daqunn l. tunstall, and tony l. hobson, was charged by information with two counts of premeditated attempted murder (pen. code,  664, 187, subd. (a); counts 3 & 4), as well as firearm and gang allegations ( 12022.53, subds. (b), (c), 186.22, subd. (b)(5), (b)(1)(c)). turner was additionally charged as a felon in possession of a firearm (former  12021; count 5). the defendants were tried separately.1 in his first trial, turner was convicted of possession of a firearm by a felon (count 5), but the jury deadlocked on the attempted murder counts (counts 3 & 4), and the court declared a mistrial. the attempted murder counts were retried to a second jury, and turner was found guilty on both counts and all corresponding allegations were found true. (the jury was unable to make a unanimous finding for the premeditation allegations, however, and a mistrial was declared as to those allegations.) turner was sentenced to 51 years 4 months in prison. on appeal, turner contends insufficient evidence supports the attempted murder counts and the gang enhancements, and that the videos played for the jury were not properly authenticated. he contends that if trial counsel failed to object to the admission of the videos, the failure to do so constituted ineffective assistance of counsel. turner courthouse lockup to one of the prosecution witnesses was inadmissible hearsay. lastly, he claims cumulative error. finding no merit in any of the above contentions, we affirm. facts on the night of may 12, 2010, at the shadow springs apartment complex in palmdale, turner and the codefendants approached l.j. as she walked to her car. they asked where she was going and asked for a ride to the convenience store. because she was on her way to the convenience store, l.j. agreed to give them a ride. l.j. knew turner and had seen the others before at the apartment complex. 1 codefendants, are taken from our unpublished opinion in people v. wallace (mar. 6, 2012, b233065). 3 as she drove up to the chevron convenience store, l.j. saw a silver car pull in front of her and park in front of one of the pumps. she parked in one of the stalls in front of the store. turner and his cohorts got out of the car. one of them told her to stay in the the store. as l.j. waited in the car, the two occupants of the silver car, john does 1 and 2, walked by her car and went into the store. john does 1 and 2 were in the store for less in a fight, so shwhere the men had been standing. as she was backing up, three of the defendants jumped in her car. she returned to the apartment complex, and the three defendants got out of her car and ran in different directions. l.j. moved from the apartment complex several weeks later because she was afraid. sometime between the may 12 incident and her move, turner approached her and them [she] [did not] know at some point during the trial, l.j. gave her mobile phone number to defense counsel. one hour later, she received two voicemail messages, including a recorded message that an inmate from los angeles county jail was trying to contact her. she received similar calls over the next several days. she answered one of the calls and discovered that turner was trying to contact her. she hung up on him. chevron security cameras recorded the incident, and the videos were played for the jury. also, still photographs were taken from the videos, and l.j. identified turner 4 and the other defendants as the people depicted in the photographs.2 los angeles county ed the surveillance videos and was able to identify turner and the other defendants. the videos also depicted john does 1 and 2. the f--- miranda3 rights, and admitted he was at the gas station on the night of the shooting. the interview was recorded and transcribed for the jury. turner initially denied being involved. but after watching the surveillance tapes, he admitted he asked john does 1 bloods on point (bop) gang and that a fight ensued. during the recorded interview, does clear as daypointing and running. shooting that gun awent toi went backactually noactually i went back but it was handed to me video did not depict someone nvestigated hundreds of gang-related crimes and conferred with gang detectives on many cases. detective department on gangs and subcultures. he previously testified as a gang expert 14 times. 2 the videos, photographs, and audio recordings are not part of the record on appeal, because turner did not file a notice designating the exhibits in the superior court. accordingly, we denied, without prejudice, his request to augment the record on appeal to include these exhibits. (cal. rules of court, rule 8.224.) to the extent that the content of the exhibits is revealed by other sources in the record, we rely on those in summarizing the facts. 3 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 (miranda). 5 blocck goons gangs. according to turner, the fifth blocck goons and bop were rival blocck goons. he also young gangster, tattooed on his shoulders. on a stair railing -s 5th blocck goons, yg pop a -shooting bop gang members, who are derisively called flops by rivals. t side fifth blocck goons is a newer gang. the gang was only a few years old, with approximately 30 members, and identified itself by los angeles gangs migrate to the antelope springs apartment complex. the primary activities of the gang include gun possession, east side fifth blocck goons. another member of the gang had been found with a gun during a traffic stop. detective omarch 10, 2010 conviction for gun possession. after the shooting, turner uploaded a rap song onto his myspace profile, titled game. catch you on the five with my niggas. got my rag out the pocket, take the safety off my nine. . 6 . . . so why you niggas keep asking. . . . [] . . . [] -o-p-k from the east side by the -o-p- because he was self-admitted, and because of his tattoos and postings on his myspace profile. in gang culture, asking someone where they are from is a challenge, resulting in violence. bloods on point and the east side fifth blocck goons are rival gangs. the crime was committed for the benefit of and in association with a criminal street gang. searching jail and courthouse records, determined that two of the calls made to l.j. were made from the antelope valley courthouse lockup, and eight others originated from the calls. discussion turner contends there was insufficient evidence in support of the attempted murder counts and the gang enhancements, and that the videos played for the jury were not properly authenticated. essentially conceding that no proper objection was made to the videos, he contends that any failure to object constitutes ineffective assistance of counsel. turner also contends thhearsay. lastly, he claims cumulative error. 7 1. attempted murder turner challenges the sufficiency of the evidence for the attempted murder counts.4 as best as we can discern from his brief, the basis of this claim is that the trial court erroneously admitted surveillance videos into evidence, and that without these videos, there was inadequate evidence to support his conviction. in a related argument, turner contends that any failure to object to the videos constitutes ineffective assistance of counsel. we find no merit in any of these contentions. turner complains that the surveillance videos played for the jury were not properly authenticated. at trial, defense counsel objected that there was inadequate foundation for the videos. specifically, as the videos were being played, detective bjected ongoing objection with respect to him describing what and who[,] identification of vehicles and people. i narrating the events in the videos. these are the only objections in the record. no objection appears when the people introduced the videos. assuming these objections are sufficient to challenge the authentication of the videos on appeal (people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 635, 661; people v. chaney (2007) 148 cal.app.4th 772, 778), the objections were not well taken, and the videos were properly admitted into evidence. a film or other writing may be authenticated by fficient to sustain a finding that it is the writing that the 4 idence to convict on accordingly, we treat any claim that the evidence was insufficient as to the firearm possession count as waived. (cal. rules of court, rule 8.204(a)(1)(b); people v. stanley (1995) 10 cal.4th 764, 793 [a brief must contain reasoned argument and legal authority to support its contentions or the court may treat the claim as waived.].) 8 two kinds of evidence are generally used to authenticate a film, including: (1) the testimony of a person who was present at the time a film was made, who can aver that it accurately depicts what it purports to show; or (2) expert testimony, indicating that the film is not a composite or fake. (people v. bowley (1963) 59 cal.2d 855, 859-860.) (people v. gibson (2001) 90 cal.app.4th 371, 383.) here, there was sufficient evidence to authenticate the surveillance videos. confirmed that they accurately depicted him with a gun at the chevron gas station. also, l.j. identified turner and his codefendants from still photographs taken from the videos on the night of the crimes. claim that any failure to object to the videos constitutes ineffective assistance of counsel. under both the sixth amendment to the united states constitution and article i, section 15 of the california constitution, a criminal defendant has a right to the assistance but rather to effective people v. mitchell (2008) 164 cal.app.4th 442, 466.) in order to demonstrate ineffective assistance of counsel, reasonableness, and id. at pp. 466-467.) as discussed ante, any objection would have been meritless, and therefore turner cannot demonstrate prejudice. [t]he mere failure to object rarely rises to a level im . . the record fails to show why counsel failed to object, the claim of ineffective assistance must be rejected on appeal unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to people v. mitchell, supra, 164 9 cal.app.4th at pp. 466-not interposing a more specific objection to the videos, and therefore we will not guess at meritless). of the evidence in support of the attempted murder counts, we find that ample evidence entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable trier of fact people v. bolin (1998) 18 whether the evidenpeople v. mincey (1992) be reconciled with a finding of innocence or a lesser degree of crime does not warrant a reversal people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 849.) reversal is only people v. bolin, supra, at p. 331.) attempted murder requires the specific intent to kill and the commission of a direct but ineffectual act toward accomplishing the intended killing. [citation.] attempted murder requires express malice, that is, the assailant either d(people v. houston the act of shooting a firearm toward a victim at close range in a manner that could have inflicted a mortal wound had the shot been on target is sufficient to support an inference of an intent to kill.id. at p. 1218.) and audio evidence that captured turner engaged in a confrontation with two rival gang members, showed turner with a gun, and captured the sound of it firing twice. turner later posted a rap song admitting to the crime on his myspace profile. he also admitted 10 d a gun as recorded in the video, although he claimed he did not fire it. these facts adequately support the conclusion that he attempted to kill the rival gang members, john does 1 and 2. 2. gang allegations turner next contends there was insufficient evidence to support the gang enhancement allegations because the people failed to prove that the east side fifth blocck goons gang was a street gang having as one of its primary activities the commission of one or more criminal acts described in penal code section 186.22, subdivision (e), whose members individually or collectively engaged in a pattern of criminal activity. ne or more of the crimes enumerated in penal code section 186.22, subdivision (e), and it has engaged in a ( 186.22, subds. (e), (f); people v. gardeley (1996) 14 cal.4th 605, 617.) . . two or more of [the predicate offenses], provided at least one of these offenses occurred after the effective date of this chapter and the last of those offenses occurred within three years after a prior offense, and the offenses were committed on separate occasions, or by two or more 186.22, subd. (e).) it is well settled that expert testimony may be used to establish the elements of a gang enhancement. (people v. martinez (2008) 158 cal.app.4th 1324, 1330; people v. vy (2004) 122 cal.app.4th 1209, 1223.) to qualify as substantial evidence, expert testimony must be based on reliable information. police officers may base their testimony on conversations with gang members as well as information from colleagues and other law enforcement agencies. (people v. gardeley, supra, 14 cal.4th at pp. 619-620; see also people v. martinez, supra, at p. 1330; people v. olguin (1994) 31 cal.app.4th 1355, 1370.) 11 here, the people introduced evidence that turner had a 2010 conviction for carrying a concealed weapon. in addition to that qualifying offense, the people relied on the current offenses to establish the predicate offenses. the current crimes are qualifying offenses under penal code section 186.22, subdivision (e). (people v. olguin, supra, 31 cal.app.4th at p. 1383 [the currently charged offense can be considered as one of the predicate offenses in establishing a pattern of criminal gang activity].) carrying a concealed firearm and attempted murder are qualifying predicate offenses under section possession committed by other members of the gang, which are enumerated offenses in section 186.22, subdivision (e)(20) and (23), in addition to his knowledge of the offenses committed in this case. (people v. olguin, at p. 1383.) even though the gang was a relatively new gang, and law enforcement had not collected significant documentation of blocck goons gang provide sufficient support for his opinion and for the finding. (see people v. martinez, supra, 158 cal.app.4th at p. 1330.) 3. phone call evidence testimony, based on his search of inmate call records and inmate tracking information, that an inmate (the inference being that it was turner) made phone calls to l.j. while in custody. at trial, defense counsel objected on both foundation and hearsay grounds. cause it appears that calls that had been automatically recorded by a computer or other machine, and not people v. hawkins (2002) 98 cal.app.4th 1428, 1449-1450 [computer-there is no possibility of a conscious misrepresentation by a machine].) we find that the people, as the proponents of the evidence, failed to establish a sufficient foundation for 12 the trial court to conclude that the statements fell outside of the hearsay rule. however, we find that any error in the admission of the evidence was necessarily harmless. ds of calls placed from the county jail facility as well as the courthouse lockup, and that he was able to search those call records. the records show the specific phone used by the inmate, and the number dialed by the inmate. he also testified that based on his work experience in a custodial setting, inmates in custody are constantly tracked, and that he was able to review those tracking discuss how these records were collected. assuming the call records were automatically recorded by a computer, nonetheless, there was no those records were automatically generated by a machine or memorialized in part or wholly by a deputy or deputies. witness while testifying at the hearing and that is offered to prove the truth of the matter verbal expression or (b) nonverbal conduct of a person intended by him as a substitute for the hearsay rule applies to computer-stored statements but not computer-generated information, because computer-but information entered into a computer by a person is a statement. (see people v. nazary (2010) 191 cal.app.4th 727, 754-755; people v. hawkins, supra, 98 cal.app.4th at pp. 1449-1450.) the courthouse lockup or county jail were placed in the courthouse or jail at the time the calls were made. therefore, they were offered for the truth of the matters contained in the records. whether these records are hearsay turns testifying to the content of log books written or manually entered into a computer by other deputies, or automatically generated computer 13 records. even assuming the call records were automatically generated computer records, we know nothing about the records proving turner was in the courthouse lockup or in county jail at the time the calls were made from those locations, because no foundational evidence of the nature of the writings was introduced by the people. (see evid. code,  403, 405.) moreover, no attempt was made to show that the records fell within any exception to the hearsay rule. (in re leanna w. (2004) 120 cal.app.4th 735, 743.) turner contends the error violated his sixth amendment right to confront the witnesses against him. however, not all erroneous admissions of hearsay violate the confrontation clause. the confrontation clause only applies to testimonial statements, and the statements at issue here were not testimonial. rather, they are simply records of phone calls and inmate locations. (see people v. gutierrez (2009) 45 cal.4th 789, 812.) finding no constitutional violation, we conclude that any error in admitting the evidence was harmless. (people v. duarte (2000) 24 cal.4th 603, 619 [applying the people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836-837 test for erroneous admission of hearsay evidence].) that turner had called her from jail and the courthouse lockup, which was ancillary to the ilt of the charges of attempted murder. as discussed above, the evidence of his guilt for the attempted murder counts was overwhelming. there was also this case. (pen. code, former  12021.) 4. cumulative error having only found one harmless error, there are no errors to cumulate. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports grimes, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. rubin, j. 