filed 1/28/13 p. v. carrillo ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. edgar a. carrillo, defendant and appellant. b235883 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba375752) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, lisa b. lench, judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part and remanded. david reis mishook, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, margret e. maxwell and thomas c. hsieh, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________________ 2 edgar a. carrillo appeals from the judgment entered upon his conviction of illegally possessing a firearm in violation of penal code section 12021, subdivision (a)(1) for the purpose of benefiting a criminal street gang pursuant to penal code section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1).1 on appeal appellant makes three contentions: (1) substantial evidence does not support the true finding on the gang enhancement, (2) this court should review the pitchess determinations of the lower court, (3) the trial court erred in its sentencing of appellant under section 667.5, subdivision (b). as we shall explain, enhancement finding is without merit. however, this court agrees that the trial court pitchess motion for an in camera review orecords. lastly, the trial court should have stricken, rather than stayed, the one-year enhancement for the prior prison term enhancement. factual and procedural background on september 8, 2010, detective timothy stack was on duty with his partner driving from the wilshire police station to the downtown criminal courts building. while passing through the area of queen anne and pico boulevard, officer stack and his partner observed a person the officers believed to be dressed consistent with a member of the mid city stoners, the dominant street gang in that area. officer stack was assigned to the wilshire division gang impact team and charged with identifying and documenting any gang members in the wilshire area. the individual he observed, later identified as appellant, was standing next to a phone booth and a blue cloth item sat on top of the phone booth next to him. because of his duty to identify and document any gang members in the area, the officer contacted his counterparts detective jones and detective talbot to inform them of his observations. officer stack did not make contact with appellant because he was enroute to court and his partner was on light duty status. 1 all references to statute are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 vehicle. when they arrived there was no one in the area fitting the description given by officer stack, so the officers continued westbound to investigate a nearby park where there was a history of gang related crime. while driving past the queen anne park, the officers observed appellant, who fit the description given by officer stack, standing in the picnic area with a woman. appellant held a blue cloth item in his hands when the officers first observed him. when the officers turned the car around to park, appellant placed the item on a retaining wall behind him. the officers believed appellant might be concealing a weapon within the blue cloth item and decided to approach appellant to investigate. the officers exited their vehicle and approached appellant, who began walking away from the wall where he had placed the blue cloth item. the officers asked appellant whether he was armed and about the contents of the blue item a sweatshirt. appellant stated that the blue cloth item did not belong to him. the officers identified appellant as edgar carrillo and searched him because of his parole status. they also searched the blue cloth item; officers found a black semiautomatic pistol and seven live rounds. they to match the grease marks on the firearm. appellant had various gang tattoos and was dressed in a manner consistent with the local street gang, the mid city stoners. in a one-count information filed october 8, 2010, appellant was charged with unlawful possession of a firearm by a felon in violation of section 12021, subdivision (a)(1). the information specially alleged, pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(a), appellant had committed the offense for the benefit of, at the direction of or in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further or assist in criminal conduct by gang members. the information also specially alleged appellant had suffered one prior serious or violent felony conviction within the meaning of the three strikes law (section 667.5, subds. (b)-(i); 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)), one prior felony conviction for which he had served prison terms within the meaning of section 4 667.5, and one prior conviction under section 667, subdivision (a)(1). appellant pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. the jury convicted appellant of one count of possession of a firearm by a felon ( 12021, subd. (a)(1)). he was additionally convicted of a gang enhancement for the first count ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)), an enhancement for having a prior strike offense ( 667 & 1170.12), and an enhancement for having previously been convicted of a serious felony ( 667, subd. (a)(1)). the trial court sentenced appellant to the upper term of three years for possession of a firearm. this term was doubled to six years pursuant to section 667. appellant was given three years under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1) and received an additional five years pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1). the court imposed and stayed a one-year term under section 667.5, subdivision (b). appellant timely appealed. discussion i. enhancement pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1) before this court, appellant contends there was insufficient evidence to sustain his conviction on the gang enhancement. we disagree. a. evidence presented at trial los angeles police officer carlton jones, a member of the wilshire gang impact -year veteran and had worked in the wilshire gang impact team for the past three years. the wilshire team focuses on gangs that border hollywood division and culver city, including the mid city location near queen anne park and possible gang affiliation and told to investigate car 5 officer jones testified that he observed appellant in queen anne park by a picnic area, carrying a blue cloth item, standing next to a female. jones saw appellant place the blue cloth item on the wall behind him. jones and his partner believed the blue cloth item might contain a concealed weapon and decided to approach appellant to investigate. when the officers approached appellant in the park appellant began to walk away from the blue cloth item. the officers asked appellant if he was armed and what was in the blue cloth item. appellant told the officers that the item was not his. officer jones and appeared to be consistent with grease stains on the blue cloth item. the officers opened the blue cloth item and revealed a black semiautomatic handgun with black grips and seven live rounds in the magazine. 2. the gang expert trial testimony officer javier hernandez testified as a gang expert on behalf of the people. he provided general background on gang culture and the mid city stoners. he testified that and are rivals with the mara salva trucha gang, 18th street gang, playboys, black p-stones, rolling twenties and dukes. he further testified to two predicate mcs gang members and the crimes each member committed. officer hernandez testified that queen anne park is a mcs stronghold, a place where gang members congregate to conduct business. he testified that appellant was part and his admission of membership to the police. officer hernandez also testified that based on his knowledge of the mcs, queen anne park has a picnic area on high ground that is used by mcs members to oversee the park and lookout for rival gang members. officer hernandez identified the mcs gang territory on a map showing that queen anne park is within mcs territory. officer hernandez explained that the various tattoos on obtained. 6 officer hernandez offered his opinion on whether or not the possession of a firearm in a gang stronghold benefits the gang. he opined that having a gang member with a gun posted at a stronghold, protecting the stronghold from rival gang members, benefits the gang. further, he opined that having armed gang members in the park assists in recruiting additional gang members and intimidating in the community by creating a fear of retaliation for testifying against gang members. officer hernandez also offered an opinion on how the possession of a firearm in this hypothetical would benefit an individual whose gang status would be increased by being armed. 3. appellant testified at trial that he was at the park but was not in possession of the firearm or any blue gloves linking him to the firearm. he admitted that he was part of mcs and that he has recently received mcs related tattoos when he violated his parole and returned to prison. he testified that the police officers lied about the incident because -related homicide in 2003. on cross-examination, the prosecution inquired appellant admitted he was affiliated with the mcs gang and confirmed that the gang the gang and would fight rival gang members for territory if necessary. he additionally stated that gang territory is important to gangs and members use weapons to protect territory. lastly, he testified that he has tattoos to show other people that he is part of the violated his parole. b. standard of review light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable trier of fact could find the 7 people v. steele (2002) 27 cal.4th 1230, 1249.) enhancement. (people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 331; people v. garcia (2007) 153 cal.app.4th 1499, 1508.) if the verdict is supported by substantial evidence, we accord credibility for that of the trier of fact. (people v. koontz (2002) 27 cal.4th 1041, 1078; in re frank s. (2006) 141 cal.app.4th 1192, 1196.) substantial evidence includes circumstantial evidence and the reasonable inferences this evidence allows. (people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 11; people v. ferraez (2003) 112 cal.app.4th 925, 930.) susceptible of two reasonable interpretations, one of which favors guilt and the other innocence, it is the jury, not the appellate court, which must be convinced of his guilt people v. millwee (1998) 18 cal.4th 96, 132.) c. relevant law for section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1) gang enhancement appellant contends that the gang enhancement to his felony possession of a firearm was not supported by substantial evidence. california street terrorism enforcement and protection act of 1988, also known as the people v. castenada (2000) 23 cal.4th 743, 744-745, fn. omitted.) person who is convicted of a felony committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang members, shall, upon conviction of that felony, [be punished] in addition and consecutive to the punishment prescribed for the felony or  186.22, subd. (b)(1).) thus, the trial court can impose the enhancement only if the prosecution establishes both of the following prongs beyond a reasonable doubt: first, that the defendant committed a felony (a) for the benefit of, (b) at the direction of, or (c) in 8 association with a criminal street gang; and second, that in connection with the felony, the defendant harbored the specific intent to (a) promote, (b) further, or (c) assist in any criminal conduct by gang members. (in re daniel c. (2011) 195 cal.app.4th 1350, possession of a firearm was gang-related rather than a personal crime. in reviewing the sufficiency of a gang enhancement, courts have held that gang expert testimony alone is insufficient to find an offense gang related. (people v. ferraez, supra, 112 cal.app.4th at p. 931; people v. ochoa (2009) 179 cal.app.4th 650, 657.) other than merely the defendant's record of prior offenses and past gang activities or personal affiliations, for a finding that the crime was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in people v. martinez (2004) 116 cal.app.4th 753, 762.) a. for the benefit of the street gang in order to satisfy the first prong of the enhancement the prosecution must show witin re daniel c., supra, 195 cal.app.4th at p. 1358.) the record shows that appellant was affiliated with the mid city stoners criminal street gang, but since appellant was not accompanied by any mid city stoners members when he was in possession of this firearm, the prosecution has the burden of showing that appellant (see, id. at pp. 1358-1359 reet gang within the meaning of section 186.22 can be satisfied by committing a crime with fellow gang members]; see also, people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 60 [same].) n of the gun in the park was for the benefit of the street gang. expert opinion that particular criminal conduct benefited a gang by enhancing its reputation for viciousness can be benefit of . . . a[ ] people 9 v. albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 63; see, e.g., people v. vazquez (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 347, 354 [relying on expert opinion that the murder of a non-gang member come forward, assist law enforcement, testify in court, opeople v. romero (2006) 140 cal.app.4th 15, 19 [relying on expert opinion that -american men would elevate the status of the shooters and appellant admitted that he was a member of the mcs. the prosecution was able to show that queen anne park, where appellant was arrested, was within mcs territory and considered a known gang hangout. the gang expert also testified that queen anne park was a gang stronghold for the mcs and mcs must have a visible gang presence at this park to ensure that other gangs do not encroach on their territory. on cross-examination, even appemeans of representing the gang and protecting territory. further, appellant admitted that when he was a gang member he would be willing to fight and use weapons to protect territory for mcs. in addition to the protection of gang territory, the expert testified that having a gang member posted in a gang stronghold is advantageous for the gang because it ensures that reputation for viciousness. this theory is supported by the facts at trial. appellant was wearing all blue when arrested, which was consistent with the colors of mcs, and had recently obtained visible tattoos highlighting his gang affiliation. accordingly, in light of this evidence, a jury could reasonably infer appellant was at the park to defend gang territory based on the location of where appellant possessed the weapon, the gang representations appellant made through his tattoos and choice of 10 considered advantageous for the gang. (see people v. vazquez, supra, 178 cal.app.4th at p. 354.) this court must accord due deference to the verdict and cannot substitute our evaluations of the credibility of the expert or the defendant for that of the trier of fact. (people v. koontz, supra, 27 cal.4th at p. 1078.) this evidence is sufficient for a reasonable trier of fact to determine that appellant possessed the weapon for the benefit of the mid city stoners. b. specific intent to promote/further/assist criminal conduct the second prong of the enhancement is the defendant committed the crime the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang res only the people v. albillar, supra, 51 cal. 4th at p. 67.) that a crime was committed inferences about intent from the predictable results of action. we cannot look into how people act and people v. miranda (2011) 192 cal.app.4th 398, 411-412.) additionally, if substantial evidence otherwise establishes that the offense was gang related, the jury reasonably may infer that the defendant had the specific intent to promote, further, or assist criminal conduct by gang members. (people v. albillar, supra, 51 cal. 4th at pp. 67-68.) while this court will accord due deference to the trier of fact, the specific intent prong of section 186.22 requires more than a gang expert hypothesis. (in re frank s., supra, 141 cal.app.4th at p. 1199.) in in re frank s., the court held that allowing an door for prosecutors to enhance many felonies as gang-related and extends the purpose of the statute beyond what the legislature ibid.) further, the court has been cautious of converting section 186.22, 11 subdivision (b)(1) into a general intent crime by affirming convictions based solely on people v. ramon (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 843, 853 [refusing to hold as a matter of law that two gang members in possession of illegal or stolen property in gang territory are acting to promote a criminal street gang].) the appellant relies on in re frank s. to support his position that his conviction is unsupported by the evidence. in in re frank s. the court held that since the prosecution did not present any evidence that the minor was in gang territory, had gang members with him, or had any reason to expect to use the knife in a gang-related offense, a reasonable jury could not find that the crime was committed with intent to benefit the gang based solely on a gang exin re frank s., supra, 141 cal.app.4th at p. 1199.) further, the minor told the officers that the only reason he was carrying a knife was because he had been jumped two days prior. (ibid.) however, the stark lack of evidence in frank s. here, appellant admitted to the officers that he was a mcs member. he wore mcs colors. he had visible and recent mcs tattoos and possessed a firearm in a tactical position in a gang stronghold within gang territory. based on these facts, the gang expert testified that appellant possessed the weapon for the benefit of the gang, with intent to promote the criminal activities of the gang within the park. accordingly, the holding of in re frank s. does not assist appellant. people v. ochoa is not dispositive either. in ochoa the court held that evidence a gang member committed a crime alone combined with an the gang was not sufficient to find gang enhancement allegations true. (people v. ochoa, supra, 179 cal.app.4th at p. 665.) in ochoa, the gang expert had no evidence upon re was no evidence that the gang member bragged about the crime, the victim knew a particular gang committed the crime, or that any gang members besides the defendant even rode in the car. (id. at pp. 662-663.) the court determined that the lack of any evidence 12 (id. at p. 665.) presented at trial. the expert was able to rely on circumstantial evidence that appellant intended to promote the gang because appellant was a self proclaimed mcs member, dressed in visible gang attire, traveled across town to a gang stronghold, and possessed a weapon at a tactical location in an mcs stronghold. the faulty expert opinion in ochoa is not similar to the expert opinion in this case. in reaching this conclusion we note that our supreme court recently decided people v. rodriguez (2012) 55 cal.4th 1125, 150 cal.rptr.3d 533 which involved a challenge to conviction under section 186.22, subdivision (a), which is not at issue in this case. nonetheless, in dicta in rodriguez, the court reaffirmed prior holdings which permit a defendant, such as appellant who commits a felony alone (here section 12021), to be subject to the gang enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b). (people v. rodriguez, supra, commits a felony will not go unpunished; he or she will be convicted of the underlying felony. further, such a gang member would not be protected from having that felony nding on the special gang-enhancement allegation. ii. pitchess proceedings before this court, appellant contends that the trial court erred when it failed to conduct an in camera a. factual background of the pitchess proceedings appellant filed a motion for pretrial discovery pursuant to pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531 (pitchess) requesting the peace officer personnel records of fense counsel attached his own declaration providing that the requested peace officer personnel records were necessary for the defense for the following reasons: 13 upon information and belief, the defendant alleges that on september 3 [sic], 2010 he was in the park with his girlfriend, irene chinchilla. they were talking to one another in the park and the defendant had no object of any kind in his hands. the police officers (talbot and jones) came into the park and detained them without reasonable or probable cause. mr. carrillo admitted he was on parole and had been recently released from the state prison. mr. carrillo has visible tattoos. the police them [sic] produced a firearm and asked him if it was his gun. they never told him he had been seen with a weapon. he had not touched the weapon or the sweatshirt and was not aware of the allegation that he had been holding the sweatshirt until he was read the report. the police told him at the scene that he was being arrested because he is a gang member in a gang park and was standing close to the sweatshirt in which the gun was hidden. (ms. chinchilla statement to the police and the district attorney on september 22, 2010.) areport officers jones and talbot arrested appellant for section 12021, subdivision (a)(1), felon in possession of a firearm. officers requested additional filing for section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1), crimes committed in furtherance of a criminal street gang. both officers jones and talbot were listed as the arresting officers. however, officer jones alone was listed as the investigating officer in the police report. at the pitchess motion, the trial court said to defense counsel: real party concedes . . . [the defense has made a showing] as to officer talbot who wrote the report. [] as to [officer] jones, i tend to agree with real party that the shalbeit, admittedly, low. [] the report is written by talbot and he does say, recovered the sweatshirt. . . . [] we also have the situation where one partner writes the report and purports to represent what his partner may jones. 14 defense counsel responded by attempting to explain that officer jones testified at the preliminary hearing that he observed appellant with the firearm. the court refused to conduct an in camera hearing regarding the peace officer personnel records of officer b. relevant legal principles although police officer personnel records are generally confidential, a criminal defendant is entitled to discover the content of such records if the information contained in the records is relevant to his ability to obtain a fair trial or to defend against pending charges. (pitchess v. superior court, supra, 11 cal.3d at pp. 536-538.) the process by which a criminal defendant may discover personnel records is codified in evidence code sections 1043 to 1045. initially, the defendant must submit a motion accompanied by an good cause as required by [evidence code] section 1043, [the] declaration in support of a pitchess motion must sought may lead to relevant evidence or may itself be admissible direct or impeachment warrick v. superior court (2005) 35 cal.4th 1011, 1024 (warrick factual scenario supporting the claimed officer misibid.) to determine whether the defendant has established good cause for in-chambers the defense shown a logical connection between the charges and the proposed defense? is the defense request for pitchess discovery factually specific and tailored to support its claim of officer misconduct? will the requested pitchess discovery support the proposed defense, or is it likely to lead to information that would support the proposed defense? under what theory would the requested information be admissible at trial? if defense 15 pitchess motion adequately responds to these defendant has shown good cause for discovery and in-chambers review of potentially relevant personnel records of the police officer accused of misconduct against the warrick, supra, 35 cal.4th at pp. 10261027.) -or warrick, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 1019, quoting city of santa cruz v. municipal court (1989) 49 cal.3d 74, 83.) a defendant has met his or her burden if he y warrick, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 1026.) a plausible; the trial court is not to weigh or assess the evidence in order to determine whether the scenario presented is id. at pp. 1020, 1025-relatively relaxed standards for a showing of good cause . . . [ensures] the production for inspection of all potentially relevant documents. the in camera review procedure and city of santa cruz v. municipal court, supra, 49 cal.3d at p. 84.) although the threshold for establishing entitlement to pitchess discovery is low, it that supports the materiality of the information sought. (people v. hustead (1999) 74 being sought wwarrick, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 1021.) in determining a pitchess motion, the trial court will generally have before it pertinent documents, such as the police report. (see people v. hill (2005) 131 cal.app.4th 1089, 1098-1099, disapproved in part on 16 another ground in people v. french task to review the documents and develop a theory to support discovery of the requested factual scenario of officer misconduct that is plausible when read in light of the pertinent people v. hill, supra, 131 cal.app.4th at p. 1099.) all the potentially relevant personnel records and, in camera, the trial court determines whether any of the records are to be disclosed to the defense. during the in camera hearing, neither the defense nor the prosecution is present. (people v. mooc (2001) 26 cal.4th 1216, 1226-1227 (mooc).) mooc requires that, at the time of the in camera hearing, the trial court facilitate appellate record of what documents it examined before ruling on the pitchess motion. . . . if the documents produced by the custodian are not voluminous, the court can photocopy them and place them in a confidential file. alternatively, the court can prepare a list of the documents it considered, or simply state for the record what documents it examined. ity to documents and questioning of the custodian should be done in camera in accordance with the requirements of evidence code section 915, and the transcript of the in camera mooc, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 1229, fn. omitted.) ability of material in police personnel files people v. jackson (1996) 13 outside the bounds of reason. (people v. galan (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 6, 12.) 17 c. hearings regarding the pitchess review of its rulings and conclude that the trial court properly exercised its discretion in determining that there were no documents for disclosure. d. for discovery of the personnel records of officer jones here appellant proposed a factual scenario and a defense to the charge he denied that he was in possession of the firearm in question in this case and claimed that officers talbot and jones produced a firearm and fabricated the story that appellant was touching the sweatshirt containing the firearm. this scenario met the low threshold for an in camera however, the court improperly denied the in camera jones approached appellant, planted evidence on appellant, and lied. however unlikely, this scenario is plausible and calls into question the conduct of both officers jones and talbot. a scenario in which officer jones lied about his observation of appellant is plausible since officer jones was present at the arrest of appellant and attests to the validity of the police report. the police report attached to the written motion indicates that both jones and talbot observed appellant holding the firearm and therefore any evidence of untruthfulness, misconduct or planting of evidence by officer jones would firearm. accordingly, the court abused its discretion in denying the pitchess motion with respect to officer jones. this error requires that we reverse the judgment and remand this matter to the lower court to conduct an appropriate in camera records. 18 iii. the trial court was required to strike rather than impose and stay the one-year enhancement under section 667.5, subdivision (b) the appellant contends that the trial court should have struck rather than stayed the one-year enhancement for the prior prison term enhancement. in sentencing appellant, the trial court imposed a five-prior convictions under the terms of section 667, subdivision (a)(1) and imposed but stayed a section 667.5, subdivision (b) one-year enhancement for the prior prison term. as appellant points out and the attorney general concedes, the trial court erred in imposing both a consecutive five-year enhancement under section 667, subdivision (a)(1) for the felony conviction which gave rise to the prior prison term and the one-year enhancement under section 667.5, subdivision (b) for that prior prison term. (people v. jones (1993) 5 cal.4th 1142, 1150-1153; people v. perez (2011) 195 cal.app.4th 801, 805.) accordingly, the trial court should have struck rather than stayed the one-year section 667, subdivision (b) enhancement. disposition the judgment is reversed and the case is remanded with directions to the trial court to conduct an in camera this opinion. (see people v. hustead, supra, 74 cal.app.4th at p. 423.) if the in camera lead to admissible evidence helpful to appellant in defense of the charge, the trial court shall grant the requested discovery, allow appellant an opportunity to demonstrate prejudice, and order a new trial if prejudice is demonstrated. if the hearing revreinstate the original judgment, except for the portion of judgment imposing a one year enhancement under section 667.5, subdivision (b). the portion of the judgment imposing on carrillo a one-year enhancement for a prison term prior under section 667.5, subdivision (b) is stricken. the trial court is directed to prepare an amended abstract of 19 judgment in accordance with this disposition and deliver it to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. woods, acting p. j. we concur: zelon, j. jackson, j. 