filed 11/18/13 p. v. castillo ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. andres castillo, defendant and appellant. b235445 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma044013) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, charles a. chung, judge. judgment modified and, as so modified, affirmed. louisa b. pensanti, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and russell a. lehman, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 andres castillo appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial in which he was found guilty of two counts of first degree burglary with a finding persons other than an accomplice occupied the residence when entry was made (pen. code,  459, 667.5, subd. (c); counts 1 & 28),1 nine counts of first degree home invasion robbery while acting in concert ( 211, 213, subd. (a)(1)(a); counts 2 through 8 & 30), nine counts of assault with a semiautomatic firearm ( 245, subd. (b); counts 9 through 17), assault with a knife ( 245, subd. (a)(1); count 18), four counts of child abuse ( 273a, subd. (a); counts 19 through 22), committing a forcible lewd act on a child under the age of 14 with a finding of kidnapping where the movement increased the risk of harm to the child ( 288, subd. (b)(1), 667.61, subds. (a) & (d); count 25), kidnapping for ransom ( 209, subd. (a); count 26), kidnapping to commit a forcible lewd act on a child under the age of 14 ( 209, subd. (b)(1); count 27), and kidnapping to commit robbery ( 209, subd. (b)(1); count 29). the jury made a finding a principal was armed with a firearm within the meaning of section 12022, subdivision (a)(1) (count 25) and findings appellant personally used a semiautomatic pistol within the meaning of section 12022.5, subdivision (a) (counts 1, 9-17, 19-22, 26 & 28) and personally used a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivision (b) (counts 2-8, 26, 29 & 30). the jury made findings all the offenses were committed for the benefit of, or in association with, a criminal street gang. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1).) at sentencing, the trial court imposed a total term of 225 years to life in state prison, consisting of eight fully consecutive terms of 25 years to life for the home invasion robberies in counts 2 through 8 and 30 (enhanced for gang and firearm use findings) and a fully consecutive term of 25 years to life for the kidnapping to commit a lewd act on a child under the age of 14 in count 27 (enhanced for gang and firearm use findings). the terms for the other counts were imposed concurrently and stayed pursuant to section 654. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 background 1. the prosecution case. a. the events of the home invasion robberies and kidnappings and other offenses. viewed in the light most favorable to the judgment (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the trial evidence established in 2008 jesus z. and his wife lilia c. lived in a palmdale residence with their eight children, sons 15-year-old j.z., 12-year-old b.r., and the toddler, d.z., and daughters 12-year-old a.z., 11-year-old jul. gustavo c. slept in the pool house in the back yard. as it was getting dark on november 5, 2008, two robbers, appellant and codefendant diaz (diaz), walked through 2 they pointed their semi-automatic pistols at the family. jesus z., upstairs in a bathroom, saw a gunman from upstairs, climbed out a in the meantime, appellant and diaz had everyone but lilia c., who was holding the baby, and the toddler lay face down on the floor. lilia c. sat on the sofa. while jesus z. stood two doors away waiting for the deputy sheriffs, the robbers terrorized the family inside the residence. appellant made threats to, and beat, 15-year-ther, gustavo c. appellant cut j.z. on the neck with a knife. appellant threatened to rape 11-year-old jul.z. and committed forcible lewd acts on her 2 appellant was charged in the information with codefendants jose joel perez (perez) and diaz. on entry, perez was outside in a van with a cellular telephone with a walkie-talkie feature that he was using to speak frequently with diaz and appellant. when they reported the robbers inside were ready to leave, perez told them inside to kill the family and leave. diaz was tried with appellant, and diaz and appellant were charged with the same offenses. perez was tried separately. diaz was convicted as charged, with the exception of count 25, committing a forcible lewd act on a child under the age of 14 with gang and one-strike allegations, and of count 27, the kidnapping to commit a lewd act with a child under the age of 14 with a gang allegation. for diaz, the trial court imposed a total term in state prison of 50 years to life. the codefendants have not filed notices of appeals. 4 in a bedroom. codefendant diaz had to stop appellant from further sexually assaulting her. the robbers and others search the house, garage and cars at gunpoint for money and drugs. j.z. turned over to diaz $25,000 to $38,000 in cash jesus z. kept hidden in a linen closet. lilia c. gave the robbers $500 from her diaper bag. appellant took gustavo c. outside to the pool house and obtained his savings, $1,000 in cash. having failed to locate any drugs or more money, the robbers decided to leave just as deputy sheriffs contacted perez, the lookout, outside on the street in a van. appellant and diaz took j.z. out the front door with them, threatening bodily harm and that they intended to kidnap him for ransom. but appellant and diaz saw the deputies out front, let go of j.z. and fled throuand set up a perimeter, but appellant and diaz escaped apprehension. b. the investigation. diaz was the registered owner of the van. in the early morning hours of the following day, november 6, 2008, los angeles county deputy sheriff christopher bergo (deputy bergo) individually showed the family members two six-pack photographic identification displays. deputy bergo had a responding deputy who spoke spanish assisposition in one of the photographic displays. lilia c. identified diaz as one of the robbers. said diaz l jesus z., gustavo c., jul.z. and b.r. were unable to identify anyone in the displays. diaz was arrested. after through a telephone call perez made from the jail to the 59th street, los angeles, father. once appellant was identified, the deputies were able to determine a latent fingerprint belonging to appellant had been lifted from a door of van. 5 on august 18, 2009, deputy bergo showed the family members individually a six-pack photograin the no. 4 position in the six-pack displays. deputy bergo explained he used a computer program to prepare the displays. the computer program randomly placed the particular photograph appeared. in the photographic identification procedure, lilia c. identified appellant as the other robber who had entered her residence. jul.z. identified appellant as her assailant, and 3 3 at the preliminary hearing, lilia c. identified appellant and diaz in court as the robbers. she said diaz was short and weighed about 170 pounds and was the defendant in court who had no hair. she said during the robbery, appellant had been wearing a beige shirt, black pants and a black baseball cap. appellant and diaz spoke to her in spanish but spoke in english into the cellular telephone/walkie-talkie they had, and appellant spoke english to j.z. the robbers were inside her residence for about 40 minutes. gustavo c. identified diaz in court as one of the robbers, but he could not identify appellant. gustavo c. explained during the robbery he lay face down with his sweatshirt hood over his head. during the robbery, when he saw appellant, appellant had part of his shirt pulled all the way up to under his eyes, and later appellant had kicked him in the face. house and threatened to rape jul.z. the robbers spoke english. gustavo c. claimed prior to the preliminary hearing testimony, deputy bergo and the prosecutor told him the robbers would be in court. j.z. identified appellant and diaz in court as the robbers. appellant was the robber who took j.z. upstairs to look for jesus z. and to other locations and hit him with the gun, punched him and cut him with a knife. appellant was the man who sexually assaulted his sister and grabbed j.z. in order to kidnap him as the robbers went out the front door. diaz was the robber who took j.z. upstairs after demands for money and marijuana, and the man who held him at gunpoint when j.z. found a large amount of cash in the linen closet. j.z. said he believed the robbers were there asking for money because they saw how large their residence was. appellant had his face covered with a zippered sweatshirt or sweater for about 25 minutes of the 6 on september 9, 2009, appellant was arrested. c. at trial. jesus z. testified he was a san fernando valley pool contractor who kept a considerable amount of cash hidden at home. he and his family members denied he and lilia c. played any role in the illicit drug trade. the deputy sheriffs testified there was no evidence of drug dealing at the residence. at trial, lilia c. identified appellant and diaz as the robber-assailants. jesus z. identified appellant and diaz as the robbers, but it was apparent he had only seen one robber for the briefest moment and earlier had identified appellant as the robber arrested at the van, when that robber was perez. gustavo c. identified appellant as the robber who cut j.z. but then admitted he did not see that, and his testimony was stricken. gustavo c. claimed the photographs he was shown previously did not accurately portray arances, but he remembered what appellant and diaz looked like from the robbery. a.z. testified she had a good opportunity to observe the robbers and identified appellant as one of the robbers. b.r. testified he recognized appellant from the robbery. jul.z. testified appellant was the robber who cut j.z. and committed the forcible lewd acts on her and threatened to rape her. -rolled at fingerprint expert. appellant refused, and the evidence demonstrating consciousness of guilt. d. the gang evidence. deputy sheriff jason bates (deputy bates), a gang expert, testified to the elements of the gang enhancements. he opined the home invasion robberies and other offenses were committed for the benefit of, and in association with, a criminal street gang, a los angeles south central hispanic gang by the name of florencia 13, a criminal street gang. approximate 40-minute robbery. j.z. recognized the defendants as the robbers because he recalled seeing them during the robbery. few of the details of the preliminary hearing testimony was later elicited at trial. 7 he gave his opinion appellant and diaz were florencia 13 gang members. the bases for they were florencia 13, and they had gang tattoos and lived within the territory of the florencia 13 gang. in particular, appellant had his torso and neck covered with florencia 13 insignia and gang-related tattoos. (casado) made a criminal report about an argument she had with appellant to los angeles county deputy sheriff juan rodriquez (deputy rodriguez). in the report, she told the deputy appellant was a florencia 13 gang member who had the moniker rascal. two other bases for deputy bates opinion were that appellant was listed as florencia 13 gang affiliations for jail administrative purposes and in 2009 appellant had identified himself at the wayside honor rancho as a member of the florencia 13 gang. 2. the defense. a. . appellant declined to testify, and trial counsel argued misidentification. casado testified to an alibi for appellant. she claimed on november 5, 2008, they brother, mother and aunt, or at the maywood residence of his uncle tomas. with respect to the 2007 claim of gang affiliation, casado recanted any statements appellant was a gang member. to bolster her claim she lied in 2007, she testified she later pled guilty to filing a false police report concerning that criminal complaint. identified appellant as a florencia 13 gang member with the moniker of rascal. 8 b. ense. at trial, diaz testified on his own behalf. he admitted he, appellant and perez had they drove to leaving her husband. she wanted the robbers to take their cash and the $1,500,000 worth of cocaine that was at their residence. the plan was that the robbers would split the proceeds of the robbery with the wife, with the three of them taking the money they earned back to los angeles. diaz admitted he knew appellant from the neighborhood and through their gang affiliation, but he denied he was currently a gang member, claiming before 2007 he had a dispute with the gang that arose during prison incarceration. currently, he was housed in the jail with the other gang keep-aways.4 he denied the charged offenses were committed for the benefit of, or in association, with any gang or florencia 13. he said he, perez and appellant planned to keep all the proceeds of the robbery, the $35,000 they obtained, for themselves; there was no plan to share with florencia 13. in his testimony, diaz minimized his participation in the robbery/kidnappings, even though he was considerably older than appellant, age 37, and was a long-time florencia 13 gang member. he claimed appellant made the arrangements for the robbery with the high level drug dealers, and there was no plan to kidnap j.z. or to sexually assault one of the women. he claimed committing sexual offenses on crime victims on arrival at the residence, there were more children present than was disclosed by the high level drug dealers, and the scene became chaotic, with crying and yelling children. appellant was the robber who covered his face initially 4 los angeles county deputy ail housing was a security area, and the inmates there all were segregated for their own protection by reason of threats from other gang members. the reasons for their segregation were many, but some were housed there as they were testifying against other gang members. 9 during the robbery. diaz claimed when appellant committed the most brutal acts of the robbery, he was busy elsewhere or not in the room. he had stopped the sexual assault on jul.z. and did not see appellant committing the other most violent acts. diaz was ready to leave almost upon entry, but he and appellant were previous partners in crime, and he did not feel he could leave the residence without appellant, who he speculated would have refused to leave. contentions 1. prosecutorial misconduct. seeking to impeach casado concerning her testimonial claims appellant was not a gang member and she had lied to deputy rodriquez, the prosecutor asked casado whether in 2007 she had reported an argument she had with appellant to deputy rodriquez. the witness replied she made a complaint. the prosecutor then inquired, grabbed a black extension cord and [appellant] wrapped the extension cord around your neck the trial court immediately interrupted the proceedings and called trial counsel and the prosecutor to the sidebar out of the presence of the jury. when the trial court right folks, that last to the 2007 choking incident again. the jury was instructed with caljic no. 1.02, requiring that jurors ignore evidence stricken by the court. appellant contends the italicized inquiry above constitutes prosecutorial misconduct, requiring a reversal. he argues the underlying incident of domestic abuse was patently inadmissible, and the admonition given by the trial court would not have stricken inquiry was so severe a reversal is required. 10 a. the relevant legal principles the applicable federal and state standards regarding prosecutorial misconduct s . . . intemperate behavior violates the federal constitution when it so egregious that it infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due process. [citations.] conduct by a prosecutor that does not render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair is prosecutorial misconduct under state law only if it involves the use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade either the court or the jury. [citation.] [w]hen the claim focuses upon comments made by the prosecutor before the jury, the question is whether there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury construed or applied any of the complained-of remar (ibid.)(people v. smithey (1999) 20 cal.4th 936, 960 (smithey).) it is misconduct for a prosecutor to intentionally elicit inadmissible testimony. (smithey, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 960.) b. the analysis. immediately after the prosecutor made his inquiry, at sidebar, the trial court had it did not want to launch into a full-blown trial on the underlying incident of domestic during the side bar conference, the trial court indicated issues surrounding the 2007 complaint were raised previously only in the context of a discovery issue. it ascertained both trial counsel had obtained the discovery. the trial court ruled the underlying domestic abuse was inadmissible pursuant to evidence code section 352. however, the trial court permitted the prosecutor to make a limited showing of the reliability of the complaint by attempting to elicit from casado she made the report because she was afraid -- appellant had told her if he was arrested for domestic abuse, he would have his homeboys, the florencia 13, kill her. the prosecutor was also permitted 11 to ask casado whether in 2007, casado told deputy rodriquez appellant belonged the malditos clique of florencia 13, and his moniker was rascal. the failure to object specifically on grounds of [prosecutorial] misconduct and to seek an admonition forfeits the claim unless an admonition would not have people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 1037-1038.) in this instance, appellant did not object on the required specific grounds of prosecutorial misconduct. nor is this a case where the bell could not be unrung. although appellant did not request an assignment of misconduct or an admonition that the jury disregard the impropriety, the objection trial counsel made provided the trial court an opportunity to admonish the jury to disregard what it then determined to be unduly prejudicial evidence. (see people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1186.) the trial court took advantage of the objection to rule on the admissibility of the testimony and then admonished the jury to disregard it. while the issue was preserved for appeal, in the absence of a prior ruling, gang affiliation was reliable. it is not misconduct for a prosecutor to seek to introduce arguably relevant evidence, even where trial court eventually determines such evidence is more prejudicial than probative pursuant to evidence code section 352. suggesting to the jury that appellant had engaged in one, remote incident of domestic abuse would not have affected the verdicts. and, otherwise, the record contains no evidence the prosecutor engaged in a pattern of prosecutorial misconduct during trial 12 denying appellant a fair trial. 5 in any event, no prejudice is shown as the jury was instructed to disregard the question, and presumably the jury followed that instruction. (smithey, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 961.) 2. the extrajudicial identifications. citing the seminal case of manson v. brathwaite (1977) 432 u.s. 98, appellant contends the trial court erred by admitting the extrajudicial eyewitness identifications of appellant. he argues in the context of various factors, the extrajudicial eyewitness identifications of appellant were unreliable. a. the relevant legal principles. lates a defendants right to due process of law, we consider (1) whether the identification procedure was unduly suggestive and unnecessary, and, if so, (2) whether the identification itself was nevertheless reliable under the totality of the circumstances, taking into account such factors as the opportunity of the witness to view the suspect at the ts degree of attention at the time of the offense, the accuracy of his or her prior description of the suspect, the level of certainty demonstrated at the time of the identification, and the lapse of time between the offense and the identification. (people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 989.) if the defendant fails to show that the identification procedures were unduly suggestive, we need not address any arguments regarding the identifications reliability under the totality of the circumstances. (people v. cook (2007) 40 cal.4th 1334, 1355; people v. cunningham, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 989; see also perry v. new hampshire 5 we are not impressed that subpoenaing trial counsel was misconduct. on appeal, appellant cites no authority for such a proposition, and apparently, ms. pensanti was constantly engaged in other trials. after the lapse of time following the verdict, the prosecutor was not necessarily acting amiss in attempting to secure ms. appearance so as to give the trial court the opportunity to conduct the sentencing proceedings. the trial court appropriately ordered the subpoena quashed and, without simply proceeded with the hearing on the new trial motion and sentencing. 13 (2012) ___u.s. ____, 132 s.ct. 716, 725-726, 181 l.ed.2d 694 [explaining the decision in manson v. braithwaite, supra, 432 u.s 98 and making clear the reliability test set out in manson concerned the appropriate remedy after the police use an unnecessarily suggestive identification procedure].) b. the analysis. it is settled where a defendant raises on appeal a challenge to an identification procedure on grounds it is unduly suggestive, the failure to object in the trial court on the same grounds waives the point for the appeal. (people v. medina (1995) 11 cal.4th 694, 753; see also, evid. code,  353.) there was no objection or motion made before or during trial to exclude the extrajudicial or in-court identifications on the due process grounds the identification procedures were impermissibly or unduly suggestive and unreliable. accordingly, the contention is forfeited. furthermore, this court is unable to comment on the merits. on appeal, appellant explicitly assumes there was no impermissibly or unduly suggestive eyewitness identifications and he argues only the second prong of the due process test for exclusion but on this record, we cannot determine whether the identification procedures were unduly suggestive. the specifics that might lead this court to such a conclusion were never developed before trial or during cross-examination at trial so as to permit an examination of that issue, e.g., how deputy bergo conducted each of the six-pack identification procedures and the admonitions given the eyewitnesses. moreover, without the prerequisite finding of an impermissibly suggestive identification process, the applicable test does not allow this court to reach the issue of a lack of reliability, which is the only argument appellant makes on appeal. the contention necessarily fails. (people v. cook, supra, 40 cal.4th at p. 1355; people v. cunningham, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 989.) moreover, the trial court was under no duty sua sponte to address this issue in the absence of a request by trial counsel. (perry v. new hampshire, supra, 132 s.ct. at p. 725.) 14 3. the request for an evans lineup. hearing counsel, mr. rojas, requested an evans lineup with respect to three eyewitnesses, lilia c., j.z. and b.r. (evans v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 617 (evans).) on appeal, appellant contends the trial court abused its discretion by failing to afford him the requested lineup. a. the relevant legal principles. in evans, supra, 11 cal.3d at page 625, the supreme court held that the due process clause requires the trial court, in an appropriate case, to grant a defendants timely request for a pretrial lineup. the right to a lineup is not absolute, however. there exists a reasonable likelihood of a mistaken identification which a lineup would (ibid.) the decision whether to order a pretrial lineup rests within the sound discretion of the trial court. (ibid.; see people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 235-236.) an evans lineup is regarded as a type of defense discovery. (evans, supra, at p. 621.) discretionary interlocutory writ review is available after the magistrate has denied an evans motion. (see people v. mena (2012) 54 cal.4th 146, 152 (mena).) the failure to obtain writ review after the denial of an evans motion does not preclude a defendant id. at p. 158.) however, on appeal, the question is not merely one of whether there was an abuse of discretion. the people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 (watson). (mena, supra, at p. 162.) if there is an abuse of discretion, the appellate court then conducts a watson analysis: whether the appellant has established on the particular record, but for the trial court failure to order the lineup, would appellant have obtained a more favorable result. (mena, supra, at p. 166.) 15 b. the analysis. the record fails to support a reversal. we do not have to discuss whether the magistrate abused his discretion by finding no reasonable likelihood of a misidentification. at trial, diaz identified appellant as the other robber who entered crimes and knew each other through their gang affiliation, the neighborhood and 4. appointing a spanish interpreter for appellant. appellant contends he is entitled to a reversal as the trial court failed to discover early on in the proceedings whether he needed a spanish interpreter and then failed to advise him of, and obtain a waiver of, the interpreter before any critical proceedings concerning his trial. a. the relevant legal principles. a person unable to understand english who is charged with a crime has a right to an interpre (cal. const., art. i,  14.) however, an affirmative showing of nee (in re raymundo b. (1988) 203 cal.app.3d 1447, 1453 (raymundo b.).) the defendant bears the burden of showing the defendant does not understand english. (id. at p. 1456.) although the court must appoint an interpreter if the defendant meets this burden, the court enjoys considerable discretion in initially s comprehension of english is so minimal as to render the services of an interpreter necessary. (people v. carreon (1984) 151 cal.app.3d 559, 566-567, overruled on another point in people v. rodriquez (1986) 42 cal.3d 1005, as stated in people v. chavez (1991) 231 cal.app.3d 1471, 1473; see people v. estany (1962) 210 cal.app.2d 609, 611.) 16 factors relevant to this determination include the defendants request for an interpreter, whether one has previously been provided, and the defendants birthplace, community, level of education in the united states, and employment history. (see people v. aguilar (1984) 35 cal.3d 785, 789, fn. 4 (aguilar); raymundo b., supra, 203 cal.app.3d at p. 1455.) we review a trial courts refusal to appoint an interpreter for a defendant for an abuse of discretion. (raymundo b., supra, at pp. 1453, 1455-1456, 1458.) b. the analysis. the contention is not well taken. appellant cites as authority for a reversal, the cases of aguilar, supra, 35 cal.3d at p. 794 and people v. chavez (1981) 124 cal.app.3d 215, 227, overruled on another point in people v. mendez (1999) 19 cal.4th 1084, 1097, fn. 7 (chavez). he argues in the first instance advice of, and a waiver of, the interpreter must appear on the record. this is not the state of the law. the right to an interpreter found in article 1, section 14, of the california constitution arises only on a showing of need by a non-english speaking criminal defendant. no such showing was made here. the advice of the right and a waiver is required only after need for an interpreter is established and a trial court deprives a defendant of his own interpreter during the proceedings. (see raymundo b. supra, 203 cal.app.3d at p. 1453.) aguilar and chavez are distinguishable as in both cases, the trial court had already appointed an interpreter upon a showing of need. the initial appointment was not at issue. the courts there held that once the threshold showing of need is established, it is reversible error to deprive a defendant of his interpreter during critical criminal proceedings without the advice of, and a waiver of, the right to the interpreter. here, appellant proceeded through the preliminary hearing and trial without any indication he failed to understand english. at no time did his preliminary hearing counsel, mr. rojas, or trial counsel, mr. morrow, request an interpreter. the probation report indicates appellant was born in the united states, and presumably, he was witnesses, appellant spoke english during the robberies to his fellow robbers and to 17 lilia n, who spoke english. during the proceedings, appellant responded orders given to him in english. appellant appeared to be appropriately conferring with trial counsel during the trial and during other proceedings. on august 13, 2010, the jury returned its verdicts. on september 2, 2010, appellant notified the trial court he had hired new trial counsel to represent him at sentencing, ms. pensanti. on october 27, 2010, he appeared with an associate of ms. the trial court initially denied the request. on december 15, 2010, ms. pensanti obtained the trial transcript necessary to prepare a motion for new trial, which she filed on april 14, 2011. on april 14, 2011, apparently at the suggestion of the prosecutor, appellant began appearing with a court-appointed spanish interpreter. on june 22, 2011, ms. pensanti argued the motion for a new trial. inter alia, she urged appellant had needed a spanish interpreter during trial, and none had been requested for she urged appellant spoke and as the trial court observed in denying the motion for new trial, there was no pretrial or trial reunderstand english. the trial court did not abuse its discretion by sua sponte failing to appoint an the trial indicated he was fluent in english, and the belated request was just a ploy to obtain an issue that might lead to a reversal on appeal. appellant conducted himself in 18 court as if he were english-speaking and appropriately replied to the trial court and conferred with his trial counsel. his background indicated he was fluent in english. we are not concerned he may not have thoroughly understood all the legal principles at play during the trial proceedings; undoubtedly, any legal principles he needed to understand were explained to him by his preliminary hearing and trial counsel. 5. ineffective trial counsel. appellant contends he was denied his sixth amendment right to the effective assistance of trial counsel. he raises two claims of ineffective counsel: (1) preliminary hearing counsel mr. rojas failed to file a petition for a writ of mandate before the preliminary hearing seeking review of thevans motion for a physical lineup (evans, supra, 11 cal.3d 617); and (2) mr. rojas and mr. morrow failed to advise appellant of his constitutional right to a court-appointed interpreter and request the interpreter on appellant a. the relevant legal principles. in order to establish ineffective assistance of counsel, a defendant must first show that his or her counsel because counsel's representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness . . . under prevailing professional norms. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687-688 [104 s. ct. 2052, 80 l. ed. 2d 674]; people v. weaver [(2001)] 26 cal.4th [876,] 925.) second, the defendant must demonstrate prejudice flowing from coun reasonable probability that, but for counsels unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would have been different. a reasonable probability is a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome.(in re sixto (1989) 48 cal.3d 1247, 1257 [259 cal. rptr. 491, 774 p.2d 164], citing strickland, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 694 [104 s. ct. at p. 2068].) finally, it must also be shown that the [act or] omission was not attributable to a tactical decision which a reasonably competent, experienced criminal defense attorney would make. (in re sixto, suprapeople v. gutierrez (2002) 28 cal.4th 1083, 1157, criticized on other grounds in people v. farley (2009) 46 cal.4th 1053, 1117.) 19 if the record on appeal sheds no light on why counsel acted or failed to act in the manner challenged, an appellate claim of ineffective assistance of counsel must be rejected unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or there simply could be no satisfactory explanation. (people v. mendoza tello (1997) 15 cal.4th 264, 266; see also people v. vines (2011) 51 cal.4th 830, 876.) b. the analysis. the record fails to support a finding of constitutionally ineffective trial counsel. as for failing to file an extraordinary writ, mr. rojas undoubtedly failed to seek writ evans motion as there was little likelihood it would succeed. when mr. rojas requested the evans lineup, what was known about the potential trial evidence was that there were three eyewitnesses identifications during extrajudicial six-pack photographic identification procedures. there was no hint that the identification procedures were conducted in such a way as to be impermissibly was not unduly suggestive. the three eyewitness identifications were presumably conducted independently and were cross-corroborating. also, at that time, there was reasonable likelihood of a misidentification that a live lineup would have cured. thus, there is a satisfactory tactical reason why mr. rojas failed to seek the interlocutory writ. also, mr. rojas may have been aware of the decision in mena, supra, 54 cal.4th 146, which settled that a defendant can raise the issue of the denial of the evans motion on appeal. in fact, the live lineup was more likely to hurt appellant than help him. several of the eyewitnesses had an adequate opportunity to see appellant during the robberies. having a photographic lineup procedure and then having the eyewitnesses once again identify appellant as the robber in a physical lineup would have only further bolstered the credibility of the identifications. mr. rojas may well have concluded that a better means of defense was to cross-examine the witnesses during the trial as to the potential 20 infirmities in their identifications, and by that means to launch a defense to the eyewitness identifications. after the california supreme court decided the mena case, it was settled a defendant was not preabuse of discretion on appeal, albeit with the additional burden of showing prejudice pursuant to watson. (watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836; see also mena, supra, 54 cal.4th at p 162.) as for the failure to request a spanish interpreter for the proceedings, this record demonstrates the request would have been futile as appellant was fluent in english and needed no interpreter. ms. pensanti never asked mr. rojas or mr. morrow to explain the omissions. there are satisfactory tactical explanations in the record explaining why counsel failed to act in the manner complained of. the contention fails. 6. an unauthorized enhancement. in count 27, appellant was found guilty of kidnapping for the purpose of committing another crime ( 209, subd. (b)(1)), i.e., the forcible lewd act with a child under the age of 14 ( 288, subd. (b)(1)), with the finding of a gang enhancement ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)). at sentencing, the trial court imposed a term of 15 years to life for the kidnapping. it imposed an additional 10 years for a section 12022.53, subdivision (a), firearm use enhancement. on count 27, the jury made no true finding of the firearm enhancement. the people request this court to vacate the 10-year term imposed for the use of a firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (b)) as there was no firearm use finding in count 27, and the enhancement is thus unauthorized. finding of an enhancement and the unauthorized 10-year term. (people v. lopez (2005) 34 cal.4th 1002, 1007-1008; people v. harper (2003) 109 cal.app.4th 520, 524-529.) 21 disposition the term imposed for the 10-year firearm use enhancement ( 12022.53, subd. (b)) for count 27, (aggravated kidnapping) is vacated, making the term imposed for count 27 a term of life with a minimum period of parole eligibility of 15 calendar years pursuant to section 186.22, subd. (b)(5). in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed as modified. the superior court shall cause its clerk to prepare and send an amended abstract of judgment to the department of corrections, stating the term imposed for count 27, a violation of section 209, subdivision (b)(1), is a term of life with a minimum parole eligibility term of 15 years pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5). not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: croskey, j. aldrich, j. 