filed 7/6/12 p. v. loice ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. hakeem l. loice, defendant and appellant. b235060 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya078816 ) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of the county of los angeles, james r. brandlin, judge. affirmed. sally patrone brajevich, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson, supervising deputy attorney general, chung l. mar, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction following trial, a jury found defendant and appellant hakeem loice (defendant) guilty of the attempted murder of one victim and a separate assault on another victim by means likely to produce great bodily injury. on appeal, defendant contends that the trial court abused its discretion when it denied his motion to try separately the two unrelated crimes and that the prosecutor committed various acts of misconduct that denied him the right to a fair trial. we hold that the trial court did not abuse its discretion when it refused to try separately the two charged crimes and that the prosecutor did not engage in any prejudicial misconduct. we therefore affirm the judgment of conviction. factual background a. count 1attempted murder of cole on april 10, 2010, at approximately 1:45 a.m., rogers cole left an apartment in the vicinity of 94th street and normandie after visiting two friends, tanjy and bud. as cole began -on-ch 1 he had run about 30 yards, his attackers caught up to him and began to hit and kick him 1 according to cole, somewhere between five and 15 men assaulted him. 3 after taking about five steps because he had been shot in the hip. after unsuccessfully trying to regain his feet and run, cole began to crawl away. as he crawled down the alley, he looked back and saw the man who shot him give the revolver to defendant. defendant then walked toward cole who was crawling. when shots.2 about a minute later, cole removed a cell phone from his pocket and called his girlfriend, eureka talbert. he thought she would be able to take him to the hospital faster than an ambulance. cole told talbert the location of the alley and instructed her to drive through the alley until she saw him. talbert arrived at the alley at the same time as california hospital. surgery wound underwent a second surgery to repair damage from a gunshot wound to his right arm. was hospitalized for five or six days.3 they searched for witnesses and physical evidence, but did not locate any witnesses or evidence. similarly, the detective who investigated the scene confirmed that no firearms, bullets, or casings were recovered and no dna or fingerprint evidence was recovered. 2 according to cole, the revolver did not fire each time defendant pulled the trigger. 3 the surgeon who treated cole at california hospital testified that cole had a wound to his right chest, a wound to his right upper abdomen, a wound to his lower left his left side, a through and through wound to his right forearm, and a through and through wound to his left hand. 4 about a month after the shooting, cole reviewed a photographic lineup and identified defendant as the man who stood over him in the alley and shot him. cole also identified defendant in court at both the preliminary hearing and the trial. b. assault on chatman on the evening of april 25, 2011, the victim, sayshawn chatman, visited his friend shawntae perkins at her apartment. chatman was wearing an expensive gold -and gin that night, and eventually chatman fell asleep. chatman woke up about 1:00 p.m. the next day and discovered that his gold chain was missing. when chatman told perkins his gold chain was missing, she told him to calm down and assured him she would find it. chatman stepped outside the apartment for a moment, and perkins brought him his chain. -boy emerged from a back room and opened the apartment door for defendantwhom chatman had seen a week or two earlier walking down the streetand another man. do-boy walked past chatman toward the bathroom, but then turned around and punched chatman in the side of the face. then do-boy, defendant, and the other man began punching, kicking, and stabbing chatman. during able to defend himself. chatman estimated that he was punched over 20 times and stabbed approximately five times. he was also kicked while he was on the ground causing him to lose a tooth. chatman was able to escape from his attackers and run down the street to where some neighbors were gathered watching their children. one of the neighbors called an ambulance. after the attack, chatman noticed that his gold chain was missing. photographs of 5 over his left eye, a cut under his chin, and cuts on the back of his head. during treatment for his wounds, chatman received eight stitches above his right eye, three stitches in his left eyebrow, and nine staples in the back of his head. noticed a blood trail on the stairs leading to the apartment and, inside the apartment, he observed a broken wooden table in the center of the floor, various items scattered on the floor, and blood on the kitchen walls, floor, countertop, and refrigerator door. a detective showed chatman a photographic lineup, and chatman was able to identify defendant as one of his attackers. chatman also later identified defendant in court at the preliminary hearing and the trial. procedural background in an information, the los angeles county district attorney charged defendant in count 1 with the attempted murder of cole in violation of penal code sections 664 and 187, subdivision (a)4 and in count 2 with an assault on chatman by means likely to produce great bodily harm in violation of section 245, subdivision (a)(1). the district attorney alleged as to count 1 that defendant personally and intentionally discharged a firearm which caused great bodily harm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivision (d) and that defendant had suffered a prior serious felony conviction within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (a)(1). the district attorney further alleged as to counts 1 and 2 that defendant had suffered a prior serious or violent felony conviction within the meaning of sections 667, subdivisions (b) through (i) and 1170.12, subdivisions (a) through (d). the district attorney also alleged that defendant had suffered four prior felony convictions for which prison terms were served. defendant pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. following trial, the jury found defendant guilty on counts 1 and 2 and found the firearm enhancement 4 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 6 true. thereafter, the trial court found the strike and prior serious felony allegations true, struck the prior prison terfinding on the prior strike allegation. the trial court sentenced defendant to an aggregate sentence of 50 years comprised of an upper term nine-year sentence on count 1, doubled to 18 years based on the prior strike finding, plus an additional term of 25 years to life on the firearm allegation, and a consecutive seven-year sentence on count 2. discussion a. severance defendant contends that the trial court abused its discretion when it denied his motion to sever and try separately counts 1 and 2. according to defendant, trying the two unrelated charges jointly was prejudicial because the evidence as to each count was not cross-admissible and the identification and other evidence as to each count was weak. two or more different offenses of the same class of crimes or offenses, under separate n which a case is triable, in the interests of justice and for good cause shown, may in its discretion order that the different offenses or counts set forth in the accusatory pleading be tried separately or divided into two or more groups and each of said people v. soper (2009) 45 cal.4th 759, 772 (soper).) charge two or more different soper, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 771.) clear showing of prejudice to establish that the trial court 7 abused its discretion motion to sever properly joined charged offenses amounts to a prejudicial abuse of discretion only if that stronger showing of potential prejudice than would be necessary to exclude other-crimes evidence its discretion under section 954 in declining to sever properly joined chargindividual case, . . . certain criteria have emerged to provide guidance in ruling upon and reviewing a motion to sever soper, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 774.) -admissibility of the evidence in hypothetical separate trials. [citation.] if the evidence underlying the charges in question would be cross-admissible, that factor alone is normally sufficient to dispel any suggestion of prejudice moreover, even if the evidence underlying these charges would not be cross-admissible in hypothetical separate trials, that determination would not itself establish prejudice or an abuse of discretion by the trial court in declining to sever properly joined charges. [citation.] indeed, section 954.1 [citation] codifies this ruleit provides that when, as here, properly joined charges are of the same class, the circumstance that the evidence underlying those charges would not be cross-admissible at hypothetical separate trials is, standing alone, insufficient to establish that a trial court abused its discretion in refusing soper, supra, 45 cal.4th at pp. 774-775.) cross-whether the benefits of joinder were --ng that assessment, we consider three additional factors, any of whichcombined with our earlier determination of absence of cross- 8 admissibilityof the charges are particularly likely to inflame the jury against the defendant; (2) whether a weak case has been joined with a strong case or another weak case so that the totality of the evidence may alter the outcome as to some or all of the charges; or (3) whether one of the charges (but not another) is a capital offense, or the joinder of the charges converts the matter into a capital case. [citations.] we then balance the potential for prejudice to the defendant from a joint trial against the countervailing (soper, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 775.) here, the two charges were unrelated, but both crimes were of the same class in that each involved assaultive behavior. and although the evidence underlying the two charges may not have been cross-admissible, that factor, standing alone, was insufficient to establish the prejudice necessary to justify severance. (see people v. myles (2012) 53 cal.4th 1181, 1201 [when two crimes of the same class are joined, cross-admissibility is not required].) rather, it was incumbent on defendantbased on the record before the trial court at the time it made its rulingjoinder. for the reasons discussed below, we conclude that defendant failed to make the requisite showing. hearing testimony that was before the trial court at the time it denied the motion to sever, however, does not support that assertion. the victims of each crime positively identified defendant in court at the preliminary hearing. those identifications were based, in part, man who initially shot cole and then looked up at defendant from the ground as defendant walked toward him, stood over him, and then shot him; and chatman had seen defendant before the attack walking in the neighborhood, and, on the day of the attack, he red that room with 9 another man at do-shows that the district attorney did not join a strong case with a weak case or join two weak cases together. each count was supported by substantial, independent evidence, such that it was not reasonably likely that a jury would use evidence on one unrelated charge to convict defendant on the other charge. on both chargeprobability that defendant would be prejudiced by a joint trial on those charges. therefore, the trial court did not abuse its discretion when it denied the motion to sever. b. prosecutorial misconduct defendant argues that the prosecutor engaged in prejudicial misconduct by repeatedly delaying the disclosure of certain evidence. defendant further contends that the prosecutor engaged in additional misconduct by asking a witness, cole, improper questions concerning his fear of retaliation and misstating the evidence of the attack on chatman during closing argument. 1. legal principles summarized as follows. the federal constitution when it infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due process. conduct by a prosecutor that does not render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair is prosecutorial misconduct under state law only if it involves the use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade either the people v. morales (2001) 25 cal.4th 34, 44.) e claim focuses upon comments made by the prosecutor before the jury, the question is whether there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury construed or applied any of the complained-of remarks in an objectionable fashion. (people v. ayala (2000) 23 cal.4th 225, 283- 10 (people v. morales, supra, both to discuss the evidence and to comment on reasonable inferences that may be drawn therefrom. (see people v. bemore (2000) 22 cal.4th 809, 846 [94 cal.rptr.2d 840, 996 p.2d 1152]; people v. sandoval (1992) 4 cal.4th 155, 183 [14 cal.rptr.2d 342, 841 p.2d people v. morales, supra, 25 cal.4th from the evidence presented at trial, mischaracterizing the evidence is misconduct. (people v. avena (1996) 13 cal.4th 394, 420 [53 cal.rptr.2d 301, 916 p.2d 1000]; see also people v. lucas (1995) 12 cal.4th 415, 472 [48 cal.rptr.2d 525, 907 p.2d 373] deliberate people v. purvis (1963) 60 cal.2d 323, people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 823.) 2. discovery misconduct defendant claims that the prosecutor delayed in turning over the following hospital; and crime scene photographs relating to the assault on chatman. although it does not appear that the prosecutor engaged in misconduct with respect to most, if not all, of the delayed discovery claims, even assuming discovery misconduct occurred, defendant has failed to demonstrate how he was prejudiced under either the federal or state standard for determining prejudice discussed above. for example, although defendant complains that the prosecutor failed to turn over a file summarized the contents of the file for defense counsel in an e-mail sent immediately after the file was obtained and further offered to stipulate to the underlying facts of the adjudication in question. given the timely summary of the file and the offered 11 stipulation, there was no potential that defendant was prejudiced by this claimed discovery misconduct. similarly, on the issue of the field identification cards, the prosecutor offered to stipulate to the factual information set forth in the cards, and the trial court offered defense counsel the opportunity to move for a continuance to investigate the cards and to request a jury instruction on late discovery, but defense counsel declined to pursue either suggested course of action, thereby conceding that defprejudiced by the timing of the disclosure of the field identification cards. provided information about the statement to the defense as soon as the information was discovered by the prosecutor and, in any event, the trial court excluded the statement as cumulative. as to this claimed discovery misconduct, defendant fails to explain how he was prejudiced by a statement that was excluded and about which his counsel was informed in a timely fashion. defendant also complains that crime scene photographs that showed a blood trail at the scene of the assault on chatman were not timely disclosed. but the trial court excluded the photographs, and defendant fails to explain how timely disclosure of them would have aided the defense. 3. other misconduct defendant also challenges two other instances during which he claims the prosecutor engaged in misconduct. first, he contends that during the direct examination of cole, the prosecutor improperly elicited that cole had relocated out of state due to concerns for his safety based on his cooperation in this case. second, defendant contends that during rebuttal argument, the prosecutor misstated the evidence when she argued that do- the challenged line of questioning merely elicited that cole had moved due to his fear of retaliation for cooperating in the case. it did not, as defendant contends, suggest or imply that defendant or someone associated with him had threatened cole. moreover, 12 the trial court offered to allow defense counsel to question cole, either in the presence of nyone associated with him had threatened cole and also indicated that it would consider giving a limiting about the issue and did not request a limiting instruction. therefore, even assuming that failed to demonstrate how he was prejudiced by those questions. -boy had telephoned his friends, including defendant, to assist in the assault on chatman was based on a reasonable inference drawn from the evidence. chatman testified that perkins left the apartment, and shortly thereafter do-boy emerged from a back room and opened the apartment door for defendant and the other male assailant. the timing of the arrival of the two men shortly after perkins left and do-had arrived at the door, suggested that their arrival had been prearranged, presumably by do-boy in a telephone call. because the prosecutor had wide latitude during argument to draw such an inference from the evidence, the challenged argument did not constitute misconduct. 13 disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports mosk, j. we concur: armstrong, acting p. j. kriegler, j. 