filed 10/1/12 p. v. teran ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. martin manuel teran, defendant and appellant. b235793 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba377496) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. robert shuit, judge. affirmed as modified. ______ matthew alger, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and yun k. lee, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______ 2 an information, dated april 19, 2011, charged martin manuel teran with the july 19, 2010 murder of rudolph casey galaz in violation of penal code section 187, subdivision (a)1, and specially alleged that during commission of the offense a principal was armed with a firearm within the meaning of section 12022, subdivision (a)(1). teran pleaded not guilty to the charge and denied the special allegation. during trial, the people presented evidence to support their theory that teran, whose relationship with galaz had soured over money or a woman or both, aided and abetted in the killing of galaz by asking a friend to shoot him. teran, in turn, presented evidence to support a theory of self-defense. the trial court instructed the jury on first and second degree murder, voluntary manslaughter based on imperfect self-defense and justifiable homicide based on self-defense. the jury found teran guilty of second degree murder and found true the special allegation under section 12022, subdivision (a)(1), that a principal was armed with a firearm during commission of the offense. the court sentenced teran to a state prison term of 16 years to life, consisting of 15 years to life for the second degree murder, plus one year for the arming enhancement. teran timely appealed. on appeal, teran contends that (1) the trial court erroneously denied his motion to suppress, pursuant to miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 (miranda), his statements versations; (2) the trial court, relying on the coconspirator exception to the hearsay rule, erroneously admitted an out-of-court statement by the shooter; (3) the trial court erroneously failed to instruct the jury sua sponte on voluntary manslaughter basto a search of his apartment constituted ineffective assistance of counsel. according to teran, the judgment should be reversed and the matter remanded for a new trial because these issues, independently or collectively, prejudiced his case. we disagree with mandatory court security fee and court facilities assessment and, as modified, affirmed. 1 statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 3 we agree and thus modify the judgment to include a court security fee and court facilities assessment. as modified, we affirm the judgment. discussion 1. the trial court correctly denied a. factual background fired on south gerhart avenue. two deputies arriving at the scene found galaz lying dead in the street. (according to expert testimony, a gunshot wound to the neck, with the bullet entering through the back of the neck and exiting from the tip of the chin, caused galaz to bleed to death from the jugular vein.) teran was standing outside of his apartment building holding a garden hose and watering down the sidewalk. a woman was standing next to him. teran was using soap, and the water was bloody, leading one smelled gun smoke in the stairwoff the water and stood by a patrol car with the woman, as requested by one of the deputies. teran told the deputy that he had been renovating an apartment on the first floor of the apartment building, using water from a hose to clean the area, when he heard gunshots. he came out to the street with his hose and saw two men leaving the area. the deputies secured teran and the woman in separate patrol cars while they nor was he handcuffed oarrived on the scene, opened the door of the patrol car where teran had been seated, and teran exited the car. teran stood at the back of the car with the detective, who said to as he spoke with the detective, teran downstairs apartment in his building had been evicted and he had been hired to clean it. 4 he said that he was cleaning the apartment, using a hose, when he heard a loud blast and came outside with the hose. teran asked if he could use a restroom, and the detective said that he would try to find one after he spoke with the woman who was in another patrol car. the detective placed teran back in the patrol car while he spoke with the woman. on, detectives advised him of his miranda rights. teran said that he did not wish to speak to the detectives, and they left the station. teran then was placed in a jail cell. several hours later, he told the watch commander that he wanted to speak to the detectives. about two hours later, the detectives had the following exchange with teran: said you wanted to have a lawyer, right? e in your presence. asked us to come back and talk to you? can be present, you need to have a one-on-one with me. correct? with me when we talk? do it no more. so, you ready? my friend, his name is robert mejia[] . . . . the 5 teran then told the detectives that a few days before the shooting galaz had been teran guessed that galaz was angry at him because of a woman. teran asked a friend, and he could get a gun. teran called his friend and asked the friend to come to his ment with a gun, either the day before or the day of the shooting. according to teran, galaz came to the went downstairs to talk to galaz, who swung the door open, jarring teran and causing him to fall backwards. teran was scared and told his friend, who was in the stairwell onto the sidewalka version of the shooting that was inconsistent with the expert testimony that galaz had been shot from behind in the back of his neck. teran retrieved is friend, the shooter. teran did not know where the shooter went after firing at galaz. teran admitted to using water yeah. could visit the never ending. deal with the pushy hispanic aggressive. they have to tax you. they have towhether i stay home, whether i go twant to live anymore now. now you can send me to the mental hospital. because . . path where someone has got with detectives, talking about the woman who was standing next to him after the shooting and the shooter, and explaining that he now was telling detectives the truth even though he had told a different story at the scene. teran gave three additional statements to the 6 detectives, including a reenactment at the crime scene, all in which he reiterated that galaz had acted aggressively toward him and one in which he stated that after the shooter b. statements at the crime scene focusing largely on the four-plus hours he sat in the patrol car, teran contends the trout of the car because he was in custody at the time and thus the detective should have informed him of his miranda rights before speaking with him. we disagree. miranda . . . one normally begins by asking whether custodial custodmiranda s] people v. ochoa discrete inquiries are essential to the [custodial] determination: first, what were the circumstances surrounding the interrogation; and second, given those circumstances, would a reasonable person have felt he or she was not at liberty to terminate the id. at pp. 401-402.) when a person placed in a patrol car is later removed from the car and questioned, as in this case, the issue is not whether the person was in custody while in the car, but whether he was in custody upon release from the vehicle before being questioned. (people v. thomas (2011) 51 cal.4th 449, 477.) credibility, if supported by substantial evidence. we independently determine from the undisputed facts and the facts properly found by the trial court whether the challenged (id. at p. 476) 7 under this authority, we conclude teran was not in custody when questioned outside the patrol car by the detective. teran voluntarily spoke to the deputies upon their arrival at the scene. he then was placed in the patrol car for his safety and to secure the scene while the deputies searched for the shooter and the gun used to kill galaz, a search that continued for a number of hours because the deputies did not find either the shooter or the weapon. teran was not handcuffed or otherwise restrained while in the car, nor had he been searched before entering the vehicle. after arriving at the scene, the detective allowed teran to exit the vehicle and told him that he was not under arrest. standing with teran by the back of the patrol car, the detective asked teran whether he had witnessed the shooting and what he was doing when the shooting occurred. teran told the detective essentially the same version that he had relayed to the deputies, namely, that he had been cleaning a downstairs apartment and using a hose with water when he heard a loud blast. the detective placed teran back in the patrol car so that he could allowing teran to exit the patrol car before questioning him, the lack of restraint, the would not have believed that he was under arrest or in a situation tantamount thereto. the length of time teran was detained in the patrol car simply was a result of the time the detective arrived on the scene and the need for the deputies to secure the area while they searched for the shooter and the weapon, not an indication, as teran contends, that he was in custody when released from the vehicle. in any case, even if teran should have been informed of his miranda rights before being questioned outside of the patrol car, the trial courstatements was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (see people v. thomas, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 498 [miranda error not reversible if harmless beyond a reasonable stantially the same as those he gave to the deputies shortly after the shootingstatements that teran does not contend 8 would not have altered the evidence before the jury, which still would have heard that, at the scene of the shooting, teran said that he had been cleaning a downstairs apartment and using a hose for water when the shooting occurred about midnight on july 19, 2010. c. teran also contends the trial court should have suppressed his statements to the he had invoked his miranda rights earlier that day and did not change his mind and waive them before speaking to the detectives. again, we disagree. a suspect invoking the right to counsel under miranda must do so davis v. united states (1994) 512 u.s. 452, 459.) if a suspect makes an ambiguous or equivocal statement concerning the right to counsel, or makes no statement, detectives need not end the interrogation or ask clarifying questions as to whether the suspect is choosing to waive miranda rights. (id. at pp. 461-462.) in other if a suspect makes a reference to an attorney that is ambiguous or equivocal in that a reasonable officer in light of the circumstances would have understood only that the suspect might be invoking the right to counsel, our precedents do not require the cessation of questioning. [cid. at p. 459.) lawyer could be present was not an unambiguous invocation of the right to counsel. earlier that day, teran had told detectives that he did not wish to speak to them, but later summoned them to return to the station to talk to him. although in speaking with the teran that he had the opportunity to give his version of the shooting, teran did not stop talking or indicate that he chose not to proceed with the conversation when the detectives told him counsel could not be present at that time. on the contrary, he was undeterred by ounsel could not be present if he wished to speak with them as he had requested: teran asked the detectives if they were ready and then launched into his version of the shooting. at no time during the conversation did teran 9 stop and inform the detectives that he wanted counsel. indeed, he referred to counsel during the remainder of the interview only once and only after he had related his version statements to detectives while at the station on july 19, 2010. 2. the trial court, relying on the coconspirator exception to the hearsay rule, not contest the existence of a conspiracy between him and the shooter, he maintains that exception to the hearsay rule under evidence code section 1223 because no evidence demonstrated that the statement was made in furtherance of their conspiracy. we disagree. although hearsay evidence generally is inadmissible (evid. code,  1200), vidence of a statement offered against a party is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule if: [] (a) the statement was made by the declarant while participating in a conspiracy to commit a crime or civil wrong and in furtherance of the objective of that conspiracy; [] (b) the statement was made prior to or during the time that the party was participating in that conspiracy; and [] (c) the evidence is offered either after admission of evidence sufficient to sustain a finding of the facts specified in subdivisions (a) and (b) e admission of such persons, with specific intent, to achieve an unlawful objective, coupled with an overt act by one of the conspirators to further the conspiracy. [citation.] the conspiracy itself apply to statements by coconspirators. [citations.] further, only prima facie evidence of a conspiracy is required to permit the trial court to admit evidence under evidence code 10 section 1223; the conspiracy may be shown by circumstantial evidence and the agreement may be inferred from the conduct of the defendants mutually carrying out a common purpose in violation of a penal statute. [citati (people v. gann (2011) 193 cal.app.4th 994, 1005-conspiracy depends on an analysis of the totality of the facts and circumstances in the people v. hardy (1992) 2 cal.4th 86, 146admission of evidence under evidence code section 1223 for abuse of discretion. (people v. sanders (1995) 11 cal.4th 475, 516.) evening of july 18, 2010 before the shooting and informed him that they were feuding during thim to bring a gun for the purpose of dealing with galaz, the statement was in furtherance of to teran, his coconspirator, it nonetheless did further the conspiracy. the statement, made and assured teran that the shooter was on board with the plan. indeed, during the same teran and the shooter would take care of galaz. (people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th furtherance of conspiracy as trial court could reasonably conclude that it reassured other conspirators of his participation]; people v. luparello (1986) 187 cal.app.3d 410, 448- 11 3. teran is not entitled to reversal of the judgment on the ground that the trial court failed to instruct the jury on heat of passion voluntary manslaughter the trial court instructed the jury on self-defense as a defense to murder and voluntary manslaughter based on imperfect self-defense. teran did not request, and indeed informed the court that he did not want, instructions on the lesser included offense of voluntary manslaughter based on heat of passion. nevertheless, on appeal, teran maintains that, despite his representations at trial, the court erred by failing to instruct the jury sua sponte on voluntary manslaughter based on heat of passion. we need not decide whether the evidence warranted such an instruction because any error was both invited and harmless. (see people v. horning (2004) 34 cal.4th 871, 904-907.) included offense as a basis on which to reverse a conviction when, for tactical reasons, the defendant persuades a trial court not to instruct on a lesser included offense supported by the evidence. [citations.] in that situation, the doctrine of invited error bars the defendpeople v. horning, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 905; see also people v. barton [regarding instruction on a lesser included offense], the defendant may not argue on appeal that in doing so the court committed prejudicial error, thus requiring a reversal of unsel the opportunity to put on the record any requests for or objections to instructions that had ssed and you were going [calcrim] 522 [provocation effecting the degree of murder] or [calcrim] 570 [voluntary manslaughter based on heat of passion as a lesser included offense to considered decision not to have the jury instructed on voluntary manslaughter based on heat of passion. the court and counsel discussed the instructions in conference, counsel 12 took time to consider whether he wanted the court to give them and then told the court objection to the proposed instruction was more than mere unconsidered achorning, at p. 905; see also people v. hardy, supra, 2 cal.4th at p. 184.) voluntary manslaughter based on heat of passion. in any case, if n a noncapital case, error in failing sua sponte to instruct, or to instruct fully, on all lesser included offenses and theories thereof which are supported by the evidence must be reviewed for prejudice exclusively under [people v.] watson. a conviction of the charged offense may be reversed in consequence ined people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 178, citing people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) teran maintained that the killing of galaz was justifiable self-defense. he argued that the jury could not convict him of murder, and the court instructed on voluntary manslaughter based on imperfect self-in self-once the jury rejected [tera-defense, there was little if any independent evidence remaining to support [a] further claim that he killed in the heat of passion, and no direct testimonial evidence from [teran] himself to support an inference that he subjectively harbored such strong passion, or acted rashly or impulsively while under its influence for reasons unrelated to his perceived need for self-people v. moye (2009) 47 cal.4th 537, 557.) on the contrary, the evidence established that teran summoned the shooter to his apartment, asked the shooter to bring a gun and told to such an extent as would cause the ordinarily reasonable person of average disposition to act rashly and 13 id. at p. 550 [subjective prong of voluntary manslaughter that his actions toward galaz were necessary to protect him from galaz and found that the jury having rejected the factual basis for the claims of reasonable and unreasonable self-defense, it is not reasonably probable the jury would have found the requisite objective component of a heat of passion defense (legally sufficient provocation) even id. at pp. 550, 557 [to satisfy objective prong of voluntaconduct must be sufficiently provocative that it would cause an ordinary person of average disposition to act rashly or without due deliberation and reflection].) in other words, having found that teran did not act in reasonable or unreasonable self-defense, it is not likely the jury would have concluded that teran acted with the passion required to provoke a reasonable person to act rashly under the circumstances. thus, it is not reasonably probable that teran would have received a more favorable outcome had the trial court instructed the jury on voluntary manslaughter based on heat of passion. 4. judgment during trial, the constituted ineffective assistance of counsel because the trial court would have sustained amendment right to refuse to consent to the search as evidence of consciousness of guilt. we disagree that teran has established ineffective assistance of counsel. duct so undermined the proper functioning of the adversarial process that 14 conviction or death sentence has two components. first, the defendant must show that by the sixth amendment. second, the defendant must show that the deficient performance deprive the defendant of a fair trial, a trial whose result is reliable. unless a defendant makes both showings, it cannot be said that the conviction or death sentence resulted in re valdez uired showings, al errors, the result of the proceeding would have been different. a reasonable probability is a probability strickland on. instead, the question is ibid.) those rare instances where there of counsel generally must be raised in a petition for writ of habeas corpus based on matters outside the record on appeal. [citations.] the rule is particularly apt when the to object is inherently tactical, and the failure to object will rarely establish ineffective (people v. salcido (2008) 44 cal.4th 93, 172.) although generally testimony from a police officer that a defendant refused to consent to a search is inadmissible (people v. wood (2002) 103 cal.app.4th 803, 807-le tactical reason for failing to object 15 consent to a search of his apartment. at the time the people elicited the testimony from the detective, the jury already had detectives while in custody on july 19, 2010. during that interview, which teran initiated, he admitted that he had refused permission for the detectives to search his apartment and explained that he had ft and hid the gun behind. so i had a fear of that. where did he to consent to a search of his apartment when the people elicited that testimony from the police detecti2 5. the judgment must be modified to include a court security fee and a court facilities assessment at sentencing, the trial court mentioned a court security fee, but imposition of the fee is not reflected in the minute order from the sentencing hearing or in the abstract of judgment. the court did not impose a court facilities assessment. imposition of a $30 court security fee, pursuant to section 1465.8, subd. (a)(1), and a $30 court facilities assessment, pursuant to government code section 70373, subdivision (a)(1), is mandatory after a conviction. (people v. woods (2010) 191 cal.app.4th 269, 272.) 2 in his reply brief, teran contends that admission of his own statements regarding the search was error as well and thus that his trial counsel could not have had a tactical search. teran, however, cites no authority suggesting he refused permission to search always is inadmissible, and the authority on which he does rely relates only to the testimony of a police detective, in no way foreclosing admission of evidence from the defendant himself. 16 to include a $30 court security fee and a $30 court facilities assessment. (see people v. mitchell (2001) 26 cal.4th 181, 186-187.) disposition the judgment is modified to include a court security fee of $30 and a court facilities assessment of $30. as modified, the judgment is affirmed. the trial court is directed to forward a copy of the corrected abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published. rothschild, acting p. j. we concur: chaney, j. johnson, j. 