filed 4/10/12 p. v. pierson ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff, v. kathryn elise pierson, defendant; american surety co. et al., real parties in interest and appellants. b235886 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sa076928) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, elden s. fox, judge. affirmed. nunez & bernstein and e. alan nunez for appellant american surety company. no appearance on behalf of plaintiff. no appearance on behalf of defendant. 2 i. introduction der pursuant to penal code,1 section 1300, subdivision (b) directing the return of a bail bond premium to defendant, kathryn elise pierson. we affirm. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in ruling the bail agent, aqeel muhammad bail bonds (mr. muhammad), lacked good cause to surrender defendant to the authorities. ii. procedural and factual matters on january 19, 2011, mr. muhammad posted bail bond no. as25-194904 in the ion 496, subdivision (a). defendant paid a $2,000 premium for the bond. mr. muhammad also y 27, 2011, mr. muhammad had defendant arrested and surrendered to the los angeles on august 17, 2011, defendant appeared in court after being surrendered by mr. muhammad. defendant explained to the court that she and her brother had the same bail agent. defendant was before the court because mr. muhammad took her into custody while looking for her brother. this was because mr. muhammad said she was a flight risk. defendant found a different company to post a bond for her release. defendant indicated that she was about to complete community service and her case was scheduled for dismissal on september 13, 2011. the trial court then asked defendant if mr. muhammad had returned her premium following her arrest and surrender to the authorities. the trial court asked whether mr. muhammad had filed an exoneration motion. the trial court subsequently stated, 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 the status of the first bond from mr. muhammad. the trial court told defendant, mr. muhammad appeared. the trial court stated to mr. very close to referring this for criminal charges, so i want to find out exactly what surrendered [defendant], and the reasons that [defendant] provided to the court were onlypierson, and she is basically the guarantor of both sureties. [] [the bail agent] has reasonable cause to believe that ms. brother, and . . . i believe the twelfth section in the bail agreement indicates that when the guarantor signs the application for surety, they must provide the bail bondsmen with proof of address and address change and phone number change. [] for a period of two monthsor a period of one month since july 2nd when . . . to appear to court, [the bail agent] and his agents have made several attempts to contact ms. vera pierson on the phone number and the address provided. they have been very unsuccessful. basically, ms. pierson has disappeared and moved and not provided [the bail agent] with any infor the trial court asked if mr. ms. pierson, could not be located. ms. the trial court then addressed defendant and the fowhat address did your mother live? [] the defendant: 550 west regent. . . . [] the court: how long has she resided at that location? the defendant: she just moved . . . in the weekend . . . before the arrest. [] the court: . . . so this is a recent move? [] the defendant: yes. she moved in the saturday or sunday . . . before they took me into custody. [] the court: . . . and did your mother notify the bonding agent as to her new address? [] the de 4 her residence. the bond surrender form states defendant was arrested at 4535 west regent residence. of $70,000 to $75,000. when she was detained, defendant described what she was told: mother signed for company, and sexplain the trial court stated mr. the claim ms. muhammad responded that he had tried to contact ms. pierson. he tried to update the information because someone at her apartment building said they saw her moving. ms. pierson did not notify the apartment building management she was moving out. mr. muhammad s pierson. but mr. muhammad said he could not verify that it was ms. ms. pierson would not give out any information such as a telephone number. mr. guarantor under the bond. the trial court asked whether the bond had been exonerated. mr. muhammad explained that he believed the bond was automatically exonerated after he surrendered defendant. the trial court explained that mr. muhammad should file an exoneration motion because there were two bonds on the same case number. ms. movsesian subsequently argued that mr. muhammad had reasonable cause to surrender defendant based on ms. 5 mr. muhammad did not have to return the premium. the trial court indicated ms. movsesian was correct but was concerned about what had occurred. the trial court distressed about is the fact that this young lady who had the case pending is in the process of essentially having this case dismissed once she completes certain conditions, and she has now been required to avoid reincarceration spending another $2,000 wishe could have been surrendered to the court. she could have been surrendered and the and i probably wo to send you downtown and instructed defendant to call the new bonding company, bad boy bail bonds, and asked if her premium could be returned as it would release her on her own recognizance. the trial court then advised mr. muhammad to file an exoneration motion by friday, august 19, 2011. the trial court stated the bond would be exonerated and mr. muhammad would be charged fees. on august 19, 2011, mr. muhammad filed the exoneration motion. the trial court initially granted the exoneration motion on condition of a payment $1,000 in costs muhammad asked the basis for the assessment of penalties. the trial court responded that they were pursuant to the iness mr. muhammad pursuant to [section] 1300, subdivision (b), rather than imposing the costs that i intend to impose, i am finding that there was not good cause for surrendering the defendant on the bond as 6 identified, and that is 26as25194904. defendant . . . made all appearances, no failures to appear. i order you to return the entire premium of $2,000 to the defendant and/or depositor or the individual who paid the premium. you have 30 days to do that, sir. [] mr. -- [] the court: now go down and complain to judge trial court entered the order consistent with its oral pronouncements. the surety filed this timely appeal. iii. discussion section of their undertaking, or deposit by a third person, the bail or the depositor may surrender the defendant in their exoneration, . . . to surrender a defendant at any time with or without cause. (indiana lumbermens mutual ins. co. v. alexander (2008) 167 cal.app.4th 1544, 1547; people v. lexington national ins. co. (2007) 147 cal.app.4th 1192, 1198.) however, section 1300, subdivision (b) states that, if the surrender is without good cause, the trial court may exercise its discretion to order tsubdivision (a), if the court determines that good cause does not exist for the surrender of a defendant who has not failed to appear or has not violated any order of the court, it may, in its discretion, order the bail or the depositor to return to the defendant or other person who has paid the premium or any part of it, all of the money so paid or any part of indiana lumbermens mutual ins. co. v. alexander, supra, 167 cal.app.4th at p. 1547.) remedy against potential abuse by a bondsperson of the broad power to surrender a defendant and terminate liability prior to forfeiture. (people v. smith (1986) 182 cal.app.3d 1212, 1217; see also kiperman v. klenshetyn (2005) 133 cal.app.4th 934, 939.) in smithsubdivision (b), a defendant surrendered without good cause had no realistic remedy 7 agapeople v. smith, supra, 182 cal.app.3d at p. 1217; see also indiana lumbermens mutual ins. co. v. alexander, supra, 167 cal.app.4th at p. 1547.) section 1300, subdivision (b) sets forth two factors reasons the trial court may determine good cause exists in the exercise of its discretion. (people v. smith, supracause determination must be made on a case-by- case basis. (id. at p. 1217.) the surety argues the trial court abused its discretion in ordering the premium returned to defendant. the surety argues the premium was earned as a matter of law and there was good cause to surrender defendant. we address the latter point first and conclude it was not an abuse of discretion for the trial court to find mr. muhammad lacked good cause to surrender defendant. the trial court found defendant had made all her court appearances and had not failed to appear. indeed, defendant was days away from completing court ordered programs when she was taken into custody and surrendered by mr. muhammad. because of the surrender, defendant had to pay another except as to ms. rather, the flight issue arose in connection with ms. terms required defendant and ms. pierson to notify mr. muhammad of address and telephone changes. the bail agents arrested defendant in her home. defendant then cooperated with the bail agents in locating ms. pierson. defendant took the bail agents to ms. pierson. in some unspecified fashion, ms. pierson failed to cooperate with the bail agents in connection with her son. this occurred while defendant was detained. after this alleged lack of cooperation vis--vis her brother, defendant was surrendered to the authorities. the surety has failed to demonstrate that the trial court abused its discretion in finding no good cause existed concerning the flight risk of defendant in this matter. 8 could rationally find no good cause was present within the meaning of section 1300, surety concedes, the return of the premium is subject to the no good cause determination. ( 1300, subd. (b).) our view is that it was inappropriate for the trial court to threaten mr. muhammad write a declaration which would affect mr. superior court were unwarranted. (cal. code jud. ethics, canon 3(d)(1); see cassim v. allstate ins. co. (2004) 33 cal.4th 780, 791, fn. 2.) that being said, the surety has raised no bias based contentions and giveabuse of discretion occurred. iv. disposition the order under review is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports turner, p. j. we concur: armstrong, j. kriegler, j. 