filed 11/19/12 p. v. lucien ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jaron deandre lucien, defendant and appellant. b235869 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba 372640) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, kathleen kennedy, judge. affirmed. richard m. doctoroff, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and thomas c. hsieh, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 jaron deandre lucien appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial that resulted in his conviction of second degree robbery; findings of true by the jury on the criminal street gang and firearm allegations; and court findings that he had suffered a prior serious felony that also qualified as a strike under the three strikes law.1 he was sentenced to prison for the total term of 35 years, consisting of the five-year upper term, doubled to 10 years based on his strike, plus the 10-year gang enhancement, the 10-year personal firearm use enhancement and the five-year prior serious felony enhancement.2 appellant contends the trial court erred in denying his request to appoint an expert to challenge the eyewitness identification and thereby deprived him of effective assistance of counsel and due process of law. he challenges the gang enhancement on the grounds of insufficient evidence; admission of a photograph of inflammatory gang tattoos; and improper jury instruction on motive. he contends imposition of a 35-year sentence for an armed robbery during which no one was injured violates the bar against cruel and unusual punishment (u.s. const., 8th amend.). successful and affirm the judgment. background we review the evidence, both direct and circumstantial, in light of the entire record and must indulge in favor of the judgment all presumptions as well as every logical inference that the jury could have drawn from the evidence. (people v. maury (2003) 30 1 the trial court also found true the prior prison term allegation, which the court later struck prior to sentencing. 2 all statutory section references are to those of the penal code unless otherwise true pursuant to . . s incorrect. we deem the people v. harrison (2005) 35 cal.4th 208, 226 [correct record depends on circumstances].) that transcript reflects the court found true the alleged prior serious felony allegation under section 667, subdivision (a)(1) and the prior prison term allegation under section 667.5, subdivision (b). in finding true the prior strike allegation, the court did not identify any specific statute. this is inconsequential in view of the fact the operative information alleged appellant suffered the prior strike under sections 1170.12, subdivisions (a) through (d) and section 667, subdivisions (b) through (i), namely, the three strikes law. 3 cal.4th 342, 396; see also people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1114, 1156; people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206.) on june 7, 2010, about 8:30 a.m., appellant, followed by codefendant christian chan (chan),3 entered a cigarette store on slauson and vermont avenues in los angeles. appellant asked proprieter mohamed khadir for cigarettes, pulled out a gun from his chan forced khadir to the back of the store where appellant pushed him to the ground. the appellant walmouth before he and chan left. in addition to the box with money, appellant and chan also took away 30 cartons of cigarettes. the police arrived and retrieved video footage from several store surveillance cameras. video footage was played to the jury. on june 8, 2010, the police arrested appellant and chan. ana chan (ana),4 mother, told los angeles police department officer everado amarado that on june 7, 2010, about 7:30 a.m., after receiving a phone call, chan went outside the house. ana saw a gray ford explorer duane henderson. appellant was the rear passenger. the police recovered a .32-caliber at trial 3 in the joint trial, the jury also found chan guilty of second degree robbery and returned true findings on the gang and principal use allegations. chan is not a party to this appeal. 4 in re marriage of smith (2007) 148 cal.app.4th 1115, 1118, fn. 1.) 4 the nickname of duane henderson, also a member of that gang. burke also opined the robbery was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang. appellant did not present any affirmative evidence. robert freeman, a former los robbery could have been committed for personal gain rather than to benefit the gang. discussion 1. denial of identification expert request not abuse or error appellant contends he was deprived of effective assistance of counsel and due process of law, because the trial court erred in refusing to appoint an expert to challenge the eyewitness identification evidence. no abuse or error transpired. appellant filed an ex parte pretrial motion in pro. per. for appointment of an identification expert. in an ueyewitness identification expert . . . to substantiate the defense claim of mistaken as the fadetail at an ex-parte chambers hearing . . . on a confidential basis because i may need to at the open court hearing, the trial court indicated that its intent was to read prosecudepicting appellant and chan robbing the store. appellant explained the reason for his -t whether appellant was depicted in the video. appellant argued there was awhether there was a camera. after the prosecutor confirmed appellant had access to the 5 video, the court told appellant he was not entitled to an identification expert if the prosecution had someone who looked like him on film. the court took the matter under submission. tment of an identification expert in the court noted the objection for the r in a later pro. per. ex parte pretrial motion, appellant requested the trial court appoint potentia at the open court hearing, the trial court denied the motion, noting the court already had denied his previous motion. an expert remains within the sound discretion people v. hurley of discretion. (people v. sanders (1995) 11 cal.4th 475, 507, 508.) in this instance, no abuse transpired. in people v. mcdonald (1984) 37 cal.3d 351, our supreme court held, in an appropriate case, it would be error to exclude expert testimony concerning eyewitness identification. (id. at p. 377, disapproved on another point in people v. mendoza (2000) 23 cal.4th 89on psychological factors affecting eyewitness identification remains primarily a matter ibid.idence will defendant is a key element of the prosecution's case but is not substantially corroborated by 6 evidence giving it independent reliability, and the defendant offers qualified expert testimony on specific psychological factors shown by the record that could have affected the accuracy of the identification but are not likely to be fully known to or understood by the jury, it will ordinarily be error to exclude that ibid.) corroborated by the independently reliable surveillance video of the robbery. second, the record does not reflect any offer by appellant of specific psychological factor(s) which sufficiently beyond common experience that an expert would assist the trier of fact (evid. code,  801, subd. (a)). as noted by the trial court, it is for the jury, as the trier of fact, to determine whether a specific individual in the video is or is not appellant.5 additionally, aidentification during cross-examination. through counsel,6 this witness was thoroughly examined as to his ability to perceive; any uncertainty of identification; his failure to make a positive photographic identification; and his emotional state at the time of the offenses. in his motions, appellant did not set forth any reason why such a procedure would not be adequate, and as the events unfolded during trial, no particular indicia arose that would support the conclusion a defense identification expert would have been crucial. the trial court therefore did not abuse its discretion by concluding that this was not an appropriate factual situation requiring the appointment of an identification expert. 2. gang enhancement supported by substantial evidence appellant contends the gang enhancement is unsupported by the evidence, because 5 black man depicted in [the] videos and prints, admitt 6 appellant relinquished his pro per status and counsel was appointed to represent him. 7 on arrests rather than convictions, and as such, was based on conclusion rather than evidence. we disagree. substantial evidence supports this gang-related finding. the substantial evidence standard of review applies to a gang enhancement finding. we therefore examine the entire record in the light most favorable to this finding to determine whether substantial evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value supports the gang enhancement finding. (people v. augborne (2002) 104 cal.app.4th 362, 371; in re lincoln j. (1990) 223 cal.app.3d 322, 330-331.) the jury found true the gang enhancement allegation in the operative information. gang -enhancement provision ( 186.22, subd. (b)), the trier of fact must find that one of the alleged criminal street gang's primary activities is the commission of one or more of certain crimes listed in the gang stapeople v. sengpadychith (2001) 26 cal.4th 316, 322 (sengpadychith).) two of these enumerated  186.22, subd. (e)(1) & (2).) 186.22 is admissible to establish the statutorily required primary activities of the alleged sengpadychith, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. ibid.) sconsistently and repeatedly have committed criminal id. at p. 324.) elements of a gang enhancement may be proven by a combination of documentary evidence, percipient witness testimony, and expert opinion testimony. (people v. gardeley (1996) 14 cal.4th 605, 626.) moreover, he testimony of a gang expert, founded on his or her conversations with gang members, personal investigation of crimes committed by gang members, and information obtained from colleagues in his or her own and other law enforcement agencies, may be sufficient to prove a primary activitiespeople v. duran (2002) 97 cal.app.4th 1448, 1465.) 8 substantial evidence of the requisite primary activities committed by the 67 committed the charged gang-related robbery. burke testified during the course of his duties, he investigated robberies and gun charges, which were several of the primary activities of that gang. burke also testified that in his opinion anytime two gang members committed a crime, which would include robbery, it was a gang-related offense. case no. (lasc no.) ba345599, reflects avery lamar white was convicted of committing assault with a firearm ( 245, subd. (a)(2)) on august 27, 2008. burke testified that he assisted in the underlying investigation and knew white and that white was an active nute order in lasc no. ba342303, reveals roderick johnson was convicted of this same offense on june 16, 2008, burke testified that he was the arresting officer and at the time, johnson was an active member of the 67 neighborhood crips. additionally, in finding robbery was a primary activity of the 67 neighborhood crips, the jury was entitled to take into account appellant and chan, both active members of that gang, had committed the robbery on june 7, 2010. burke testified june 7, which might be written 3. admission of challenged gang tattoo photograph not prejudicial appellant contends the gang finding must be reversed, because exhibit 21, a photograph of gang-related tattoos on his body, was unduly inflammatory. we disagree. 7 7 -related tattoos. 9 prosecutor argued the challenged tattoos were the most prominent on his body indicating his indicative of the primary activities of the gang[,] and putting them on his [body] shows his commitment to the gang, his commitment to the gang lifestyle, his knowledge and his intent the prosecutor clarified the expert would testify the gang had many attempted murders but he was unaware of any murder convictions. after noting appellant placed the tattoos on himself, the court overruled the objection the court also overruled the objection the tattoos should be excluded as cumulative. trial courts are vested with direction in determining the admissibility of evidence people v. ochoa (2001) 26 cal.4th 398, 437-438 (ochoa), disapproved on another ground by people v. prieto (2003) 30 cal.4th 226, 263, fn. 14.) the trial court here did not abuse its discretion in admitting exhibit 21 in view of the highly probative value of the challenged tattoos. (ochoa, supra, 26 cal.4th at pp. 437-438.) appel-related photographs people v. valdez (2012) 55 cal.4th 82, 134; see also people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 62 [gang-related body tattoos probative of attack as gang-, not family-, related].) exhibit 21 was damaging but not prejudicial. evidence code section 352 applies to evidence which uniquely tends to evoke an emotional bias against the defendant as an individual and which has very little effect on ] 10 people v. doolin prejudicial because of the substantial likelihood the jury will use it for an illegitimate ibid.) appellant contends the trial court erred by giving conflicting instructions on whether motive is or is not an element of the gang enhancement, namely: calcrim nos. 370, 1401, and 1403. his contention is without merit. initially, we point out the gang enhancement statute requires that the defendant intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang people v. morales (2003) 112 benefit therefore is an element of the gang enhancement. motive is not. in this regard, appellant confuses apples with oranges. a plain reading of calcrim nos. 370, 1401, and 1403, whether viewed singularly, in combination, or all together, reflect these instructions cannot be understood to require the jury to consider the existence or nonexistence of motive in determining the truth of the gang enhancement allegation. as appellant acknowledges, the trial court properly gave calcrim no. 370, which directed the jury the prosecution need not prove appellant harbored a motive to commit the charged crime. motive, or lack of motive, may be a factor in determining whether the defendant is guilty or not guilty of the charge.8 8 the defendant had a motive to commit the crime charged. in reaching your verdict you may, however, consider whether the defendant had a motive. [] having a motive may be a factor tending to show that the defendant is guilty. not having a motive may be a factor tending to show the defendant is not guilty. 11 calcrim no. 1403 clearly distinguishes between motive as to the charged crime and intent as to the gang enhancement. no. 1403 specifically provides gang evidence may be considered in determining whether the defendant had a motive to commit the charged crime(s) but does not address motive in the gang enhancement context. rather, no. 1403 provides gang evidence may be considered to determine whether the defendant acted with -related enhancement.9 people v. samaniego (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 1148, 1166, 1167-1168.) calcrim no. 1401, in pertinent part, instructed the jury to determine whether appellant committed the charged crime for the benefit of, or in association with, a criminal street gang and whether, in so doing, he intended to assist, further or promote criminal conduct by gang members.10 no. 1401 does not in any away address motive. in support of his position reversal for instructional error is required, appellant relies on people v. maurer (1995) 32 cal.app.4th 1121 (maurer) and people v. cameron (1994) 30 cal.app.4th 591 (cameron). his reliance is misplaced, because these cases are factually inapplicable. in people v. hillhouse (2002) 27 cal.4th 469, our supreme court explained in maurer647.6. the [trial] court found that, although motive is not generally an element of a 9 activity only for the limited purpose of deciding whether: [] the defendant acted with the intent, purpose, and knowledge that are required to prove the gang-related enhancements and[/]or [] the defendant had a motive to commit the crime charged 10 defendant guilty of the crime charged [robbery], you must then decide whether the people have proved the additional allegation that the defendant committed that crime for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang. [] to prove this allegation, the people must prove that: [] 1. the defendant committed the crime for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang; [] and [] 2. (italics added.) 12 did have a motive as an element -- an unnatural or abnormal sexual interest. [citation.] thus the court found the instructions contradictory, and thereby erroneous. [citation.] this case is distinguishable. here, although malice and intent or purpose to steal were elements of the offenses, motive id. at p. 504.) similarly, as discussed above, motive is not an element of the gang enhancement. in cameron, the court held the trial court committed reversible error in instructing the jury that voluntary intoxication was not a defense to a general intent crime, because v]oluntary intoxication is material to a finding of implied malice where that is an element of second degree murdercameron, supra, 30 cal.app.4th at p. 599.) the court found the instruction to be an incorrect statement of the law and that it conflicted with other instructions. (id. at p. 600 & fn. 4.) cameron is of no comfort to appellant, because in this matter, the challenged instructions are not conflicting. 5. 35-year sentence not cruel and unusual punishment appellant contends imposition of a 35-year sentence for an armed robbery during which no one was injured violates the bar against cruel and unusual punishment (u.s. const., 8th amend.). no constitutional infirmity exists under these circumstances. appellant fails to demonstrate his sentence is grossly disproportionate to his punishment. at sentencing, the trial court stated it had read and considered both the on active parole at the time of this crime and offered appellant the opportunity to address the court, which he declined. the evidence established that during the robthat would take him outside the spirit of three strikes law or warrant a lesser sentence for his violent gang-related robbery. accordingly, a prison sentence of 35 years, consisting of the five-year upper term, doubled to 10 years for his strike, plus the 10-year gang enhancement, the 10-year personal firearm use enhancement, and the mandatory five-year prior serious felony e 13 lockyer v. andrade (2003) 538 u.s. 63, 73, 77 [grossly disproportionality principle applicable only in life for petty theft with prior].) appellant committed the robbery at age 28 and was not sentenced to a life term. his reliance therefore is misplaced on graham v. florida (2010) ___ u.s. ___ [130 s.ct. 2011, 2017-2018, 2034] (life without possibility of parole imposed on defendant under age 18 for nonhomicide offense) and people v. caballero (2012) 55 cal.4th 262, 265, 268 (110-year-to-life sentence for juv disposition the judgment is affirmed. flier, acting p. j. we concur: grimes, j. sortino, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 