filed 3/18/13 p. v. manouk ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. rafik manouk, defendant and appellant. b235310 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga081392) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, teri schwartz, judge. affirmed. elizabeth garfinkle, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and robert c. schneider, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury convicted appellant rafik manouk of one count of second degree robbery in violation of penal code section 211.1 the jury also found true the allegation, made pursuant to section 1203.09, subdivision (f), that the victim was over 60 years of age. appellant was tried with a codefendant, who was also convicted of second degree robbery, and in addition was convicted of a second count of robbery as to a different victim on a different date.2 the trial court sentenced appellant to state prison for the low base term of two years. appellant contends on appeal that the trial court erred by failing to instruct the (1) evidence introduced at trial pertaining to an uncharged robbery (of which codefendant was convicted), and (2) an adoptive admission made by the codefendant. we are not persuaded by these contentions and therefore affirm the judgment. factual background i. the september 28, 2010 robbery on september 28, 2010, 74-year-old nagshoon safarloo was standing on a street necklace and yanked it from her, then ran away with the necklace. safarloo saw him enter the white van, but she could not see the driver. van pulling up, sarkisyan getting out of it and moving out of view, then running back 1 all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 appellant was originally charged with the second robbery (count 2) along with the codefendant, but that count was dismissed before trial as to appellant. 3 toward the van moments later. when later apprehended, codefendant sarkisyan was shown the video by police and he admitted the man in the video was him. ii. the october 9, 2010 robbery, of which appellant was convicted on october 9, 2010, 65-year-old arax paghosyan was walking along a street in glendale. she saw sarkisyan exit a white panel van that had just driven up and parked on the street about four feet away from her. paghosyan saw the driver of the van, whom she later identified as appellant. sarkisyan approached her and hit her on the side, causing her to turn and drop to her knees. sarkisyan grabbed the gold necklace she was wearing and yanked it off of her. he got back into the van and appellant drove away at a high rate of speed. when the police arrived on the scene, paghosyan gave them a description of appellant and sarkisyan. motorcycle officer ryan gunn was one of the officers who responded to the dispatch call regarding a robbery involving a white panel van. he went to the scene of the robbery, but he left after seeing that other officers had already responded. he began searching the vicinity for suspects. about 10 to 15 minutes after paghosyan was robbed, officer gunn saw a white van in the vicinity and stopped it. appellant was the driver and sarkisyan the passenger. shortly thereafter, police officers transported paghosyan to the location where the white van had been stopped. before the officers said anything, paghosyan saw sarkisyan and appellant standing on the sidewalk and pointed them out to the officers as the men who robbed her. she said she recognized them and also the clothes they were wearing. she did not see the white van and the two men were not wearing handcuffs. upon being detained, appellant and sarkisyan initially were directed to sit on the curb some distance apart from one another. later, they were placed in the back of a sarkisyan then warned appellant they should not say anything because they might be . . they 4 brought and dropped us here for no reason. . . . homes. paghosyan identified both men at trial. discussion i. limiting instruction regarding evidence of the uncharged crime appellant contends the trial court erred by refusing to give the jury a limiting instruction regarding its use of evidence pertaining to the september 28 robbery with which appellant was not charged. he asserts the evidence was tantamount to evidence of an uncharged crime that the jury could erroneously use to conclude appellant had a propensity to commit crimes. as we will explain, assuming the instruction should have been given, we conclude that any alleged error was harmless. a. background both appellant and codefendant sarkisyan were originally charged with two counts of robbery, one occurring on october 9, 2010, involving victim paghosyan (count 1), and the second occurring on september 28, 2010, involving victim safarloo (count 2). prior to trial, appellant successfully moved to dismiss the second count as to him due to insufficient evidence linking him to the september 28 crime. at trial, appellant requested the following special instruction be given to the jury: september 28, 2010. evidence concerning the september 28, 2010 allegation was admitted only against gevork sarkisyan. [] in count 1, rafik manouk is charged with committing a robbery on or about october 9, 2010. [] in deciding whether the people have met their burden in proving the truth of the charge in count 1 against mr. manouk, 5 the trial court declined to give the special instruction because some facts appellant revidence to an uncharged offense, saying the prosecution would have to prove an uncharged offense by a preponderance of evidence in order to admit such evidence against him. the court september 28 incident did not constitute anything close to an uncharged crime and improper character evidence because there is no evidence connecting mr. manouk to the crime. but the van is what b. analysis assuming for the sake of argument that the court erred in not giving a limiting instruction, we conclude that any such error was harmless. there was ample evidence to the robbery on october 9. the manner in which appellant drove the van demonstrated assist sarkisyan in the commission of the crime: he drove up to paghosyan and stopped in close proximity to her and as soon as sarkisyan got back into the van, appellant sped away. the jury could reasonably infer from that evidence alone that appellant was aware of the plan to rob paghosyan and was a willing participant in executing the robbery. in addition, the jury was instunder these circumstances, it is not reasonably probable that defendant would have obtained a more favorable verdict had the jury been instructed as to the proper use of the evidence regarding the september 28 robbery. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 6 to his detriment is speculative, at best. ii. was the person in the video of the september 28 robbery is an adoptive admission as to which a limiting instruction was required. specifically, appellant contends that calcrim no. 357 was given; however, the bracketed portion of the instruction, that guilt, was requested but not given.3 we disagree. as respondent points out, sarkisyan may have made a direct, verbal admission. it was not an adoptive admission. it would have been if, for example, the police had said, discusses on appeal with regard to the purported instructional error. because it is not an adoptive admission, we conclude there was no error. 3 statement outside of court that (accused the defendant of the crime/[or] tended to connect the defendant with the commission of the crime) and the defendant did not deny it, you must decide whether each of the following is true: aturally have denied the statement if (he/she) thought it was not true; the defendant admitted the statement was true. defendant[s].] 7 statements to the police only against him, not against any other defendant. that he equivalent of the omitted language appellant contends should have been given. we conclude there was no instructional error in this regard. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports suzukawa, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. manella, j. 