filed 4/29/13 p. v. belmonte ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. daniel belmonte, defendant and appellant. b235868 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba379269) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, alex ricciardulli, judge. affirmed. rene paradis, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii and alene m. games, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________ 2 introduction defendant daniel belmonte appeals from a judgment of conviction entered after a jury trial. defendant was convicted of carjacking (pen. code,  215, subd. (a); count 1) and attempted second degree robbery (id.,  211, 664; count 2). in a bifurcated proceeding, defendant admitted the allegations that he had suffered a prior serious or violent felony conviction within the meaning of penal code sections 667, subdivisions (b) through (i), and 1170.12; a prior serious felony under penal code section 667, subdivision (a)(1); and four prison priors under penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b). defendant was sentenced to 26 years in state prison: the upper term of nine years as to the carjacking count, doubled as a second strike; plus 5 years for his prior serious felony conviction; plus three years for his prior prison terms.1 he was also sentenced to a concurrent three-year term on the attempted robbery count. on appeal, defendant challenges the admission of gang evidence and the facts a. prosecution on december 17, 2010, shortly after midnight, andres flores (flores) stopped for coffee at a donut shop near cesar chavez and evergreen avenues in boyle heights. as he returned to his vehicle, a ford expedition, a woman approached his passenger door and asked for a ride. flores declined. as flores put his keys in the ignition, he opened his car door to retrieve his cell phone in the pocket of the door. a man wearing a blue baseball cap, a light grey or white 1 the fourth prior prison term alleged was for the same conviction as the prior strike. 3 shirt, and baggy pants approached and demanded his money. the two men scuffled beside the vehicle for approximately ten seconds, when a second assailant approached. the second man was husky, with a shaved head and a mustache. during the fight, flores broke free and ran towards the middle of the street. the defendant as the second man. flores briefly chased the vehicle. he returned to the donut shop and called 911 from the payphone. flores had scratches on his neck and bruised and bleeding knuckles. los angeles police officer miguel ruano responded to the scene and interviewed flores. flores did not appear to be under the influence. flores stated that his vehicle was equipped with lojack. flores told the officer that the man who demanded money said he had a gun in his waistband, but flores never saw a gun. flores described both men as under six feet tall, and around 200 pounds. santa ana police officer daniel carrillo received the lojack alert. he and other officers located the expedition, pulled it over, and detained its occupants. defendant was driving the vehicle when it was pulled over. officer carrillo found a replica firearm in twelve hours after the carjacking, los angeles police detective juan gonzalez from any drugs. flores stated that the first attacker had patted his waistband, indicating that he was carrying a weapon, but flores never saw a weapon. flores was not able to identify anyone from several six-pack lineups. detective gonzalez investigated the four people who had been in the car when it was recovered, three male and one female. he feet, nine inches tall and weighed 230 pounds; silva was five feet, eight inches tall and weighed 200 pounds; and mcgill was five feet, seven inches tall and weighed 170 pounds. when flores recovered his vehicle, it contained a large black jacket, like the one the second man had been wearing. flores received his keys and cell phone, but was 4 missing his laptop and other files. flores initially testified that he believed the first man was a lot taller than the second person, around six feet tall, and weighed around 180 pounds. upon having his memory refreshed, he testified that the first assailant was five feet, ten inches tall and weighed about 210 pounds, with the second assailant five feet, eight inches tall and approximately 200 pounds. on cross-examination, flores stated he or eight inches tall) and the second assailant was shorter. on january 6, 2011, los angeles county deputy sheriff leonel gomez, a bailiff, was escorting defendant and his codefendant, mendoza, back to lockup after a court appearance. deputy gomez observed defendant passing some papers to mendoza. office. the pages ultimately were given to detective gonzalez. the five pieces of paper consisted of a four-page police report and a one-page hand-printed letter to mendoza from defendant. b. defense defendant testified that on december 17, 2010, he was partying at some apartments located on cesar chavez avenue and savannah street in boyle heights. defendant and about eight other men and women were drinking alcohol and smoking marijuana and methamphetamine. flores approached defendant and said he wanted to buy some methamphetamine. defendant sold him $20 worth. flores smoked the methamphetamine in back of the buildings and tried to flirt with mendoza. flores wanted to buy some more methamphetamine, but he did not have money. defendant wanted to buy a cexchange for more methamphetamine. while flores was waiting for the drugs, he left for the donut shop. defendant ultimately gave the methamphetamine to his friends, who were going to find flores. returned in the truck a few minutes later and were going to a walmart to buy a christmas 5 t decided they needed to return the truck to flores, but they were stopped by santa ana police officers before they were able to return the truck. when defendant was arrested, runk and planted it on him. defendant had seen flores in the neighborhood before and had even sold him how his friends had obtained the vehicle. the area where defendant was selling drugs was claimed by the michigan criminal force gang. when defendant belonged to the gang, it was known as the michigan chicano force gang. defendant was no longer active in the gang even though he had some gang tattoos. defendant indicated that he wrote the note to mendoza because he was unhappy with her statements to the police. he was not trying to convince mendoza to lie for him, but to tell the truth. c. rebuttal detective gonzalez interviewed defendant on december 17, 2011. the interview was recorded. defendant said three times during the interview that he did not know flores. defendant was asked about the gun that was recovered, but he never said it was for protection. defendant said flores handed him the car keys near the donut shop. the recorded interview was played for the jury. discussion a. admission of gang evidence defendant contends that the trial court abused its discretion in admitting evidence of gang affiliation when there was no gang allegation charged. 6 toy gun. the following occurred: now, when you say the area, you mean the one that we talked about on the photograph? yes. over there, cesar chavez and savannah? yes, yes. right. yes. okay. any other bad things happen over there that you know of? a lot of bad things happen, gang members passing by. that gun? for protection. to protect yourself? prior to the cross-examination of defendant, the prosecutor asked for a sidebar, as follows: for his cohort that was there, as well. he testified that the area is not a good area, that there are gang members there and he carries guns for protection, when in fact he is in a himself. i think for purposes of impeachment and for the jury to get the correct picture of that area and 7 inquire into that because the picture that has been painted for the jury at this point is that [defendant] is an innocent character that is just in a bad area, and he carries the gun, and he himself is involved in criminal activity as part of a street gang in that area. that area is occupied by his gang. they can steal yoinnocence there who was just trying to protect himself from predators, and there has not been one now or active or anything like that. i have nothing prepared in that sense at all or in that - the prosecutor started his cross-examination of defendant as follows: now, [defendant], you indicated on your direct examination that the area that is located in this area is an area that is trafficked by gang members; is that correct? yes. okay. it is an area a gang territory, correct? yes. okay. and what and you, sir, are part of a criminal street gang, correct? okay. you are a part of a street gang by the name of michigan criminal street gang; is that correct? no. okay. well, let me ask you this: you at one point were a michigan criminal street gang member, right? criminal force? 8 yes. and your testimony today is you are not an active gang member with this gang; is that correct? ear you. what? your testimony today is that you are not an active michigan criminal force street gang member? yes. december 17, 2010, were you an active member of the michigan criminal force street gang? after the inquiry, defense counsel requested a sidebar to discuss photographs of defendant that the prosecution would seek to introduce. the trial court ruled as follows: find out. active criminal street gang member at the time. we do have to keep in mind that there is no gang enhancement, so i am going to allow an inquiry with respect to this, but at some s arrested who was tattooed up with michigan criminal force. once again, i am going at some point. 9 active, he was working for homeboy industries, which, to my understanding, is a bakery, and so i think that i should be allowed to ask that thereafter, the jury was instructed that it could not consider any gang activity for any other purpose except for the limited testimony that he was not active in a gang was believable. the jury was also advised that the evidence should not be used to determine if defendant had bad character or was disposed to commit the crime.2 the trial court properly admits gang evidence when it is relevant to a material issue at trial. (people v. hernandez (2004) 33 cal.4th 1040, 1049; people v. martinez (2003) 113 cal.app.4th 400, 413.) it is not admissible when its only purpose is to prove people v. albarran (2007) 149 cal.app.4th at 214, 223; accord, evid. code,  1101, subd. (a).) assuming arguendo evidentiaerroneous under state law, results in a due process violation only if it makes the trial people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 439, italics omitted.) state law error in admitting evidence is subject to the traditional watson[3] test: the reviewing court must ask whether it is reasonably probably the verdict would have been more favorable to the defendant absent the error. id. at p. 439.) defendant has not persuaded us that the trial was fundamentally unfair. as discussed below, it is not reasonably probable the verdict would have been more favorable to the defendant absent any alleged error. 2 it is presumed that the jury understands and follows instructions. (people v. delgado (1993) 5 cal.4th 312, 331.) 3 people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836. 10 even under the more stringent chapman4 standard, we find no prejudicial error. the evidence against defendant was overwhelming, it is undisputed that defendant and unbelievable. the officers who interviewed flores indicated that he was not under the influence of drugs and was not inconsistent. at trial, he testified that flores lent him the vehicle in exchange for methamphetamine. this was the version he attempted to have mendoza use in his handwritten letter to her, contrary to her statements to the police. when defendant was interviewed after his arrest, he stated that he stayed at the party while his friends went to get the vehicle at the donut shop. the admission of the limited gang evidence at trial was not as prejudicial as the incident. in light of the compelling evidence against defendant and the limited admission of evidence concerning his gang involvement, reversal is not required. b. 5 ts, given during a police interview, violated his constitutional rights and rendered his trial fundamentally unfair. we disagree. mendoza, representing herself, received discovery from prosecution, including police reports. one police report summarized shop at cesar chavez and evergreen. lonely and curley [sic 4 chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 [87 s.ct. 824, 17 l.ed.2d 705] [constitutional error must be found harmless beyond a reasonable doubt to avoid reversal]. 5 codefendant mendoza pleaded no contest the day before the scheduled joint trial. 11 the victim approached her in the parking thought this was disrespectful. the victim was walking in[to] the shop as she looked in his vehicle and saw the keys. mendoza said she told chino that they should take the truck. there was an altercation, at which time she got in the left rear seat, chino got in the driver seat, lonely in the front passenger seat. they drove over to curly and picked him up. they then drove to the 710 freeway south to the eastbound 91 freeway then southbound 5 freeway. mendoza stated they got lost, but remembers passing disneyland. they stopped at an unknown gas station to get cigarettes, and she changed seats with lonely so that she could help navigate. mendoza said they observed the police following them, and that curly wanted to run. she told them to pull over because they would get caught by a police dog if they ran. mendoza said she saw the toy gun on the rear floor of the vehicle when she was seated in the back. she took a black cell phone that was in the front passenger door. she also remembers seeing a wallet. mendoza advised the phone was in her property taken by police. she denied being a gang member and stated that the other defendants were . . during a prior court appearance, defendant tried to hand several pages to mendoza statement, there was a one-page letter handwritten by defendant to mendoza, as follows: cops. your gonna say they told you what to say before going into that room where you know curly made you say that shit[.] he has something coming from me. anyways this is it. did you get my letter? ok me, curly, lonely, dee, steph and about -end and andres truck for a few hours for some meth. he propositioned but you said chale so he went to go smoke in the back of the apt. me[,] curly[,] you[,] lonely left. we were gonna get a xmas tree for me at wall mart [sic 12 letter during opening statements to the jury. the trial court overruled the objection, finding that defendant wrote the letter so it was admissible under evidence code section 1220 as an admission by a party. stated that he intended to confront defendant with the contents of the letter. the hearsay of what . . happened, but to explain why defendant wrote the letter to mendoza. -letter with him, he ments to the police in the police report that are about to be narrated are not to be accepted by the jury for the truth of the matter, that what she said is the way that the incident actually happened. it is to be considered only as evidence that the defendant tried to create false evidence or obtain with defendant. defendant indicated that the letter actually asked mendoza to tell the truth, and not lie about the incident. confrontation rights under people v. aranda (1965) 63 cal.2d 518 and bruton v. united states (1968) 391 u.s. 123 [88 s.ct. 1620, 20 l.ed.2d 476]. in aranda, the california supreme court held that when a prosecution intends to offer the extrajudicial statement of one defendant which incriminates a codefendant, the trial court must either grant separate trials, exclude the statement, or excise all references to the nondeclarant 13 defendant. (aranda, supra, at pp. 530-531.) under brutonof his sixth amendment right of confrontation when the facially incriminating [statement] of a nontestifying codefendant is introduced at their joint trial, even if the jury people v. mitcham (1992) 1 cal.4th 1027, 1045, quoting from richardson v. marsh (1987) 481 u.s. 200, 207 [107 s.ct. 1702, 95 l.ed.2d 176].) bruton claim lacks merit. bruton severed or, as in the instant case, pleads no contest before trial. (people v. richardson bruton and its progeny provide that if the prosecutor in a statement must be redacted to avoid implicating the defendant or the court must sever the ibid.) the people point out as well that brutonrichardson v. marsh, supra, 481 u.s. 200. the court held that when a confession is redacted so that it does not facially incriminate the defendant and the statement is incriminating only when linked with evidence introduced later at trial, the admission of the statement with a proper limiting instruction will not violate the confrontation clause. (id. at pp. 207-208, 211.) under such circumstances, the court could properly presume that jurors would follow a limiting instruction not to consider the confession against the defendant, even if the confession incriminated the defendant when considered in connection with other evidence. (id. at pp. 201-202, 208.) walking into the shop as [mendoza] looked into his vehicle and saw the keys. mendoza said she told chino that they should take the truck. there was an altercation, at which time she got in the left rear seat, chino got in the driver seat, lonely in the front the statement does not facially implicate defendant because mendoza did not identify any 14 participants involved in the altercation. further, the court could properly presume that jurors would follow a limiting instruction not to consider the confession against the defendant, even if the confession incriminated the defendant when considered in connection with other evidence. (richardson v. marsh, supra, 481 u.s. at pp. 201-202, 208.) create a doubt as to what mendoza meant and directly implicated him in the crime. in addition, the trial court characterized the statement bruton admitted evidence is so overwhelming as to the guilt of the nondeclarant that a reviewing people v. archer (2000) 82 cal.app.4th 1380, 1390.) the victim identified defendant as one of the carjackers. defendant was driving the vehicle when it was stopped by the police. inconsistent. the properly admitted evidence was ove to the police were not hearsay. a statement is not hearsay if it is relevant to an issue in poken . . . , and irrespective of the truth or people v. fields (1998) 61 statements were relevant and admissible statements. and any cumulative effect people v. osband (1996) 13 cal.4th 622, 688.) 15 disposition the judgment is affirmed. jackson, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. zelon, j. 