filed 4/25/13 p. v. yun ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. john lee yun et al., defendants and appellants. b235694 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga078803) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, michael d. carter, judge. affirmed in part and reversed in part with directions. catherine white, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant bobby matters. roberta simon, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant john lee yun. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, mary sanchez and taylor nguyen, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 bobby matters and john lee yun appeal their convictions for assault. matters also appeals his conviction for dissuading a witness. the juries1 found allegations to be true that offenses of simple assault and attempt to dissuade a witness were committed for the benefit of, in association with, or at the direction of a criminal street gang. matters contends that the trial court erred, and that reversal is required because the court, (1) improperly admitted his statement to the police obtained during a custodial interrogation; (2) failed to instruct sua sponte on the defense of necessity; (3) imposed an unauthorized sentence for his conviction for dissuading a witness; and (4) wrongly concluded it lacked the discretion to strike the penal code section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4) allegation.2 matters also contends that his trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance of counsel by failing to seek a reduction of his conviction for dissuading a witness to a misdemeanremand for resentencing. yun, in turn, maintains the trial court committed reversible by (1) failing sua sponte to give accomplice instructions; (2) admitting incendiary photographic evidence; (3) excluding evidence of a hung jury in the trial of defense witnesses. yun also argues that cumulative errors require reversal and that an enhancement imposed under section 667.5, final contention, an error the attorney general concedes. in all other respects, we affirm. facts and procedural history by third amended information, matters and yun were charged as follows: counts 1 and 3: charged yun with assault with a deadly weapon ( 245, subd. (a)(1)); 1 matters and yun were tried jointly but before separate juries. 2 unless otherwise stated, statutory references are to the penal code. 3 count 2: charged yun with attempted second degree robbery ( 664, 211), and also alleged that yun personally used a deadly weapon (box cutter) in the commission of the offense ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)); count 4: charged matters with dissuading a witness by force or threat ( 136.1, subd. (c)(1); counts 5 and 6: charged matters and yun jointly with assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury ( 245, subd. (a)(1).) as to both counts, the information further alleged that matters and yun personally inflicted great bodily injury upon the victims ( 12022.7, subd. (a)). as to all counts, the information alleged that the offenses were gang related ( 186.22, subds. (b)(1)(b), (b)(1)(c), and (b)(4)). finally, as to counts 1, 2, 3, 5, and 6 it was alleged -(i); 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)), a prior serious felony conviction ( 667, subd. (a)(1)), and that he had served a prior prison term ( 667.5, subd. (b)). yun and matters pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. allegations. the jury also found true the great bodily injury allegation in count 3. the jury convicted yun as charged in counts 5 and 6, and found true the gang and great bodily injury allegations. yun was acquitted of attempted second degree robbery (count 2). in a bifurcated proceeding, the court found true the prior conviction and prior prison term allegations against yun. the matters jury convicted matters of the lesser offense of witness intimidation in count 4 ( 136.1, subd. (a)(2).) the jury found the use-of-force allegation not true, but found the gang allegation true. in counts 5 and 6, the jury convicted matters of the lesser offense of simple assault ( 240), and found the gang allegations true. the trial court denied probation. yun was sentenced to 29 years and four months as follows: as to count 5, the court imposed the midterm of three years, doubled to six years 4 the great bodily injury enhancement. in count 6, the court imposed a consecutive term of one year (one-third the midterm of three years), doubled to two years under three strikes law, plus three years and four months (one-third of 10 years) for the gang enhancement and five years for the prior serious felony enhancement. the court struck the great bodily injury enhancement and stayed the one-year prior prison enhancement. the court stayed the sentences as to counts 1 and 3, pursuant to section 654. yun was ordered to pay various fees and fines, and awarded 665 days of presentence custody credit. ( 1202.4, subd. (b),  1202.45.) the trial court also denied probation as to matters. he was sentenced to eight years and eight months to life in prison as follows: in count 5, the court imposed the low term of one year. in count 6, the court imposed a term of eight months (one-third the midterm of two years). in count 4, the court imposed a term of seven years to life pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4)(c). matters was ordered to pay a restitution fine ( 1202.4, subd. (b)), and the court imposed and stayed a corresponding parole revocation fine ( 1202.45). he was awarded 361 days of presentence custody credit. factual background prosecution evidence 1. the crimes a. will brown went to smith park in san gabriel h--court games were ongoing when they arrived. matters was playing in one game. brown, who had known matters since middle school, asked if they could play with his basketball. made a cell phone call, as brown and his friends began to play. soon thereafter, a group of 1020 men arrived at the park. most of the men were hispanic, but the group also included some asian and caucasian men. brown recognized yun, christopher zuniga and michael cardenas. matters joined the group which surrounded 5 the rest of the group advanced toward brown, who ran towards the handball courts. five or six men, including yun, zuniga, and cardenas, chased after and surrounded brown. zuniga punched brown in the back of the head. brown fought back, hitting cardenas in the face. cardenas punched brown in the face, and yun punched brown in the ribcage. other minutes until he blacked out. brolost consciousness. matters was involved in the attacks on brown. when he regained ga, brown suffered a cut on one bicep that required 13 staples, bruises to his stomach, back and legs, and lingering headaches and memory loss. he identified yun, matters, cardenas and zuniga from a photographic lineup. two days after the attack, brown received three calls on his cell phone during the early afternoon. he did not answer the first call. brown answered the second call, but the caller said nothing. the third call was from matters. referring to yun by his gang moniker, kill police officer ricky nakamura met with brown that day and later confirmed that the call 6 b. evidence admitted only against matters questions in regards to contacting . . . ad called brown. nakamura ultimately arrested matters. nakamura interviewed matters at the police station after advising him of his miranda3 rights. matters waived his rights and agreed to speak to nakamura. he explained that yun had called him earlier that day and instructed him to call brown and tell him to mediator between c. 4 ters amato to, ang sign for 3 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 [86 s.ct. 1602, 16 l.ed.2d 694]. 4 zuniga/cardenas and yun/matters actions was read at trial. 7 stabbed and ran across the street to get help. to his head and swelling to his ear and head as a result of the lineup. he also identified zuniga as having been present when he was attacked, but said zuniga had not hit or kicked him. zuniga backed away when yun swung the box cutter at anyt d. micaela brito and appeared to draw or write something on the ground with his finger. brito saw matters take out his cell phone. shortly thereafter, a group of eight to 15 men arrived at the park, anyone with a weapon. 2. jail cell graffiti on january 2, 2010, yun was in custody in a cell at the san gabriel police department. at about 5:30 p.m., nakamura discovered gang graffiti inside the jail cell. the 3. gang evidence san gabriel police detective fabian -activities range from vandalism to multiple homicides. valdez explained that smith park was territory claimed by clique. the gang allowed some affiliated tagging crews to draw graffiti in its territory, 8 tagging cviolence. according to valdez, yun was an admitted and senior member of the sangra gang. matters was not a member of the sangra gang. brown, who said he was or had been the head of the k.o.a. tagging crew, told valdez that matters was a member of the d.f.w. tagging crew, affiliated with the sangra gang. matters had previously been arrested for vandalizing wet cement with the name of a rival tagging crew, with the name crossed out. in gang culture that meant disrespect and a threat to kill. matters had also been arrested in possession of tagging tools, after marking up a trash can (with a nongang related word). based on a hypothetical posed to him patterned on the circumstances of the attacks on z opined that the y other gangs and by being feared in the community. gangs do not tolerate disrespect. the attacks at issue here promoted the sangra . in the community. valdez opined that someone present at the scene when gang members committed a crime who tried to leave, would be at risk of physical harm. matters could have faced retaliation from the sangra gang had he left the scene during the attacks on , and similarly would face retaliation for not participating in the assaults. gr9 message that they are able to get defense evidence 1. taylor ruddell and kohana tom by the park on december 29, 2009 and saw yun standing alone. they saw brown and another man approach yun and speak to him. the next thing they knew, the men had at the park. tom did not tell anyone what he saw at the park until he was subpoenaed by 2. zuniga and cardenas zuniga and cardenas testified that they were at the park playing basketball with bring a handball to the park. zuniga, cardenas and matters resumed their game, and yun arrived shortly thereafter. while he was playing, zuniga heard a commotion. he saw that someone was being a woman. he heard brown over to help yun. zuniga hit brown in the back of his head. zuniga and cardenas kicked chased him. zuniga never saw anyone with a blade or knife.5 5 assault. zuniga later explained that he did not want to go through another trial, but decided 10 cardenas testified that he pulled out a knife during the fight and swung it at brown to scare him off. cardenas did not intend to cut brown, but brown got cut by the knife when he charged at and punched cardenas. after the fight cardenas turned himself into the police. he had told the police he knew nothing about the incident because he was afraid, and because his girlfriend was several months pregnant.6 3. matters matters testified that he had been a member of the d.f.w. tagging crew, but ended his association with that crew four months before the assaults. on december 29, 2009 matters and the three individuals engaged in a conversation about tattoos. band brito asked matters if they could play basketball with him. matters played with brown of the basketball court. matters stopped playing when his girlfriend called, and went to get a drink of water. as he returned to the basketball court, matters saw yun drive past the park and park behind group of 10 people, members of the group, including cardenas, zuniga, and yun followed brown. the others continued to assaul 6 cardenas was tried with zuniga. at trial, cardenas had two witnesses testify that he had been with them, not at the park. he asked the witnesses to lie because he wanted to be at home for his girlfriend. after the mistrial, cardenas pleaded no contest. 11 assault or acting as a lookout. he did not see anyone with a weapon. he did not see yun shias and zuniga. shortly after the incident, matters received an unexpected call from yun, who had he should not mention told matters to call brown and give him the same message. yun learned that matters did not brown and said he knew brown was home because he had just called the number. matters called brown, but said nothing when brown answered the phone. matters he did what yun told him tmatters was afraid of yun, a member of the sangra gang, and believed yun was threatening him. matters testified that two months before trial he was attacked by joey leal, another member of the sangra gang, and another man. the incident ended only when someone o the police. 12 in 2005, matters had problems with a sangra gang member who had broken the car window. at the time he was so angry he had not thought about the gang implications of to think and was now afraid of retaliation. at trial, matters remained afraid of the sangra gang. matters testified about some conflicting statements he made to the police. he said when he had been sitting on the curb outside his house and nakamura drove up (throwing dust in his face), matters at first denied calling brown because he was intimidated by nakamura. later at the police station, however, matters told nakamura the truth because matters no longer felt threatened by nakamura. matters explained that yun ordered him to call brown, and asked if he could file a police report against yun, whom he admitted being afraid of. matters then repeated his statements to another officer. discussion 1. his initial statements were not obtained in violation of miranda. matters contends the trial court erred by admitting his initial statements to nakamura, in which he denied calling brown. matters maintains he was subjected to custodial interrogation without first being informed of his miranda rights. a. background mura at his house before his arrest. he argued that he was in custody and that nakamura was required to give him miranda warnings before questioning him. the court held a hearing on the motion to suppress at which officers michael munoz and nakamura testified as follows: brother (brother) walking. munoz asked brother if matters was home, and brother said he was. munoz asked if he could walk with brother to their house to see if matters would talk to him. at the house, munoz stayed outside while brother went in. munoz saw matters on 13 the couch and asked him to come outside and talk to him. matters agreed and came out to the curb. munoz did not draw his gun, nor did he handcuff or touch matters in any way. he with matters about his involvement in the incidents at the park while they waited for nakamura arrived 15 minutes after munoz called him. when he drove up, nakamura saw matters sitting on the curb and munoz standing next to him. matters was not in handcuffs. munoz did not have his weapon drawn, and nakamura did not draw his weapon. nakamura spoke briefly with munoz, and then asked matters if he had called brown. nakamura stood in front of matters, questioning him, while munoz stood nearby and behind nakamura did not tell matters he had the freedom to leave or to refuse to answer questions. nakamura placed matters in handcuffs, under arrest. people v. farnam (2002) 28 cal.4th 107, the trial court found that nakamura had not conducted a custodial interrogation of matters. thus, no miranda warning had been required.7 7 specifically, the farnam] states in part that . . . the term interrogation refers to any words or actions on the part of the police that are reasonably likely to elicit an incriminating response. it does not extend to inquiries that are limited in purpose in identifying a person found under . . . suspicious circumstances or near the scene of a recent crime. [] . . . [t]he court [in farnam] said that the term custody does not include temporary detention for investigation where an officer detains a person to ask a moderate number of questions to determine his identity and try to get information confirming or dispelling the to determine whether or not mr. matters was in custody. and from the testimony that we have . . . officer munoz went to the house and asked to speak to him. he never touched him or put him in handcuffs or took him into custody in any way. [] he asked him to step 14 brown about the threatening phone call. nakamura asked matters if he had made any telephone contact with brown; matters denied that he had. nakamura continued to ask matters more questions, and matters continued to deny having called brown. nakamura arrested matters. consciousness of guilt was evidenced by the fact that he misled the police to try to persuade them that he did not call brown, then later changed his story. b. custody when questioned by nakamura. under miranda, inculpatory, stemming from custodial interrogation of the defendant unless it demonstrates the use of procedural safeguards effective to secure the privilege against self-miranda berkemer v. mccarty (1984) 468 u.s. 420, 440 [104 s.ct. miranda people v. ochoa (1998) 19 cal.4th 353, 401.) outside and then asked him some questions while he was seated on the curb. the inquiry did not lead to what would be considered a custodial interrogation because he is simply asking about his involvement in an incident. [] likewise, officer nakamura arrived at the scene and, again, [matters] was not placed in handcuffs. he was told as a matter of fact that he was not under arrest, and the questioning by officer nakamura, again did not amount to [a] . . . custodial interrogation. [] in that situation officer nakamura arrived at the scene, saw [matters] seated on the curb, and asked him questions regarding his involvement to . . . 15 person interpret the restraints used by the police as tantamount to a formal arrest? [citations.] the totality of the circumstances surrounding an incident must be considered as a whole. [citation.] although no one factor is controlling, the following circumstances formal arrest, the length of the detention; (3) the location; (4) the ratio of officers to suspects; and (5) the demeanor of the officer, including the na(people v. pilster (2006) 138 cal.app.4th 1395, 1403 (pilsterfactors are whether the suspect agreed to the interview and was informed he or she could terminate the questioning, whether police informed the person he or she was considered a during the interview, and whether police officers dominated and controlled the interrogation id. at pp. 14031404.) the determination of whether an individual is in custody is a mixed question of law and fact. (pilster, supraof fact if they are supported by substantial evidence, but independently decide whether, given n would have felt free to end the people v. leonard (2007) 40 cal.4th 1370, 1400; pilster, interrogation of matters was not custodial. first, matters was specifically told he was not under arrest, and agreed to come out and talk to munoz who did not touch him, did not draw his weapon and assured matters he was not in trouble. second, the entire contact between matters and both munoz and nakamura lasted 16 park. third, the ratio of officers to matters was two to one, and there is no evidence the own home, in public view of his family and neighbors. reduces the ability of an unscrupulous policeman to use illegitimate means to elicit self-berkemer v. mccarty, supra, 468 u.s. 420, 438.) fifth, although nakamura questioned matters specifically about the calls to brown, is in custody for purposes of miranda. (stansbury v. california (1994) 511 u.s. 318, 326 [114 s.ct. 1526, 128 l.ed.2d 293].) neither officer drew a weapon or handcuffed matters, and both spoke with matters for only a brief time. although matters was not specifically told he was free to leave, nor advised that he aggravating circumstance not present here, a reasonable person would conclude the mount to formal arrest. the trial court properly denied the motion to suppress.8 2. no necessity instruction was required. matters contends that the trial court erred in failing to instruct the jury sua sponte on the elements of a necessity defense. appears the defendant is relying on such a defense, or if there is substantial evidence to ry of the 8 totality of the circumstances reveals that he did not knowingly and intelligently waive his miranda rights. 17 people v. maury (2003) 30 cal.4th 342, 424.) necessity is an affirmative defense (people v. kearns (1997) 55 cal.app.4th 1128, 11341135), on which the defendant bears the initial burden of proof as to all elements. (see people v. salas (2006) 37 cal.4th 967, to establish that defendant violated the law (1) to prevent a significant evil, (2) with no adequate alternative, (3) without creating a greater danger than the one avoided, (4) with a good faith belief in the necessity, (5) with such belief being objectively reasonable, and (6) under circumstances in which he did not substantially contribute to the emergency. people v. pepper (1996) 41 cal.app.4th 1029, 1035.) the significant peril to be avoided must be imminent. (people v. galambos (2002) 104 cal.app.4th 1147, 11621163.) justification distinct from the elements required to prove the crime. [citation.] the situation presented to the defendant must be of an emergency nature, threatening physical harm, and lacking an alternative, legal course of action. [citation.] the defense involves a determination that the harm or evil sought to be avoided by such conduct is greater than that sought to be prevented by the law defining the offense charged. [citation.] necessity does not negate any element of the crime, but represents a public policy decision not to punish such an individual despite proof of the crime. [citations.] [] an important factor of the necessity defense involves the balancing of the harm to be avoided as opposed to the costs of the criminal conduct. [citation.] unlike duress, the threatened harm is in the immediate future, which contemplates the defendant having time to balance alternative courses of people v. heath (1989) 207 cal.app.3d 892, 900901.) matters failed to establish an entitlement to a necessity instruction for at least five reasons. first, he denied having engaged in illegal conduct. matters denied he had tried to intimidate or dissuade brown from testifying. rather, he admitted calling brown only in 18 better swas forced to commit an illegal act in order to prevent a greater wrong; a call to relay a iolated the law out of necessity. (see people v. pepper, supra, 41 cal.app.4th at p. 1036.) avoid any perceived harm of retaliation from yun or the sangra gang. (people v. heath, supra, 207 cal.app.3d at p. 901; people v. pepper, supranecessity defense is very limited and depends on the lack of a legal alternative to committing the crime. it excuses criminal conduct if it is justified by a need to avoid an imminent peril people v. verlinde (2002) 100 cal.app.4th 1146, 1164.) here, matters could nd asked brown to pretend that matters did as yun instructed, (2) lied to yun and told him he called brown as instructed without actually making the call, since there is no evidence that yun followed up to ensure that matters made the call, or (3) called twould have prevented the perceived harm matters claimed he was trying to preventthat of physical harm to himself or his family. third, the evidence does not establish that matters or his family was in imminent -serving testimony that yun threatened him and that he was afraid of yun. the record contains no independent eno indication that matters told nakamura or anyone that yun threatened him, that he was id threaten matters, such threats would relate policy, self-help by lawbreaking and violence cannot be countenanced where the alleged danger is merely speculative and the lawbreaker has made no attempt to enlist law 19 people v. miceli defense of necessity is inappropriate where it would encourage rather than deter [lawbreaking]. [lawbreaking] justified in the name of preempting some future, necessarily ibid.) fourth, matters himself substantially contributed to the emergent nature of the situation. according to brito, matterground at the park. shortly thereafter, yun and the other men arrived and the attacks began. that resulted in the subsequent charges that led to the predicament in which matters found himself. fifth and finally, the defense of necessity was incompatible with the defense theory of the case. ruddell and tom testified that brown and someone else attacked yun who did not yun. matters testified that yun did not participate in the assaults, and that he never saw yun with a box cutter, nor did he see yun cut anyone. he agreed that cardenas and zuniga appeared to have been the instigators of the attacks. in sum, the defense theory was that yun was a victim of or uninvolved in the attacks. an instruction on necessity would undermine that theory. accordingly, the court had no duty to instruct on the defense. (people v. maury, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 424; people v. celis (2006) (2006) 141 cal.app.4th 466, 474475 [no 3. matters received an unauthorized sentence for dissuading a witness. in count 4, matters was charged with dissuading a witness by force or threat in violation of section 136.1, subdivision (c)(1). the information also alleged a gang enhancement, under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4). the jury acquitted matters of the charged offense, convicting him instead of the lesser offense of dissuading a witness in violation of section 136.1, subdivision (a)(2), but found true the gang enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4). matters was sentenced to seven years to life for dissuading a witness under the alternative sentencing scheme for gang-related offenses. 20 ( 186.22, subd. (b)(4)(c).) he contends that section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4)(c) is inapplicable here because the offense did not involve a threat to the witness. we agree. felony enumerated in this paragraph committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang members, shall, upon conviction of that felony, be sentenced to an indeterminate term of life imprisonment with a minimum term of the indeterminate sentence calculated as the greater of: [] . . . [] (c) imprisonment in the state prison for seven years, if the felony is . . . threats to victims and witnesses, as defined in section 136.1 here, the trial court relied on section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4)(c) to impose a term of seven years to life. imposition of this sentence is permissible only if matters was ibid.) matters maintains he was convicted only of attempting to dissuade a witness from testifying, not of his statute permits imposition of the indeterminate sentence. section 136.1 defines certain offenses involving persuading, preventing or attempting to persuade or prevent a witness or victim from reporting a crime or testifying at trial. section 136.1, subdivision (a) prohibits a person from knowingly and maliciously preventing or dissuading a witness or victim from attending or testifying at trial, or attempting to do so. subdivision (b) prohibits preventing or dissuading a witness or victim from (1) reporting a crime, (2) causing an accusatory pleading to be sought and prosecuted, or (3) arresting or seeking the arrest of any person in connection with the crime. both subdivisions (a) and (b) ison sentence. subdivision (a) and (b) each carves out subdivision (c) as an exception to its provisions. section 136.1, subdivision (c) necessarily elevates a violation of either subdivision (a) . . the act is accompanied by force or by an express or implied 21 threat of force or violence, upon a witness or victim or any third person or the property of is a lesser offense of subdivision (c), because subdivision (c) requires a violation of subdivision (a) or (b) plus the use of force or threat. (people v. upsher (2007) 155 cal.app.4th 1311, 1321; people v. brenner (1992) 5 cal.app.4th 335, 340defendant who attempts to dissuade a witness from testifying is guilty of either a misdemeanor or a felony, but [when that] attempt is accompanied by an express or implied (people v. lopez (2012) 208 cal.app.4th 1049, 1064 (lopez).) trial court from imposing a sentence above the statutory maximum based on a fact, other than a prior conviction, not found to be true by a jury. (cunningham v. california (2007) 549 u.s. 270, 274275 [127 s.ct. 856, l.ed.2d ]; blakely v. washington (2004) 542 u.s. 296, 303304 [124 s.ct. 2531, 159 l.ed.2d 403]; apprendi v. new jersey (2000) 530 u.s. 466, 490 [120 s.ct. 2348, 147 l.ed.2d 435] [(apprendi)].) whether a defendant used an express or implied threat of force when attempting to dissuade a witness from testifying is a question of fact that subjects the defendant to a greater sentence. accordingly, apprendi and its proglopez, supra, 208 cal.app.4th at p. 1064.) matters was charged withbut not convicted ofa violation of section 136.1, subdivision (c). the jury rejected the allegation that matters used force or threat, or that he threatened to use force or violence, in the commission of the offense.9 instead, matters was 9 the jury was instructed as follows: 2622. intimidating a witness (pen. code,  136.1(a) & (b)) witness in violation of penal code section 136.1. 22 convicted of the lesser offense of attempting to dissuade brown from testifying. ( 136.1, subd. (a)(2).) section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4)(c) permits imposition of a life sentence the defendant maliciously tried to prevent will brown from attending or giving testimony at jury trial; will brown was a witness; the defendant knew he was trying to prevent will brown from attending or giving testimony at trial[,] and intended to do so. maliciously when he or she unlawfully intends to annoy, harm, or injure someone else in any way, or intends to interfere in any way with the orderly administration of justice. witness means someone: who knows about the existence or nonexistence of facts relating to a crime; who has reported a crime to a peace officer or prosecutor; who has been served with a subpoena issued under the authority of any state or federal court. ndant was not successful in preventing or must then decide whether the people have proved the additional allegation that the defendant used or threatened to use force. violence on the person or property of a witness or any other person. 23 pursuant to sectiosentence under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4)(c). relying on people v. neely (2004) 124 cal.app.4th 1258 (neely), the attorney is not limited to any particular subdivision of that statute, and should be construed as including all the offenses set forth in section 136.1. we disagree. in neely, the defendant argued that a prior conviction of violating section 136.1, subdivision (a)(2) did not qualify as a serious felony under section 1192.7, subdivision (c)(37). section 1192.7, subdivision serious neely subdivision (c)(37) merely described the entirety of section 136.1. (neely, at p. 1266.) but section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4)(c) differs from section 1192.7, subdivision (c)(37). we conclude that the requirement of force or threat in section 136.1 is specifically limited to violations of subdivision (c) which explicitly and unambiguously creates a statutory distinction between offenses that require force or threat and offenses that do not. we recognize that at least one court has found that, in enacting section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4), the legislature intended dramatically to increase punishment for all gang-related people v. galvez (2011) 195 cal.app.4th 1253, 1256.)10 but we cannot ignore the clear language of sections 186.22, subdivision (b)(4)(c) and 136.1. 10 in people v. galvez, supra, 195 cal.app.4th 1253, the defendant was convicted of attempted witness dissuasion ( 136.1, subd.(b)(1)), and assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury ( 245, subd. (a)(1)), and the jury found both offenses were committed for the benefit of or in association with a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subds. (b)(1), (b)(4)(c)). (galvez, at pp. 12561257.) there, in contrast with the instant action, the attempted witness dissuasion involved a physical assault by defendant and other gang members, who punched the victim in the face, and kicked him in the head, side and leg. (id. at p. 1257.) galvez did not address the issue here, whether 186.22, subdivision (b)(4)(c) was 24 in addition, as we observed above, any other interpretation of these statutes raises problems under apprendi, beyond the prescribed statutory maximum . . . be submitted to a jury, and proved beyond a 136.1, subdivision (c), and found he had not. in apprendidescribe a sentencing factor applicable to a violation of subdivision (a). rather, section 136.1, subdivision (c) describes a greater offense and provides for a more severe punishment than is authorized for a conviction under subdivision (a). the trial court relied on section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4)(c) when it imposed a term of seven years to life on count 4. that (lopez, supra, 208 cal.app.4th at p. 1065.) matters was not convicted of violating subdivision (c)(1). the court erred in imposing a sentence under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4)(c) because that section does not apply to the crime of which matters was convicted, and was based on a fact the jury did not find true. 4. or in the alternative, modify the judgment by striking the section 186.22 , subdivision (b)(4) allegation to avoid the necessity of imposing a seven year to life term on count 4. in support limited to violations of section 136.1 involving force or threat. rather, the only legal question raised was whether section 136.1, subdivision (b)(1) was intended only to cover the prevention or dissuasion of someone from reporting a crime of which they were a victim. (galvez, at p. 1258.) it is axiomatic that a case is not authority for a proposition it does not address. (see people v. knoller 25 a lesser sentence.11 personal belief that a lesser sentence was warranted for the count 4 charge, the trial court nevertheless appropriately acknowledged it lacked the authority to strike the section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4) allegation. matters contends his defense attorney rendered ineffective assistance by failing to ask the trial court to reduce the felony offense to a misdemeanor pursuant to section 17, subdivision (b). we disagree. people v. silvey sting aspersions on counsel when counsel is not in a position to defend his conduct. a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel instead is more appropriately made in a habeas corpus people v. hinds (2003) 108 cal.app.4th 897, 902.) we will reverse a conviction on the ground of inadequate representation only if the appellate record affirmatively discloses that counsel had no tactical purpose for his or her allegedly improper actions. (people v. hart (1999) 20 cal.4th 546, 589, fn. 8.) in all other cases, the conviction will be affirmed and the defendant relegated to habeas corpus proceedings, in which (people v. fosselman (1983) 33 cal.3d 572, 582.) objective standard of reasonableness . . tions.] 11 counsel ideninvolved only three prior juvenile adjudications, two involving vandalism and one involving an altercation in sixth grade; (2) matters, 20 years old when the current offense was committed, had committed no other offenses as an adult; (3) the jury found that count 4 did was minimal compared to yun, cardenas and zuniga; (5) yun would receive a determinate term, while cardenas and zuniga each received only five-year terms; (6) matters was not a gang member; and (7) the extenuating circumstances under which matters made the call to brown. 26 unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would have been different. a reasonable in re harris (1993) 5 cal.4th 813, 832defendant to show that the errors had some conceivable effect on the outcome of the proceeding. . people v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d 171, 217.) if an insufficient showing either of deficient performance or prejudice is made, the ineffective assistance claim fails. (people v. foster (2003) 111 cal.app.4th 379, 383.) appellant bears the burden to demonstrate the inadequacy of his trial counsel by a preponderance of the evidence. (ledesma, at p. 218.) record contains no explanation for the challenged behavior, an appellate court will reject the provide one, or unless there simply could be no satisfactory explanation . . . (people v. osband (1996) 13 cal.4th 622, 700701.) although the record here contains no explanation for her failure to seek a reduction of the offense to a misdemeanor. the attorney general, on the other hand, argues that the record sheds no light as to why counsel failed to request that the witness intimidation conviction be reduced to a misdemeanor, and that, in any case, counsel may reasonably have de reduction, but we also cannot definitively say there can be no satisfactory explanation. the trial court observed that, although matters was guilty only of witness intimidation, that crime is quite serious given the rampant nature of gang violence in society, and gang use of fear and intimidation to victimize communities. accordingly, the penalties associated with witness intimidation in gang-related crimes are meant to be harsh in order to send a message 27 communities a vehicle ftead impose the five-year punishment for serious felonies under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(b). the record reflects does not follow that just because the court did not believe a seven-year-to-life sentence was warranted, the court would necessarily have been inclined to reduce the conviction to a section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1) is a strong indication to the contrary, and that it would seek a reduction of the conviction to a misdemeanor. not establish ineffective assistance of counsel. (see people v. mattson (1990) 50 cal.3d 826, 876877 [criminal appellant must establish, based on facts and record on appeal, and not speculation, that trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance].) matters has made an insufficient showing of deficient performance. his claim of ineffective assistance fails. 5. the court was not required to give accomplice instructions pertaining to matters. yun maintains the trial court erred by failing to instruct the jury sua sponte that matters was an accomplice whose testimony must be corroborated and viewed with caution. we disagree. matters testified that when yun and the other men arrived at the park, yun began when some members 28 on brown. he said he never saw yun with any weapon, and never saw him cut anyone. matters claimed he took part in no attack and never acted as a lookout. matters testified that about what had happened in the park, and to make . admitted he felt threatened by yun and was afraid of yun and the sangra gang. corroborated by such other evidence as shall tend to connect the defendant with the commission of the offense . . . people v. coffman and marlow (2004) 34 cal.4th 1, 105.) the instruction at issue is calcrim no. 334 which cautions the jury to view accomplices with caution.12 yun did not request 12 calcrim no. 334 states: before you may consider the (statement/ [or] testimony) of _____ <insert name[s] of witness[es]> as evidence against (the defendant/ _____<insert names of defendants>) [regarding the crime[s] of _____ <insert name[s] of crime[s] if corroboration only required for some crime[s]>], you must decide whether _____ <insert name[s] of witness[es]>) (was/were) [an] accomplice[s] [to (that/those) crime[s]]. a person is an accomplice if he or she is subject to prosecution for the identical crime charged against the defendant. someone is subject to prosecution if: 1. he or she personally committed the crime; or 2. he or she knew of the criminal purpose of the person who committed the crime; and 3. he or she intended to, and did in fact, (aid, facilitate, promote, encourage, or instigate the commission of the crime[;]/ [or] participate in a criminal conspiracy to commit the crime). the burden is on the defendant to prove that it is more likely than not that _____ <insert name[s] of witness[es]> (was/were) [an] accomplice[s]. [an accomplice does not need to be present when the crime is committed. on the other hand, a person is not an accomplice just because he or she is present at the scene of a 29 instructions on accomplice testimony. he claims now that the trial court had a sua sponte duty to so instruct. crime, even if he or she knows that a crime will be committed or is being committed and does nothing to stop it.] [a person who lacks criminal intent but who pretends to join in a crime only to detect or prosecute those who commit that crime is not an accomplice.] [a person may be an accomplice even if he or she is not actually prosecuted for the crime.] [] . . . [] if you decide that a (declarant/ [or] witness) was not an accomplice, then supporting evidence is not required and you should evaluate his or her (statement/ [or] testimony) as you would that of any other witness. if you decide that a (declarant/ [or] witness) was an accomplice, then you may not convict the defendant of _____ <insert charged crime[s]> based on his or her (statement/ [or] testimony) alone. you may use the (statement/ [or] testimony) of an accomplice to convict the defendant only if: 1. tthat you believe; 2. testimony); and 3. that supporting evidence tends to connect the defendant to the commission of the crime[s]. supporting evidence, however, may be slight. it does not need to be enough, by itself, to prove that the defendant is guilty of the charged crime[s], and it does not need to support every fact (mentioned by the accomplice in the statement/ [or] about which the accomplice testified). on the other hand, it is not enough if the supporting evidence merely shows that a crime was committed or the circumstances of its commission. the supporting evidence must tend to connect the defendant to the commission of the crime. [the evidence needed to support the (statement/ [or] testimony) of one accomplice cannot be provided by the (statement/ [or] testimony) of another accomplice.] any (statement/ [or] testimony) of an accomplice that tends to incriminate the defendant should be viewed with caution. you may not, however, arbitrarily disregard it. you should give that (statement/ [or] testimony) the weight you think it deserves after examining it with care and caution and in the light of all the other evidence. 30 the court was not required to instruct sua sponte on accomplice testimony because matters was a testifying codefendant who denied his guilt. as such, yun had to request the instruction. (people v. avila (2006) 38 cal.4th 491, 562 (avila).) moreover, such an instruct own motion only when the accomplice witness is called by the people [citations] or when a defendant in testifying implicates his codefendant while confessing his own guilt [citation]. in the latter instance, the confession on the stand, for all practical purposes, relieves the jury of the decision whether the declarant was an accomplice. when a defendant has confessed his guilt, there is little need to worry about prejudicing him by giving an accomplice testimony instruction for the protection of his codefendant. here, [defendant] testified on her own behalf, not as a prosecution witness, and denied her guilt. thus, it was not incumbent to people v. terry (1970) 2 cal.3d 362, 399 (terry).) in people v. ramos (1982) 30 cal.3d 553 (ramoscodefendant testifies that he was not involved in the crimeand thus that he was not an accomplicethe trial court may properly conclude that the giving of accomplice instructions terry, supra, 2 cal.3d 362 indicates that in such a situation the giving or withholding of such instructions lie within the sound ramos, at p. 582, reversed on other grounds by california v. ramos (1983) 463 u.s. 992 [103 s.ct. 3446, 77 l.ed.2d 1171].) in the past, the supreme court held that the trial had a duty to instruct the jury sua sponte to view incriminating accomplice testimony with distrust, regardless of which party calls the accomplice as a witness. (people v. guiuan (1998) 18 cal.4th 558, 569.) the supreme court has since clarified that when the testifying accomplice is a codefendant, an accomplice instruction people v. box (2000) 23 cal.4th 1153, 1209, disapproved on other grounds by people v. martinez (2010) 47 cal.4th 911, 948, -standing rule that an accomplice instruction 31 people v. smith (2005) 135 cal.app.4th 914, 928, overruled on other grounds in people v. garcia (2008) 168 cal.app.4th 261, 291.) here, matters was a codefendant who testified on his own behalf and denied guilt of any crime. his defense was that he was not present for and did not participate in an attack on brown. he also claimed he did not by force or threat, attempt to dissuade brown from testifying, and called brown only because he was afraid for himself and his family. to might have been prejudicial to his case. the trial court had no sua sponte duty to give accomplice instructions. (cf. ramos, supra, 30 cal.3d at p. 582; terry, supra, 2 cal.3d at pp. 398399.) further, we agree with the attorney general that it would have been improper for the only that, at the park, yun threw gang signs and said, never saw yun with a weapon or saw him cut anyone. he claimed that cardenas and zuniga instigated the attacks. further, even were we to find the court erred in failing to give an accomplice instruction, that error would be harmless in this case. there is no reasonable probability the eveals people v. williams (2008) 43 cal.4th 584, 637 . . . e consideration standing and the corroborative evidence need not establish every element of the charged offense. . . . [citation.] all that is required is that the commission of the crime in such a way as may reasonably satisfy the jury that the 32 people v. dejesus (1995) 38 cal.app.4th 1, 25; see also williams, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 638.) brown testified that yun threw gang signs at the park before the attacks. brito a weapon. zuniga denied seeing anyone with a knife or blade, and he and cardenas each accomplice instructions was harmless error, if any, because yun was not prejudiced by the absence of the instruction. it is not reasonably probable that the verdict would have been any different had the instruction been given. an instruction advising jurors to view any he charged offenses. they testified that yun was involved in, and indeed led, the attacks. brown testified that yun used a box cutter as a case included powerful evidence that yun led or at least participated in the assaults at the to give accomplice instructions, the error was harmless. (see people v. box, supra, 23 cal.4th at p. 1209.) 6. the court did not err by permitting photographic evidence of yun and other gang members and jail cell graffiti. over defense objections, the trial court admitted a photograph depicting 10 sangra gang members, including yun (group photo). in the group photo, yun exposes part of a sangra gang tattoo on his stomach, two individuals pose with guns and others flash sangra hand signs. also over defense objections, the trial court permitted nakamura to testify that 33 yun did sangra graffiti while in a jail cell in which he was held for an hour after his arrest, yun asserts the trial court abused its discretion and that the group and graffiti photos should have been excluded. he argues the evidence implicated him of guilt by association, was unnecessarily cumulative regarding his gang membership and was substantially more prejudicial than probative. he maintains there is a reasonable probability the outcome would have been more favorable to him if the photographic evidence had been excluded, mandating reversal of the judgment. people v. garcia (2008) 168 cal.app.4th 261, 275.) we conclude the trial court did not abuse its discretion in evidence code section 352 (section 352) gives the court discretion to exclude admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleadprobative value of the photographs was substantially outweighed because the evidence was highly inflammatory and cumulative in that: (1) the risk of the jury finding him guilty by association, given the inflammatory nature of the evidence was extreme, and (2) the photographs were unnecessary to establish his membership in the sangra gang. the trial court did not abuse its discretion by concluding that the probative value of the photographs was not substantially outweighed by their potential to inflame the jury. the the group photo, which depicts yun wearing a sangra gang tattoo and others flashing sangra gang signs, was relevant to uly prejudicial or inflammatory because they associate him with the sangra gang. to the extent the jury was 34 likely to have an adverse emotional reaction to yun based on the photos, the jury was likely already inclined to have such a reaction based on the uncontradicted testimony regarding people v. heard (2003) 31 cal.4th 946, 976978 [gory crime scene photographs did not inflame or impermissibly sway jury in light of detailed testimony regarding crime scene and victims]) given the damaging nature of the evidence and societal bias against street gangs, some risk of such a reaction was inevitable. also, given the highly probative value of the photographs, we cannot say that the trial court abused its discretion when it concluded that their probative value was not substantially under evidence code section 352 is designed to avoid is not the prejudice or damage to a defense tha . . evidence code section 352 applies to evidence which uniquely tends to evoke an emotional bias against the defendant as an individual and which has very little effect on the issues. in applying section people v. poplar (1999) 70 cal.app.4th 1129, 1138.) finally, yun argues the photos were unduly consumptive of time, because they people v. farnam (2002) 28 cal.4th 107, 185186.) even if the challenged photos are repetitious of other evidence on membership that was already before the jury, we do not find they were prejudicial or inflammatory. such cumulative evidence could not have unduly prejudiced yun. under the circumstances, there was no abuse in admitting the photos. accordingly, we reje352 by admitting the gang and group photos. 7. the trial court did not err by excluding evidence of the hung jury in the trial of cardenas and zuniga. zuniga was tried before matt35 trial. cardenas was tried with zuniga. at trial, cardenas asked two witnesses to lie on his behalf and to testify that he was with them, not at the park, during the fights. after the mistrial, cardenas also entered a plea of no contest. in the instant case, zuniga and cardenas trial was unable to reach a decision.13 the court explained that, allowing zuniga to say and the court committed reversible error by excluding that evidence. having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create (evid. code,  352.) yun relies on people v. griffin (1967) 66 cal.2d 459 (griffin). in griffin, the defendant was convicted of murdering a woman after attempting to rape her. (id. at p. 461.) the trial court admitted evidence that, before the defendant was arrested for the murder, he had fled to mexico, where he was charged with, but acquitted of, raping another woman. (id. at p. 463.) the supreme court held that the evidence of the second attack was admissible 13 him to re-de the same evidence as to brown. (people v. abbaszadeh (2003) 106 cal.app.4th 642, 647648 [claim of error preserved where objection would have been futile].) 36 prove that [the murder victim's] injuries were not accidental but inflicted by defendant and to id. at pp. 464465.) the court concluded, however, that it was prejudicial error to exclude evidence that defendant was acquitted of the rape charge in mexico in connection with the second attack, because this evidence would help the jury assess what weight to give the evidence of the rape accusation. (id. at pp. 465466.) the so-griffin permits the prosecution to present evidence that the defendant committed one or more similar offenses for which he or she is not charged in the current prosecution, the trial court must y, of such crimes, people v. mullens (2004) 119 cal.app.4th 648, 664665 [extending griffin rule to evidence of sexual offenses admissible under evid. code,  1108 to show propensity]; see also people v. jenkins (1970) 3 cal.app.3d 529, 533535 [error, though not prejudicial, to admit evidence that codefendant was arrested for crime similar to charged offense to show intent, where evidence that similar charge had not been prosecuted was excluded].) griffin, supra, 66 cal.2d 459 is misplaced. in griffin, the prosecution presented evidence indicating the defendant committed offenses similar to the one for which he was on trial. the court held the defendant was entitled to present evidence of his acquittal, if any, of such crimes. (id. at p. 466.) griffin did not involve the relevance rather, griffin held that where a court propermisconduct to prove a material issue related to the charged offense (see evid. code,  1101, subd. (b)), it was error to exclude evidence that the defendant was acquitted of that other misconduct because the acquid. at pp. 465466.) the griffin 37 the trial of zuniga and cardenas at issue. unlike the defendant in griffin, yun was not any uncharged crime. the trial court properly excluded evidence of zuniga hung jury. 8. yun has failed to demonstrate cumulative error. identified [at most one possible] harmless error . . . the claim of cumulative error is without mepeople v. vieira (2005) 35 cal.4th 264, 305; see also people v. richie (1994) 28 rial requires 9. enhancements imposed under section 667.5, subdivision (b) must be stricken. at sentencing, the trial court imposed against yun a five-year term under section 667, subdivision (a)(1), and imposed, but stayed, a section 667.5, subdivision (b), one-trial court erred when it imposed both a consecutive five-year enhancement under section 667, subdivision (a)(1) for the felony conviction which gave rise to the prior prison term, and the one-year enhancement under section 667.5, subdivision (b), for the same prior offense. the attorney general concedes the issue and agrees the abstract of judgment should be corrected. the court should have stricken, not stayed, the one-year section 667.5, subdivision (b), enhancement. (see people v. perez (2011) 195 cal.app.4th 801, 805; people v. jones (1993) 5 cal.4th 1142, 11521153.) under section 1385, subdivision (a), a prior prison term enhancement must be imposed or stricken. (people v. garcia (2008) 167 cal.app.4th 1550, 15611562.) but, if the court finds that the same prior conviction violates both sections 667, subdivision (a)(1) and 667.5, subdivision (b), it may impose only the greater enhancement. the lesser enhancement must be stricken. (people v. jones, supra, 5 cal.4th at pp. 11521153.) 38 here, the abstract of judgment lists a second one-year enhancement under section lect that enhancements under sections 667, subdivision (a)(1) and 667.5, subdivision (b), were incorrect. only one enhancement under section 667, subdivision (a)(1), should have been people v. williams (2004) 34 cal.4th 397, 401405 [five-year priors imposed for each indeterminate term].) an enhancement pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1) was imposed orally by the court at the end of the pronouncement of sentence. the enhancements were improperly imposed as to count 5, and the second one-year enhancement under section 667.5, subdivision (b), should have been stricken not stayed.14 the unauthorized sentence may be corrected on appeal. (see people v. scott (1994) 9 cal.4th 331, 354.) 14 yun was convicted in counts 5 and 6 of assault by means of force likely to cause great bodily injury, but the abstract of judgment incorrectly indicates he was convicted of assault with a deadly weapon. we will order this clerical error corrected. (people v. mitchell (2001) 26 cal.4th 181, 186187.) the abstract also incorrectly reflects that the court imposed two prior prison term enhancements, even though the court imposed and stayed only one prior prison term enhancement. as discussed above, the prior prison term enhancement must be stricken. 39 disposition as to bobby matters, the matter is remanded to the trial court for resentencing as to count 4, and to prepare a new abstract of judgment reflecting the sentencing change. as to john lee yun, the matter is remanded and the trial court is directed to prepare an amended abstract of judgment reflecting correction of clerical errors, as follows: (1) in item 1, the abstract of judgment shall reflect that, as to counts 5 and 6, yun was convicted of assault by means of force likely to cause great bodily injury, and (2) in item 3, the prior prison term enhancements imposed but stayed pursuant to penal code section 667.6, subdivision (b) shall be stricken. the court shall cause certified copies of the amended abstracts of judgment to be forwarded to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. johnson, j. we concur: mallano, p. j. rothschild, j. 