filed 1/7/13 p. v. hendricks ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jesse v. hendricks, defendant and appellant. b236488 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na086442) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, arthur jean jr., judge. affirmed. landra e. rosenthal, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and john yang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant and appellant jesse v. hendricks appeals his conviction for second degree murder. the trial court sentenced hendricks to a term of 36 years to life in prison. hendricks contends the court erred by failing to instruct the jury on involuntary manslaughter and by excluding evidence. we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. facts. a. viewed in accordance with the usual rules governing appellate review (people v. johnston (2003) 113 cal.app.4th 1299, 1303-1304; people v. robinson (1997) 53 cal.app.4th 270, 273), the evidence relevant to the issues presented on appeal was as they lived together in a house located on irving street in los angeles. gallagher was a methamphetamine addict and would sometimes disappear for days at a time, leading to problems in her relationship with hendricks. hendricks was a drug user as well. gallagher was friends with the victim, patrick ho. ho went by the nickname were close confidantes. they had talked about having a sexual relationship and were attracted to each other. hendricks was suspicious of their relationship and disapproved of them spending time together. gallagher was also friends with genesis galaz. according to gallagher, unbeknownst to hendricks, she and galaz were involved in an intimate relationship.1 hendricks was suspicious that gallagher and galaz were romantically involved and disapproved of their friendship. during the three months preceding the murder, ho, galaz, and gallagher 1 galaz denied being involved in a sexual relationship with gallagher. she testified that although she was attracted to gallagher, she did not pursue an intimate relationship because she knew gallagher was engaged to hendricks. 3 (i) the murder. by july 30, 2010, gallagher and hendricks were still living together but their relationship was deteriorating.2 on july 31, 2010, gallagher and hendricks had been d drugs. later they returned to the irving street apartment and unexpectedly encountered hendricks did not object and decided to join them. at approximately 2:00 a.m. gallagher drove the trio in her car to an auto shop in wilmington, where they picked up ho. ho emerged from the shop with a bottle of jack daniels in his hand. ho and hendricks had met only once before. they shook hands and were cordial to one another. gallagh ho had a roommate, and the men had divided their space by stacking plastic containers down the middle of the apartment.3 ho, gallagher, and hendricks went to the kitchen to prepare the methamphetamine syringes. gallagher injected hendricks with methamphetamine. hendricks then sat on methamphetamine, but had difficulty finding a vein due to his tattoos. he called to hendricks from the bathroom in a friendly way, and the two men conversed calmly. hendricks seemed nervous but appeared to be trying to get along with ho. after conversing with ho, hendricks returned to the bed. at some point gallagher entered the bathroom with ho, and the two discussed the 2 ianc and they were living together; she and hendricks were not physically together; she knew le to stay in the 3 the roommate was not present on the night of july 31, 2010. 4 as the night wore on, hendricks repeatedly indicated he was uncomfortable or anxious and wanted to leave. instead of leaving, however, gallagher and galaz rummaged through a box of clothing in the apartment. around the plastic divider and into the bathroom. hendricks, who was bigger than ho, had cornered ho in the bathroom and was stabbing him with a knife with a jagged, four-inch blade. ho fell to the ground, screaming. hendricks pinned ho to the floor and stabbed him again. ho did not have anything in his hands and was unable to put up stopped and looked at galaz and then resumed his attack on ho, stabbing more forcefully than before. galaz pulled hendricks off ho, who was bleeding profusely, and called 911. (ii) the investigation. ho died from a combination of blood loss and stab wounds to his liver and both lungs. he had suffered four stab wounds and three incised wounds, including defensive incision wounds on both his hands. gallagher had seen the knife used by hendricks at their irving street residence, and had observed hendricks in possession of it at least once prior to the murder. b. defense evidence. hendricks testified in his own behalf, as follows. he and gallagher had argued 10. they agreed to meet on july 31, 2010, at the irving street house. gallagher arrived with galaz, and both women were high. hendricks and gallagher agreed that they would go purchase methamphetamine and then drop galaz off at her residence. hendricks had no idea the drugs were to be house hendricks got high after gallagher injected him with methamphetamine. there were no problems between him and ho at first. hendricks attempted to make small talk about the fact they had both served time in prison, and ho discussed his pornography 5 residence, including one that was on the top of the toilet. after ho apparently ingested himself in a sexual manner and toyed with the knife hendricks had seen on the toilet. ho demanded that hendricks leave the apartment with galaz, but leave gallagher behind. gallagher had previously told hendricks that ho had raped her after they used drugs together and she blacked out. hendricks was afraid ho had nefarious motives and would harm gallagher if she stayed behind. he attempted to get gallagher and galaz to leave, but they ignored him. while hendricks was waiting for the women, ho came out of the uld not leave without gallagher, but ho said she would be alright. ho, holding the knife, stepped toward hendricks. bathroom, causing ho to fall. the knife fell on the floor, and hendricks picked it up. when ho stepped toward hendricks, hendricks stabbed ho in the stomach area. hendricks continued to stab ho because he was afraid and did not know how badly ho was hurt. hendricks denied being armed with a knife or bringing he also denied intending to kill ho. instead, he stabbed ho in an effort to protect gallagher and himself. he affirmed that he had not stabbed ho in a fit of anger or jealousy. with portions of his interview with officers. among other things, during that interview hendricks did not state that ho had previously raped gallagher and did not clearly explain that ho had stepped toward him with a knife. he declined to answer several questions that might have incriminated him. he admitted stabbing ho at least four times, twice in the back and once in the stomach. significant portions of the pretrial interview were consistent so admitted that a few nights 6 2. procedure. trial was by jury. hendricks was convicted of the second degree murder of ho. (pen. code,  187, subd. (a).)4 the jury additionally found hendricks personally used a deadly and dangerous weapon, a knife, in commission of the murder. ( 12022, subd. (b)(1).) in a bifurcated proceeding, the trial court found hendricks had suffered a prior conviction for carjacking ( 215, subd. (a)) and had served a prior prison term within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). the court sentenced him to a term of 36 years to life in prison. it imposed a restitution fine, a suspended parole restitution fine, a criminal conviction assessment, and a court security fee. hendricks appeals. discussion 1. the trial court did not err by omitting an instruction on involuntary manslaughter. self-defense and the defense of another, voluntary manslaughter on an imperfect self-defense theory, and related principles. hendricks contends the trial court erred by failing to also instruct, sua sponte, on involuntary manslaughter with caljic nos. 8.45 (defining involuntary manslaughter) and 8.46 (defining caution and circumspection). he contends the omission deprived him of his state and federal constitutional rights to due process and a jury trial. we disagree. a trial court must instruct, sua sponte, on the general principles of law that are understanding of the case. (people v. moye (2009) 47 cal.4th 537, 548; people v. abilez (2007) 41 cal.4th 472, 517; people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 154.) instructions on a lesser included offense must be given only when there is substantial evidence from which the jury could conclude the defendant is guilty of the lesser offense. (people v. thomas (2012) 53 cal.4th 771, 813; people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 4 all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 7 547, 584.) substantial evidence is evidence that a reasonable jury could find persuasive. (people v. benavides (2005) 35 cal.4th 69, 102.) in deciding whether there is substantial evidence of a lesser included offense, we do not evaluate the credibility of the witnesses, a task for the jury. (manriquez, at p. 585.) the duty to instruct sua sponte on lesser included offenses is not satisfied by instructing on only one theory of an offense if other theories are supported by the evidence. (people v. lee (1999) 20 cal.4th 47, 61.) we independently review the question of whether the trial court erred by failing to instruct on a lesser included offense. (people v. booker (2011) 51 cal.4th 141, 181.) involuntary manslaughter is a lesser included offense of murder. (people v. thomas, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 813.) it is statutorily defined as a killing occurring during either: (1) the commission of an unlawful act not amounting to a felony, that is, a misdemeanor; or (2) the commission of a lawful act which might produce death, performed in an unlawful manner or without due caution and circumspection. ( 192, subd. (b); people v. manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 587; people v. butler (2010) 187 cal.app.4th 998, 1006-1007; people v. garcia (2008) 162 cal.app.4th 18, 27; people v. parras (2007) 152 cal.app.4th 219, 227.) additionally, an unintentional homicide committed in the course of a noninherently dangerous felony may properly support a conviction for involuntary manslaughter if the felony is committed without due caution and circumspection. (people v. burroughs (1984) 35 cal.3d 824, 835-836, disapproved on other grounds in people v. blakeley (2000) 23 cal.4th 82, 89; butler, at p. 1007; garcia, at p. 29; people v. albritton (1998) 67 cal.app.4th 647, 654.) the mens rea for all three types of involuntary manslaughter is criminal negligence. (butler, at kills in unreasonable self-defense is guilty of voluntary manslaughter rather than the less blakeley, at p. 92.) a defendant who kills in unreasonable self-defense may sometimes be guilty of involuntary manslaughter, but not if the killing was committed with a conscious disregard for life. (people v. johnson (2002) 98 cal.app.4th 566, 575, fn. 10; blakeley, at p. 91.) 8 here, the evidence did not support an involuntary manslaughter instruction. le knife and repeatedly and deliberately stabbed there was no evidence that would have supported a finding the crime occurred during commission of a misdemeanor, a lawful act other than self-defense, or a noninherently dangerous felony. repeatedly stabbing ho amounted to at least assault with a deadly weapon, an inherently dangerous felony. (see, e.g., people v. garcia, supra, 162 cal.app.4th at p. 28, fn. 4 [assault with a deadly weapon is an inherently dangerous felony];  245, subd. (a)(1);  17.) hendricks argues that the jury could have concluded he acted without the intent to kill and without malice, and therefore an involuntary manslaughter instruction was warranted. he urges there was evidence he lacked the intent to kill ho: he so testified. leave before the stabbing. he also posits that there was evidence he acted without malice. he suggests the evidence showed he was attempting to defend himself and gallagher, and overreacted to a perceived threat. thus, he theorizes, the jury could have found his attempt to defend himself was lawful, but was carried out in a dangerous or criminally negligent fashion. manriquez, the defendant argued the evidence would have supported a finding he shot the victim by mistake, while negligently attempting to defend against a perceived threat. (people v. manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 587.) the court reasoned that the killing, which involved two fatal and three n accident, the defendant admittedly required to instruct the jury on involuntary manslaughter in view of the circumstance that defendant intentionally kept firing his (id. at p. 588.) the same is true here: hendricks repeatedly stabbed ho, inflicting four fatal wounds, at least some of them when ho was already on the ground, incapacitated. 9 furthermore, a defendant who kills in unreasonable self-defense is guilty of involuntary, rather than voluntary, manslaughter only in the narrow instance where the killing took place under circumstances not demonstrating conscious disregard for life. (people v. blakeley, supra, 23 cal.4th at p. 91; people v. johnson, supra, 98 cal.app.4th at p. 575, fn. 10.) there was no evidence from which the jury could have concluded hendricks acted without a conscious disregard for life. hendricks stabbed and cut ho seven times, so forcefully as to puncture both his lungs and his liver; he continued stabbing even after ho was clearly incapacitated. these actions indisputably demonstrated a conscious disregard for life. thus, even if the jury concluded hendricks lacked the intent to kill and acted under the actual but unreasonable belief in the need for self-defense, the crime would have been voluntary manslaughter. (blakeley, at p. 92.) people v. garcia, supra, 162 cal.app.4th 18, is instructive. there, the defendant struck the victim, gonzalez, in the face with the butt of a shotgun, causing gonzalez to fall, hit his head on the sidewalk, and die. the court considered whether a jury could voluntary manslid. at p. 22.) garcia the commission of an inherently dangerous felony, even if unintentional, is at least voluntary manslaughter. because an assault with a deadly weapon or with a firearm is inherently dangerous, the trial court properly concluded the evidence would not support garc(ibid-defense when ho came at him did not support an involuntary manslaughter instruction. (id. at pp. 32-33.) even assuming the trial court erred by omitting an involuntary manslaughter instructiona conclusion we do not acceptany error was harmless. the erroneous failure to instruct on a lesser included offense is an error of california law, and reversal is required only if it appears reasonably probable the defendant would have obtained a more 10 favorable outcome had the error not occurred. (people v. moye, supra, 47 cal.4th at pp. 555-556; people v. breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 165.) the jury was instructed on, and rejected, the theory that hendricks acted in self-defense, perfect or imperfect, and convicted him of second degree murder rather than voluntary manslaughter. therefore it necessarily found he acted with a conscious disregard for human life. (people v. manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 588.) moreover, there was strong evidence supporting the second degree murder verdict on both an express and an implied malice theory. the undisputed evidence showed hendricks stabbed ho repeatedly, including after ho was incapacitated and after galaz asked what he was doing, strongly suggesting an intent to kill. even if a defendant lacks express malice, that is, the intent to kill, he or she is guilty of second degree murder if the people prove implied malice. (people v. garcia, supra, 162 cal.app.4th at pp. 26-27.) consequences of which are dangerous to life, which act was deliberately performed by a person who knows that his conduct endangers the life of another and who acts with people v. taylor (2010) 48 cal.4th 574, 623-624; garcia, at pp. 26-27.) it was undisputed that hendricks deliberately stabbed ho, conduct that he must have known was dangerous to human life. there was therefore no probability hendricks would have obtained a more favorable verdict had the court instructed on involuntary manslaughter. 2. exclusion of defense evidence. hendricks next complains that the trial court erred by excluding the testimony of expert. he contends exclusion of the testimony infringed upon his rights to present a defense, to due process, and to a fair trial. we discern no error. a. applicable legal principles. means evidence, including evidence relevant to the credibility of a witness or hearsay declarant, having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of 11  210; see also people v. lee (2011) 51 cal.4th 620, 642; people v. mills (2010) 48 cal.4th 158, 193; people v. williams (2008) 43 cal.4th 584, 633-634.) relevant evidence may be excluded, in the tially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury. (evid. code,  352; lee, at p. 643.) a trial court has broad discretion in determining whether evidence is relevant and whether evidence code section 352 precludes its admission. (mills, at p. 195; williams, at p. 634.) we apply the abuse of discretion ssibility of evidence, including those turning on the relevance or probative value of the evidence in question. (lee, at p. 643; people v. hamilton inflate garden-variety evidentiary questions into constitutional ones [will prove] evidence . . [citations.] . . . [e]xcluding defense evidence on a minor or subsidiary point does not people v. thornton (2007) 41 cal.4th 391, 443-444.) the erroneous exclusion of evidence requires reversal only if it is reasonably probable that appellant would have obtained a more favorable result had the evidence been allowed. (evid. code,  354; people v. richardson (2008) 43 cal.4th 959, 1001; people v. earp (1999) 20 cal.4th 826, 880.) b. exclusion of challen after hendricks testified, the defense sought to call challender. the trial court asked defense counsel for an offer of proof. counsel averred challender would state that iew, would have (1) supported the defense theory that gallagher engineered the meeting between hendricks and ho because she wanted ho to confront hendricks regarding the domestic violence hendricks had purportedly 12 grounds it was based on hearsay, was irrelevant, was more prejudicial than probative, and could only impeach gallagher on a collateral issue. ruling was correct. any out-of-court statements challender heard would have been inadmissible hearsay if offered for their truth. (evid. code,  1200, subd. (a).) evidence challender observed a sexual relationship between ho and gallagher would not have been hearsay, but was largely irrelevant. evidence of the sexual relationship could not have been offered to prove heat of passion: hendricks had already testified that when he stabbed ho, he was not angry and did not act in the heat of passion. a showing gallagher lied when she testified about her relationship with ho trials from degenerating into nitpicking wars of attrition over collateral credibility people v. riccardi (2012) 54 cal.4th 758, 808-809; people v. mills, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 195.) moreover, evidence gallagher lied about having a her credibility: among other things, she had already admitted being a long-time methamphetamine addict, having a sexual affair with galaz while engaged to hendricks, being attracted to and flirting with ho, repeatedly lying to hendricks, stealing, doing theft. r theorizes could have convinced the jury the killing was manslaughter. he posits that evidence ho planned to confront hendricks about the purported abuse of gallagher could have supported the defense position that ho was the aggressor. there are several problems with this theory. it was highly speculative; defense counsel did not aver challender knew ho planned to confront hendricks, or that gallagher had sought to ar 13 was irrelevant. the proposed testimony was cumulative. gallagher had already testified conversation would have served no purpose. finally, contrary to hendricksthe trial court gave defense counsel an inadequate opportunity to explain the relevance of c. exclusion of dr. mcgee. after excluding chalposed testimony. during deliberations the jury sent out several questions regarding the role of intoxication in the case.5 intoxication played in the crime. the people counter tha 5 reread the applicable jury instructions and advised that no act is less criminal due to the explained that voluntary intoxication plays no role in the consideration of whether a defendant acted with implied malice or conscious disregard. the jury subsequently asked special definition. 14 because defense counsel provided an inadequate offer of proof, and because presentation g was correct because defense counsel failed to demonstrate the probative value of the proposed testimony. (see evid. code,  354, subd. (a) [a judgment may not be reversed on the ground of nd relevance of the excluded evidence was made known to the court by the questions asked, an offer of ut the effects of how such evidence was directly relevant to the defense. gallagher and hendricks had both explained, during their testimony, how methamphetamine affected them. it was not testimony or give particulars regarding how it would have assisted the defense. instead, given the vague nature of the proposed testimony, we cannot say the trial court the trial evidence, we do not see the connection. finally, hendricks is incorrect when he urges that the trial court provided an inadequate opportunity for defense counsel to invited further explanation, but defense counsel declined to provide it. 15 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports aldrich, j. we concur: klein, p. j. croskey, j. 