filed 7/15/13 p. v. morrow and knox ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. damien morrow and phillip a. knox, defendants and appellants. b236173 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka088751) appeals from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, carol williams elswick, judge. affirmed. koryn & koryn and daniel g. koryn, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant damien morrow. david h. goodwin, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant phillip a. knox. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and david a. wildman, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction the prosecution charged damien morrow, phillip knox and traveon taylor with committing multiple sexual assaults on jane doe while acting in concert. the three defendants were jointly tried but, because of potential aranda-bruton1 issues, two juries were empanelled. one jury (the orange jury) determined the case against morrow and knox; the other jury (the green jury) determined the case against taylor. knox and taylor testified in front of both juries and claimed that doe had consented. the defense theory of the case, as set forth in each argument, was that doe had agreed to sexual relations with all three men and that her testimony to the contrary was a lie. following a seven-week trial, the orange jury convicted morrow and knox, appellants herein, of three counts each. morrow was convicted of sexual penetration by a foreign object (fingers) while acting in concert ( 264.1 & 289, subd. (a)),2 forcible rape while acting in concert ( 264.1 & 261, subd. (a)(2)), and attempted forcible rape while acting in concert ( 664/264.1 and 664/261, subd. (a)(2).) knox was convicted of forcible rape while acting in concert ( 264.1 & 261, subd. (a)(2)), attempted forcible rape while acting in concert ( 664/264.1 and 664/261, subd. (a)(2), and forcible oral copulation while acting in concert ( 288a, subd. (d)(1).) however, the green jury acquitted taylor of all charges.3 1 people v. aranda (1965) 63 cal.2d 518 and bruton v. united states (1968) 391 u.s. 123. 2 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code unless stated otherwise. 3 itself to set aside the verdicts rendered against them. 3 the trial court sentenced morrow to a term of 12 years and four months and knox to a term of 17 years and four months. in these appeals, morrow and knox raise multiple contentions of evidentiary and instructional error as well as claims of prosecutorial misconduct. in addition, knox contends that the evidence is insufficient to support his conviction for forcible oral copulation and morrow contends that the trial court improperly sentenced him to consecutive terms. we find no prejudicial error occurred and therefore affirm the judgments. statement of facts 1. background information at the time of these events, doe was 18 years old and lived at home with her parents. taylor and knox are half-brothers and shared the apartment where the 4 is a cousin of taylor and knox and was temporarily living with them when doe was assaulted. at some time during september 2009, doe and eboni white (white) met morrow.5 doe and morrow became platonic friends, often communicating through instant messaging on their respective cell phones. through morrow, doe met knox, taylor and scooter. doe never dated any of these men. doe visited 4 we refer to laron taylor by his nickname scooter to avoid confusion with co-defendant traveon taylor. 5 4 friend esteffania ocampo for a couple of hours. no sexual encounters occurred. 2. encounters with defendants on november 10 on november 10, morrow sent doe an instant message, asking her to come were present. after conversing with morrow in the living room, doe went with him to joined doe and morrow in wrestling but left after awhile. doe and morrow stayed, conversing with each other. doe received a phone call. while on the after doe finished her phone call, she and morrow resumed wrestling. morrow called for taylor to join them. he did and the three of them again wrestled in a playful manner. after approximately 10 minutes, they stopped and went into the living room. there, doe and taylor again wrestled. taylor called for knox to join into the shower as the three laughed. one of them turned the water on. doe, who is point, doe had been at the apartment an hour and a half to two hours. morrow suggested to doe that they leave to get something to eat. she agreed. taylor joined them. doe let taylor drive the three of them in her car to y stopped at a cvs and a gas station. at one point, doe and taylor were alone in her car. taylor started to rub her thigh. she told him to stop. he did. as they drove back to the apartment, doe received a phone call from ocampo. at one point, taylor took the phone from doe and told ocampo, in 5 -the apartment building and encountered scooter and his girl friend in the parking lot. once inside of the apartment, doe, taylowatching pornography with knox. doe had not asked the men to play pornographic movies. doe did not remember whether she said anything when she came upon this scene. doe and the men laughed and giggled during the movie but and then went to the living room. 3. defendants sexually assault doe on november 10 as doe sat on the couch in the living room, taylor came and sat down. at first, he and doe playfully wrestled but then he grabbed her wrists and placed his tongue in her mouth. doe told him to stop and turned her face. taylor grabbed her by the back of the neck. doe fought with taylor and he released his hold. room and started to times. doe struggled and told both men to stop but, because she was laughing, the men did not take her seriously. morrow stood nearby, also laughing. eventually, stupid. you ripped my underweawere down but her underwear was on. doe told morrow to leave. as doe 6 attempted to pull her pants up, morrow started to struggle with her. morrow called for taylor. taylor came into the bathroom. taylor heand pushed her face down onto the mattress. in the next hour, the following occurred. morrow sat in front of doe and held her arms down. taylor was behind doe, on his knees. she told them to stop and tried to kick taylor. taylor sat on the back of her legs and pulled off her ingers in her vagina for several minutes. she told him to stop but he ignored her plea. after taylor ceased his digital penetration of doe, he retrieved a condom wrapper, opened it, and placed the condom on his penis. doe appealed to morrow for help who ad forcible vaginal intercourse with her. during the rape, morrow attempted to kiss doe when she yelled loudly for taylor to stop. doe closed her mouth and turned her head but could not prevent morrow from placing his tongue in her mouth. knox entered doe, sat in front of her, and held her hands down. taylor tried to place his penis in raped her. doe told knox to stop and tried to get away from him. after awhile, taylor and knox switched positions. knox sat in front of doe and attempted to place his penis in her mouth. doe closed her mouth and turned 7 pulled doe up onto her knees and again raped her. doe continued to tell taylor to stop and tried to move her body away from his penis. at some point, taylor stopped raping doe. doe noticed that morrow was vagina with his penis. doe tried to mthe outside of her vagina but did not enter it. knox continued to try to place his bedroom. head. doe was pushed down into the mattress and raped three times. doe did not know if the rapes were perpetrated by the same man or different assailants. the pillow was r 4. crying, doe got up and saw scooter standing in the room. doe went into doe responded that there would not be a next time whereupon taylor said that intending to leave, doe demanded that morrow return her car keys. after a physical struggle, he complied. scooter testified that when doe left the apartment, 6 6 scooter was originally charged with one count of forcible rape while acting in concert. following a preliminary hearing, that charge was dismissed. at trial, the prosecution called scooter as a witness. in a sidebar conference, the prosecutor would contradict that claim because he would (and did) testify that he saw knox having sexual intercourse with doe (although scooter testified that it appeared to be consensual). testimony conceded sexual relations with doe. 8 doe walked to her car. against her wishes, morrow followed her and told because of her flirtatious conduct. doe, crying, drove away. it was approximately 11 p.m. she telephoned -hen ocampo asked doe when doe arrived home, she was still crying. her mother asked why and the apartment. later that evening, morrow however, the next day doe sent a text message to her friend eboni white, telling her that she had been raped. she identified her assailants as defendants and telephoned doe and said that they needed to speak about it. the next day, doe and 9 7 doe showed white her torn clothes and the multiple bruises on her body. later that day, doe told three more people about the crimes: doris santa cruz, george white and eric evans. doe told them that she did not want to report the matter to the police because she did not want her mother to learn about it. eboni white and santa cruz encouraged her to go to the police. around this time, on november 13, doe, accompanied by eboni white and santa cruz, reported the assaults to deputy sheriff chad limpanukorn. thereafter, toyetta beukes, a trained forensic nurse, performed a sexual assault exam on doe. doe told nurse beukes about the sexual assaults and identified her assailants as defendants and scooter. nurse beukes took possession of the clothes doe had 8 torn.9 ondition on november 16, doe spoke with detective greg salcido. detective salcido testified that doe told him that she had waited several days to report the assaults. doe explained that because of her family and her culture (lebanese and 7 evidence pursuant to the fresh complaint doctrine. 8 s bruises were introduced into evidence at trial. 9 introduced into evidence at trial. 10 muslim), she feared being shunned and did not want her parents to learn what had happened to her. in the following days, morrow confronted doe in a profane and angry manner, first on the phone and later in person. on november 14, deputy sheriff limpanukorn arrested taylor. after advisement and waiver of his miranda rights, taylor spoke with the deputy. the deputy testified that taylor admitted that he had had sexual intercourse with doe but claimed that it was consensual. he explained that doe had acted flirtatious that black.) b. the defense case 1. testimony of taylor taylor testified in front of both juries and denied having raped doe. he claimed that their sexual relations were consensual. his testimony about how he met doe and her visits to his apartment, including the november 9th visit, was he testified about the playful wrestling (although he claimed doe was sexually aggressive with the men), taking doe into the shower, and leaving with doe and morrow to eat. however, d when they returned to the apartment. in that regard, taylor testified as follows. soon, doe, tay 11 pornographic movie that depicted a black man and hispanic woman having sexual -after the movie was over, doe went into the bathroom, pulled down her pants, and allowed taylor to fondle her buttocks and going to have a four- shortly thereafter, doe called taylor into his bedroom. doe was lying on penetrated her vagina and had sexual intercourse with her. doe never resisted taylor or asked him to stop and morrow never held her down. after taylor lost his erection, he asked doe to orally copulate him. she declined and taylor did not pursue the matter. knox, who at some point had entered the bedroom, then had sexual intercourse with doe who did not resist, scream or fight. knox left the physically resisted morrow. after morrow left the room, taylor tried again to have sexual intercourse with doe but failed for lack of an erection. doe did not expressed her di impeached by a prior inconsistent statement he gave to law enforcement. during cross-examination, taylor conceded that when deputy sheriff limpanukorn first interviewed him, he repeatedly told him that he (taylor) was the only one who had sexual intercourse with doe. 12 2. testimony of knox knox testified as follows. during the evening of november 10, he saw doe watching them. later, doe and morrow wrestled on the living room couch. when playfully struggling with doe for awhile, knox went to his room. later, morrow and doe approached knox and asked if he had any pornography. knox replied that he did. now joined by taylor, watched the movie for 10 to 15 minutes but then left the apartment to go to the store. when they returned, taylor told knox that doe - s-before having sexual intercourse with her. after morrow left the room, knox -style lips. doe did not verbally or physically resist knox. no one physically restrained her or put a pillow over her head. -did not resist morrow and never yelled or screamed. any sexual relations with doe was impeached through two prior inconsistent statements. on cross-examination, knox her that he had not had sexual intercourse with doe. he also admitted that at an unspecified time, 13 3. testimony of george white white testified to a 30-inition of rape and had then concluded she had been raped. white testified in a conclusory manner about what doe told him about the events. however, on cross-examination, the prosecutor elicited from white a much 10 white asked doe why she had not reported the incident to the police. doe explained that she was afraid because her parents would learn about it. c. new trial motions after the jury returned with its verdicts, defendants moved for a new trial. they raised two grounds: inconsistent verdicts because taylor was acquitted of all by 10 for instance, white testified that doe told him that after she went into the bathroom to check her underwear, morrow entered the bathroom. she tried to pull her pants up but morrow held her arms. taylor entered the bathroom. the two defendants that taylor and morrow then took her into the bedroom where they bent her over the bed at one point, someone pushed a pillow over her face. her face was crammed into the mwas not sure if she had had sex with either knox or scooter because the pillow was over her head. she said nothing about morrow having sex with her but did indicate that she was upset because he had not tried to help her. 14 done an independent evaluation of the testimony that was proffered in this be in most [pertinent] areas credible. . . . [] . . . the court has acted as the [13th] juror to use those words, and the court at this time is denying the . . . motion for juwas acquitted. . . . [] more specifically, inconsistent verdicts are occasionally inevitable, in no way satisfying, but sometimes a consequence of the criminal justice sys discussion before and during trial deprived them of their constitutional rights to confront and cross-examine and to due process. in particular, defendants urge that the trial court erroneously precluded them from: (1) presenting evidence to show that doe preferred to date and have sexual relations with black men; (2) cross-examining doe on that issue; and (3) establishing that doe had a motive to falsely accuse conduct with men other than the defendant to prove consent and section 782 that sets forth a specific procedure that must be followed if the defense seeks to 15 impeach the victim of a sexual assault with evidence that involves sexual conduct.11 1. ngs were not an abuse of discretion a. factual background relationship, including sexual conduct, with any of the three defendants was admissible. however, the court rejected three separate defense requests to introduce evidence that doe preferred to date and have sexual relations with black men. the particulars of those rulings are the following. the defense requested permission to question doe if she had a general preference for black men, claiming that an affirmative answer would support their defense of consent. the trial court denied the request, citing section 1103, subdivision (c). in a similar vein, the defense wanted to introduce at trial what they claimed to bbefore the crimes occurred.12 wanna keep adding guys to my list i juss wanna be sure that their gonna lay it on me before i freakin fucc them but talk is cheap as fuccccc. . . . wat are we doin today? i wanna go to that one street in dena when i say blacc guys i mean so 11 all undesignated statutory references in section a of discussion are to the evidence code. 12 the prosecutor argued, among other points, that no foundation had been laid for the statement because the defense had offered no evidence to establish that the statement 16 mannyyyy blacc guys13 (italics added.) the defense argued that because o meet black men, it bolstered their theory that she had consensual sexual relations with defendants on the night in question. the trial court ruled that the myspace statement was barred by section 1103, subdivision (c). lastly, the defense indicated that it intended to introduce evidence that doe the court ruled that defendants, but no one else, could testify to those statements if doe made them in their presence on the night in question. b. discussion in 1974, the legislature enacted the statutory provision now found in section 1103, subdivision (c)(1). (people v. blackburn (1976) 56 cal.app.3d 685, 689-690.) the relevant portion of the statute provides that in sexual assault cases, not admissible by the defendant in order to prove consent by the complaining 1103, subd. (c)(3).) ensual sexual activities with others has little relevance to people v. chandler (1997) assault from being herself placed 13 there is no need for us to resolve that point. 17 people v. rioz complaints and resulted in a low percentapeople v. casas (1986) 181 cal.app.3d 889, 895.) the statute does not deny a defendant his due process right to a fair trial or the right to confront and cross-examine witnesses. (people v. blackburn, supra, 56 cal.app.3d at pp. 690-691.) pursuant to section 1103, subdivision (c)(1) for an abuse of discretion. (people v. woodward (2004) 116 cal.app.4th 821, 832.) we will not disturb its exercise of discapricious or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage of people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 1124.) in exercising its discretion whether evidence should be excluded pursuant to section 1103, subdivision (c)(1), the trial court must determine whether the willingness to engage in sexual activity. the term should not be narrowly people v. franklin (1994) 25 cal.app.4th 328, 334; see also people v. tidwell ould be interpreted broadly].) consequently, evidence that the victim offered to a third man (not the defendant) to have sexual intercourse for money was prohibited by people v. casas, supra, 181 not constitute 18 declarblack men, her intent to go to an area where black men congregated, and her conduct: each item indicated, either directly or indirectly, her willingness to engage in sexual relations with black men. defense counsel conceded as much when they explained that the evidence was relevant to their theory that it created the inference that doe consented to sexual relations with defendants because she has a sexual preference for black men. the trial court therefore did not abuse its discretion in precluding defendants from presenting this evidence. defendants rely upon people v. geier (2007) 41 cal.4th 555 (geier) to argue for a contrary conclusion. geier is clearly distinguishable. in geier, the defendant was convicted of murdering erin tynan during commission of a forcible rape. the defendant, who was white, claimed that tynan had consented to sexual intercourse. (id. at pp. 587 & 586.) to help prove that the deceased victim had not consented, the trial court permitted the prosecution, over defense objection, to presemuscular african-id. at p. 585.) the trial reflected on whether she would have consented to sexual relations with the defendant, a white man, and was therefore relevant. (id. at p. 586.) constitute an abuse of discretion. (geier, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 587.) it reasoned: -american men bore some relevance to whether she would have consented to 19 ibidtestimony tended to prove that] tynan would not have consented to sexual relations with id. at p. 586) and therefore tended to prove that the defendant forcibly raped her. defendants argue that if in geier evidence about the vicblack men was admissible to show lack of consent with a white man, then in this case to establish consent. we are not persuaded. for one, geier never considered or discussed section 1103, subdivision (c)(1), the basis upon which the trial court excluded the evidence in this case. the reason is clear: section 1103, subdivision (c)(1) prohibits only the defense from offering the evidence to prove consent. the statute says nothing about the geier people v. gilbert (1969) 1 cal.3d 475, 482, fn. 7.) anticipating this analysis, defendants next cite wardius v. oregon (1973) 412 u.s. 470 (wardiuspresent this type of evidence . . . in cases like geier [defendants] should have wardius is misplaced. wardius established a discrete principle: discovery obligations should be reciprocal. it found that a state law that required the defendant to give notice to the prosecution of its alibi witnesses but did not impose any requirement on the prosecution to inform the defense of the witnesses it intended to call to refute the alibi defense violated due process. (id. at pp. 471-473, 476.) nothing in wardius suggests that its rule of reciprocity should be extended beyond the context of discovery obligations and defendants cite no cases to support that view. (see 20 whitman v. superior court (1991) 54 cal.3d 1063, 1082 [penal code section 872, subdivision (b) permitting the people to use hearsay evidence to establish probable cause at a preliminary hearing without giving the defense a reciprocal right does not violate requirement of reciprocity] and people v. brodit (1998) 61 cal.app.4th 1312, 1325-1327 [even if new hearsay exceptions found in sections -there is no violation of wardius or due process].) it limits the defense but not the prosecutionis rational. as explained above, the legislature sexual conduct to prove consent in order to avoid harassment and embarrassment of the victim and to encourage the victim to report a sexual assault. permitting the of consentas happened in geierdoes nothing to undermine those goals but, instead, furthers tsexual assaults. discretion (a finding we do not make), any error was harmless because other evidence was offered people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) as set forth earlier, deputy sheriff limpanukorn testified that when he first interviewed taylor, taylor told him that doe had said 21 14 consequently, evidence was presented asexual preference for black men. in an effort to avoid this conclusion, defendants claim that this evidence would have carried more weight with the jury had they been able to elicit it from doe on cross-examination. the argument is not persuasive for several reasons. as defendants concede, the order of proof and presentation of evidence lie within the people v. tafoya (2007) 42 cal.4th 147, 175, and statutes cited therein; see, in general, 3 witkin, cal. evidence (5th ed. 2012) presentation at trial,  58, pp. 107-108.) given the mandate of section 1103, subdivision (c)(1) and the marginal relevance of the proffered evidence, defendants have failed to efendants to testify to these statements but to preclude defendants from cross-examining doe about them was an abuse of discretion. further, their claim that evidence would have been more persuasive had they been allowed to elicit it during the prosecutiounsupported speculation.15 in fact, this claim rings particularly hollow given that 14 defendantsthe night bobjection on the ground that it was leading. thereafter, defense counsel did not rephrase the question in a non-leading manner. it is therefore apparent that the trial court did not preclude defense counsel from inquiring, in a legally proper manner, about any statement made by doe directly to taylor about her purported interest in black men. 15 is not supported by the record. the prosecutor never asserted that their testimony about 22 neither of their closing arguments made any mention of the evidence that was presented on this issue. that is, they never argued (as they did during the pretrial hearings) that this evidence suggested that doe, having a sexual preference for black men, had consented to sexual relations with them. instead, they argued only testimony was not credible. in sum, defendants have failed to establish prejudicial error under the watson standard.16 at that point, defense counsel again moved for a mistrial because it had not been course and scope of the playing of the pornography; i like black cock, et al. [] we were prohibited from bringing it up during the course and scope of our cross-examination of jane doe, and we have now seen in real time what that has done to the defense from that these defendants the trial court denied the motion for a mistrial. it noted that it had previously statements of [doe] should the defendants testify,testified that doe had made those statements to them. the court then went on to observe . . and then . . . followed up with the argument that that does not equal consent. [] given 16 defendants assert that any error that may have occurred in regard to the trial ary rulings should be evaluated under the harmless beyond a reasonable doubt standard set forth in chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 because they were denied their constitutional rights to confront and cross-examine and to present a defense. we disagree. the california supreme court has held consistently that a trial constitutional rights when, as here, the defense is not precluded from challenging the prosecpeople v. fontana (2010) 49 cal.4th 351, 370; people v. fudge (1994) 7 cal.4th 1075, 1102-1103; and people v. espinoza (1992) 3 cal.4th 806, 818.) interest in sexual relations with black men. nothing prevented defense counsel from arguing that said evidence constituted circumstantial evidence of consent; defense counsel chose not to 23 c. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in limiting defense cross- examination of ocampo as noted earlier, doe, testified that on november 9 (the day before the sexual assaults) she and ocampo went to the apartment shared by knox and taylor where everyone socialized. ocampo, called as a prosecution witness, also testified to those facts. defense counsel sought to cross-examine ocampo about a conversation she had with doe that night (nov. 9) in which doe allegedly expressed her interest in black men and her enjoyment of kissing.17 the trial court sustained the e counsel pursue that argument before the jury. further, the defense was given wide latitude to -examined doe and two defendants (knox and taylor) testified that doe had consented. defense relied upon the defense evidence that the encounter had been consensual to argue the people had failed to s no refusal to allow [defendants] [citation.] accordingly, the proper standard of review is that announced in people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836, and not the stricter beyond-a-reasonable-doubt people v. fudge, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 1103.) 17 during cross-oe in which both ocampo and doe expressed their interest in black men. in a sidebar conference, defense counsel opined that defendants were present said something to section 1103, subdivision (c)(1), excluded the evidence. 24 confront and cross-examine were being denied. the trial court denied the motion. ru-examination of ocampo violated section 1103, subdivision (c)(1) because it improperly sought to elicit from her enjoyment of kissing. -examination was not an abuse of discretion. 2. defendants have forfeited their claim that the trial court improperly precluded them from impeaching doe regarding a motive to falsely accuse them one of the disputed issues at trial was why doe had delayed in reporting the as a result of her ethnic background (lebanese), religion (islam), and close family, question. the defense suggested the following theory. doe previously had an intimate around the time of the crimes, doe hoped to resume her relationship with moultrie. morrow had told moultrie that she had engaged in consensual sexual relations with defendants. which point the prosecutor objected. a lengthy sidebar conference followed. 25 defense counsel never responded to multiple requests from the trial court for an 18 the parties debated whether the brief statement insinuated that doe previously had a sexual relationship with with men other than defendants. raise no claim of error in regard to this colloquy.) the matter arose again during the defense cross-examination of eboni white. while exploring why doe delayed in reporting the sexual assaults, defense to report thpresence, the parties argued a length about this line of questioning. ultimately, the to resume a boyfriend/girlfriend relationship with [moultrie], that that does come under [section] 1103(c). a. discussion defendants now contend that the trial court improperly found the evidence asserted that moultrie really had heard of the statement but rather to show the 18 moultrie, in fact, did not testify at trial. 26 moultrie never heard of the events and the report was incorrect, it is relevant evidence was offered for the non-hearsay purpose of impeachment. they claim for her to fabricate a claim of rape: her desire to counter the statement made to moultrie that she had consensual sex with defendants. ( 780, subd. (f).) however, as explained by defense counsel, her motive to fabricate was inextricably intertwined with evidence that she previously had a sexual relationship with moultrie that she wished to resume. thus, this evidence called into play section 782 which sets forth strict procedures for impeachment when the evidence involves is almost always at issue in sexual assault people v. chandler, supra, 56 cal.app.4th at p. 707, fn. omitted, & 708.) the statute r sexual relationship with moultrie] and its relevancy in attacking the credibility of the people v. daggett (1990) 225 cal.app.3d 751, 757.) the offepeople v. fontana, supra, finds the offer of proof sufficient it shall order a hearing out of the presence of the people v. daggett, supra, 225 the evidence is relevant under evidence code section 780 [which sets forth proper 27 methods of impeachment] and is not inadmissible under section 352, then it may make an order stating what evidence may be introduced by the defendant and the people v. fontana, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 362.) in this case, defendants did not comply with that procedure. they did not file a written motion to impeach doe in this manner nor did they proffer a sealed affidavit containing an offer of proof. consequently, they have forfeited any claim that the trial court erred in precluding them from impeaching doe on this basis.19 (people v. sims (1976) 64 cal.app.3d 544, 554.) 19 -[doe] having no bad blood with you, no need for revenge, just manufactured [the claim ted. outside of the th moultrie. the court sustained the objection. when proceedings resumed in front of the jury, the prosecutor continued her cross-examination of taylor without further reference to this topic. defendants now complain that the court did not admonish the jury to disregard the argument fails for two separate reasons. first, calcrim no. 222 informed the jury evidence. . . . do not assume that something is true just because one of the attorneys asked a question that suggested it was true. [] during the trial, the attorneys may have objected to questions. . . . i ruled on the objections according to the law. if i sustained an objection, you must ignore the question. if the witness was not permitted to answer, do not guess what the answer might have been or why i ruled as i did.the jury is presumed to have followed this instruction. (people v. mickey (1991) 54 constitutes a forfeiture of their claim. (see people v. samayoa (1997) 15 cal.4th 795, 843.) 28 3. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in precluding the defense from cross-examining doe about statements attributed to her by scooter a. factual background s a prosecution witness (see fn. 6, antedetermine the proper scope of defense cross-examination. defense counsel intended to ask him about two statements that he allegedly heard doe make while the evidence was relevant to establish consent (express or implied). the court ruled that section 1103, subdivision (c)(1) barred admission of the statements. doe testified after scooter. after the prosecutor completed her direct examination, defense counsel asked the court if they could cross-examine doe about the statements scooter had allegedly heard her make while watching the pornographic movie. defendants advanced two arguments. first, they reiterated subdivision (c)(1). second, they argued the question was proper impeachment. they relied upon the fact that during direct examination, doe had testified that she did not remember whether she had said anything when she saw defendants the statements attributed to doe by scooter constituted prior inconsistent statements. ( 1235.) the trial court rejected both arguments. first, it found that the statements subdivision (c)(1). second, it found that to the extent that defendants were comply with section 782. as explained earlier, section 782 requires, among other 29 things, a written motion accompanied by a sealed affidavit containing an offer of conduct. ( 782, subd. (a) & (b).) the court did note, however, that defendants made in their presence while watching the movie. claim that these rulings denied them the right to confront and cross-examine. b. discussion about her sexual conduct and thus was not admissible to prove consent. ( 1103, subd. (c)(1).) to the extent that defendants intended to impeach doe by asking her about these statements, we are not convinced that this constituted proper testimony of a witness to the effect [s]he does not remember an event is not people v. simmons (1981) 123 cal.app.3d 677, 681.) but we need not resolve that point as it is clear that the purported impeachment triggered section 782 because it involved evdefendants failed to comply with the prophylactic procedure set forth in section 782. this failure constitutes a forfeiture of their claim that they were denied the right to impeach with this evidence. (people v. sims, supra, 64 cal.app.3d at p. 554.) 30 pursuant to the fresh complaint doctrine defendants next contend that the trial court committed prejudicial error because it permitted multiple witnesses to testify pursuant to the fresh complaint doctrine. we disagree. to properly analyze this contention, we begin with the law regarding the the testimony. after that, we detail the testimony of each witness and discuss its evidence was inadmissible, cumulative and hence prejudicial. 1. legal background the fresh complaint doctrine made by the victim of a sexual offense, disclosing the alleged assault, may be admissible for a limited, nonhearsay purposenamely, to establish the fact of, and the circumwhenever the fact that the disclosure was made and the circumstances under which people v. manning (2008) 165 cal.app.4th 870, 880.) the ailant(s) and the nature of the crime(s) are properly included within evidence of the fresh complaint. (people v. burton y following the alleged assault or was preceded by some delay, nor upon whether the complaint was volunteered spontaneously by the victim or instead was prompted by some inquiry 31 people v. brown (1994) 8 cal.4th 746, 763.) instead, the jury may consider those factors in assessing the significance of ibidcomplaint may be proved; the details of the alleged offense are incompetent hearsay, and the witness should not be allowed to recite those details in testifying to the complaint ed. 2012) hearsay,  170, p. 1020.) if requested, the trial court must instruct the jufor which the fresh complaint evidence was admitted. [citation.] however, the trial court has no duty to give such an instruction in the absence of a request. people v. manning, supra, 165 cal.app.4th at p. 880.) in this case, defendants did not request such an instruction. however, as will be seen, during the testimony of one witness, the trial court did instruct the jury about the limited use to which it could put the evidence. 2. ial ruling defendants sexually assaulted doe on november 10. doe reported the matter to the police on november 13. prior to trial, the people filed a motion to admit testimony from three witnesses (ocampo, eboni white, and deputy sheriff limpanukorn) pursuant to the fresh complaint doctrine. at the hearing conducted on the motion, the prosecutor indicated that she was also considering calling george white and doris santa cruz to testify to she was concerned that request that the people, even though they do not call maybe at some point do not intend to call the witnesses, that they make them available to the defense and keep them on- 32 ruled that ocampo and eboni white could, based upon the fresh complaint doctrine, testify to the statements that doe made to them in the days following the rape. the court also ruled that deputy sheriff limpanukorn could testify about the like yo20 3. a. ocampo -this testimony was admissible for the truth of the matter asserted as a spontaneous statement (evid. code,  1240), a ruling defendants do not contest in this appeal. fied her assailants as the three defendants and scooter. this testimony was properly admitted as a fresh complaint because it identified the crime and its perpetrators. (people v. burton, supra, 55 cal.2d at p. 351.) 20 as set forth previously in our statement of facts, the defense called george white as a witness. 33 b. eboni white eboni white testified to a series of text messages exchanged by her and doe during either the evening of november 10 or the next day. doe sent a text reading: the next day, doe and white spoke face-to-face. doe again identified her assailants as the three defendants and scooter and described the assaults to her as follows. morrow dragged her into the bedroom where he and taylor pushed her on to the bed. morrow pulled her pants down. while morrow held her down, taylor first inserted her fingers into her vagina and orce doe to orally copulate him. at some point, one of the men placed a pillow over her head room during these events.21 nversation in which doe again identified defendants as her assailants is covered by the fresh complaint the testimony was therefore properly admitted. (people v. burton, supra, 55 cal.2d at p. 351.) explaining what each defendant did. defendants contend this exceeded the boundaries of the fresh complaint doctrine because of the details doe supplied. 21 eboni white also testified that later that day, she was with doe when doe told eric evans and george white about the assaults. eboni white did not testify about any details of that conversation and the prosecutor did not call either man as a witness. further, eboni white testified that she was present when doe told doris santa cruz (santa cruz) about th 34 the attorney general counters that this evidence was properly admitted because it general relies upon two cases: people v. butler (1967) 249 cal.app.2d 799, 804 people v. cordray (1963) 221 cal.app.2d 589, 594 [witness testified that the child victim told her assuming arguendo that the evidence was erroneously admitted (a finding we do not make), its admission was not prejudicial. error in admitting fresh complaint evidence is evaluated under the harmless error standard set forth in people v. watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at page 836. (people v. manning, supra, 165 cal.app.4th at p. 880.) in this case, it is not reasonably probable a different result would have occurred (acquittal of all of the charges) had facts, albeit in much more detail, and was subject to vigorous cross-examination by defense counsel. cosecondhand statements to other people [including white], but was able to hear her idwas the focus of each ly detailed testimony about the sexual assaults to argue that the people had met their burden of proof.22 and, 22 fresh complaint in which doe told white that she had been raped by defendants. 35 testimony, this is not a closely divided case where erroneously admitted evidence would have improperly tipped the balance in favor of the people. c. santa cruz assault occurred after she went to see morrow. she told santa cruz that taylor cruz that taylor was the first to rape her. during the rape, doe cried and told tray [sicwell within the parameters of the fresh complaint doctrine because essentially it did no more than identify the crime (rape) and the assailant (taylor). (people v. burton, supra, 55 cal.2d at p. 351.) to the extent the statements referenced morrow, they exculpated him. essentially, doe stated that morrow asked her permission to have sexual relations with her; she replied that she did not; and he honored that request by leaving the room. in addition, santa cruz testified that the next day she accompanied doe to according to santa cruz, doe told the deputy that she went to visit morrow. at some point, she wrestled with the three defendants and her clothes were torn. she 36 t, she was alone with taylor and knox. one held her down and the other one raped her. [k after santa cruz completed this testimony, the trial court informed the jury . . is admitted for the limited purpose of showing that a complaint was made by the victim. it is not being admitted for the truth of the trial, certain evidence was admitted for a limited purpose. you may consider deputy sheriff limpanukorn fell outside the boundaries of the fresh complaint doctrine because it repeatecrimes. we disagree. that taylor had raped her. these statements fell well within the fresh complaint doctrine. (people v. burton, supra, knox as a perpetrator: either as the rapist or aider and abettor who held her down while she was raped. these statements fell well within the fresh complaint doctrine. (people v. burton, supra, 55 cal.2d at p. 351.) and, as explained earlier, the references to morrow were essentially exculpatory. 37 in any event, the trial court submitted a limiting instruction to the jury that it matter asserted and reiterated that point in one of its closing instructions. thus, to sheriff limpanukorn exceeded the fresh complaint doctrine, we presume that the for the truth of the matter asserted. (people v. mickey, supra, 54 cal.3d 612, 689, fn. 17.) d. forensic nurse examiner beukes defendants next contend that the trial court improperly permitted nurse for several reasons, we are not convinced that the fresh complaint doctrine was the did not identify nurse beukes as one of the many witnesses she was considering calling to testify pursuant to the fresh complaint doctrine. in addition, at the close of trial, the trial court submitted the following limiting instruction to the jury, a fact conclusions as an expert witness, she considered statements made by jane doe. do not consider those statements as proof that the information contained in the statements is true.23 t (testimony we set forth below in detail), we believe she testified in her expert 23 the trial court also submitted calcrim no. 332, the pattern instruction about evaluating the testimony of an expert witness. 38 solely to explain to the jury the basis of her expert opinion. in any event, nurse beukes testified as follows. she performed a sexual assault examination on doe on november 13. the protocol for the examination includes obtaining the facts of the sexual assault(s) from the victim. doe identified the three defendants and scooter as her assailants. doe told nurse beukes the kissing her beca assuming arguendo that this testimony was admitted pursuant to the fresh complaint doctrine, the bulk of it was proper. nurse beukes simply testified to her; knox attempted oral copulation; and one of them attempted to sodomize her. to the extent that nucomplaint doctrine because it included a few details of the crimes (wrestling, was non prejudicial for two separate reasons. first, the jury is presumed to have followed the two limiting instructions submitted by the trial court. (people v. mickey, supra, 54 cal.3d at p. 689, fn. 17.) o the same facts, albeit in much more detail, and was subject to vigorous cross- 39 able to hear hepeople v. manning, supra, 165 cal.app.4th at p. 881.) because the prosecutor never mentioned nurse was the issue posed to the jury. and, as we admitted evidence would have improperly tipped the balance in favor of the people. e. deputy sheriff limpanukorn on november 13 to report the rape and told him the following. she went to the apartment in response to a text message she received from morrow. when she icked doe up, carried her into the bathroom, placed her in the shower, and turned on the when the three returned to the apartment, knox grabbed doe and pushed her down on to a couch. taylor held doe from behind while morrow and knox i got to go. you guys are being too sexual for me. this is not what i came here 40 locked the door. morrow and taylor entered the bathroom through a second unlocked door wrists against the counter, and . . . was gdoe yelled at taylor to stop. taylor pulled her into his bedroom where he pushed her underwear and inserted his down. doe continually yelled at taylor to stop. after seven to eight minutes, taylor stopped whereupon knox raped doe. while knox raped doe, taylor attempted to put his penis in her mouth but doe pushed it way. after awhile, taylor and knox switched positions; taylor again raped doe and knox placed his penis on her e could not see the face(s) of her assailant(s). the men stopped their actions and left the room. bathroom. morrow handed doe her car keys. she walked out to her car with 41 defendants correctly note, and the attorney general concedes, that much of complaint doctrine because it supplied multiple details of the crimes as well as describing antecedent and subsequent events. however, it is not reasonably probable that defendants would have obtained a more favorable result had this testimony not been admitted. (people v. manning, supra, 165 cal.app.4th at p. about id. at p. 881.) further, the prosecutor in her closing and rebuttal arguments. thus, the jury was not asked to rely on those extrajudicial statements to determine whether the sexual assaults occurred. observed her demeanor, and was able to judge her credibility. because both guilt or innocence. -balanced improperly tilted the case in favor of the prosecution. as noted earlier, when the doe to be credible. this credibility finding is supported in multiple ways. one, scooter, cousin to knox and taylor, testified that when doe left the apartment, she 42 clearly suggests that the sexual encounter was not consensual. two, ocampo testified that shortly after the assaults, doe told her that she had been raped by the on his part and was therefore additional evidence she had been raped.24 in addition, the credibiwas undermined by their prior inconsistent statements, a point the prosecutor made in closing argument.25 taylor suggests that the case was so close that they were prejudiced by any for their crimes is not any legal or logical reason why another defendant, where substantial evidence has been introduced to sustain his conviction, should be (people v. palmer (2001) 24 cal.4th 856, 861; see, in general, 6 witkin & epstein, cal. criminal law (4th ed. 2012) criminal judgment,  88-89, pp. 131-132.) this rule has particular force when, as here, different juries that did not hear identical evidence reached different 24 in closing argument, the prosecutor, relying upon a modified version of guilt: suppression and fabrication of 25 to the jury. 43 of the evidence to support his conviction for forcible oral copulation (a claim that we explain later lacks merit as a matter of law), defendants do not contend that substantial evidence does not support their convictions. in sum, the error in permitting deputy sheriff limpanukorn to testify to f. cumulative nature of the testimony lastly, defendants argue that the level of redundancy. . . . between all the witnesses who testified as to what doe forfeited because defendants did not object at any point that the evidence would be or had become cumulative. (evid. code,  353, subd. (a).) at the pretrial hearing, the prosecutor stated she intended to call three witnesses: eboni white, ocampo and deputy sheriff limpanukorn. the defense never urged that testimony from these three individuals would be cumulative. in fact, when the prosecutor stated that there were other witnesses (george white and santa cruz) she could, but, in all likelihood would not call because she was concerned that the evidence would become cumulative, defense counsel insisted that the prosecutor keep those witnesses on-call so that they could call them to testify. when, during trial, the prosecutor called santa cruz as a witness to testify object that the evidence would be cumulative. and when nurse beukesa witness whom the prosecutor had not identified as testifying pursuant to the fresh complaint doctrine 44 that it was cumulative. ssion of evidence unless it is called upon to rule on an objection people v. viray (2005) 134 cal.app.4th 1186, 1208.) the statutory codification of this principle in evidence tion of the general rule that reviewing courts will not consider alleged deficiencies in a judgment or order unless the trial court was given an opportunity to act upon them in the first id. at p. 1209.) here, had the defense specifically objected at any stage of the proceeding that the evidence was becoming cumulative, the trial court would have considered and ruled upon the objection. but defense counsel never interposed that objection. the failure to do so constitutes a forfeiture of the claim on appeal. (people v. rogers (1978) 21 cal.3d 542, 547.) conviction of forcible oral copulation knox next contends that the evidence is insufficient to sustain his conviction for forcible oral copulation.26 we disagree. as set forth earlier, doe testified that at one point during the sexual assaults, taylor sat on her legs. at the same time, knox sat in front of her and attempted to place his penis into her mouth. she closed her mouth and turned her head but 26 morrow was acquitted of this charge. 45 contact, no matter how slight, between the mouth of one person and the sexual organ . . in convicting knox of forcible oral copulation ( 288a, subd. (d)(1)), the rsion of the events. law that the california supreme court explicitly disapproved in people v. dement (2011) 53 cal.4th 1 (dement). in dementhowever slight, between the mouth of one person and the sexual organ . . . of another person dement, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 42.) to decide that issue, dement reviewed the language of the charging statute (it includes no requirement of penetration or substantial contact), decisions from the courts of appeal, and previously approved jury instructions. (id. at pp. 41-43.) further, dement of the offense of id. at p. 43.) based upon all of those factors, dement concluded that 288a. (id. at p. 42.) (see also 2 witkin & epstein, cal. criminal law (4th ed. 2012) sex offenses and crimes against decency,  36, p. 432 [dement held that 46 n the mouth of one person and the in light of dement (a case that knox fails to acknowledge),27 contention must fail. doe testified that knox placed his penis on her mouth. although she turned her head, his penis came in contact with her lips. this people v. angier (1941) 44 cal.app.2d 417 to support a contrary conclusion is misplaced. dement specifically disapproved that case as well as other court of appeal opinions that had required either a penile penetration of the mouth or a conviction. (dement, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 43, fn. 20.) d. submission of a unanimity instruction defendants next contend that the trial court committed prejudicial error because it failed to give a unanimity instruction. knox raised this contention in his opening brief, arguing attempted forcible rape in concert], there were multiple acts that could have supported the offenses, and the jury did not know that it had to agree as to which act formed the basis for which joined in the contention, advancing the general the conflicting versions of doe herself in reporting the offenses to authority. . . . without a unanimity instruction, there is simply no way to know on the instant 27 months and fourteen months after dement was decided. 47 persuasive. the trial court is required to submit sua sponte a unanimity instruction has committed two or more similar acts, each of which is a separately chargeable offense, but the information charges people v. sutherland (1993) 17 cal.app.4th 602, 611-612.) however, no unanimity instruction is required when the prosecution makes an election as to which act constitutes which count.28 (people v. russo (2001) 25 cal.4th 1124, 1132.) the prosecution can make this election when it presents its opening statement by tying each count to specific acts to be shown by the evidence. (people v. diaz (1987) 195 cal.app.3d 1375, 1382.) particulapeople v. melhado (1998) 60 cal.app.4th 1529, 1539.) in this case, the prosecutor made the required election in her opening statement. first, she presented a detailed recitation of what she believed the evidence would show regarding d29 then, the prosecutor explained, in the following manner, how each count related to a specific incident she had set forth. first, the prosecutor discussed the only two crimes that jointly charged taylor and morrow: rape by foreign object in concert (count 1) and forcible rape in concert (count 2). these crimes were committed immediately 28 29 testimony. 48 down, taylor first digitally penetrated her and then raped her.30 next, the prosecutor referred to the evidence that knox raped doe while taylor held her down (count 3 forcible rape while acting in concert).31 count 4 charged all three defendants with attempted forcible rape while acting in concert. the prosecutor explained this crime occurred when morrow tried but failed to vaginally penetrate doe as knox held her down.32 count 5 charged all three defendants with forcible actually put 33 counts 6 and 7 charged knox and taylor with forcible rape while acting in concert. the prosecutor stated that was covered by tha34 elected which conduct by each defendant amounted to the crime charged, no unanimity instruction was required. (see people v. hawkins (2002) 98 cal.app.4th 1428, 1455.) furthermore, in the closing argument presented to the jury deciding the charges against morrow and knox, the prosecutor explained the charged counts in 30 morrow was convicted of counts 1 and 2. 31 knox was convicted of count 3. 32 both morrow and knox were convicted of count 4. 33 knox was convicted of count 5 but morrow was acquitted of the charge. 34 knox was convicted of count 6 but acquitted of count 7. 49 ries try to avoid contact and still pushes his penis up against her mouth touching her lips. [] any contact, however slight, without her consent between a penis and a in sum, this is not a case where the prosecutor asked the jurors to select from among several discrete acts to convict defendants of the charged counts. rather, the prosecutor repeatedly assertedfirst in her opening statement and later in her closing argumentsthat each count was committed by a specific act. the trial court therefore was not required to submit sua sponte a unanimity instruction. aiding and abetting instruction calcrim aiding and abetting instruction[] to add the element of consent for the 1. factual background in regard to each of the charged sex offenses, the pattern instructions informed the jury that in order to convict defendants, the prosecution had to prove lack of consent beyond a reasonable doubt. (calcrim nos. 1000 [rape], 1015 [oral copulation], & 1045 [sexual penetration with a foreign object].) the jury was further penetration] if [they] actually and reasonably believed that the woman consented to the intercourse. the people have the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt 50 that [defendants] did not actually and reasonably believe that the woman crime in two ways. one, he or she may have directly committed the crime. i will call that person the perpetrator. two, he or she may have aided and abetted a perpetrator, who directly committed the crime. [] a person is guilty of a crime (calcrim no. 400.) the court submitted calcrim no. 401, the pattern that the defendant is guilty of a crime based on aiding and abetting that crime, the people must prove that: [] 1. the perpetrator committed the crime; [] 2. the defendant knew that the perpetrator intended to commit the crime; [] 3. before or during the commission of the crime, the defendant intended to aid and abet the dufor the first time, asked the trial court to modify the aiding and abetting instruction by incorporating into it the language about lack of consent found in the instructions defining the target offenses. defense counsel opined that absent such a modification, their clients could be convicted on aiding and abetting theories even if the jury found that doe had consented to the charged offenses. the trial court rejected the defense request. it reasoned that the instructions, taken together, adequately explained the pertinent law to the jury. 2. discussion aiding and abetting to include the element of consen 51 ing a claim of instructional error, we consider the entire charge to (people v. whisenhunt (2008) 44 cal.4th 174, 220.) defendants do not disagree that the jury was correctly instructed about the elements of the charged sex offensesincluding the requirement that the people prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the victim had not consentedas well as the law of aiding and abetting that includes the elements that the people prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the perpetrator committed a crime and the defendant knew that the perpetrator careful attention to all of these instructions and consider them together(calcrim no. 200, italics added.) in light of the preceding instructions, it was not necessary for the trial court to modify calcrim no. 401 as requested by defense counsel. further, both defense counsel argued that no crimes had been committed because doe had consented. in sum, there was no reasonable likelihood that the jury would have misconstrued the instruction to mean that it could find defendants guilty on a theory of aiding and abetting without first finding that the people had established a crime had been committed because doe had not consented to a particular sexual act. (see people v. thornton (2007) 41 cal.4th 391, 436.) the instruction was reqnot believe that doe actually consented, it could reasonably have concluded from the totality of the evidence that doe engaged in equivocal conduct which led [defendants] reasonably but mistakenly to bthe fact that defendants fail to point to anything in the record to support this 52 speculative assertion, a contextual reading of calcrim no. 401 indicates that there is no reasonable likelihood that the jury could have reached such a conclusion. as set forth above, the instruction explained to the jury that in order to find any defendant liable on a theory of aiding and abetting, the jury was required knew that the perpetrator intended to com(italics added.) this means the jury was required to find that the defendant had no mistaken but reasonable belief that doe had consented to the sexual assault committed by the perpetrator. the parties framed the issue in that manner in closing arguments. defense counsel, in addition to claiming that doe had eat, defendants reasonably believed that she consented to their sexual activities and were therefore not guilty of committing any crime. the prosecutor refuted this argument in her rebuttal. consequently, the jury could not have found defendants guilty based upon the aiding and abetting theory if it had not been persuaded beyond a reasonable doubt that defendants did not reasonably but mistakenly believe doe had consented but, instead, knew that the perpetrator intended to commit a non-consensual sexual assault. f. prosecutorial misconduct during closing argument defendants next contend that the prosecutor committed several acts of prejudicial misconduct during closing argument. we are not persuaded. 1. the prosecutor did not misstate the law on consent citing several comments made by the prosecutor, defendants contend that 53 after she explained the legal definitions of fear and duress. the prosecutor urged: men who, despite her efforts to get away [and to] stop [them], . . . they refused, and they continued to perpetrate sex acts upon her the fact that she at some point essentially gave up does not constitute consent any claim of misconduct predicated upon this comment has been forfeited because defendants failed to object and request an appropriate admonition. (people v. wallace (2008) 44 cal.4th 1032, 1095.) in any event, the statement was not misconduct but, in fact, a correct statement of the law. the prosecutor was not people v. griffin (2004) 33 cal.4th 1015, 1024-1025) but, instead, was required only to prove that doe did not consent and that defendants used force, fear or duress to commit the sexual assaults. moreover, it is proper for a prosecutor to argue the distinction between consent and subecause the decision is not frepeople v. giardino (2000) 82 cal.app.4th 454, 460, fn. 3.) second, defendants cite to the following comments by the prosecutor to which defense counsel did object: he evidence is not give [morrow, taylor, or knox] permission to stick a penis in my interracial sex that these defendants attributed to jane doe, did you hear one shred of evidence about any conversation, discussion, let 54 vagina? to that. there was only these salacious comments that they attribute to jane doe, none of which amount to consent and none of which amount to an agreement. e him defense counsel objected, and, at sidebar, sought declaration of a mistrial, hat is not the law. that is not part and parcel of the [consent] instructions. . . . there is nothing in the definition of consent that has anything to do with permission and/or agreement that it has to be an expressed agreement and/or expressed permissi the trial court disagreed. it noted that during the argument, the prosecutor had placed an enlarged image of calcrim no. 1000 before the jury and that the act prosecutor] is within that definition in terms of the words that she used; that a person had knowledge of the act, specificity of the act, that the person gives freely and voluntar[ily] their [permission to] act. and that can be argued as permission, and it is argument. so she is within the bounds of argument. [] the motion for mistrial is defendants suggest, the prosecutor did not improperly tell the jury that consent 55 could be proven only by an oral agreement between doe and one or more of the defendants; that consent could not be implied from the circumstances; or that a not a defense. instead, the prosecutor argued that there was no evidence of express consent. that argument was proper based upon the evidence and the law. in any event, counsel for knox later argued (correctly) that express permission was not required by law and that consent could be implied by conduct. the issue of consent arose again in the following colloquy. to drive her car? now, had he not asked her to drive her car and had she not given him permission, he would have been committing the crime of unlawful driving of a vehicle. if he gets in her car without if he has to ask her to drive her car, why does he not have to ask her to put his penis in her vagina? instruction. the issue of consent is as follows and you will receive the instructions to consent, a woman must act freely and voluntarily and for the reasons stated above, this argument was not misconduct. further, the trial court then correctly instructed the jury about the elements of consent, and as set forth below in footnote 35, the prosecutor used that definition to amplify her argument.35 35 the prosecutor argued: 56 2. the prosecutor did not refer to facts outside of the evidence or make personal attacks upon defense counsel next, defendants argue that the prosecutor referred to facts outside of the evidence and personally attacked their counsel. they rely upon the following evidence against defendants: whore. get you focused o on what the law is is that they have to have consent. [] so what do they do? they attribute salacious comments to the victim. they talk [] can we watch porn? they even s she has to know the nature of the act. what do you want to do to me? painting her as a slut and clearly spells out the nature of the act, but amien morrow did not have consent. there was no conversation between jane 57 cient to preserve this claim for appeal. counsel was required to specifically assign the statement as prosecutorial misconduct and to request a curative admonition. the failure to do so constitutes a forfeiture of the claim. (people v. tafoya, supra, 42 cal.4th 147, 176.) defense counsel supposedly made up salacious comments about [doe] and [doe] was the person who had the idea of having interracial sex and watching the interracial pornographic video were not issues presented by the evidence were supported by the evidence. deputy sheriff limpanukorn testified that when he arrested taylor four days after the assaults, taylor had told him that doe had acted flirtatious; that 36 it is therefore apparent that the prosecutor was not improperly imputing comments to defense counsel but, instead, was commenting on the evidence and the apparent defense theory that because doe had made these remarks, she had consented (implicitly or explicitly) to sexual relations with defendants. the prosecutor made this clear when, after the trial court overruled the defense objection, she continued: 36 pornography. she asked for pornography. she specific 58 hy they slutify her. to slut around with. even a prostitute can pick her johns, and a promiscuous girl, if she is promiscuous, can pick and choose who she wants to be promiscuous with. you wanted it. it is well settled that the prosecutor may make fair comments upon the which does no more than point out that the defense is attempting to confuse the issues and urges the jury to focus on what people v. cummings (1993) 4 cal.4th 1233, 1302, fn. 47.) in light of that principle, we sic] [their] defense was false, infra, for a discussion of additional comments that defendants erroneously claim constituted prosecutorial misconduct.) 59 3. knox constituted misconduct because it appealed to the passion and prejudice of the jury you what is that she liked it. common. common. the sex offender telling the victim she liked it the following colloquy then occurred: nterpose an objection at this point in time. this is misconduct. evidence, i will sustain. sus passion and prejudice to the jury and therefore constituted misconduct. the argument fails for several reasons. to begin, knox abandoned his general claim of prosecutorial misconduct (a claim that never urged the comments appealed to the that the prosecutor had misstated the evidence. further, to the extent that the did misstate the evidence (it was taylor and morrow but not knox who essentially told doe that she had enjoyed their sexual assaults), the court sustained the defense objection on that basis. in addition, immediately 60 before closing arguments commenced, the trlastly, the written instructions submitted to the jhave followed these instructions. (people v. mickey, supra, 54 cal.3d at p. 689, fn. 17.) if knox believed an admonition to the jury to explicitly disregard the remark was also necessary, it was his responsibility to request one. (people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1114, 1205.) because such an admonition would have been sufficient to cure any harm from the comment, knox has not preserved the issue for appeal. (people v. wallace, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 1095; people v. tafoya, supra, 42 cal.4th at p. 176.) ex offender could be construed as a statement knox had previously been convicted of a sex offense, the comment did misstate the evidence. however, because the court statea forfeiture of any appellate claim based upon that comment. (people v. carter, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 1205.) but more to the point, there is no reasonable likelihood that the jury construed the comment in an objectionable fashion. viewing the comment in a contextual and common sense manner, the more reasonable interpretation is that the prosecutor was simply referring to knox as a sex offender because he was one of three individuals who committed multiple sex 61 offenses against doe. in that case, the comment was more than amply supported by the record.37 of consecutive sentences morrow contends that the trial court erred when, after selecting count 1 (rape by a foreign object) as the base term, it imposed consecutive sentences on count 2 (forcible rape) and count 4 (attempted forcible rape). he argues that there is 2 and 4 occurred on separate occasions. we disagree. 1. factual background bedroom, morrow held her down as taylor digitally penetrated her (count 1). taylor stopped, retrieved a condom and placed the condom on his penis. doe pled with morrow for help but morrow ignored her plea and continued to hold her down while taylor raped her (count 2). after that, knox entered the room. knox raped doe while taylor held her down; knox orally copulated doe; and taylor again raped doe. then, morrow attempted to rape doe as knox held her down (count 4). after the jury returned with its verdicts, the parties filed briefs addressing, inter alia, the propriety of imposing consecutive sentences. at the sentencing 37 although this specific claim of error was raised by morrow, he has no standing to knox. 62 hearing, counsel again argued their positions. thereafter, the trial court imposed sentence. first, the court selected count 1 as the base term and imposed the low term of five years. it then turned to whether it should impose consecutive terms for counts 2 and 4. it reasoned: particular actions. while mr. taylor [was] digitally penetrating the victim, mr. morrow was holding down the victim. reflect upon his subsequent actions. i should say he had a reasonable opportunity to reflect upon his subsequent actions. he had a conversation with the victim asking if this is what she wanted. she not what she wanted. . . . the packaging, puts it on and continues in his actions, and yet mr. morrow is still inquiring of the victim whether or not this is some activity that she is wanting. her response is she does not want said activity. returns to the room, and at that time he starts to put his penis into the that he was out of the room and coming back into the room and him a reasonable opportunity to reflect upon his actions. . . . based upon its findings, the court imposed consecutive sentences consisting of a five-year term on count 2 and 28-month term on count 4, for an aggregate sentence of 12 years and four months. 63 2. discussion section 667.6, subdivision (d) provides for consecutive sentences for single victim were committed on separate occasions . . . , the court shall consider whether, between the commission of one sex crime and another, the defendant had a reasonable opportunity to reflect upon his . . . actions and nevertheless resumed sexually assaultive behavior. neither the duration of time between crimes, nor whether or not the defendant lost or abandoned his . . . opportunity to attack, shall be, in and of itself, determinative on the issue of whether the crimes in question ibid.) the defendant had a reasonable opportunity to reflect. (people v. plaza (1995) 41 cal.app.4th 377, 384-385.) applying this deferential standard, we uphold the trial oe) condom wrapper, opened it, and placed the condom on his penis. doe, recognizing taylor intended to rape her, appealed to morrow for help. morrow did nothing to assist heon these facts, the trial court could reasonably find that morrow had a reasonable doe and that the acts therefore occurred on separate occasions for purposes of applying section 667.6, subdivision (d). 64 r down; knox forced doe to orally copulated him; and taylor raped her again. after these events, morrowcommitted count 4 when he attem[morrow] ample opportunity to reflect on his actions and stop his sexual assault, people v. garza (2003) 107 cal.app.4th 1081, 1092.) therefore, we conclude that the trial court did not err in imposing a consecutive sentence for count 4. sentences.38 38 morrow argues that people v. pena (1992) 7 cal.app.4th 1294 and people v. garza, supra, separate occasions is a fact-driven inquiry, specific to each case. (see people v. irvin (1996) 43 cal.app.4th 1063, 1070-1072.) suffice it to note that we have examined the two cases that morrow cites and conclude that neither supports his argument because each is factually distinguishable. 65 disposition the judgments are affirmed. not to be published in the official reports willhite, acting p. j. we concur: manella, j. suzukawa, j. 