filed 8/6/12 p. v. barrios ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jason daniel barrios, defendant and appellant. b236387 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga082324) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, laura f. priver, judge. affirmed. vanessa place, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. 2 jason daniel barrios appeals the judgment entered following a jury trial which resulted in his conviction of attempted rape (pen. code,  664/261, subd. (a)(2))1 and assault with the intent to commit a felony ( 220, subd. (a)(1)). the trial court sentenced barrios to four years in prison. we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. facts. at about 11:00 a.m. on january 24, 2011, d.j. decided to go on her usual hike. she started on pasadena avenue in the city of south pasadena and walked west along the los angeles river and the arroyo by a golf course. that day she walked all the way to the rose bowl. when she arrived at the rose bowl, d.j. turned around and started back, walking along the same path she had taken there. at about noon, d.j. was going to cross the street by a baseball field in the arroyo park area north of the 110 freeway when she saw barrios with a skateboard standing about 20 feet d.j. took note of barrios, then followed her usual route. she was on a horse trail, which she followed to go under a freeway overpass. however, as she approached the overpass, she heacomimade eye contact. d.j., who was dressed in a white shirt, a crewneck, baggy black crosthe waist and d.j. landed on her hands and knees. barrios, who was on top of d.j., struggled with her and attempted to pull off her 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 five or six seconds, d.j. was able to turn around and face barrios. he continued to try to take off her pants and h please i need this him. barrios stopped for a second, then resumed his attack on d.j. he continued to try to take uing because [she] kn[e]w the fight back and, although d.j. did not hear the voice again, barrios suddenly got up, looked around, then ran back toward the tunnel, leaving his skateboard behind. d.j., who tunnel. as d.j. walked toward her home, she encountered a friend and the mother of one tracy green lives in the city of south pasadena and knows d.j. one early afternoon in january 2011, green, accompanied by her golden retriever, was going for a run down ther not to go into the arroyo. when she stopped to talk to d.j., green could tell that d.j. 4 told green that a man had attacked her. when green told d.j. that she had her cell phone and that they should call the several hours later, d.j. received a call from police. she was asked to go to the south pasadena police station and to bring her torn clothing and the skateboard with her. while she was at the station, d.j, was asked to view a lineup of approximately six men and to identify the person who had assaulted her on the trail. d.j. identified barrios. at trial, d.j. identified a photograph of barrios. although the photograph showed that he was wearing different clothes and had gotten a haircut since the day of the attack, d.j. recognized him as her assailant. on the day of the hike, he had been wearing black ween 30 and 40 times, yelling it out at approximately noon on june 24, 2011, peter aston was sitting on a bench in the arroyo park area of south pasadena smoking a cigarette when he heard a scream. it was a female voice and it was coming from below him, near the area by the horse trail. after he heard a fourth scream, he got up and walked south on the arroyo to try to determine where the screams were coming from. he followed the foot path, which goes down into the arroyo, meets the horse trail and goes through a tunnel under the freeway. there is, however, a lot of shrubbery in the area and aston could not see past it. 5 feet away,] it covered his face, then kept on walking through the tunnel. when aston asked barrios when barrios continued to run, aston decided to stop chasing him. it occurred to had a phone with him, decided to call 911. during the call, he told the operator that at, long 11, [and] he had a beanie hat approximately one hour after he made the 911 call, aston was asked to go to the identified barrios as the man he had chased to the tunnel. at approximately 1:45 p.m. on january 24, 2011, south pasadena police officer spencer louie was in the vicinity of arroyo park in the city of south pasadena. he was about a half the description of the suspect. louie yelled to barrios and told eventually placed barrios in handcuffs. detective frank litterini of the south pasadena police department also responded to the radio call concerning the attempted rape in the arroyo park area. litterini 6 litterini read to barrios his miranda[2] rights. although he did not think that barrios was under the influence of drugs, alcohol or medication, during his interview of barrios, letterini asked him if he was under the influence of any of those substances. 2. procedural history. following a preliminary hearing, on september 20, 2011 barrios was charged by amended information with one count of attempted forcible rape in violation of sections 664 and 261, subdivision (a)(2) (count 1) and assault with intent to commit a felony in violation of section 220, subdivision (a)(1) (count 2). trial was by jury. prior to trial, the people indicated they would be seeking to ments made to terry green on the theory they amounted evidence hearsay, but that it would be cumulative and more prejudicial than probative under evidence code section 352.3 the prosecutor argued that he would not allow the evidence as the prosecutor had described it. made it. the trial court indicated that, although the 911 tape would be admitted, the would give a limiting instruction indicating that the tape was the evidence and was being 2 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 3 y exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the ju 7 before playing the let me say it this way. any portion of the 911 call which describes what the witness is actually seeing at that time is being admitted for all purposes. any other portions are admitted for state of the prosecutor indicated that the other evidence code section 4024 issue was admitting the evidence was that aston and d.j. had identified barrios both in the field the prosecutor asserted that he had a specific photograph which he was intending particular, that barrios had trimmed off all of his hair. the problem was that the photograph showed barrios standing in front of a police car with his hands behind his back, making the image somewhat prejudicial. the trial court indicated that it believed the photograph was relevant and admissible. it suggested, however, that the prosecutor i understand that he has the right to make that decision. at this juncture i would ask the court [to] inquire whether he would like to go against my advice and testify or allow the case to proceed with him invoking 4 fact is disputed, its existence or nonexistence shall be determined as provided in this article. [] (b) the court may hear and determine the question of the admissibility of evidence out of the presence or hearing of the jury; but in a criminal action, the court shall hear and determine the question of the admissibility of a confession or admission of the defendant out of the presence and hearing of the jury if any party so requests. [] (c) a ruling on the admissibility of evidence implies whatever finding of fact is prerequisite thereto; a separate or formal finding is unnecessary unless required by 8 when the people had completed their case, defense counsel made a motion for a judgment of acquittal pursuant to section 1118.1. defense counsel arguaccording to the witness she indicated her pants were simply pulled, nominor minor injuries. i believe this would be more attune to an assault and battery versus the more to find the charges alleged by the following argument by the prosecutor and defense counsel and instructions from the trial court, the jury began its deliberations. after one day, it was necessary to substitute in an alternate juror and the deliberations began again. earlier deliberations were disregarded and the case was decided as if the earlier deliberations had not taken place. sometime later, the trial court received a message from the foreperson that a verdict had been reached. the foreperson handed the verdict forms to the bailiff, who handed them to the trial court. the court clerk then read the forms into the record as -entitled action find the defendant jason daniel barrios guilty of the crime of attempted forcible rape in violation of penal code section[s] 664/261[, subdivision] (a)(2), a felony, as charged in count 1 of the information. this 23rd day of september, 2011 . . . . [] same title, same title court and . . . the jury in the above-entitled action find the defendant jason daniel barrios guilty of the crime of assault with intent to commit a felony in violation of penal code section 220[, subdivision] (a)(1), a felony, as charged in count 2 of the information. this 23rd that those had been his or her verdicts. 9 barrios was sentenced on september 30, 2011. after indicating that count 1 and 5 the trial court indicated that, since count 1 was an attempt, the maximum sentence which could be imposed was four years. count 2, on the other hand, the prosecutor asserted that there were multiple circumstances in aggravation, did trisk to public safety. . . . insanity was not a defense and [defense counsel] who is a calming influence could not keep mr. barrios from controlling himself during trial. he . . . i needs medical attention that i personally believe would not be given to him in prison. [] on june 24th 2011 he was evaluated by a psychiatrist and moved from the central jail to the twin towers medical facility . . . . he is currently being treated for anxiety, depression and schizophrenia. i have him currently on my medical insurance at work and if he is released for time served or put on probation i can get him the medical attention needed . . . . [] my son is quiet. he has shown moralities [sic] and emotions incapable -helping h 5 ission that is punishable in different ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the act or omission be punished under more than one provisio 10 mrs. d after considering the emotional harm suffered by the victim, the fact that the crime was committed in an area populated by children, walkers, runners and others who should have the luxury of feeling safe there, and that barrios, although young, is not a juvenile, the trial court sentenced him to the mid-term of four years in state prison as to count 2. as to count 1, the trial court imposed, then stayed pursuant to section 654, the mid-term of three years. barrios was awarded presentence custody credit for 250 days actually served and 37 days of conduct credit, or 287 days. he was ordered to pay a $200 restitution fine ( 1202.4, subd. (b)), a suspended $200 parole revocation restitution fine ( 1202.45), a $40 court security fee ( 1465.8, subd. (a)(1)) and a $30 criminal conviction assessment (gov. code,  70373). the trial court then ordered barrios to register as a sex offender upon his release from custody, each time he changed his residence and each year with court recommended that he be housed in a mental health treatment facility. on september 30, 2011, the day of sentencing, barrios filed a notice of appeal. he indicated that he is indigent and requested the appointment of counsel. this court appointed counsel to represent barrios on appeal on january 23, 2012. contentions after examination of the record, counsel filed an opening brief which raised no issues and requested this court to conduct an independent review of the record. 11 by notice filed april 11, 2012, the clerk of this court advised barrios to submit within 30 days any contentions, grounds of appeal or arguments he wished this court to consider. no response has been received to date. review on appeal we have examined the entire record and are satisfied counsel has complied fully smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 278-284; people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, 443.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: kitching, j. aldrich, j. 