filed 9/17/12 p. v. castillo ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. anthony castillo, defendant and appellant. b236595 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa068091) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, cynthia l. ulfig, judge. affirmed with instructions, and remanded. jennifer hansen, by appointment of the court of appeal under the california appellate project, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette and lance e. winters, assistant attorneys general, lawrence m. daniels and linda c. johnson, supervising deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________________ 2 introduction anthony castillo appeals from a sentence of imprisonment following his convictions for grand theft and second degree commercial burglary. he contends the sentence for grand theft should have been imposed and stayed pursuant to penal code section 654, as the theft and the burglary were both part of an indivisible course of conduct with a single intent and objective. the people agree, as do we. accordingly, we will remand the matter to the superior court with instructions to stay the sentence as to count 2. otherwise, we affirm. statement of the case a jury found appellant guilty of grand theft of personal property (pen. code,  487, subd. (a); count 2)1 and second degree commercial burglary ( 459; count 3).2 he was sentenced to three years in county jail on count 3, and two years concurrent on count 2. execution of the sentence was suspended as to both counts, and appellant was placed on formal probation for five years. there was a minute order for the sentencing hearing, but no abstract of judgment. appellant timely appealed. statement of the facts -owned business that installs glass products, such as windows, shower doors, and mirrors. appellant, his father john castillo, and his younger brother, johnny castillo, were former 1 all further statutory citations are to the penal code, unless otherwise indicated. 2 appellant was acquitted of count 1, grand theft auto. 3 johnny was laid off for lack of work a week later. 2009, a friday, key was the last one to leave the office. key testified that when ge units -- units f and g -- were locked. she also testified there was no business planned for that weekend. when key came to work the following monday (november 23, 2009), she as missing and a white truck was gone. she also saw that chop saws, routers, drills, and diamond drills were missing. when she tried to close the door to unit g, she door. estimated that the value of the stolen items totaled $21,870. aw appellant on november 22, 2009. that afternoon, he and his wife went to his shop to pick up some boxes. after in front of the units: one was appellant, one was an older inquiring 4 they had been burglarized. he told her that he had seen her employees working on by the police, he picked appellant out of a photo lineup. to grand theft of november 23, 2009. discussion appellant contends his sentence on count 2 should be stayed under section 654, as the crimes charged in count 2 (theft) and count 3 (burglary) were part of an indivisible course of conduct with a single intent and objective. the people agree. after reviewing the record, we conclude that section 654 barred multiple punishment for the grand theft and commercial burglary. ( 654, subact or omission that is punishable in different ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the act or omission be punished under more than people v. cline (1998) 60 cal.app.4th 1327, 1336 [ordering abstract of judgment corrected where the people conceded that convictions for disposition the matter is remanded to the superior court with instructions to stay the sentence imposed on count 2. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. the 5 clerk of the superior court is directed to prepare an abstract of judgment as set forth in this opinion and to forward it to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published in the official reports. manella, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. suzukawa, j. 