filed 1/4/13 p. v. smith ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. kenneth ray smith, defendant and appellant. b236611 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba363755) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, anne h. egerton, judge. affirmed. stephen b. bedrick, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, linda c. johnson and theresa a. patterson, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant kenneth ray smith was tried by a jury on three felony counts arising from two separate shooting incidents. as to the first incident, the jury acquitted defendant of the murder of jeremy solomon (pen. code,  187, subd. (a), count 1)1 and the attempted murder of kevin randolph ( 664, 187, subd. (a), count 2). as to the second incident, the jury convicted defendant of the first degree murder of overland campbell and found true the special circumstance allegation of an intentional killing committed to benefit a criminal street gang. ( 187, subd. (a), 190.2, subd. (a)(22), count 3.) it also found true the criminal street gang and firearm enhancement allegations. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c), 12022.53, subds. (c), (d), (e)(1).) the trial court sentenced defendant to prison for life without parole and imposed and stayed the criminal street gang and firearm enhancements. in his appeal from the judgment, defendant raises issues concerning the erroneous admission of evidence, prosecutorial misconduct, and refusal to sever counts 1 and 2 from count 3. finding no error, we affirm. background i. the december 26, 2007 shootings of solomon and randolph on the afternoon of december 26, 2007, solomon and randolph were shot as they multiple gunshot wounds. randolph survived three gunshot wounds but did not testify at trial. a. diately after the 1 all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 shooting, shearer told responding los angeles police department officers that the shooter was an african-american male who was shorter than shearer (who is six feet one police investigation, shearer reviewed several photographic six packs and selected in court, however, shearer was an uncooperative witness. his preliminary hearing testimony consisted primarily of a single rerefused to be sworn as a witness even in the face of contempt charges. after finding shearer to be unavailable as a witness (evid. code,  240), the trial court allowed the prosecutor to read to the jury the trand play his recorded pretrial interview. in this manner, the jury was informed of 2 the prosecutor then resumed questioning shearer in front of the jury. shearer was now more cooperative but gave contradictory responses. on the one hand, he admitted 2 according to the interview transcript, shearer made the following statements: shearer appeared as a witness at the preliminary hearing but did not want to testify because he was in prison and did not want to be a snitch. shearer was at the park on december 26, 2007. after parking his truck, he went attention to his surroundings because he was not in his own neighborhood. as he sat in -american male in a white t-shirt and blue jeans. the shooter, who was alone, had light skin, freckles, short , who is six feet one inch tall. no one pointed a gun or fired at the shooter. drove out of the parking lot. shearer also started to leave when he heard sirens and saw a police helicopter overhead. shearer waved at the helicopter. a patrol car came by and later, shearer was contacted by detectives. shearer went to the 77th street central jail. he was shown several photographic six packs. he identified photo number to in the other six packs. he was 100 percent certain of his identification of defendant. 4 the other hand, he repudiated his identification of defendant as false. he testified that he tapping it with his finger.3 he claimed that he did so because he was in custody and had sentenced to 21 years, going to prison. i was offered a few amenities and i said okay, no was taken from high security lock down and brought down to 77th street jail, given my own cell, my own magazines, my cigarettes, my eight-shearer read to the jury the two letters that he had written to detective eric crosson requesting money and other amenities for his testimony. b. ballistics testing had excluded as the murder weapon, was the same type of firearm that could have been used to shoot solomon and randolph, and (2) defendant was seen running from the park in the same clothing described by shearera white t-shirt and blue jeansimmediately after the shooting. 1. the prosecution presented evidence that on june 23, 2008, defendant was pulled the car defendant admitted to peterson that the gun was his and that he belonged to the eight trey gangster crips. 3 e his job and go to jail. 5 igh standard double nine revolver, was the type of firearm that might have been used in the the physical evidence suggested that the shooter had used a .22 caliber revolver that, like the high standard double nine revolver, fires nine rounds without ejecting any casings.4 detective crosson testified that high standard is the only company that makes a .22 caliber revolver that can hold nine rounds. firearms examiner rafael garcia revolver as the murder weapon, it was possible that a similar weapon had been used in the december 26, 2007 shooting. several police officers testified that high standard model double nine revolvers are rare. garcia testified that in his 16 years as a firearms examiner, he had seen fewer than 10 such weapons. nine revolver that is rarely seen by law enforcement officers in los angeles was relevant to establish his knowledge and ability to commit the december 26, 2007 shooting. 4 the physical evidence indicated that the shots were fired through the passenger description of a single shooter with only one gun. because no casings were found at the crime scene, the murder weapon was either a revolver (casings are not ejected from revolvers) or an automatic (in which case, all of the casings had been collected before the police arrived). the physical evidence indicated that nine .22 caliber bullets were fired during the car. because the evidence suggested that the shooter did not stop to reload or collect casings, the prosecution theorized that the murder weapon was a revolver that, like an fire nine .22 caliber bullets without ejecting any casings. 6 2. defendant was seen running from the park after the shooting the prosecution also offered evidence that defendant was seen running from the direction of the park immediately after the shooting in the same clothing (a white t-shirt and light blue jeans) that shearer had described in his interview statement. prosecution witness michael johnson testified that on december 26, 2007, he was standing in front of his house near the park when he heard several gunshots. a few minutes later, johnson saw a black male running from the direction of the park. as the man ran by, he was glancing over his shoulder and holding the front of his shirt with both hands near the waistband. the man was approximately six feet tall, 215 or 220 pounds, and wearing a large white t-shirt and baggy light blue jeans. a black four-door pontiac turned the corner and slowed down for the man, who got into the rear seat. the driver, a johnson went to the police station the next day to provide a description of the man who was running from the direction of the park. although johnson identified defendant at trial, he did not do so at the preliminary hearing. at trial, johnson attributed his failure he testified that after leaving the preliminary hearing, he had sent detective guzman a johnson was still fearful of retaliation because he lives in the same house near the park and two vehicles were vandalized in his driveway the previous weekend. three johnson had prior convictions for robbery and false imprisonment. johnson was aware of the $75,000 reward offered in this case. ii. the september 5, 2008 shooting of campbell the incident in count 3, the september 5, 2008 murder of campbell, was the third gang-related shooting on that date. first, john jackson (known as baby knockout), an 7 (known as tiny knockout). and third, following a meeting of the eight trey gangster known to gather. the physical evidence indicated that a .357 revolver and a nine-millimeter semiautomatic were used in the campbell shooting. later that night, the police recovered a .357 revolver and a nine-millimeter semiautomatic in an area frequented by eight trey gangster crips. both weapons were found after los angeles police department officer joshua kniss and his partner came across a large group of people on 94th street. when a man with gang tattoos (jerry forrest) spotted the officers, the man ran away while holding his waistband. the officers ran after forrest because he appeared to be carrying a concealed weapon. during the chase, forrest discarded a .357 revolver, which was later identified as one of the weapons used in the campbell shooting. a 12-gauge shotgun and a nine-millimeter semiautomatic were also found nearby. based on a tip, detective guzman interviewed devonte brooks (known as g-tay), an eight trey gangster crip, as a possible witness to the campbell shooting. after viewing several still images from a surveillance videotape of a nearby business, g-tay gave guzman the names and monikers of the alleged participants in the campbell shooting.5 ved information concerning defendant. 5 after interviewing g-tay, he focused on defendant as a suspect. 8 a. on september 29, 2009, guzman interviewed defendant with regard to the interview for the jurors, who also received a written transcript. shooting. eventually, however, defendant admitted that he was told on september 5, 2008, about the shooting of baby knockout and was taken to a location where everyone was crying about the shooting. when everyone left the location, he got a ride home from passengers, g-tay, directed the driver the driver stopped the car on florence where g-tay and another passenger, g-smash, got out. defendant heard some gunshots. g-tay and g-smash returned to the car and the driver took defendant home. according to the interview transcript, defendant described the above events as me back to hawthorne because everyone was starting to leave. it was getting late. as laughed, got out, walked up to an apartment towards this way on florence. i heard a g venice6 during the interview, defendant claimed that he was no longer a gang member. he stated that as of two years ago (i.e., two years before the september 29, 2009 6 according to guzman, defendant identified the female driver of the car as shanika english, who has a child with an eight trey gangster crip and has been affiliated with 9 vendetta towards me . . . b. the special circumstance and gang enhancement allegations the prosecutiodate of the campbell shooting he was a self-professed member of the eight trey gangster crips. the evidence showed that when defendant was interviewed by detective ian elliott of the hawthorne police department both before (january 18, 2008) and after (august 21, 2009) the campbell shooting, defendant had identified himself as an eight trey gangster crip. elliott testified that according to his field interview card, defendant was still sp prodigalidad, testified that in his opinion, defendant was a member of the eight trey gangster crips when ca prodigalidad testified that in his opinion, the three shooting incidents on september 5, 2008(1) the initial shooting of baby knockout, (2) the retaliatory ywere all gang-related. he explained that in the gang culture, if an eight trey gangster crip is shot by rival gang members, the ks by rival gangs. the eight trey gangsters must retaliate even if it is unclear which rival gang committed the initial shooting. in the gang culture, the eight trey gangsters must retaliate by shooting someone and even a victim who has no gang ties will 10 based on threevidence of the three september 5, 2008 shootings, prodigalidad testified that in his opinion, the third shooting was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, and in association with a criminal street gang. iii. the verdict and sentence as previously mentioned, the jury acquitted defendant of the december 26, 2007 murder of solomon (count 1) and the attempted murder of randolph (count 2), but convicted him of the september 5, 2008 murder of campbell (count 3) and found the gang special circumstance and criminal street gang and firearm enhancement allegations to be true. ( 190.2, subd. (a)(22), 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c), 12022.53, subds. (c), (d), (e)(1).) on count 3, the trial court sentenced defendant to prison for life without parole and imposed and stayed the criminal street gang and firearm enhancements. this timely appeal followed. additional evidence relevant to the issues on appeal will be discussed below. discussion defendant contends the following evidence was inadmissible and the prosecutor concerning his intent and state of mind; (2) the incriminating statements of an absent codefendant; (3) his high standard double nine revolver that was not tied to either 7 in addition, defendant argues that the trial court erroneously denied his motion to sever counts 1 and 2 from count 3. 7 related claims that his trial counsel provided ineffective assistance for failing to object to the disputed evidence at trial. 11 i. evidentiary error and prosecutorial misconduct in reviewing claims of evidentiary error, we are guided by several principles. one basic rule is that only relevant evidence is admissible. (people v. pollock (2004) 32 cal.4th (evid. code,  210.) the trial court possesses broad discretion in determining the relevancy of the disputed evidence. (pollock, supra, 32 cal.4th at p. 1170.) another basic rule is that not all evidentiary errors will result in the reversal of a we do not reverse a judgment for erroneous admission of evidence unless itted evidence should have been excluded on the ground stated and . . . the error (b); see also people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 1124; people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 [error is harmless under our state constitutional standard unless it is people v. earp (1999) 20 cal.4th 826, 878.) a. defendant contends that prodigalidad and guzman improperly testified as to their opinions on the ultimate issue: that he willingly participated in the campbell shooting as an aider and abettor. he claims that without their improper opinion testimony, his uncontroverted denial of any knowledge or intent to participate in the shooting would 8 8 stimony of the two officers. they repeatedly opined that appellant was a lookout. they repeatedly said he was an said the gang would not have taken him to the scene of a homicide unless they knew that he was mentally loyal and ready to participate, including as a lookout or as a witness. the officers repeatedly testified that the gang does not take people with them unless they 12 preliminarily, we note that because the prosecution had the burden of proving the gang-related special circumstance and enhancement allegations ( 190.2, subd. (a)(22), 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)), we must consider the disputed evidence in that context.9 in addition, we note that no objection was ra are loyal and are planning to participate. the officers repeatedly testified that the gang gave this kind of testimony. further, in jury argument the prosecutor relied heavily upon this opinion testimony by the officers. [internal record reference omitted.] [] the it proved through the mouths of two officers alleged facts not proven anywhere else, namely, that and abet the homicide. without this opinion testimony, there was no evidence that appellant had the necessary personal intent to kill. see, e.g., people v. beeman [(1984)] 35 cathe jury would have had to acquit appellant of this homicide for failure of proof of mens rea. 9 in order for a sentence enhancement under the street terrorism enforcement and prevention act, also known as the step act ( 186.20 et seq.), to apply, the prosecution of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, in addition, the prosecution must prove that the gang (1) is an ongoing association of three or more persons with a common name or common identifying sign or symbol; (2) has as one of its primary activities the commission of one or more of the criminal acts enumerated in the statute; and (3) includes members who either individually or attempting to commit, or soliciting two or more of the enumerated offenses (the so-called (people v. gardeley [(1996)] 14 cal.4th [605,] 616-61people v. hernandez (2004) 33 cal.4th 1040, 1047.) as defendant does not dispute the sufficiency of the evidence to support the determination that he belongs to a gang that committed two or more of the enumerated offenses during the statutorily defined period, we need not discuss that aspect of the evidence. 13 1. expert testimony generally prosecution may, as in this case, present expert testimony on criminal street gangs. (people v. gardeley, supra, 14 cal.4th at pp. 617-people v. hernandez, supra, 33 cal.4th at pp. 1047-1048.) training, or educatio 720) and to give testimony in the form of an opinion (id.,  801). under evidence code section 801, expert opinion testimony is admissible only if the subject matter of the testimony id., subd. (a).) the subject matter of the culture and habits of criminal street gangs, of particular relevance here, meets this criterion. (people v. olguin [(1994)] people v. gamez (1991) 235 cal.app.3d 957, 965-966 [upholding the admission of opinion testimony by a gang expert]; people v. mcdaniels (1980) 107 cal.app.3d 898, 904-905 [same]; see people v. champion (1995) 9 cal.4th 879, 919-922 [holding that opinion testimony by an expert in juvenile gangs gardeley, supra, 14 cal.4th at p. 617.) evidence so long as it is material of a type that is reasonably relied upon by experts in the particular field in forming their opinions. (evid. code,  801, subd. (b); people v. montiel (1993) 5 cal.4th 877, 918-919; korsak v. atlas hotels, inc. (1992) 2 cal.app.4th 1516, 1524; kennemur v. state of california (1982) 133 cal.app.3d 907, 923.) of ny must be reliable. (1 witkin, cal. evidence (3d ed. 1986) the opinion rule,  477, p. 448.) for as it does the data underlying the opinion. like a house built on kennemur v. state of california, supra, at p. 923.) 14 ordinarily inadmissible can form tin re fields hearsay, including out-of- . . .) and because evidence code section 802 alloreasons for his opinion and the matter . . . whose opinion is based on such inadmissible matter can, when testifying, describe the material that forms the basis of the opinion. (people v. shattuck (1895) 109 cal. 673, 678 mcelligott v. freeland (1934) 139 cal.app. 143, 157-158 [certified public accountant could testify to information he relied on in property valuation]; see people v. wash (1993) 6 cal.4th 215, 251 [prosecution could elicit out-of-court statements relied on by the defense expert] . . . (gardeley, supra, 14 cal.4th at pp. 618-619.) interest in avoiding substantive use of unreliable hearsay, disputes in this area must people v. montiel (1993) 5 cal.4th people v. valdez (1997) 58 cal.app.4th 494, 510.) 2. as the prosecutioweapons and another car to act as a lookout. when the prosecutor asked prodigalidad whether everyone 15 defense 10 take persons who were not loyal to the gang on a mission in rival territory. over a defense objection on ungang. ewithout any type of meeting after baby knockoother officers had told him that such a meeting had occurred. the prosecutor then asked with the gang to that meeting. prodigalidad replied that only strong associates or gang above testimony. 3. disputed testimony passenger in the car and one of them had identified defendant as one of the shooters. processes during the interview. for example, guzman testified that when he told 10 people v. killebrew (2002) 103 cal.app.4th 644. 16 cshooting,] defendant against the other participants because, based on the information that he had at the time, he did not believe that defendant was the shooter. guzman testified that during someone who helped hide evidence. the prosecutor inquired whether in guzmanbring an extra person to a shooting. guzman replied that in his experience, only ty to them. they need to know that although defendant did not object to the interview tape or the testimony quoted above, he obliability as an aider and abettor. as shown below, the trial court sustained those objections: interviewing that he was a lookout and a support of the actual shooter. [] q so an aider and abettor, but not the person who actually shot the firearm, is that [] mr. schmocker: your honor, i object to that question. [] the court: sustained. it calls for a legal conclusion. the jurors will decide that. [] by ms. chon: q in your mind, at the tishooter? [] no, i did not. [] q did you believe that he went to the location with the nce of investigating gang crimes, and especially the eight trey gang, would the defendant, if he was not close to the eight 17 trey gang, first of all, be notified that baby knockout was shot, and then brought to the gang meeting? [] a no. [] q why not? [] a people that are notified are more than likely to be active or strong at least have a strong association with that gang or else why would you notify this circle of friends, or at least the tight circle of gang members that knockout was associated with. [] q and when the defendant said he -tay and g-smash when they drove to rival 60s hood and they took him along, in your experience, is that something that happens? [] mr. people that are reliable and trustworthy criminals, not so mucthe intent or knowledge of anybody, including mr. s 4. analysis under gardeley, culture and habits of gangs. (gardeley, supra, 14 cal.4th at p. 617.) their disputed opinion testimony that a gang would not bring an innocent passenger to commit a shooting in enemy territory was relevant to the intent element of the gang-related special circumstance and enhancement allegations. the trial court reasonably concluded that the the isufficiently beyond common  801, subd. (a).) to what defendant was thinking when he was in the vehicle at the time of the campbell shooting. instead, the experts informed the jury, in general terms, that a gang would not allow a person who was not a loyal member to be present during a retaliation shooting. this testimony provided circumstantial evidence that defendant knew what was going to 18 occur when he got into the vehicle with his fellow gang members and intended to aid and abet in the subsequent shooting of campbell. as to guzman, we conclude that his disputed testimony also was admissible to matter asserted, but to explain what he was trying to elicit from defendant during the interview. the trial court did not allow the prosecution free reign in this regard, but sustained several objections, including one of its own, to questions that it deemed excessive. an aider and abettor was inadmissible, we conclude the alleged error was harmless. (people v. watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836.) the record contains substantial evidence y to support a finding that defendant possessed through his extrajudicial statements to eleight trey gangster crips meeting on the date of the shooting could be reasonably provided a reasonable basis for the jury to infer that defendant was a committed gang member who participated in the september 5, 2008 gang meeting and subsequent retaliation for the shooting of baby knockout. b. statements by an absent codefendant hearsay statements. the disputed statements were introduced in two ways: (1) through 19 11 and (2) through statements made by guzman during 12 that following g-suspect in the campbell shootingwas also inadmissible. the attorney general argues that these claims were forfeited because they were conclude that because defendant did not raise a timely and specific objection to the disputed evidence, he failed to preserve the claims for appeal. (people v. samuels (2005) 36 cal.4th 96, 122.) interview were not admitted for the truth of the matter, but for the nonhearsay purpose of showing their effect on defendant. (people v. jablonski disputed testimony that he focused on an unnamed individual was offered for the nonhearsay purpose of explaining the course of his investigation of the campbell shooting. (people v. samuels, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 122.) accordingly, the trial court did not err in admitting the disputed evidence. 11 guzman testified in relevant part: during his investigation of the campbell shooting, guzman interviewed brooks (known as g-tay) as a possible witness. g-tay provided guzman with the names and monikers of those allegedly involved in the shooting. following g-testimony that, following g- 12 guzman repeatedly told defendant that two other suspects, g-tay and g-smash, had made incriminating statements about him. 20 defendant contends his counsel should have objected on the proper groundthat the statements of the absent codefendant violated bruton v. united states (1968) 391 u.s. 123 and gray v. maryland (1998) 523 u.s. 185. he asserts the strongest evidence the prosecution had assistance. errors, defendant must establish there is a reasonable probability that but for the errors, strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 694.) he failed to carry that burden. it is clear the prosecutor did not try the case on the theory that defendant was the shooter. after recounting the circumstantial evidence suggesting that defendant had fired and say to you i know for sure that recounted the testimony of a witness who said she saw only one shooter, the person who opened the front passenger door. (defendant said he was in the front passenger seat.) she pointed do know for sure and what the testimony does prove beyond a reasonable doubt is that the defendant was an aider and abettor, whether or not he was the actual shooter during the overland campbell case, because he got into that car after that gang meeting with the intent to help either shoot or with the intent to help those shooting . . . the jury could not have convicted defendant as an aider and abettor unless it disbelieved defendant and accepted that a person not loyal to the gang would not have been allowed to simply tag along on a mission to retaliate for the shooting of one of its members. defendant admitted: (1) he knew baby knockout had been shot; (2) he was present at a location where the shooting was discussed; and (3) after the meeting, he got into a vehicle with fellow gang members and was present when the campbell murder was committ21 was an unwitting bystander to the homicide and its implicit finding that the passengers in the vehicle were willing participants in the killing, even if they did not personally fire a misconduct the incriminating statements made by g-other s-incriminating statements during the interview. the prosecutor was entitled to argue that defand the type of weapons that were fired were relevant to show that he was a knowing and willing participant in the shooting. c. lver at trial, defendant objected to the admission of his .22 caliber high standard double nine revolver. he argued that because his revolver was determined not to be the murder weapon in the first incident and did not match the type of firearms used in the second incident, it bore no relevance to this case and its admission would be unduly prejudicial. (evid. code,  352.) relevance argument. they can argue, if they want, that the gun used on . . . december shows and that [many] different guns . . was that a .22 caliber high standard double nine revolver with this kind of a gun; that your client was found six months later with the same kind of 22 it was determined not to be the murder weapon, but the relevance is what i just said, and i defendant argues on appeal that his .22 caliber high standard double nine revolver was inadmissible under people v. riser (1956) 47 cal.2d 566, 577 (riser). in riserwesson .38 special revolver, and not either of the weapons (a colt .38 and a p38) that specific type of weapon used to commit a homicide is not known, it may be permissible crime that could have been the weapons employed. there need be no conclusive [citations.] when the prosecution relies, however, on a specific type of weapon, it is error to admit evidence that other weapons were found in his possession, for such evidence tends to show, not that he committed the crime, but only that he is the sort of persibid.) on that basis, the supreme court held that the colt .38 was inadmissible, but that the p38 was admissible on other grounds. we conclude that riser is distinguishable because in this case, the specific type of weapon used to commit the december 2007 shooting was not evidence did not show that the murder weapon was a high standard double nine r a .22 caliber revolver, which explained the absence of casings at the scene, or a .22 caliber semiautomatic, which did not explain the absence of casings at the scene. the evidence in this case failed to demonstrate whether the murder weapon was a revolver or an automatic, or the number of rounds that it could hold. accordingly, even though it double nine revolver was relevant to show his familiarity with the only .22 caliber revolver in existence that can hold nine rounds. we conclude that the trial court did not 23 evidence code section 352. er was inadmissible, its admission did not result in any undue prejudice because defendant was acquitted of the only crimes (counts 1 & 2) in which a .22 caliber weapon was used. as to count 3, which was committed with a .357 caliber gun and a nine-millimeter gun, defendant was not alleged to be the shooter and it is not reasonably probable that he would have obtained a more favorable verdict if his .22 caliber revolver had been excluded from evidence. d. the gang meeting concerning baby knockout as previously mentioned, the prosecutor asked if prodigalidad knew whether the answered yes, he had heard from other officers that such a meeting had occurred. the prosecutor strangers or those unaffiliated with the gang to that meeting. prodigalidad replied that only strong associates or gang members would be invited, because the purpose of such a meeting wdefendant did not object to the above testimony. hearsay, and improperly argued, that appellant attended a gang meeting, when there was no valid evidence to support the claims either that there was such a meeting, or that we conclude that defendant forfeited the hearsay objection by failing to raise it below. (people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 320.) in any event, the evidence was only strong associates or gang members would be invited to such a meeting. not admitted into evidence so long as it is material of a type that is reasonably relied upon 24 by experts in the particular figardeley, suprastatements. during his intand told me that knockout had got shot or whatever. they came and picked me up. ** in a related claim, defendant argues that during closing argument, the prosecutor improperly referred to the september 5, 2008 meeting when there was no valid evidence that such a meeting had occurred. in light of our determination that the evidence concerning the meeting was properly admitted, we conclude the contention lacks merit. ii. the motion to sever counts 1 and 2 from count 3 defendant contends that the trial court abused its discretion in denying his pretrial motion to sever counts 1 and 2 (the december 26, 2007 shootings of solomon and randolph) from count 3 (the september 5, 2008 shooting of campbell). people v. ochoa (1998) 19 cal.4th 353, 409.) where, as here, the offenses charged are of the same class, joinder is proper under section 954. (people v. kraft (2000) 23 cal.4th 978, 1030 . . . ; people v. bradford (1997) 15 cal.4th 1229, 1315 . . . people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 574 . . . people v. stanley (2006) 39 cal.4th 913, 933-934 (stanley).) in this case, defendant was charged with three felony counts of the same class. accordingly, as stated in stanley, where the offenses charged are of the same class, defendant can only predicate error in the denial of severance on a clear showing of potential prejudice. (manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 574; kraft, supra, 23 cal.4th at p. 1030; bradford, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 1315.) we review the trial manriquez, at stanley, supra, 39 cal.4th at p. 934.) 25 in denying the severance motion, the trial court noted the absence of inflammatory evidence regarding either incident that would create a substantial danger of prejudice and require a separate trial of the charges. it also noted that both the gang were cross-admissible to show his intent to aid and abet the commission of the september 2008 murder. december 26, 2007 shooting was weak because (1) shearer was uncooperative at the preliminary hearing and at trial, and had requested money and special prison privileges for his testimony, and (2) johnson, who did not witness the actual shooting but only saw a man running from the direction of the park, did not identify defendant at the preliminary hearing. we disagree. because the prosecution presented evidence that both shearer and johnson were afraid to testify because of fear of retaliation, we are not persuaded that the identification evidence was weak. we conclude that defendant has failed to establish that the denial of his motion to sever was an abuse of discretion.13 13 cumulative error. 26 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports suzukawa, j. we concur: willhite, acting p. j. manella, j. 