filed 2/25/13 p. v. rubbock ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. robert rubbock, defendant and appellant. b236478 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba379265) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of the county of los angeles, george g. lomeli, judge. affirmed. russell s. babcock, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, taylor nguyen and esther p. kim, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction defendant and appellant robert rubbock (defendant) was convicted of counterfeit seal (pen. code,  4721). on appeal, defendant contends, without argument, that the trial court erred in denying his motion made pursuant to pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531 (pitchessthat the trial court erred in revoking his pro. per. status, denying four of his motions made pursuant to people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 (marsden), and denying his numerous other requests for marsden hearings. we affirm the judgment. background a. factual background2 los angeles police department officer dennis diviak testified that on december 16, 2010, while on patrol, he and his partner responded to a dispatch radio call that a male wearing a baseball cap was driving a red dodge charger while intoxicated. the officers saw a red dodge charger in a motel parking lot with the engine and brake lights on, and believed defendant to be intoxicated. defendant was agitated. officer dlegs, clutching an object. defendant refused several orders by officer diviak to place both hands on the steering wheel. and defendant reached deeper between his legs with his left hand. fearing that defendant was reaching for a weapon, officer diviak stepped back, withdrew his service revolver, and ordered defendant to show his hands. defendant eventually brought out his hands, and in his left hand he was holding a pipe that officer 1 all statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 2 defendant does not challenge the sufficiency of the evidence in support of his conviction. 3 diviak testified he believed was used to ingest rock cocaine. officer diviak ordered defendant out of the vehicle and handcuffed him. friend, john flood, rented the vehicle and loaned him the vehicle to drive. the officers conducted a search of the vehicle and found several open bottles of beer, an empty vodka bottle, and a coffee cup that appeared to contain beer. officer diviak testified that when defendant was being transported to the police station, he continued to be agitatedhe was screaming, cursing, and spitting during the ride. a booking search of defendant revealed a bank of america debit card in the name of john flood, a master card in the name of john floby the state of north carolina to lawrence davis and john flood. both licenses had defendant previously told him that flood was his friend, and that flood had rented the vehicle and defendant was borrowing it. ladylyn cordero testified that she worked at dollar rent-a-car, and on december 14, 2010, she executed a vehicle rental agreement for the rental of a dodge charger. when processinhave a visible seal, so she took the license to her manager. she obtained approval from her manager before completing the rental agreement. samuel joseph brandon testified that he worked at the north carolina department determined that they were not issued by the north carolina department of motor vehicles and the seals on the licenses were counterfeit. b. procedural background the district attorney of los angeles county filed an information charging defendant with two counts of counterfeit seal in violation of section 472. the district 4 attorney alleged as to both counts that defendant had served seven prior prison terms for convictions as defined by section 667.5, subdivision (b). following a trial, the jury found defendant not guilty as to count 1 but found him guilty as charged in count 2. the trial court found the special allegations were true, and sentenced defendant to state prison for a term of five years. discussion a. pitchess motion suant to pitchess v. superior court, supra, 11 cal.3d 531. defendant contends that the trial court erred in denying the motion, but he does not provide any argument or citation to the record in support of that contention. instead, defendant contends that, despite his the record that the trial court provided is inadequate for us to determine whether the trial judgment of conviction. on april 12, 2012, we ordered that the record be augmented with the june 3, and, before he filed his reply brief, the record was so augmented. although defendant concedes in the reply brief that the record was augmented to include the june 3, 2011, support of his contention that the trial court erred in denying the motion. and, as the attorney general transcript, it was part of the original record. conviction because the record is inadequate. we also d 5 contention that the court erred in denying his pitchess motion because defendant did not provide any argument or citation to the record in support of that contention. (duarte v. chino community hospital (1999) 72 cal.app.4th 849, 856.) b. revocation of pro. per. status defendant contends that the record it provided is inadequate for us to determine whether the trial court erred in revoking his pro. per. status, and that in any event, the trial court erred in doing so. we disagree. 1. standard of review (people v. welch self-representation and the exercise of 2. applicable law a criminal defendant has a right to represent himself or herself at trial under the sixth and fourteenth amendments to the united states constitution. (faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806, 835-836; people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 20.) a trial court must allow a defendant to represent himself if he knowingly and intelligently makes an unequivocal and timely request. (faretta v. california, supra, 422 u.s. at pp. 835-836; people v. valdez (2004) 32 cal.4th 73, 97-right of self-representation is not a license to abuse the dignity of the courtroom. neither (people v. carson (2005) 35 cal.4th 1, 8, quoting faretta v. california, supra, 422 u.s. at p. 834, fn. 46.) as recognized by the court in people v. butler (2009) 47 cal.4th 814, 6 viable functioning of the courtroom. a constantly disruptive defendant who represents himself, and who therefore cannot be removed from the trial proceedings as a sanction against disruption, people v. welch, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 734.) when determining whether termination is appropriate, the trial court should consider factors such as the nature of the misconduct, its impact on the trial proceedings, the availability and suitability of other sanctions, whether the defendant was warned that particular misconduct would result in termination, and whether the defendant intentionally sought to disrupt and delay the trial. (people v. carson, supra, 35 cal.4th at the effect of the misconduct on the trial proceedings. (ibidibid.) 3. background facts at a hearing held on june 3, 2011,3 to address a pitchess motion filed by judith l. champagne, recuse herself, as being without basis. the trial court described [defendant is] complaining that the case was assigned here after [defendant] filed an at the hearing, defendant again stated because the reason for his objection to bei 3 the attorney general contends that there were other prior instances, before other pro. per. status. because we conclude, as stated below, that the trial court did not err in 7 next issue, which is our pitchess defendant objected to his being handcuffed because it caused him to have his pitchess motion. the trial court responded that defendant can take as much time as he needed to prepare to argue the motion. defendant continued to object to his being handcuffed, and the following ready [to argue the pitchess motion]. no talking. just get yourself ready and then let me k [] [trial court:] [defendant], what part of this do you not understand? you told me that you need the court to be patient while you get yourself organized. i am happy to do that. at the same time, you want to address other matters and you are not getting ready. [] either i am going to take the matter off calendar and i am going to excuse the attorney for the city d. [] [defendant:] your honor, may i ask to have the bailiffthese are legal documents. the [trial court:] the bailiff is standing several feet behind you because that is his job, to maintain security in the courtroom. [] [defendant:] your honor, the bailiff [] [trial court:] i am not going to debate [] [defendant:] the bailiff is about one feet [] [trial court:] are you ready for the motion? [] [defendant:] your honor. i am going to request the court docket for the order. it is definitely going to be necessary for me to get an investigator to get some of these people i need in the courtroom today, your honor [] . . . [] there is a mapertaining to the status of an investigation i requested him to conduct. [] i am in here, your honor, the bailiff standing over me is about a foot away from you [] [trial court:] actually, he is several feet behind you and he is doing his job. he is not looking 8 at your papers. . . . [] . . . [] [defendant:] i need to get my copy of the seven [] [trial court:] if you are not ready to go forward today then mention it. [] [defendant:] your honor, i am ready to go forward. when i first came in here, your honor, i informed you, you told me to let you know the things that i need. i came here the other day, your honor, and filed the document which you just addressed and said you would [] there are several copies in limbo pitchess motion and then we will give you a date to come back and resolve the other matters you are not ready to have the court hear today. [] [defendant:] your honor, i am ready to have the court hear all these matters. the pitchess and every other matter -appointed investigator, was not able to see him and give to information. [] . cluded from being provided the addresses of the witnesses he intends to call to testify at trial] is one of the reasons i am objecting to be[ing] in this courtroom. i need to reinsert my objection. i e their rights. there are a lot of things i never knew about before i was brought to this courtroom. [] once i realized and did my research and it is obvious everything i heard is true. you have me handcuffed here. you are trying to get me to move forward. i filed a document with your honor. i need my conform[ed] copy. [] . . . [] mr. freedman is here to attest he the trial court inquired of mr. n provided the trial court with his report with the witnesses address information redacted. defendant objected to his receiving a redacted 9 subject of another [] [defendant:] then that motion is going to come. let my objection be reflected on the record. [] [trial court:] [defendant, defendant,] we are going to do the pitchess. you said you were ready. the attorney for the other side is here. after we have handle[d] that then we can decide when we will do the rest. [] right now we are doing the pitchess motion. i have given you a the trial court sthonor, before we excuse mr. freedman, i also need to reassert my objection to the fact that mr. freedman actually discussed my witness information with the sheriff. . . . [] pitchess motion was granted and information was ordered to be produced, that information would be produced to him because he is the one who is going to have to serve subpoenas on the witnesses to testify. the following exchange then occurred: our honor, your honor [] [trial court:] that remains for another [] [defendant:] your honor, objection. let me object on the record. [] [trial court:] [defendant] [] [defendant:] your honor [] [trial court:] i think you are having uctions, not interrupting, not making it impossible for the case to be heard. . . . [] [defendant:] is representing myself? [] [trial court:] what i am saying right now we are talking about a pitchess motion. [] [defendant:] so i cannot [] [trial court:] right now we are talking about a pitchess motion. [] [defendant:] okay. [] [trial court:] this is your opportunity to be heard on the pitchess motion. [] . . . [] [defendant:] i forwarded [the information received in response to a prior pitchess motion] to mr. freedman. 10 apparently mr. freedman is on a misguided assumption or presumption that he is suppose to take over my defense witness information. i am suppose to assign him to whoever i choose . . . among [the witnesses on] the defense witness list . . . . it is not the other way around. . . . . [] . . . [] [trial court:] [defendant], i am concerned because before you filed your challenge in the other court, you had two investigators at your own request. mr. stewart, was appointed in january. by february you asked the court to relieve him and appoint mr. beronni. mr. berroni was appointed in february. by march you no longer wanted him. [] at your request the court relieved him. you asked this court to appoint mr. freedman. the court appointed mr. freedman. you are now on your third investigator since january. you are again expressing dissatisfaction with his work. [] the trial court advised defendant to think about whether he wants mr. freedman or no investigator at all. we are going to do the pitchess motion. if you are ready we are going to proceed. if not we are going to take it off calendar today. [] [defendant:] your honor, i am ready, your honor. just to state this. the court needs to admonish the investigators, you honor. the court has the authority to do so. the court has the disciplinary responsibility [] [trial court:] i am only going to tell you one more time. we are going to do the pitchess investigators or any other subject. we are going to do the pitchess the trial court heard argument by defendant and the prosecutor regarding pitchess jail subjected to this type of prosecution that i am undergoing, having to defend myself in handcuffs with a bailiff standing behind me overlooking my paperwork . . . court pitchess. if you could try to stay focused on the pitchess motion, i will give you another couple of minutes to t the 11 pitchess motion. the trial court informed defendant that a hearing on his motion to suppress was scheduled for june 17, 2011. defendant stated that he anticipated that he would not be ready to have his motion heard by that date, and admitted that he did not have a written motion to continue the hearing. the trial court stated that the hearing will be on june 17, 2011, as originally calendared, and that the matter will be taken off calendar if the parties honor, for the record [] [trial court:] for the moment we are finished. [] everytime i come in herenow i have two deputies advancing on me, your honor [] [trial court:] actually, they are standing completely still. they are present because it is time for you to go with the deputies. [] [defendant:] your honor, i am not going to everything that i have done in my case. this has been going on for the past two months. matters that occurred months ago. we have the allotted time allowed, utilized the allotted time for today. we have gone on at length. go with my deputies. [] [defendant:] your honor, i am going to leave, but i am going to am going to revthe trial court appointed counsel to represent defendant. 4. analysis defendant contends that the trial court erred in revoking his pro. per. status. as he did with regard to his contention that the trial court erred in denying his pitchess motion, defendant contends in his opening brief that we should reverse his judgment of provided did n 12 trial court revoked his pro. per. status. but, as noted above, the june 3, 2011, transcript was part of the original record. in addition, the trial court did not abuse its disper. status. the trial court could reasonably conclude that defendant failed to follow its repeated instructions to focus on and present oral argument in support of the pitchess motion. despite the trial court having assigned to judge champagne, defendant thereafter continued to object to that assignment. although the trial court ruled that defendant was to remain handcuffed during the hearing, defendant thereafter repeatedly objected to his being handcuffed. instead of arguing the merits of his pitchess motion, defendant repeatedly objected to the him access to information for which he was entitled (contradicted by mr. freedman, -appointed investigator of improper conduct. defendant conclusion of the hearing to leave with the deputies. under these circumstances, the trial court could reasonably conclude that people v.] faretta, supra, 422 u.s. at pp. 834-people v. welch, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 734.) the trial court is in the best position to determine whether a defendant should be granted in propria persona status or allowed to continue acting in propria persona (people v. welch, supraibid.) the trial court reasonably coefficiency and abused the dignity of the courtroom. the trial court had sufficient justification for determining that just as certain conduct would not be tolerated from a member of the bar, it need not be tolerated from a lay person acting in propria persona. (people v. carson, supra 13 cannot be spropria persona status. (faretta v. california, supra, 422 u.s. at pp. 834-835, fn. 46; people v. welch, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 735; see people v. clark (1992) 3 cal.4th 41, 116.) c. denial of marsden motions defendant contends that the trial court abused its discretion in denying his four motions made pursuant to people v. marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d 118. we disagree, but even if the trial court erred, the error was harmless. 1. standard of review marsden motion for abuse of discretion. (people v. barnett (1998) 17 cal.4th 1044, 1085 [74 cal.rptr.2d 121, 954 p.2d 384].) denial is not ure to replace counsel people v. smith people v. taylor (2010) 48 cal.4th 574, 599.) ce under the chapman standard. (chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 (chapman); people v. marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d at p. 126.) 2. applicable law a defendant who believes that his appointed counsel is providing ineffective assistance may seek to have that counsel relieved and substitute counsel appointed marsden people v. smith, supra, 30 substitution would substantially impair his constitutional right to the assistance of counsel (people v. smith (1985) 38 cal.3d 945, 956 [216 cal.rptr. 98, 702 p.2d 180]), whether in re banks (1971) 4 cal.3d 14 337, 342 [93 cal.rptr. 591, 482 p.2d 215]; people v. crandell (1988) 46 cal.3d 833, 854 [251 cal.rptr. 227, 760 p.2d 423]), or because of an irreconcilable conflict (people v. stankewitz (1982) 32 cal.3d 80, 93-94 [184 cal.rptr. 611, 648 p.2d 578, 23 a.l.r.4th 476]; brown v. craven (9th cir. 1970) 424 f.2d 1166, 1170). we require such proof appointment of more than one counsel, and because the matter is generally within the discretion of the trial court. (people v. marsden, suprapeople v. ortiz marsden error where complaints people v. dickey (2005) 35 cal.4th 884, 922.) 3. background facts a. first marsden hearing on august 11, 2011, defendant requested a marsden hearing. the trial court marsden hearing). defendant contended that mr. tiomkin was not properly representing him. defendant stated, inter alia, that mr. tiomkin had not visited or contacted him, had not discussed the case with him, failed to communicate with the trial court and the champagne, provide defendant with the minute orders of the proceedings, acknowledge he received in the courtroom, acknowledge the verbal and physical abuse that defendant nd discuss with defendant how he intended to represent him and whether he investigated potential witnesses. 15 e with any discovery that he had up to that point. i went ahead and spoke with the investigator in this case, robert freedman. mr. freedman advised me that he had located one pitchess witness. she was in north carolina and was not willing to come to this court. and to date, i havemr. freedman has not located any other pitchess witness. [] with respect toi reviewed the discovery. i spoke with the d.a. in this matter, requested additional documents that were contained in her file, namely dispatch in clets, clets, logs, and and the d.a. indicated that she would provide that information to me. i have not yet receivedi reviewed the paper material. i have not yet received the electronic versions. me there is a 1538.5 issue. i learned this morning that the witness that the defendant was referring to was brought in from state prison, and i have not yet had the opportunity to intention to speak to the witness and give the d.a., at her request, indicated testimony that would be able to be rebuttal testimony after the officer testified. [] as far as pro per. on june champagne, i attempted to speak to the defendant concerning my representation, and the defendant indicated he did not accept me as his attorney. he believed he was still pro per. and he was rightfully entitled to be pro per. he refused to cooperate in my representation of the defendant, refused to give me any sort of facts, discuss strategy, discuss the case at all. the only thing that the defendant told me was that he requested a list of documents from the court. those documents pertained to two issues: issue number one, he wanted to writ the issue of being denied pro per. status. issue two, he filed a complaint against judge champagne with the committee on judicial performance. he had a letter from the committee on judicial performance with respect to documents 16 that they were requesting from the court. i provided judge champagne on june 3rd with the information from the committee on judicial performance. i also provided her with the request for documents, and there were transcripts he was requesting. i actually have the handwritten letter from the defendant if the court wants to see that. but there is about 10 transcripts, 10 minute orders, and a variety of motions that he filed, those are documents that he was requesting. again, for the committee on judicial performance and his writ. [] the defendant also requested additional time to run the writ. and i reed to put the matter over to july 25th so he could run the writ. at that point the defendant refused to talk to me about the case, refused to communicate any further with me about the case. we continued the case to july 25th. [] as i indicated on july 25th, i was ill and i did request to have another icda attorney stand in for me and trail the case without give a time waiver or not, but trail it to this date. and i spoke with the d.a. last night, indicated that we would proceed on the 1538.5 this morning, and they indicated that the officer should be present, i indicated yes, the officer should be present, we would be prepared to proceed. i prepared for that motion, morning. [] i believe the problem in this case is not so muchor not at all my marsden issue as a means by which he can speak to the court because he wants to represent himself. but he certainly is not cooperating with my representation of him. so the issue is not my unwillingness to speak to him, the issue is his unwillingness after hearing further from defendant and mr. tiomkin, the trial court denied defendant and his attorney made during this hearing, i find counsel to be credible, and i do believe make a few demand which the attorney attempted to follow, that being requests for documents from the court and other issues described by the defendant including finding 17 pitchess witnesses, attempting to get a stay, continuing the matter. [] and i disbelief [sic] the defendant for the following reasons: i do believe that the defendant has not fully and completely integrated and spoken or fully and completely consulted with his attorney in this matter because he refused to do so. at one point the defendant stated that he had ith him. the court finds thatthe court believes the attorney and disbelieves the defendant in that matter. it appears to the court that what the defendant is doing and clearly what was essentially a very quick marsden request once he lost his pro per. status is to reassert himself in pro per. [] i do find that not only is counsel credible but he does appear on top of all the issues, to the court. he has done substantial work on the case including some work that the defendant had requested he do as well as proceed with this motion which the defendant would be prepared to proceed with this motion including having a witness available to testify based upon a motion that the defendant filed while he was pro per. [] i also find it difficultpart of my evaluation of credibility has to do with the defendant saying that the attorney refused to speak with him, but then later say that he had spoken to him and that he had gotten at least some status regarding the request for documents. i do find that any deteriorationprobably started out with hereattitude, and there is no reason to believe the defendant cannot be represented effectively by this attorney. [] moreover, there is no reason to believe, based upon my observation and the statements of the defendant that the defendant would get along any better with b. second marsden hearing on august 15, 2011marsden hearing, defendant requested another marsden hearing seeking to discharge his counsel, which the trial court granted (second marsden hearing). at the marsden hearing, defendant stated that mr. tiomkin faile 18 hearing. according to defendant, the witness would testify as to whether defendant [defendant] that the issues were going to be dealt with here are issues concerning whether vehicle]. there was no issue as to consent. the d.a. never indicated to me that thisshe was going to argue anything about consent. i believe [defendant] misunderstood that issue. [] i spoke with the witness at length. i spoke with the defendant last time we were her . . . [] marsden attorney and the defendant at this time that would make it impossible for the attorney to tion in the relationship at this stage is that the defendant wish[es] to be pro per, and there is no reason why in the future the defendant would not be adequately represented by this c. third marsden hearing on august 22, 2011, immediately prior to the commencement of trial, defendant requested another marsden hearing, which the trial court granted (third marsden hearing). at the marsden hearing, defendant stated that mr. tiomkin failed to seek sanctions for the destruction of a video tape from the police station, introduce at the suppression hearing certain evidence, question the arresting officer at the suppression concerning this case. mr. tiomkin stated that defendant had refused to talk to him about the case and had not cooperated with him in formulating a defense. mr. tiomkin also stated that he never had any communication with defendant about seeking sanctions for 19 destruction of evidence, and that he had reviewed the file and discovery, spoken to the trial court denied the motion, stating that the introduction of evidence and calling witnesses to testify were tactical matters. defendant the better tactic would have been to impeach this officer with the video that pertains to d. fourth marsden hearing another marsden hearing, which the trial court granted (fourth marsden hearing). at the marsden provided it to me. the trial court denied the marsden . . . is not a basis for a marsden. that . 4. analysis iscretion in denying his motions made pursuant to people v. marsden, supra, complaints in support of removing mr. tiomkin as his counsel under marsden included concerns regarding matters of courtesy and tactical disagreements he had with mr. tiomkin. such matters do not indicate a conflict that required mr. tiomkin be removed . people v. welch, supra, 20 cal.4th at pp. 728-729 [85 cal.rptr.2d 203, 976 p.2d 754]; see people v. nakahara (2003) 30 cal.4th 705, 719 [134 cal.rptr.2d 223, 68 people v. jackson (2009) 45 cal.4th 662, 688; see people v. valdez, supra, 32 cal.4th at p. 95; people v. lucky (1988) 45 cal.3d 259, 281-282.) 20 uest under people v. marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d 118, to have mr. tiomkin removed as his counsel were people v. jones (2003) 29 cal.4th 1229, 1245.) the trial court could have reasonably concluded that it believed mr. tiomkin and disbelieved defendant. indeed, the trial court expressly stated during the first marsden attorney made during the [sic[sic during the first marsdethe defendant [was] doing [was] clearly [making] what was essentially a very quick marsden request once he lost his pro per. status . . the trial court, in its discretion, could discount the extent to which defendant established during the marsden hearings that there allegedly was a breakdown in communication between him and mr. tiomkin. for example, during the second marsden hearing, to the extent defendant misunderstood mrspoke to defendant that defendant did not understand the distinction. in any event, this defendant also contends that the fourth marsden hearing established that there se counsel [because] defense counsel did not give [him] a copy of [a] proposed jury instruction[justify mr. tiomkin being removed as counsel for defendant. the trial court provided defendant with four opportunities to explain his dissatisfaction with his counsel. defendant did not, however, establish that the trial court abused its discretion in not removing mr. tiomkin as counsel under people v. marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d 118. 21 marsden motions, defendant failed to establish that he was prejudiced under the chapman standard. (chapman v. california, supra, 386 u.s. at p. 24; people v. marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d at p. 126.) as the trial court noted during the first marsden hearing, counsel was l in marsden motions was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. d. marsden defendant contends that the trial court erred in denying his numerous requests for a marsden hearing and violated his right to counsel. we disagree, but even if the trial court erred, the error was harmless. 1. background facts marsden hearings that were granted by the trial court, discussed above, defendant made several requests for marsden hearings for which the trial court did not grant a hearing. on august 12, 2011, defendant requested marsden hearing. the following dant:] your honor, i request a marsden hearing. [] [trial court:] you had a marsden hearing yesterday, sir. [] [defendant:] yes, i had a discussion with [mr. tiomkin] yesterday and we discussed several things. i have right now a declaration written by the witness in the case, your honor, that [tiomkin] told him yesterday about when he first found out that the witness was here. [] [trial court:] sir, we went through this yesterday. [] [defendant:] no, your honor [] [trial court:] the request for further marsden -examination at trial of officer photographs because mr. tiomkin had not made copies of them and returned the 22 originals to defendant. the trial court dismissed the jury, and the following exchange marsden hearing. [] [trial court:] you had a marsden hearing [yesterday]. [] [defendant:] well, your honor, when [mr. tiomkin] takes photographs from me and i have an agreement with him, your honor, this court has already stripped me of my right to represent myself unjudiciously [sic], okandyour honor, let me make my record. irrational. your honor, this officer, they makei wanted the whole thing played. they ourt told defendant that mr. tiomkin may have chosen not to play the video in its entirety for tactical reasons, and that the photographs will be returned to defendant after mr. tiomkin has made copies of them. on august 24, 2011, the trial court asked mr. tiomkin whether defendant was defendant requested another marsden hearing, and mr. tiomkin stated that defendant advised him that he wants to call an officer back to testify that defendant was on parole, and that mr. tiomkin explained to defendant that the officer could not testify to that your honor, i request a marsden. this is an issue whereby the officer was going to [] [trial court:] again, sir, you are bringing up something where you are disagreeing with the tactics and strategy your attorney has taken. [] [defendant:] i am an intense client, your honor. and when you are on parole you give a fake i.d. to avoid being known or being on parole. [] and testify. [] [trial court:] the officer did not testify to that. . . defendant stated that the officer could be cross-examined by mr. tiomkin because the defendant was on parole at the t 23 defendant also stated that mr. tiomkin failed to watch a video that was partially presented as evidence at trial. mr. tiomkin responded that he heard the audio portion of the video but was unable to open the visual portion of it. the following exchange jury] come[s] in, i had said several times, your honor, that [mr. tiomkin] did not want to introduce [] [trial court:] again, sirthese past days during this trial. every time we recess, every time before i bring the jury in you have something to sayyou may disagree with your attorney in terms of tactics and strategy. you can appeal the ineffective[ness] of counsel [if you are convicted]. [] everything you hav on august 25, 2011, defendant requested another marsden hearing. the following exchanindicated to the court i need a marsden. [] the trial is terminated . . . [defendant]. . . . [] . . . [] you appear to be bringing up [that] you disagree with the tactics that your attorney has undertaken, you disagree that he fail to call certain witnesses, failing to follow your advice and instructions about how this marsden, so your marsden is denied. . . . [] . . . [] [defendant:] ineffective representation is a conflict. [] . . . [] [t]his is an ongoing thing. [] . . . [] i need to be specific about it. [] . . . [] being prosecuted as if this is a 470(b). [] [trial court:] all right sir. noted for the record. possession of a [] 24 on august 26, 2011, before the trial court read the jury instructions to the jury, defendant requested another marsden honor, i want to use the opportunity to request a marsden, that i know is going to be denied . . . [] . . . [] may i get the marsden hearing, your honor? [ ] [trial court:] your marsden hearing is based on the fact, and it has been for the past four times that [] . . doing. that is a disagreement of strategy and tactics and does not lend itself to marsden 2. analysis we review the denial of a request for a marsden hearing for abuse of discretion. (people v. chavez (1980) 26 cal.3d 334, 347-348.) although defendant contends that the marsden hearing is reversible per se, he is incorrect. in people v. rivers (1993) 20 cal.app.4th 1040, outinely held that any substantial impairment rivers, however, specifically . . . do not decide whether an erroneous refusal to consider a marsden motion in the circumstances presentepeople v. rivers, supra, 20 cal.app.4th at p. 1051.) plaintiff also cites people v. sanchez (2011) 53 cal.4th 80, 89-90, and people v. hill (1983) 148 cal.app.3d 744, but they do nmarsden hearing is reversible per se. our supreme court stated in people v. chavez, supraconclude that the trial court abused its discretion in denying the request for the continued appointment of counsel without affording defendant an opportunity to explain what circumstances, if any, might warrant such continued appointment. [] having decided that the court abused its discretion in this regard, we must determine whether that error 25 that, on the present record, the error was not prejudicial. . . . [] . . . [] defendant lied in this case, arguing that such a rule was adopted by this court in marsden and its progeny. [citations.] defendant is in error in suggesting that marsden enunciated a per se reversible error test; the decision makes clear that the court reversed the conviction in that case because [although the trial court erred because defendant was denied the opportunity to explain the basis for his request for the appointment of new counsel] the court concluded that it could not find beyond a reasonable doubt that the error did not people v. chavez, supra, 26 cal.3d at pp. 347-349.) requests for marsden hearings that were in additwhich marsden hearings were held. based on the totality of the circumstances, the trial court could reasonably conclude that defendant in making multiple requests for marsden hearings was engaged in gamesmanship for the purpose of delay or attempting to people v. clark, supra, 3 cal.4t(people v. clark, supra, 3 cal.4th at p. 115, citing people v. davis (1987) 189 cal.app.3d 1177, 1187, overruled on other grounds as stated in people v. snow (1987) 44 cal.3d 216, 225-226.) on the occasions that defendant was denied his requests for marsden hearings, he arguably was deprived of the ability to fully state the reasons that he believed entitled him to new counsstate adequately his reasons for the appointment of new counsel during the four occasions he was afforded a marsden hearing and of his failure to articulate the basis specified by people v. marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d 118 and the related cases for the appointment of new 26 counsel, the reasons defendant provided the trial court for his other requests for marsden hearings did not obligate the trial court to halt the proceedings to hold the hearings. marsden hearing was based on his [mr. tiomkin] told him yesterday about when he first found out that the witness was however, that were the subject of the marsden hearing conducted the day before, on august 11, 2011. people v. vera (2004) 122 cal.app.4th 970, 980.) marsden hearing was based on his first make copies of them and return the originals to defendant, and a video was not lish that his constitutional right to the assistance of counsel was impaired substantially. the trial court told defendant that that the photographs will be returned to him after mr. tiomkin ideo in its entirety was a tactical decision. august 24, 2011, request for a marsden hearing because mr. tiomkin failed to explain properly to defendant the limitations explained that defendant advised him that defendant wanted to call an officer back to testify that defendant was on parole, and mr. tiomkin explained to defendant that the officer could not testify as to that issue because he was not a parole officer. the trial court could reasonably conclude that mr. tiomkin, and not defendant, was credible. 11, request for a marsden hearing was based on his 27 section] 470(b).[4]gs occurred before the trial court, it undoubtedly was charged with violating section 470, subdivision (b) instead of section 472. section 472 contradicts his claim, and he does not challenge his conviction for not being supported by substantial evidence. on august 26, 2011, defendant requested another marsden hearing, but did not state any basis for seeking to remove mr. tiomkin as his counsel. the trial court denied marsden that he disagreed with this characterization. marsden multiple requests for marsden hearings, defendant has failed to establish that he was prejudiced by that error. in addition, defendant has made no showing here that any of his marsden motions would have been granted had it been heard, or that a more favorable result would have been achieved had any of the motions in fact been granted. (people v. washington (1994) 27 cal.app.4th 940, 944.) based on the applicable standard of review, abuse of discretion, which we must follow, we affirm the conviction. 4 section 470, subdivision (b) provi 28 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. mosk, j. we concur: armstrong, acting p. j. kriegler, j. 