 filed 11/1/12 p. v. washington ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. lawon telefarrow washington, defendant and appellant. b236692 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba384972) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, sam ohta, judge. affirmed. linda l. gordon, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, chung l. mar and seth p. mccutcheon, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________ 2 lawon telefarrow washington appeals the judgment entered following his conviction by jury of second degree burglary, attempted grand theft and theft (unauthorized possession of the access card account information of another with the intent to use it fraudulently). (pen. code,  459, 664/487, subd. (a), 484e, subd. (d)). washington contends the trial court erroneously admitted evidence of an uncharged prior commercial burglary to show intent to steal in the charged burglary. (see evid. code,  facts and procedural background 1. . on april 20, 2011, at 5:47 p.m., sheila bradley, in baldwin hills, assisted washington and a female companion with the purchase of account earlier that day. he provided identification and entered his social security name on the account, bradley telephoned the credit department and verified that washington had been added to the account. . after washingtovillanueva began surveillance of washington in the store via a closed-circuit television system. washington and his female companion separated. washington walked around the store alone but made contact with a second female and a male. jose hernandez, who stated he had not authorized anyone other than himself to use the account and asked tejeda to call the police. washington eventually went to the fragrance department where the male gave washington some merchandise. the females approached washington in the shoe department and gave him additional merchandise. washington purchased the merchandise in the shoe departwashington was given a receipt, loss prevention officers villanueva, tejeda and eddie rodriguez asked washington to accompany them to the office. washington did not seem 3 inclined to comply and rodriguez attempted to handcuff him. at that point, washington ran towards a store exit and the loss prevention officers had to physically detain him. hernandez, the account holder, testified he did not know washington and had cross-examination, defense counsel asked if hernandez had ever had a sexual relationship with washington and whether he had ever met washington in north hollywood. hernandez responded in the negative to each question. 2. the costco burglary. buzzed washington and another male into the caged area that enclosed cigarettes. a few minutes later, an alarm associated with an emergency exit near the caged area sounded. lucero turned and saw washington and his companion standing at the exit, each with cases of cigarettes on their shoulders. it appeared the two men panicked when the exit door did not immediately open. they dropped the cigarettes and ran toward the front entrance of the store but were detained before they could reach it. as a result of this incident, washington was convicted of second degree burglary. 3. argument of the parties. the prosecutor argued the jury could infer washington intended to steal when he washington did not state he had permission to use the account. instead he ran, indicating consciousness of guilt. defense counsel argued washington entered the store with the intent to shop. he records, washington was authorized to use the account. in order to place someone on an account, personal information known only to the card holder must be provided. thus, the jury had to decide whether hernandez told the truth when he denied he had ever been in a relationship with washington. in rebuttal, the prosecutor stressed the absence of any evidence of a relationship between hernandez and washington, noting questions are not evidence. the prosecutor asked the jury whether there had been any awkward pauses or flickers of recognition 4 between hernandez and washington when hernandez was in court testifying. the swear to tell the truth and then frame washington for burglary if hernandez, in fact, had contentions washington contends the trial court erroneously admitted evidence of the costco burglary and, even if the evidence were admissible, it should have been excluded under evidence code section 352. discussion 1. relevant principles. evidence code section 1101, subdivision (a) prohibits the admission of character evidence, including evidence of specific instances of uncharged offenses, to prove the conduct of a person on a particular occasion. notwithstanding this prohibition, evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b) permits a party to introduce evidence of uncharged offenses when relevant to prove some fact in issue, such as motive, opportunity, intent, preparation, plan, knowledge, identity, absence of mistake or accident, or consent. the admissibility of evidence of uncharged offenses under evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b) depends upon the fact sought to be proven and the degree of similarity between the charged and uncharged offenses. (people v. ewoldt (1994) 7 cal.4th 380, 402-403, superseded by statute on other grounds as stated in people v. britt (2002) 104 cal.app.4th 500, 505.) ee of similarity (between the uncharged act and the charged offense) is required in order to prove intentpeople v. ewoldt, supra, at p. 402.) to be admissible to prove intent, the uncharged misconduct must be sufficiently similar to the charged offense to support the inference the defendant probably harbored the same intent in each instance. (id.; people v. lindberg (2008) 45 cal.4th 1, 23; people v. kelly (2007) 42 cal.4th 763, 783.) 5 when evidence of uncharged crimes is deemed admissible under evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b), the trial court also must determine if the evidence should be excluded as unduly prejudicial under evidence code section 352.1 (people v. lenart (2004) 32 cal.4th 1107, 1123.) because evidence of uncharged crimes is inherently (people v. ewoldt, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 404, italics omitted; people v. lindberg, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 23; people v. kelly, supra, 42 cal.4th at p. 783.) ewoldt identified various factors affecting the probative value versus the prejudicial effect of uncharged crimes evidence including the tendency to demonstrate the fact in issue, the independence of the source of the uncharged crime, whether the uncharged crime resulted in conviction, whether the facts of the uncharged crime are more inflammatory than the facts of the charged offense, the remoteness in time to the charged offense, and whether there is other evidence to substantiate the fact in issue. (people v. ewoldt, supra, at pp. 404-406.) we review rulings under evidence code sections 1101, subdivision (b) and 352 for abuse of discretion. (people v. foster (2010) 50 cal.4th 1301, 1328; people v. davis (2009) 46 cal.4th 539, 602; people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1195.) 2. litigation of the issue in the trial court. prior to trial, the prosecutor requested permission to introduce evidence of the deprive. after hearing argument, the trial court found the costco incident sufficiently similar to the charged offense for the purpose of proving intent and further found evidence of the costco incident would not be unduly prejudicial to washington. the trial ccredit card. thus, intent was the pivotal issue in the case. applying the ewoldt factors, the trial court noted the source of the uncharged act was independent of the charged offense, the two offenses were unrelated and evidence related to one would not confuse 1 evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger 6 the jury as to other. also, the uncharged conduct, attempting to steal cigarettes at a costco, was not inflammatory, the prior conviction was not remote, and evidence of the uncharged offense would not cause undue consumption of time. in that one involved the physical taking of property and the other involved credit card theft. however, there were notable similarities in that both incidents occurred at a large store and in each case washington had at least one accomplice. the trial court concluded the probative value of the costco burglary on the issue of intent to steal outweighed the prejudicial effect of the evidence and ruled the evidence admissible. 3. the trial court properly admitted evidence of the costco burglary to show . by pleading not guilty, washington placed all elements of the charged offense at issue, including the requisite intent. (people v. lindberg, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 23). the intent to commit grand or petit larceny or any felony . . . . (pen. code,  459.) had permission to use the account. thus, intent was the critical issue in the case. the costco burglary (see people v. ewoldt, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 394, fn. 2 [where the physical act constituting the offense is conceded but the accompanying intent is disputed, evidence of uncharged crimes properly may be offered].) in both instances washington entered a store with at least one other person, selected items, attempted to unlawfully leave the store with the merchandise, and ran when problems in the commission of the crime arose. as the trial court noted, the costco burglary had substantial probative value in costco burglary was heightened by the fact it was proved by evidence independent of the 7 tive as there was little incident. also, evidence of the costco burglary did not consume an undue amount of time and would not have confused the jury as it was clear the costco burglary involved a separate incident. also, the prejudicial impact of the costco evidence was lessened because the jury was aware washington was convicted of burglary in that offense. thus, there was no risk the jury would punish washington for that offense, rather than consider the evidence solely for the limited purpose for which it was admitted on the current charge. finally, as noted by the trial court, an attempt to steal cigarettes is not the type of evidence that would inflame a jury. washington claims there must be a distinctive similarity between the two crimes in order for the uncharged incident to be relevant, citing people v. delgado (1992) 10 crime wheremerchandise using his own identification and social security number. although washington had companions in the store, he alone made purchases. washington is wrong on the law. distinctiveness is not required to prove intent. delgado, cited by washington, noted some earlier case had held distinctiveness a prerequisite to admission of other crimes to prove facts other than identity. however, delgado also noted people v. robbins (1988) 45 cal.3d 867, 880, had retreated from that conduct is used to prove identity. ibid.) delgado concluded distinctive similarity between the two crimes is often unnecessary for the other crime people v. delgado, supra, 10 cal.app.4th at p. 1845, citing people v. nible (1988) 200 cal.app.3d 838, 848.) this view subsequently was confirmed by ewoldt. washington also claims the two incidents lack any direct relationship between them, citing people v. daniels (1991) 52 cal.3d 815, 857. in people v. daniels, the defendant was accused of murdering two police officers who had come to take him to 8 prison for a robbery in which he had been rendered a quadriplegic by other police officers who shot the defendant as he tried to escape. (id. at p. 837.) daniels held the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting evidence of the prior robbery because there was id. at p. 857.) thus, evidence of injury in the robbery was relevant to show motive, which, in turn, tended to show both intent and identity. (id. at pp. 857-858.) here, a direct relationship between the charged and the uncharged offenses was unnecessary as the uncharged offense was offered only on the issue of intent. (see people v. ewoldt, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 404.) in daniels, the evidence was offered to show not only intent but also motive and identity. lastly, washington claims the error was prejudicial because the prosecutor urged the jury to consider the uncharged incident to prove his intent in the charged incident. according to washington, this argument essentially invited the jury to consider the prior o commit burglaries, which created a substantial danger of undue prejudice that outweighed the probative value of the evidence. washington claims that, had the evidence not been introduced, the jury might have entertained a reasonable doubt that hernandez had given washington permission to use his card but later withdrew it. however, the prosecutor did not make unfair use of the costco incident in commission of the costco bu in sum, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in finding the costco burglary value of the costco burglary outweighed any danger of undue prejudice. 9 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: croskey, j. aldrich, j. 