filed 11/26/12 p. v. kirksey ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. karen kirksey, defendant and appellant. b236176 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma050534) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, kathleen blanchard, judge. affirmed. d. inder comar, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and david e. madeo, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________ 2 defendant karen kirksey was convicted by a jury of various felonies, including first degree burglary and assault with a firearm. on appeal, defendant contends the trial court sentenced her in violation of penal code section 654.1 she also asks that we review the in camera proceedings conducted by the trial court to determine whether it properly concluded there was no discoverable material to which she was legally entitled under evidence code sections 1043 and 1045 and pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531 (pitchess). we affirm the judgment. factual and procedural background 1. the information defendant was charged by information with six felony counts involving her husband curtis kirksey and his girlfriend rolanda jones: count 1, first degree burglary firearm ( 245, subd. (a)(2)); count 3, discharge of a firearm with gross negligence ( 246.3, subd. (a)); count 4, corporal injury to a spouse ( 273.5, subd. (a)); count 5, with a firearm ( 245, subd. (a)(2)). the information specially alleged defendant personally used a firearm in committing the offenses ( 12022.5, subd. (a), counts 1, 2, 4, and 6) and inflicted great bodily injury on kirksey ( 12022.7, subd. (e), counts 2 and 4).2 defendant pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. 2. pretrial discovery (pitchess)motion defendant filed a pitchess motion for pretrial discovery of information in the moreno, rose, scalecht and rodriguez concerning any complaints or allegations involving dishonesty. in written 1 statutory references are to the penal code, unless otherwise indicated. 2 before trial, the trial court dismissed an additional allegation that defendant had inflicted great bodily injury on jones (count 6). 3 were either not present or not involved in the reported assubsequent booking into jail. the fourth deputy, moreno, was involved but only after the purported assaults. he interviewed the victims and defendant after giving miranda admonitions. (miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 [86 s.ct. 1602, 16 l.ed.2d 694].) the trial court found good cause as to deputy moreno and granted the pretrial discovery motion in part.3 following its in camera review with the custodian of records, the court determined there was no discoverable material to be provided to the defense. 3. summary of evidence presented at trial defendant and kirksey had been married for 18 years and lived in palmdale. jones, a friend from church. on september 27, 2010, kirksey went to visit jones at her house. in the evening the two of them began watching television in the bedroom. they were lying on the bed -year-old joseph, -year old daughter, who was in a toddler bed next to jones. at around 8:30 p.m. joseph noticed a car drive up and park on the wrong side of the street. minutes later, defendant lifted the garage door and entered, accompanied by her daughter and female friend. the three women walked aggressively as if they were angry or frustrated. with defendant in the lead, they headed for the door to the house. 3 motion. the minute order of both the hearing and the in camera review indicate only: pitchess motion and granted. in camera hearing is held. the court the in camera review shows discovery was limited to complaints of dishonesty involving deputy moreno. it is therefore reasonable to assume the trial court agreed with the opposition that only pitchess material concerning deputy moreno was discoverable. 4 joseph asked why they were there, but defendant did not respond. joseph saw a gun in 4 kirksey. raising her gun, defendant fired one shot into the ceiling, prompting jones to immediately leave the bed to stand over her daughter. defendant began hitting kirksey in the head with the gun. rather than fight back, kirksey attempted to leave the bed, but and threatened to shoot her, and the two women began wrestling for the gun. jones managed to grab the gun and to point it towards the floor. defendant went back to hitting kirksey in the head, this time using a piggy bank and other items in the bedroom. jones took the gun and fled to the home of a neighbor, who telephoned police. in the meantime, defendant and her companions emerged from the house. defendant which was parked in her car. police arrived and kirksey was transported to a hospital, where he was treated for blunt head trauma and multiple skull fractures. a metal plate was surgically implanted in his defendant testified in her defense that on the evening of september 27, 2010, she case. defendant was not angry, but she wanted to talk to kirksey and believed he was their house, defendant was afraid of guns. neither she nor either of her two companions had a gun that evening. the open garage. when defendant reached the bedroom, she saw kirskey and jones in 4 kirksey kept an unloaded handgun between the mattresses of his bed. he stored the ammunition in his dresser. 5 bed. kirksey jumped up, cursed and grabbed defendant. the two of them fought, hand, defendant grasped an object and struck kirskey, before demanding he let her go. defendant was concerned about protecting herself. she then heard something break that sounded like a pop. defendant denied pointing a gun at jones, but acknowledged the two truck because she was upset. testimony. 4. verdict and sentencing the jury found defendant guilty as charged and found true the special allegations. at the sentencing hearing, the trial court made the following comments before imposing a consecutive term on each count with the exception of count 4, corporal injury defendant had an opportunity to reflect on her actions, to stop those actions before further as far as the other counts are concerned, i believe consecutive sentences are appropriate under the law the trial court sentenced defendant to an aggregate state prison term of 14 years 4 months, consisting of: count 2, eight years for aggravated assault on kirksey (the two year lower term, plus three years each for the firearm use and great bodily injury enhancements); count 1, a consecutive term of 32 months for first degree burglary (one-third the four-year middle term, plus 16 months for the firearm use enhancement); count 3, a consecutive term of eight months for discharge of a firearm with gross negligence; count 6, a consecutive 28 month term for aggravated assault on jones (one-third the three-year middle term) plus 16 months for the firearm-use enhancement). the trial court imposed and stayed its sentences for corporal injury to a spouse and the firearm use and great bodily injury enhancements. 6 discussion 1. defendant was not sentenced in violation of section 654 defendant contends the trial court violated the rule against multiple punishment for an indivisible course of criminal conduct, when it sentenced her for both the burglary and the aggravated assault on jones. course of criminal conduct under the substantial evidence standard. (people v. osband objective is a factual determination, which will not be reversed on appeal unless unsupported by people v. saffle (1992) 4 cal.app.4th 434, 438.) section 654 prohibits separate punishment for multiple offenses arising from the same act or from a series of acts constituting an indivisible course of criminal conduct. (people v. rodriguez (2009) 47 cal.4th 501, 507; people v. latimer (1993) 5 cal.4th 1203, 1216.)5 a course of criminal conduct is divisible and therefore gives rise to more than one act within the meaning of section 654 depends on the intent and objective of the actor. if all of the offenses were incident to one objective, the defendant rodriguez, at p. 507; accord, people v. lewis (2008) 43 cal.4th 415, 519.) where the commission of section 654 prohibits separate punishments for the two offenses. (people v. britt (2004) 32 cal.4th 944, 953.) here, because the burglary of jones residence was the means of perpetuating the assaults on jones and kirksey, the criminal acts were indivisible, people v. 5 different ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the act or omission be punished under more than one provision. an acquittal or conviction and 7 radil (1977) 76 cal.app.3d 702, 713 [burglary with intent to commit assault]; people v. mcelrath (1985) 175 cal.app.3d 178, 191 [burglary with intent to commit sexual assaults].) indeed, nothing suggests defendant initially intended to do violence to one victim, and then, after entry or in the middle of one assault, formed a separate intent to do violence to the other victim. ordinarily, section 654 would have barred punishment for the trial court to stay the shorter potential sentence on the aggravated assault with the firearm-use enhancement. nonetheless, where multiple victims of violent crime are involved, even indivisible criminal acts may be punished separately. (people v. miller (1977) 18 cal.3d 873, 885-886 (miller), disapproved of on another ground in people v. oates (2004) 32 cal.4th 1048, 1067, fn. 8 [ 654 does not bar punishment for armed robbery of clerk and burglary with great bodily injury against security guard of same store.]; accord people v. jones (2012) 54 cal.4th 350, 362.) separate punishment is permitted because a defendant has greater culpability when endangering more than one person. (miller, suprawill be commwith the intent to harm more than one person or by means likely to cause harm to several the multiple vict6 (people v. felix (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 1618, 1631; people v. garcia (1995) 32 cal.app.4th 1756, 1784-1785; miller, supra,18 cal.3d at p. 886, fn. 11.) defendleast three people: kirksey and jones were named as victims in charges of assault with a firearm and, by finding defendant guilty of these two offenses, the jury accounted for the 6 there is no disubd. (a)). (people v. hall (2000) 83 cal.app.4th 1084, 1090-1091.) 8 -year-old daughter was also present during the assaults, however, the act of violence against her was not accounted for because she was not identified as a victim of an offense in the information or in a verdict. in people v. centers (1999) 73 cal.app.4th 84, 89 (centers), one of three occupants of a residence was a victim of both a burglary and a kidnapping. the appellate court addressed whether the multiple victim exception to section 654 allowed a separate sentence for burglary even if the information did not name the victims of the burglary.7 (id. at p. 99.) in concluding the defendant could be sentenced for both the burglary and the kidnapping, the court reasoned the multiple victim exception applied, regardless of whether the identities of those victims had been pleaded, because there was substantial evidence that at least one other occupant was not also a victim of the kidnapping. (id. at pp. 101-102.) as in centersinding in this case of multiple victims is the burglary, she constituted a separate victim of this violent offense. she lived in the residence and was in close proximitriggered the multiple victim exception and permitted the trial court to impose a separate sentence for burglary. 7 in response to our request, the parties submitted supplemental briefing on this issue in the context of this case. 9 2. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in finding no discoverable pitchess material pursuant to people v. mooc (2001) 26 cal.4th 1216, defendant requested we examine the transcript of the in camera hearing after the trial court determined defendant had demonstrated good cause to discover pitchess material with respect to deputy moreno pertaining to allegations of dishonesty. we have reviewed the sealed record of the proceedings, which adequately describes the documents reviewed, and conclude the trial court satisfied the minimum requirements in determining whether there was discoverable information; no abuse of discretion occurred. (mooc, at p. 1229.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. woods, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. zelon, j. 