filed 12/10/12 p. v. casaburi ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. glen casaburi, defendant and appellant. b236187 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa069960) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. lesley c. green, judge. affirmed as corrected. murray a. rosenberg, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, linda c. johnson and toni r. johns estaville, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________________________ 2 a jury convicted glen casaburi of unlawfully taking or driving a car and receiving stolen property. he contends that (1) the trial court should have granted his motion to strike a 1987 burglary conviction and (2) the abstract of judgment is incorrect. the ncement staying the facts robert hovakemian manages property on division street in los angeles (the property) on behalf of its owner, tommy thompson. hovakemian is overseeing a remodel of the property. an iron fence surrounds the property and a locked gate crosses the driveway. the gate is normally closed. david lomen lived at the property, performing electrical, painting and drywall work. thompson permitted lomen to leave his vehicle, a beige 1985 toyota pickup move the vehicle around as needed during the remodeling process. neither lomen nor hovakemian believe that defendant casaburi was authorized to stay at the property or perform remodeling work on it. property. the men used methamphetamine together. lomen never gave defendant permission to drive his truck, or to take the truck in for repairs. the truck was not supposed to be driven because it was uninsured and unregistered. in the spring of 2010, lomen and thompson were arrested on drug charges. when lomen was released from jail in june 2010, he was upset to see casaburi driving away from defendant and gave them to hovakemian for safekeeping. lomen told defendant that he did not want him driving the truck anymore. 3 lomen entered a residential drug rehabilitation center from july 2010 until february 2011. at the time, he was facing six months in jail for drug possession. he agreed to undergo drug rehabilitation as an alternative to imprisonment. at the end of ed stolen on january 27, 2011. on february 5, 2011, two police officers on patrol saw a tan pickup truck make an illegal left turn. they checked the license plate and saw that it was reported stolen. the police arrested the male driver and a female passenger. casaburi was identified in court as the driver of the stolen vehicle. the police recovered the car keys that defendant was using, which were manufactured by general motors. the police were able to start the toyota with the gm keys. the ignition plastic bag containing a usable amount of crystal methamphetamine. doing work as an electricianbreakers, switches, plugs, and light fixtures. lomen placed these items in the truck, and locked it, just before entering the drug treatment the truck was damaged: a side panel and all the rubber along the side of a door were gone, the windshield wiper control arm was broken, and the seats were torn. the defense case rex shields is a concrete contractor who also repairs automobiles. he knows why the vehicle was overheating. shields does not know why casaburi was driving mentioned to shields that the truck had been stolen, along with his tools and other things. has lived from time to time at her home. she was unaware that casaburi uses methamphetamine and has a criminal record. she thought that casaburi and lomen had fun together and were buddies. she did not know why casaburi was arrested. 4 diane bitner is related to casaburi and knows dave lomen. bitner has a good peculiarly and twitches; she thought he might be using drugs. defendant testified on his own behalf. he admitted having served a prison sentence for possessing methamphetamine for sale 20 years ago, and conceded that he relationship with lomen, whom he has known since high school. defendant, thompson and lomen hung out together and used drugs. defendant opined that lomen tells lies defendant, thompson and lomen lived at the property while fixing it up for resale. in april 2010, the marshals arrested thompson and lomen. once his friends were find out why it was running so poorly. after lomen was released from prisonbut before he started the rehabilitation programhe returned to the property and asked defendant to return his car keys. the keys that defendant gave lomen were the toyota keys that came with the vehicle. defendant denied that he entered the property to steal lomebecame aware that the truck was stolen when lomen telephoned in january 2011, and asked if defendant had seen his truck. defendant told lomen he had not seen it. in february 2011, defendant was hanging out with friends when thompsonlomen was incarcerated, defendant cut a set of gm keys on a key machine to fit the afwas planning to return the vehicle to lomen, but was unable to reach him. he did not call the police to tell them where to find the truck, which he knew was stolen, because 5 by the police because he thought he had permission to drive the truck. he described to use the truck. defendant denied that the methamphetamine found in the truck belonged to him. procedural history in an amended information, casaburi was charged with: unlawfully driving or taking a vehicle (count 1); possessing methamphetamine (count 2); and receiving stolen both felony convictions for first degree residential burglary in july 1987. in addition to the burglaries, the information alleged that casaburi had four drug-related convictions in 1991, 1996 and 2005, and a weapons conviction in 1989, all resulting in prison terms. casaburi pleaded not guilty. beforburglary conviction. during trial, he admitted six prison priors. a jury convicted casaburi of counts 1 and 3, and acquitted him of count 2. defendant requested a new trial and asked the court to strike the prior conviction because the burglary occurred 24 years earlier and he has never been convicted of a violent crime. he asked to be sent to a residential drug treatment program instead of prison. request to strike the prior. after reviewing the probation and sentencing memoranda, and considering the high term of three years on count 1, doubled by the strike to six years, plus one year for the prior prison sentence, for a total of seven years. it struck five prior prison term history and . . . his efforts to manipulate the system even now. i would just consider that under penal code section 654. 6 discussion 1. casaburi argues that the trial court should have granted his motion to strike a prior -defendanpeople v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497, 504; pen. code,  light of the nature and circumstances of his present felonies and prior serious and/or violent felony convictions, and the particulars of his background, character, and t, and hence should be treated as though he had not previously been convicted of one or people v. williams (1998) 17 cal.4th 148, 161.) people v. williams, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 162.) a court does not abuse its discretion by refusing to strike prior felony t no reasonable person people v. carmony (2004) 33 cal.4th 367, 377.) ike as part of a long and continuous criminal record, the continuation of which the law was people v. carmony, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 378.) a defendant who fails to address his substance abuse, has a spotty work history and poor prospects for the future falls within the spirit of the three strikes law. (id. at pp. 378-379.) even a lengthy span of time between the prior serious felony conviction and the present felony is not enough to ignore the sentencing norm of the three strikes law, if the record shows that the the terms of his parole. (people v. williams, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 163.) 7 six felonies, numerous misdemeanors, and three parole violations in between. [] further, this charge, theft of a vehicle, is somewhat similar in the nature of the strike of the residential burglary in that both show disregard for the law and the property rights of the defendant shows no remorse. rather, as and requirements. [] further, numerous charges . . . have involved illegal substances. pursuant to his testimony, he has shown no desire to change that, to overcome that habit, to become employed, or to become a contributing and law abiding member of society. . . . in remorse, or defendant in accordance with the three strikepeople v. carmony, supra, 33 to commit crimes, resulting in multiple convictions and prison sentences since the 1987 burglary. his six convictions indicate that he falls within the spirit of the three strikes law as a career criminal. (see people v. strong (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 328, 340 [a -door career crim defendant has a longstanding addiction to methamphetamine he has not tried to overcome, even after his friends thompson and lomen were arrested on drug charges. trial. based on these observations, the court concluded that defendant is an unrepentant criminal with no interest in becoming a contributing member of society. defendant admits that he has had six additional felonies since 1989 plus numerous 8 -violent, damaged, middle aged individual who is more of a threat to himself then [sic] he is to -appraisal. the record shows that defendant is a clever and practiced criminal. in june 2010, lomen caught defendant driving his truck. upset, he instructed defendant not to drive the vehicle again, removed the keys from defendant, and gave them to hovakemian for safekeeping. defendant testified that he handed lomen the toyota keys that came with the vehicle when lomen demanded them. when lomen left for his drug treatment program in july 2010, the truck was locked and safely stored behind a fence and a gate. place, defendant availed himself of a duplicate key, which he made using gm keys and a y away from the truck and used a fake set of keys to drive off with the vehicle. all of willingness to harm those he considers friends shows that he is, in fact, a threat to society. antipathy to defendant. 2. amendment of the abstract of judgment as to count 1 (driving or taking a motor vehicle), the court indicated that it five doubled to two years, plus one prior enhancement for a total of three years. striking the the court gave reasons for selecting the high term. 9 that the high term was one year on count 3, the abstract of judgment shows that defendant received the high term of three years for count 3. as defendant acknowledges in his brief, the high term for receiving stolen property is three years. (pen. code,  496, subd. (a), 1170, subd. (h)(1).) the court misspoke when it listed the high term as one year: this is not a term authorized by law. respondent notes that the abstract of judgment correctly states the high term of three years on count 3, and the court clearly intended to impose the high term. misstatement of the length of a prison term under a statute. in people v. cantrell (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 1161, 1164-165, for example, the trial court mistakenly identified the low term as one year, when it was actually 16 months, allowing the reviewing court to correct the abstract to reflect the longer term authorized by law. in this instance, there is no need to correct the abstract of intent to impose the high term authorized by law, which is three years. respondent concedes that the abstract must be corrected to show that the sentence on count 3 is stayed. (pen. code,  654.) thstayed pursuant to penal code section 654. (people v. myles (2012) 53 cal.4th 1181, 1222, fn. 14; people v. cantrell, supra, 175 cal.app.4th at p. 1165.) 10 disposition oral pronouncement that the sentence on count 3 (pen. code,  496) is stayed pursuant to penal code section 654. the judgment is affirmed as so corrected. not to be published in the official reports. boren, p.j. we concur: doi todd, j. ashmann-gerst, j. 