filed 9/21/12 p. v. lopez ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. vincent lopez, defendant and appellant. b236174 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka091626) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, bruce f. marrs, judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded. richard d. miggins, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey, supervising deputy attorney general, david zarmi, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction defendant and appellant vincent lopez (defendant) was convicted of first degree murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)1). on appeal, defendant contends that there is not benefit of the gang, and the trial court erred in imposing a 10-year section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c) enhancement. we hold that there is sufficient evidence to support that the trial court erred in imposing the 10-year section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c) enhancement. background a. factual background 1. the shooting city of pomona police department officer vaneric mendoza testified that on en mendoza arrived at the location, he saw someone, later identified as ramiro chavez, lying face down on the ground, unconscious, and covered in blood from gunshot wounds. officer mendoza testified that prado told him the person who shot chavez was, inter alia, an hispanic male with a shaved head, and wearing a white shirt and traveling in a dark van. officer mendoza broadcasted that information over the police radio. officer mendoza testified that prado told him one male initially shot chavez, and then a second male exited the van and additional shots were fired. 1 all statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 3 prado testified that she was speaking with chavez, who was wearing a hat with a ear holt avenue when a blue van with its headlights off moved very slowly passed them and stopped. chavez told prado to walk home, which identified as defendant, exit the van, followed by a rear seat passenger of the van, later identified as miguel ayala. they approached chavez and started to talk to him, but prado was too far away to hear what was said. officer mendoza testified that prado told him they were arguing with chavez. prado testified that she continued walking, but turned back when she heard three gunshots. prado saw chavez fall to his knees, and defendant had his right arm extended, holding and pointing something. defendant had his shirt pulled up over his to his nose, covering the bottom portion of his face. ayala fired three more shots at chavez. defendant and ayala returned to the van and drove away, turning left onto holt avenue. city of pomona police department crime scene investigator adam macdonald testified that he went to the incident scene and found casings. city of pomona police department officer brad paulson testified that he was in a patrol vehicle on his way to the scene of the shooting when he was advised that a blue van was possibly involved in the shooting, and it was last seen leaving the scene, traveling east on holt avenue. as officers paulson approached the intersection of white and holt avenues, he saw a blue van traveling east on holt avenue that officer paulson thought might match the description of the van involved in the shooting. the van pulled over and stopped. officer paulson exited his vehicle and ordered that the driver, the defendant (who was a passenger in the front seat), and ayala (the rear seat passenger). while waiting for other officers to arrive before ordering the van occupants out of the vehicle, officer paulson saw the van occupants moving around in the vehicle, 4 repeatedl investigator adam macdonald searched the van and found a .40 caliber semi-revolver had in it one live cartridge and five spent casings. officer paulson testified that he searched the van occupants and found cellular telephones in the pockets of ayala and the driver. city of pomona police department officer christopher blank testified that he drove prado to the scene of the shooting and prado identified defendant as the first person who shot chavez. prado testified that she identified defendant based on his clothing, his muscular body, and the top portion of his face. prado also identified the van as the vehicle involved in the shooting incident. city of pomona police department officer jaime martinez testified that he contained live ammunition of various calibers, two letters appeared to be gang members city of pomona police department detective tim aguirre testified that he found a passenger seat. the screen saver on that cellular telephone was a photograph of defendant identified that telephone and told officer aguirre he, defendant, left it in the van. 5 ular 2 cellular telephone. on august 13, 2011, ayala sent a text message addressed to vincent, office removed from chavez during his autopsy. he opined that all eight of the spent casings from it. sheriff anderson also opined that two of the bullets recovered from the testified that she performed an autopsy on chavez. she observed 14 gunshot wounds. she determined that the cause of death to be multiple gunshot wounds; of the 14 gunshot wounds, seven were fatal. 2. gang expert testimony city of pomona police department detective greg freeman and los angeles gang experts. detective groenow opined that defendant was a member of the bassett grande los night owls gang (bassett). detective groenow testified that bassett had over 300 members. bassett used, 2 vincent is de 6 murder, attempted murder, and narcotic offenses. detective groenow identified two bassett members who, in 2008, were convicted of murder, and another bassett member who, in 2008 was convicted of attempted murder. detective groenow testified that frank lira, a bassett member, wrote defendant a uthern california gangs were aligned. screen saver on his cellular telephone was a pictwhich indicated bassett affiliation. detective groenow identified three pictures found in defendant had a myspace page on which defand made references to bassett. detective groenow testified that bassett had an antagonistic relationship with the west side pomona gang (wsp) resulting from a deadly shooting of one or more bassett members that occurred in 2007. detective groenow would expect that bassett would the prosecutor asked detective groenow to assume, hypothetically, facts closely tracking the evidence concerning the shooting of chavez. based on those facts, detective groenow opined that the shooting would be done for the benefit of the bassett s willing to go out there and put in the work, to morelooked up to by the other gang members. that makes him look good with the other gang members. [] the gang, it benefits them because everybody knows bassett did this. 7 area knows that bassett is wnecessary, you know, as a gang. [] makes it easier for them to recruit. people look up to these guys. gangs work on fear and intimidation. they believe that, you know, people fearing them and being intimidated is respect for them. they take respect as the asked by the prosecutor how people in the area would know that bassett committed the detective freeman testified that bassett members lived in the city of pomona. bassett was feuding with the wsp gang resulting from a deadly shooting of one or more bassett members that occurred several years ago. gang members in the city of pomona, of any gang, oftestreet in the city of pomona was the eastern border of wsp territory. in the city of pomona, the phrase meant to go to wsp territory. uestion posed to detective freeman asking him to assume, hypothetically, facts closely tracking the evidence concerning the shooting of or a local area or a turf, and then ultimately the same person goes into that turf and they related or benefits t . . . [t]hey see what they perceiv 8 b. procedural background the district attorney of los angeles county filed an information charging defendant with murder in violation of section 187, subdivision (a) (count 1). the district attorney alleged that defendant committed the crime for the benefit of a criminal street gang with the intent to assist in the criminal conduct of its members in violation of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c), and that he personally used a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b)-(d), and (e)(1). following a trial, the jury found defendant guilty of first-degree murder, and found that the special allegations were true. the trial court sentenced defendant to state prison for a term of 50 years to life, consisting of a term of 25 years to life on count 1, and 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (d). a 10-year gang enhancement pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c), and the other enhancements, were imposed and stayed. discussion a. gang enhancement finding that he committed the murder for the benefit of a gang. we disagree. 1. standard of review the sufficiency of evidence under the due process clause of the fourteenth amendment to evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a reasonapeople v.] rowland [(1992)] 4 cal.4th [238,] 269 . . . .) we apply an identical standard under the california constitution. (ibid. 9 have found defendant guilty beyond a reasonable the evidence in a light most favorable to respondent and presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the people v. johnson (1980) 26 cal.3d 557, 576 [162 cal.rptr. 431, 606 p.2d people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1175.) in reviewing the sufficiency of conflicts. [citation.] resolution of conflicts and inconsistencies in the testimony is the id. at p. 1181.) we will reverse for substantial evidence to support [tpeople v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 577.) this standard of review applies to gang enhancement findings. (people v. garcia (2007) 153 cal.app.4th 1499, 1508; people v. villalobos (2006) 145 cal.app.4th 310, 321-322.) 2. discussion section 186.22, subdivisions (b)(1) and (b)(4) provide for a sentence enhancement of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, or group of three or more persons, whether formal or informal, having as one of its primary activities the commission of one or more of the criminal acts enumerated in paragraphs (1) to (25), inclusive, or (31) to (33), inclusive, of subdivision (e), having a common name or common identifying sign or symbol, and whose members individually criminal acts included in subdivision (e) include the commission of or attempted commission of robbery ( 186.22, subd. (e)(2)), homicide or manslaughter ( 186.22, subd. (e)(3)), the sale, possession for sale, transportation, manufacture, offer for sale, or 10 offer to manufacture controlled substances ( 186.22, subd. (e)(4)), and felony vandalism ( 186.22, subd. (e)(20)). a gang expert properly may testify about gang affiliation and activity where such evidence is relevant to an issue of motive or intent. (see people v. funes (1994) 23 cal.app.4th 1506, 1518; people v. killebrew (2002) 103 cal.app.4th 644, 657 (killebrew).) a gang expert properly mkillebrew, supra, 103 cal.app.4th at p. 657.) similarly, a gang expert may testify about whether a defendant acted for the benefit of a gang, even though the question is an ultimate factual issue in the case, if such matters are people v. valdez (1997) 58 cal.app.4th 494, 506-509; killebrew, supra, 103 cal.app.4th at p. 651, citing evid. code,  805 pinion testimony which embraces the ultimate issue to be conduct benefited a . . . can be sufficient to support the . . . gang enhancement. (people v. albillar people v. vang (2011) 52 cal.4th 1038, 1048.) there was substantial evidence to support the gang enhancement. detective groenow opined that defendant was a member of bassett. defendant made references to bassett on his myspace page. detective groenow testified that bassett used, inter alia, wrote da was that refers to the blue color to which southern california gangs were aligned. pictures of a former bassett member and other gang members were found in defendant the record contains substantial evidence that the shooting was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with bassett, with the specific intent to 11 promote or further criminal conduct by bassett members. detective freeman testified street in the city of pomona. detective groenow testified that because of the incident bassett would ase means to go to wsp territory. the shooting occurred in wsp territory. detective freeman testified that gang members in the city of pomona, of any on it arget of detective groenow opined that the shooting would be done for the benefit of the gang members. the shooting benefits bassett, detective groenow opined, because everybody in the area believes that bassett is willing to defend themselves, defend their ople fear[] them and are being intimidated [by them] which bassett [considers to be] respect . . recruit members. detective freeman opined that the shooting would be done for the benefit of the defendant relies on in re frank s. (2006) 141 cal.app.4th 1192. in that case, the police conducted a traffic stop of a minor riding a bicycle, and discovered that the minor 12 possessed a knife. the minor admitted gang membership. the juvenile court sustained a petition alleging that the minor carried a concealed dirk or dagger, and found true a gang enhancement allegation. (id. at pp. 1194-1195.) the only evidence offered to support the gang enhancement was the fag], [the expert] responded it helps provide them protection id. at pp. 1195-not present any evidence that the minor was in gang territory, had gang members with him, or had any reason to expect to use the knife in a gang-id. at p. gang. (ibid.) in re frank s., supra, 141 cal.app.4th 1192, bears no resemblance to the facts in this case. here, substantial evidencenot mere speculationsupported the inference that defendant committed his crimes for the benefit of his gang. (see people v. martinez (2008) 158 cal.app.4th 1324, 1333.) there was sufficient evidence that defendant shot an apparent city of pomona gang member in wsp territory. people v. ramon (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 843, upon which defendant relies, is distinguishable. in that case, the defendant and his co-defendant were stopped in a stolen truck. the defendant was charged and convicted for, inter alia, receiving a stolen vehicle ( 496d), and the jury found that crime was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang, and with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in criminal conduct by gang members. (id. at p. 846.) a gang expert testified that because the defendant and his co-defendant were gang members and they were stopped in the heart of gang territory, the circumstances of the present crimes would benefit their gang. (id. at pp. 847-testimony did not constitute substantial evidence to support the jury's finding on the gang enhancement. (id. at p. 852.) the court stated that the analysis might have been different 13 had the expert identified the crime the defendant committed as one of the activities of the gang. (id. at p. 853.) here, defendant was found guilty of murder, and detective people v. ochoa (2009) 179 cal.app.4th 650, is also llegations in a gang member . . . id. at p. 662.) here, defendant shot one who appeared to be a city of pomona gang member in wsp territory. b. section 186.22, subdivision (b) enhancement defendant contends, and the attorney general concedes, that trial court erred in imposing a 10-year section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c) enhancement because it should have imposed instead a minimum parole eligibility term pursuant to subdivision (b)(5). we agree. defendant was convicted of murder and the trial court sentenced him to state prison for an indeterminate term of 25 years to life, and imposed and stayed a ten-year section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c) enhancement. subdivision (b)(5) provides, as punishable by imprisonment in the state prison for life shall not be paroled until a -related first degree murder, punishable by imprisonment in the state prison for life, is not subject to a 10-year enhancement under section 186.22(b)(1)(c), but instead is subject under subdivision (b)(5) to a minimum term of 15 years before defendant may be considered for parole. (people v. lopez (2005) 34 cal.4th 1002, 1004, 1010.) the abstract of judgment should be amended to delete the section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c) enhancement and to impose instead a minimum parole term of 15 years pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5). 14 disposition we reverse the section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c) enhancement imposed and stayed by the trial court. we remand the matter to the trial court to amend the abstract of judgment to delete the section 186.22 (b)(1)(c) enhancement and to impose instead a minimum parole term of 15 years pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5). in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. mosk, j. we concur: turner, p. j. kriegler, j. 