 filed 11/30/12 p. v. morales ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. herber morales, defendant and appellant. b236013 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la066673) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, elizabeth lippitt, judge. affirmed with directions. allison h. ting, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and chung l. mar, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 appellant herber morales appeals from the judgment entered following his convictions by jury on count 1 attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder (pen. code,  664, 187) with personal infliction of great bodily injury (pen. code,  12022.7, subd. (a)), three counts of attempted voluntary manslaughter (pen. code,  664, 192, subd. (a); as lesser included offenses of counts 2, 3, and 5, respectively, each of which counts alleged attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder) with, as to the attempted voluntary manslaughter that is a lesser offense of count 2, personal infliction of great bodily injury (pen. code,  12022.7, subd. (a)), and count 4 leaving the scene of an accident (veh. code,  20001, subd. (a)). the court sentenced appellant to prison for seven years to life, plus 12 years. we affirm the judgment with directions. factual summary viewed in accordance with the usual rules on appeal (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established that on the evening of december 5, 2010, appellant and adalid aguilar were in a bar on sherman way near mason. appellant pushed aguilar and told him to get out, and the two fought. alex vasquez, cindy jimenez, hugo alvarez, and francisco quinilla were in the bar when the fight started. appellant and aguilar continued the fight outside. at various times, vasquez, jimenez, alvarez, and quinilla were involved in the fight but it eventually stopped. aguilar, vasquez, jimenez, alvarez, and quinilla began walking trembling, and his face was covered with blood. however, he told alma fuentes that he was okay. fuentes told appellant to go home, and appellant agreed to do so. appellant entered a parked white van and started driving. he drove quickly onto mason. appellant then made a right turn and drove towards aguilar, vasquez, jimenez, alvarez, and quinilla as they were walking away. appheadlights and accelerated as he approached the group. 3 ez, alvarez, and quinilla, the van did not slow or attempt to stop but was moving fast. the van dragged vasquez under it about 35 feet and for about five seconds, and dragged aguilar about six feet. appellant quickly drove away. as a result of the collision, vasquez was unconscious, covered in blood, and suffered various bodily injuries. an ambulance took vasquez and jimenez to the he needed to use a wheelchair for about a month after his release from the hospital. the collision also caused scarring on pcollision. jimenez was unable to stand and unable to feel anything below her waist, and she suffered a broken pelvis. jimenez was in the hospital for three days. left knee, and left foot were injured. the van struck alvarezright leg.1 although the van had a red hood and black rear doors at the time of the collision, appellant later that day painted white those portions of the van. appellant presented no defense witnesses. issues appellant presents related claims there is insufficient evidence of the attempted murder of vasquez and insufficient evidence of premeditation and deliberation. he also claims the abstract of judgment must be corrected.2 1 aguilar testified to the effect quinilla was able to get out of the way of the van. the jury acquitted appellant on count 6, which alleged appellant attempted to murder quinilla, and acquitted appellant of attempted voluntary manslaughter of quinilla as a lesser included offense. 2 i4 was illegal and the abstract of judgment had to be modified to reflect the correct sentence on that count. in his reply brief, appellant abandons that claim; therefore, there 4 discussion 1. there was sufficient evidence appellant committed attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated attempted murder. the jury convicted appellant of the attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder of vasquez with personal infliction of great bodily injury upon him (count 1), and convicted appellant on three counts of attempted voluntary manslaughter upon jimenez, aguilar, and alvarez, respectively (each offense as a lesser included offense of attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder as alleged in counts 2, 3, and 5, respectively) with personal infliction of great bodily injury as to jimenez. appellant claims there is insufficient evidence he committed attempted murder. he argues, inter alia, there was insufficient evidence appellant intended to kill vasquez, and if appellant committed attempted voluntary manslaughter upon jimenez, aguilar, and alvarez, there could not be sufficient evidence appellant attempted to murder vasquez. appellant also claims there is insufficient evidence of premeditation and deliberation as to any attempted murder of vasquez, and if appellant committed attempted voluntary manslaughter upon jimenez, aguilar, and alvarez, there could not be sufficient evidence of premeditation and deliberation as to any attempted murder of vasquez. relying upon familiar principles,3 judgment raises other issues which we address herein. 3 the elements of attempted murder are intent to commit murder plus a direct but ineffectual act towards its commission. express malice, i.e., a deliberate intention unlawfully to kill another human being, is required. the intent must usually be derived people v. chinchilla (1997) 52 cal.app.4th 683, 690.) the trial court instructed on the elements of attempted voluntary manslaughter, and there is no dispute that that instruction was correct. according to the instruction, the elements of attempted voluntary manslaughter are (1) a direct but ineffective step towards killing a person, (2) the defendant intended to kill that person, (3) the defendant attempted the killing because the defendant was provoked, (4) the provocation would have caused a person of average disposition to act rashly and without due deliberation, and (5) the attempted killing was a rash act done 5 there was substantial evidence as follows. appellant had a prior relationship with aguilar, vasquez, jimenez, alvarez, and quinilla; they all were involved in a fight. appellant was angry but he agreed to go home. instead, appellant entered a van and, driving it fast, made a right turn onto mason and accelerated the van towards the five. see the van. the above provided evidence of planning. appellant drove the van into the group, hitting at least aguilar, vasquez, jimenez, and alvarez.4 and then [appellant] started driving towards [vasquez]. and then i saw when the van hit above italicized testimony that it was after the van hit others that appellant began driving towards vasquez, a fact providing additional evidence of premeditation and deliberation. judgment. means arrived at as a result of careful thought and weighing of considerations for and against the proposed course of means considered beforehand. (people v. perez (1992) 2 cal.4th 1117, 1123 (perez).) premeditation and deliberation do not require an extended period of time, merely an opportunity people v. cook (2006) 39 as the result of preexisting thought and reflection rather than unconsidered or rash people v. stitely of the reflection. thoughts may follow each other with great rapidity and cold, calculated perez, supra, 2 cal.4th at p. 1127.) premeditation and deliberation can thus occur in rapid succession. (people v. bloyd (1987) 43 cal.3d 333, 348.) people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15, sets forth three categories of evidence, i.e., evidence of planning activity, prior relationship, and manner of killing, relevant to whether a defendant harbored premeditation. (people v. hovarter (2008) 44 cal.4th 983, 1019.) finally, a willful, deliberate, and premeditated of passioneven if that state of mind was achieved after a considerable period of people v. carasi (2008) 44 cal.4th 1263, 1306.) 4 see fn. 1, ante. 6 the van dragged vasquez under it about 35 feet and for about five seconds, and dragged aguilar about six feet. there is no dispute appellant personally inflicted great bodily injury upon vasquez and jimenez for purposes of penal code section 12022.7, subdivision (a). appellant drove away from the scene quickly, not rendering aid. the jury reasonably could have concluded concerning the manner of the attempted killing of vasquez that appellant tried to use a van to kill him. we conclude there was sufficient evidence appellant intended to kill vasquez and attempted to murder him. we also conclude there was sufficient evidence appellant committed attempted willful, deliberate and premeditated murder, including the evidence that it was after the van hit others that appellant began driving towards vasquez. as appellant concedes, premeditation and deliberation are inconsistent with the requisite state of mind for attempted voluntary manslaughter. finally, any inconsistency of verdicts was irrelevant. (people v. santamaria (1994) 8 cal.4th 903, 911.) 2. the abstract of judgment must be corrected. the abstract of judgment reflects the jury convicted appellant on counts 2, 3, and 6 of attempted murder, with personal infliction of great bodily injury as to count 2. however, as the first full paragraph on page 2 of this opinion reflects, the jury convicted appellant on three counts of attempted voluntary manslaughter as lesser included offenses of counts 2, 3, and 5, respectively, and, as to the attempted voluntary manslaughter that is a lesser offense of count 2, the jury found appellant personally inflicted great bodily injury. we will direct the trial court to correct the abstract of judgment accordingly. (cf. people v. humiston (1993) 20 cal.app.4th 460, 466, fn. 3.) 7 disposition the judgment is affirmed. the trial court is directed to forward to the department ns consistent with the statement of them in the first full paragraph on page 2 of this opinion. not to be published in the official reports kitching, j. we concur: croskey, acting p. j. aldrich, j. 