filed 12/18/12 p. v. jones ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. ravon jones, defendant and appellant. b236963 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba382185) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, craig richman, judge. reversed and remanded with directions. thomas owen, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, stephanie a. miyoshi and viet h. nguyen, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 pursuant to a case settlement agreement, defendant and appellant ravon jones entered a plea of no contest in count 1 to evading an officer (veh. code,  2008.2, subd. (a)) and in count 2 of indecent exposure (pen. code  314).1 defendant also admitted he had suffered a prior serious or violent felony conviction within the meaning of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)). the trial court dismissed another open case against defendant (no. ba382107) pursuant to the plea agreement. the court denied probation and sentenced defendant to the high term of three years on count 1 and eight months on count 2 (one third of the middle term), both doubled as a result of the strike prior conviction, for a total of seven years four months in state prison. defendant was ordered to pay $110 in attorney fees pursuant to section 987.8, in addition to other fines. defendant argues that: (1) the trial court violated his due process rights and committed reversible error in denying his motion for a marsden2 hearing; (2) defense counsel rendered ineffective assistance by refusing to move for withdrawal of ; and (3) the trial court erred in imposing attorney fees under section 987.8 without making an ability to pay finding. the attorney general attorney fees. we conditionally reverse and remand the cause to the trial court to allow defendant to present any complaints regarding trial counsel in a marsden hearing. any claim of ineffective assistance of counsel may be resolved at the marsden hearing. the order fixing attorney fees is also reversed, and if a new trial is not granted, any order of attorney fees is to be set following the procedures in section 987.8. 1 unless otherwise indicated, all statutory references are to the penal code. 2 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118, 124-125. 3 facts3 on the morning of march 15, 2011, a witness reported observing defendant masturbating in a grocery store parking lot. los angeles police officers pelczar and mateus responded to the scene in a marked police car. officer pelczar was in uniform. the officers spotted defendant, who matched the description the witness had given, driving a car consistent with the vehicle the witness had described. when the officers began to follow him, defendant accelerated to a speed of 20-30 miles per hour in disregard to the safety of people walking in the parking lot. defendant stopped his vehicle facing the pelczar got out of the patrol car, made eye contact with defendant, and yelled for him to stop. in response, defendant put his car in reverse and left the parking lot. he accelerated to approximately 50 miles per hour, ran a red light, and abandoned his vehicle in an alley. he was found in a crawlspace. the witness identified defendant as the man who had been masturbating. sentencing hearing the contested issues raised by defendant are both related to the following discussion at sentencing: subpoena the medical records from the jail. [] [defense counsel], you reviewed those 3 because defendant entered pleas of no contest, the facts are drawn from the preliminary hearing transcript. 4 medical records and are finding no legal cause why we should not go forward with sentencing at this point in time? some of which, you know, go to attorney-client privilege that, your honor. i the client had expressed a desire marsden hearing. that is to file a motion to dismiss. but based on my analysis of the case and, again, my my work product, i do think it would be meritless. and so under people v. brown, which is 175 cal.app.4th, 1469, i am making a tactical decision that we are not or that we there is no legal cause at this time. sentence is imposed as follows: i do order mr. jones imprisoned in state prison for a total term of 7 years, 4 months. i select the high term on count 1 of 3 years. ike prior conviction. [] as to count 2, mr. jones is sentenced to an additional 8 months. again, doubled. and that would be consecutive for, again, a total of 7 years and 4 months. [] ]: 217 actual. marsden marsden hearing, mr. jones. 5 entenced at all due to the fact my attorney and the other lady that took my transcripts, my my medical record o the court and my attorneys violate my due process rights. certificate of probable cause to the court so that mr. jones can have his due process. discussion on for a marsden hearing defendant argues that the trial court violated his due process rights and committed reversible error in denying his motion for a substitution of counsel hearing pursuant to people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118, 124-125 (marsden). we agree defendant was entitled to a marsden hearing upon his request on the date of sentencing. marsden] are well settled. titled to [substitute another appointed attorney] if the record clearly shows that the first appointed attorney is not providing adequate representation [citation] or that defendant and counsel have become embroiled in such an irreconcilable conflict that ineffective representation [citation.] appointed counsel and substitute another attorney, and asserts inadequate representation, 6 the trial court must permit the defendant to explain the basis of his contention and to relate specific instances of the atto [citation (people v. valdez (2004) 32 cal.4th 73, 95.) where the trial court has not afforded the defendant an opportunity to explain the basis for his request for substitution of counsel, remand for the court to conduct a marsden hearing is the appropriate remedy. (people v. sanchez (2011) 53 cal.4th 80, 92 (sanchez).) the attorney general concedes that the trial court did not hold a marsden hearing. instead, she asks this court to find any error harmless, because defendant moved to dismiss his counsel due to a tactical disagreement. people v. washington (1994) 27 cal.app.4th 940 (washington), cited by the attorney general, is distinguishable from the case at bar. in washington, the defendant made a marsden motion in conjunction with a motion for new trial. the motion for new trial was heard and denied, but the trial court failed to hold a marsden hearing. (id. at pp. 942-943.) on appeal, the court concluded that any error was harmless, because given the timing of the motion, the only basis for granting the motion would be that counsel performed ineffectively at trial or could not adequately represent the defendant at sentencing. (id. at p. 944.) due to the circumstances of the case, the washington court was able to review the record and conclude there was no basis for concluding counsel rendered ineffective assistance. (ibid.) the washington court reasoned that its ability to evashowing that his marsden motion would have been granted, or that he would have had a more favorable result if the motion had been granted, established that any error was harmless. (ibid.) here, the trial court failed to give defendant the opportunity to explain the basis ts as indicating that defendant moved to substitute counsel solely on the bases that trial counsel refused to move to withdraw his plea of no contest and/or mishandled his medical records. marsden motion was made during the discussion 7 granted permission to speak regarding his specific reasons for requesting substitution of counsel. as defendant points out, the court completely ignorefor a marsden hearing. when defendant made a second request for a marsden hearing, the court unequivocally, and without any discussion, stated that it would not hold a marsden hearing. to the extent defendant was able to articulate any reasons for the motion, he was only able to do so after his two requests for a marsden hearing were summarily denied. it is not clear from the record whether defendant expressed all of his grounds for making a marsden motion. thus, in contrast to the situation in washington, here there is simply no basis upon which we are able to decide whether the error was harmless. (people v. winbush (1988) 205 cal.app.3d 987[a]n appellate court cannot speculate upon the basis of a silent record that the trial court, after listening to s reasons, would decide the appointment the correct procedure on remand to remedy this form of marsden error is set forth in sanchez, supra, 53 cal.4th at page 92, as fol(1) the court shall hold a hearing s marsden motion concerning his representation by the public defenders office; (2) if the court finds that [defendant] has shown that a failure to replace his appointed attorney would substantially impair his right to assistance of counsel, the court shall appoint new counsel to represent him and shall entertain such applications as newly appointed counsel may make; and (3) if newly appointed counsel makes no motions, any motions made are denied, or [defendant]s marsden motion is denied, the court shall reinstate the judgment. whether trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance by refusing to move to defendant argues that trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance by refusing to 8 penal code section 1018 provides in pertinent part: unless otherwise provided by law every plea must be entered or withdrawn by the defendant himself in open court. . . . on application of the defendant at any time before judgment the court may, . . . for a good cause shown, permit the plea of guilty [or nolo contendere] to be withdrawn and a plea of not guilty substituted. . . . this section shall be liberally construed to effect these objects and to promote justice. (people v. brown (1986) 179 cal.app.3d 207, 213.) the decision to either enter or withdraw a plea rests with the defendant. (id. at p. 215.) here . . . a defendant seeks to withdraw a plea on the ground that his attorney of record has not provided adequate representation . . . [t]he trial court should first els reasons for believing he has been ineffectively represented, making such inquiries of the defendant and trial counsel as appear necessary in open court or, if the trial court deems necessary, at an in camera hearing. [citation.] if the presents a colorable claim that he the trial court should appoint new counsel to fully inve [citation.] a defendant prescredibly establishes to the satisfaction of the court the possibility that trial counsel failed to perform with reasonable diligence and that, as a result, a determination more favorable to the defendant might have resulted [citation.] if the defendant does not present a colorable claim, the court may deny the motion without providing for new counsel. [cita (people v. garcia (1991) 227 cal.app.3d 1369, 1377 (garcia), fn. omitted.)4 a defendant who presents a colorable claim for ineffective assistance of counsel must still establish good cause for withdrawing his plea, which may include istake, ignorance or any other factor overcoming the exercise of free judgment . . . .id. at p. 1377 & fn. 3.) 4 the prosecution contends that the procedure outlined in garcia has since been overruled by our supreme court in people v. smith (1993) 6 cal.4th 684. this is incorrect. smith only overruled garcia to the extent that it indicates the standard for appointment of counsel at the postconviction stage differs from the usual standard. 9 the attorney general argues that defendant failed to make a claim for ineffective assistance of counsel below, because he expressed only that his attorney mishandled his medical records and/or that he had a tactical disagreement with trial counsel as to whether to move to withdraw his plea of no contest. we do not read the record as narrowly as the attorney general, and in any event, any claim defendant may have may be brought to light at the marsden hearing on remand. a defendant is entitled to relief under marsden if he makes a showing that counsel or that defendant and counsel have become embroiled in such an irreconcilable conflict that ineffective representation is likely to result [citations].s.] (people v. fierro (1991) 1 cal.4th 173, 204.) here, defendant was not afforded the opportunity to explain the grounds for his marsden motion, so it is the attorney general also argues that defendant waived his challenge to the denial of his motion to withdraw his plea by failing to formally present it to the trial court. we reject this argument as well. the trial court and trial counsel were in the midst of discussing whether there was sufficient basis for defendant to move to withdraw his plea when defendant made his marsden request. trial counsel had just stated that there were no grounds for the motion to withdraw the plea and was beginning to inform the trial court that defendant disagreed with his assessment5 when defendant objected and 5 at sentencing, trial counsel stated that defendant wished to move to have the case position on whether to bring a motion to dismiss and not a misstatement intended to refer trial counsel intended to refer to demotion to withdraw the plea, rather than to some disagreement over a previously unmentioned motion to dismiss. trial counsel made the statement directly following his assertion that there was no legal basis for arguing medication had ability to appreciate his actions when he entered his plea. he stated that he wanted to and cited to people v. brown (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 1469, in which the court of appeal held that trial counsel had no duty to move for withdrawal his tactical decision that there was no legal cause to bring the motion. 10 asked for a marsden the motion. in context, it appears that defendant wished to prevent counsel from purporting to speak on his behalf on any issue, because he immediately asked for a marsden hearing. counsel then went on to explain that defendant disagreed with him with respect to the motion to withdraw the plea, and defendant made a second marsden motion. marsden present the motion to withdraw the plea, effective expression that he wished to move to withdraw his no contest plea on the basis that his counsel was ineffective. (garcia, supra, 227 cal.app.3d at pp. 1376-1377.) we s lay status and his admitted ignorance of the lawfaulting him for his inability to distinctly express his desire to withdraw his plea. defendant made multiple efforts to obtain a marsden hearing during the discussion concerning the motion to withdraw the plea, and cannot be penalized for his failure to expressly state that he wanted to withdraw the plea. trial counsel had informed the trial any reason for the marsden motion, it cannot be assumed he had the opportunity to state ted ineffective assistance. moving to substitute counsel and to appoint new counsel to investigate and present the presents a colorable claim that he was ineffectively represented.id. at p. 1377.) in the event that defendant fails to present a colorable claim, the trial court may deny the motion for substitution of counsel. (ibid.) 11 whether the trial court erred in imposing attorney fees under section 987.8 at sentencing, the trial court ordered defendant to pay $110 in attorney fees. no ability to pay had been held, and the trial court did not offer any basis for ordering defendant to pay the attorney fees. section 987.8, subdivision (c) provides in pertinent part: in any case in which the defendant hires counsel replacing a publicly provided attorney; in which the public defender or appointed counsel was required by the court to proceed with the case after a determination by the public defender that the defendant is not indigent; or, in which the defendant, at the conclusion of the case, appears to have sufficient assets to repay, without undue hardship, all or a portion of the cost of the legal assistance provided to him or her; . . . . the trial court may order the defendant to pay attorney fees but only if a finding has been people v. pacheco (2010) 187 cal.app.4th 1392, 1398.) a finding that the defendant has the ability to pay fees must be supported by substantial evidence. (ibid.) where a defendant has been deprived of notice and a hearing as required by section 987.8, remand is appropriate. (people v. flores (2003) 30 cal.4th 1059, 1068-1069.) to pay attorney fees or offer a rationale for ordering defendant to do so. we therefore agree with the parties that the case must be remanded for notice and a hearing on disposition we reverse the judgment and remand the matter to the trial court to hold a hearing s marsden motion for substitution of counsel. if the court finds defendant has shown that a failure to replace his appointed attorney would substantially impair his 12 right to assistance of counsel, the court shall appoint new counsel to represent him and shall entertain such applications as newly appointed counsel may make. if newly appointed counsel makes no motions, any motions made are dens marsden motion is denied, the court shall reinstate the judgment. additionally, we reverse the order directing defendant to pay $110 in attorney fees and remand for the trial court to provide notice and a hearing under section 987.8, subdivision (b) concerning his ability to pay attorney fees. kriegler, j. we concur: turner, p. j. mosk, j. 