filed 3/29/13 p. v. jones ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. joseph wayne jones, defendant and appellant. b236850 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba292350) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, robert j. perry, judge. affirmed. peter gold, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii and tita nguyen, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 joseph wayne jones appeals from the judgment entered following his conviction on one count of first degree murder (pen. code, 187, subd. (a)), four counts of attempted murder (pen. code,  664/187, subd. (a)), and one count of shooting at an inhabited dwelling (pen. code,  246).1 appellant raises three issues on appeal, none of which we find meritorious. we therefore affirm. factual and procedural background i. prosecution evidence a. october 20, 2005, 84th street shooting at turner residence (counts 3-6) lester turner and andre turner lived on 84th street in los angeles with their grandfather, john turner.2 lester and andre were members of the eight trey gangster crips gang. around 5:15 p.m. on october 20, 2005, john was sitting inside the house in a room facing the street. lester, andre, and a friend, kevin ingram, were in the three african american men in their early 20a grey pickup truck down the street, got out of the truck, and started walking toward the turner residence. andre could not see their faces because of the they a rifle, and the other two used handguns. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 2 for ease of reference, the family members will be referred to by their first names. john was deceased by the time of trial, but he testified at the preliminary hearing. 3 andre ran into the house through the front door, lester ran to the back of the house and jumped inside through a window, and ingram ran away through the backyard. numerous shots were fired, but no one was hit. after shooting, the men ran back to their truck and drove away. on october 23, 2005, two detectives went to the turner residence to interview andre, who was nervous about being interviewed. as they passed through the living room to interview andre in an adjacent room, one detective saw a young black male in the living room motion to andre not to say anything to the police. andre identified damien watts in a six-pack photographic lineup as a but he did not identify a shooter. later that evening, officer richard mendoza and his partner went to the turner residence and asked andre about the shooting. andre said that he knew not testify because he was not a snitch. at trial, andre denied saying this. fred johnson lived across the street from the turners and witnessed the shooting. at a live lineup in december 2005 and subsequently at trial, johnson identified watts as the shooter with the rifle. b. october 20, 2005, south halldale avenue shooting (counts 1-2) about five minutes after the shooting at the turner residence, a shooting occurred a little over a mile away at the home of robin sanders (robin) on halldale avenue in los angeles. she was inside her home at the time, and her nephew thomas maleik sanders (sanders) was there to visit and do his laundry. 4 waiting in the car in the driveway. fry was a member of the bounty hunter bloods gang, but sanders was not a gang member. after sanders finished his laundry, he and fry got in the car with the windows rolled down. when fry started the car, an african american male ran up the gun did not fire. the man ran away toward the street. as fry tried to back out of the driveway, he looked through the passenger window and saw a different man two houses down, wearing a hoodie and holding an ak-47 and shooting it numerous times. fry tried to drive away, but he was shot three times. his car spun out of car, and the occupants looked at fry and sanders before driving away. sanders was shot numerous times on the right side of his body and died as a result of his wounds. c. appellant was interviewed by the police on october 23, 2005. he identified watts and jason weldon from six-pack photo lineups and said that watts and weldon had told him watts fired an ak-47 at eight trey gangster crips and at the pickup truck and either drove the truck or rode as a passenger on october 20, 2005. he identified anthony padilla as either the driver or a passenger in the truck that day. in a subsequent interview, appellant admitted being a passenger in the truck during both of the shootings. he said that on october 20, weldon came to his 5 le they were talking, derek brown called appellant and said that someone had threatened his father. appellant and weldon picked up brown and decided to pick up watts and get an ak-47 rifle. brown, weldon, and watts told another gang member they were going to drove them to pick up padilla, and padilla then drove them to the turner residence, where watts, weldon, and brown shot at the house. padilla had difficulty driving appellanafter this shooting, appellant thought they were going to go home, so he told the when they drove by the sanders residence, appellant and brown told the others that sanders and fry were not gang bangers, but watts insisted on stopping them, that dude [sanders] is innocent. i during his interview, appellant asked if the police would have mercy on him and expressed fear that he would be killed because he was snitching. appellant stated d. gang evidence they join the gang, and the importance of territory to a gang. he also explained the concept of putting in work for the gang, stating that the best example of putting in work would be to shoot at rival gang members. 6 gang that he had monitored for four years while working for the gang unit. he moniker chopper and that appellant also was a member, with the moniker mr. capo. officer mendoza testified that snitching was not tolerated in gang culture and could result in the snitch being killed. he also explained the significance of mission. he knew watts and testified that watts had told him he was a member of both of the october 20, 2005 shootings occurred in eight trey gang territory. given a hypothetical based on the facts of these shootings, detective ross opined that the shootings were committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in conduct. ii. defense evidence the defense presented no evidence. iii. procedural history appellant was charged in a 12-count amended information with three counts of murder (counts 1, 8, 11), six counts of attempted premeditated murder (counts 2, 3, 4, 5, 9, 10), one count of shooting at an inhabited dwelling (count 6), and one 7 count of second degree robbery (count 12).3 the information included allegations that the offenses were committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang, that appellant intentionally killed the victim while appellant was an active participant in a gang, and that a principal intentionally discharged a firearm, causing great bodily injury and death. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(a), 190.2, subd. (a)(22), 12022.53, subds. (b)-(e).) the prosecution subsequently dismissed counts 8-10. during trial, the tfor insufficient evidence pursuant to section 1118.1. the jury found appellant guilty of all six remaining counts and found that the murder was in the first degree and the attempted murders were willful, deliberate and premeditated. the jury also found the firearm and gang allegations to be true. appellant filed a motion for a new trial regarding the special circumstance allegation in count 1 that appellant intentionally killed sanders while appellant was an active participant in a gang, pursuant to section 190.2, subdivision (a)(22). the court denied the motion. the court sentenced appellant to a total term of life imprisonment without the possibility of parole plus four life terms and a consecutive term of 110 years to life, calculated as follows: count 1, life imprisonment without the possibility of parole, plus 25 years to life under section 12022.53; count 2, a consecutive term of life imprisonment with the possibility of parole, plus 25 years to life for the section 12022.53 allegation; count 3, a consecutive term of life imprisonment with the possibility of parole, plus 20 years to life under section 12022.53; count 4, a consecutive term of life imprisonment with the possibility of parole, plus 20 years to life for the section 12022.53 allegation; count 5, a consecutive term of life 3 the information also charged watts with counts 1-6 and 8-10, but additionally charged watts alone in count 7 with possession of a firearm by a felon. 8 imprisonment with the possibility of parole, plus 20 years to life for the section 12022.53 allegation; count 6, the upper term of 7 years plus 5 years pursuant to section 186.22, to run concurrent with the other sentences. appellant filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion appellant raises three issues. first, he contends that the trial court violated his right to an impartial jury when it limited the questioning of prospective jurors during voir dire. second, he contends that the evidence is insufficient to support the allegation that he intentionally killed sanders while an active participant in a gang. third, appellant contends that the trial court erred in imposing a concurrent term for count 6, rather than staying the sentence pursuant to section 654. i. voir dire constitutional right to an impartial jury. prior to jury selection, the trial court informed counsel that the court would question the prospective jurors first and allow counsel 30 minutes each to question the first 35 prospective jurors. defense counsel objected, arguing that this would not give enough time to discern who could be fair, especially given the emotional and gang-related nature of the crime. had a problem with a restriction on voir dire. the court also read aloud an excerpt educate the jury panel to the particular facts of the case, to compel the jurors to commit themselves to vote a particular way, to prejudice the jury for or against a 9 particular party, to argue the case, to indoctrinate the jury, or to instruct the jury on the court questioned the first 3 prospective jurors regarding general issues and hardships and excused several for hardship. defense counsel then questioned the prospective jurors as a group, following up with a few individual questions. selected the jury. . . . it is conducted . . . under the supervision of the trial court and its scope is people v. banner (1992) 3 cal.app.4th 1315, 1324.) code of civil procedure section 223 governs voir dire in criminal cases and minal case, the court shall conduct an initial examination of prospective jurors. the court may submit to the prospective jurors additional questions requested by the parties as it deems proper. upon completion for each party shall have the right to examine, by oral and direct questioning, any or all of the prospective jurors. the court may, in the exercise of its discretion, limit the oral and direct questioning of prospective jurors by counsel. the court may specify the maximum amount of time that counsel for each party may question an individual juror, or may specify an aggregate amount of time for each party, which can then be allocated among the prospective jurors by counsel. voir dire of any prospective jurors shall, where practicable, occur in the presence of the other jurors in all criminal cases, including death penalty cases. 10 exercise of challenges for cause. is conducted, including any limitation on the time which will be allowed for direct questioning of prospective jurors by counsel and any determination that a question is not in aid of the exercise of challenges for cause, shall not cause any conviction to be reversed unless the exercise of that discretion has resulted in a miscarriage of (code civ. proc.,  223.) people v. virgil (2011) 51 cal.4th 1210, 1246.) the trial court abided by the requirements of code of civil procedure section 223 by conducting an initial examination of the prospective jurors, which included questions regarding potential bias from past experiences with relevant issues such as crime, law enforcement, or gangs. counsel for both sides then had -minute time limitation. defense counsel asked questions of the prospective jurors, including specific questions of the only individual prospective juror who indicated an inclination to believe that gang members are not good people. -charges to argue that more time was needed to discern which jurors could be fair. however, defense counsel did explore the bias that could arise from the gang-related nature of the offenses with the one prospective juror who expressed a concern about gangs, and the trial court followed up that discussion by 11 emphasizing that the burden was on the prosecution to prove the case and that the jurors needed to convict only if they were convinced by the evidence. the record indicates that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in imposing limitations on voir dire. ii. sufficiency of the evidence appellant contends that the evidence is insufficient to support the finding that appellant intended to kill sanders for purposes of the section 190.2, subdivision (a)(22) special circumstances allegation. section 190.2, subdivision (a)(22) provides for a penalty of death or life without the possibility of parole for a killed the victim while the defendant was an active participant in a criminal street gang, as defined in subdivision (f) of section 186.22, and the murder was carried a verdict must determine whether the record contains substantial evidence which we repeatedly have described as evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value from which a reasonable jury could find the accused guilty beyond a people v. hovarter (2008) 44 cal.4th 983, 996-997, italics deleted.) the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable trier of fact [citation.] we resolve all conflicts in the evidence and questions of credibility in favor of the verdict, and indulge every reasonable inference the jury could draw 12 from the evidence. [citation.] this standard applies whether direct or circumstantial evidence is involved. [citation.] it also applies when determining whether the evidence is sufficient to sustain a jury finding on a gang enhancement. people v. mendez (2010) 188 cal.app.4th 47, 56.) appellanreversed because there was insufficient evidence that he acted with an intent to kill sanders.4 he relies on his statements during his police interviews that he tried to convince watts and the others not to shoot sanders and fry because they were innocent and were not gang bangers. indicate that he helped prepare for the shootings by picking people up and helping to get the ak-47. he knew what was going to take place, and he drove his truck to the sanders residence. although he stated that he wanted to go home and did not want the others to truck to let watts out, waited while he fired, and then drove them away afterward. the jury was free to disbelieve his protestations of innocence. viewing, as we must, the evidence in the light most favorable to the judgment, we conclude that appellant argues in the alternative that the trial court abused its discretion in 4 appellant does not challenge the sufficiency of the evidence to support the findings that he was an active participant in the gang and that the murder was carried out to further the activities of a gang. ( 190.2, subd. (a)(22).) the record indicates that there was substantial evidence to support both those findings. 13 for a new trial under a deferential abuse-of-discretion that a reviewing court will not disturb the ruling absent a manifest and people v. thompson (2010) 49 cal.4th 79, 140.) intent to kill and that thabuse of discretion. iii. section 654 appellant contends that the trial court erred in imposing a concurrent term on count 6, shooting at an inhabited dwelling, rather than staying the sentence pursuant to section 654, because it was based on the same conduct as that charged in the attempted mor omission that is punishable in different ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the act or omission be punished under more than 654, subd. (a).) sense, but also where there was a course of conduct which violated more than one statute but nevertheless constituted an indivisible transaction. . . . if all the offenses were incident to one objective, the defendant may be punished for any one people v. wynn (2010) 184 cal.app.4th 1210, 1214-1215.) 14 that a defendant entertained multiple criminal objectives independent of each other. endent violations committed in pursuit of each objective even though the violations shared common acts or were parts of an otherwise indivisible course of conduct. [citations.] the and trial court, whose findings will be upheld on appeal if there is any substantial in re jose p. (2003) 106 cal.app.4th 458, 469.) allows separate punishment for each crime of violence against a different victim, even though all crimes are part of an indivisible course of conduct with a single risking harm to more than one person precludes application of section 654. [citationpeople v. felix (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 1618, 1630-1631 (felix).) counts 3, 4, and 5 charged appellant with the attempted murders of lester, andre, and john doe (presumably ingram, whose identity was not determined at first) at the turner residence, while count 6 charged him with shooting at the turner residence. at the sentencing hearing, when the trial court imposed sentence think that possibly this is a 654 situatiostated that it would stay imposition of that sentence, but then decided to make the sentence run concurrent to the other sentences. 15 appellant contends that the attempted murders and the shooting at an inhabited dwelling were part of an indivisible course of conduct with a single objective for purposes of section 654. we need not determine whether these offenses were part of an indivisible course of conduct because the multiple victim exception to section 654 discussed in felix is directly applicable. defendant need not be aware of the identity or number of people in the house to be felix, supra, 172 cal.app.4th at p. 1631.) here, lester, andre, and ingram were outside the house at the time of the shooting, while the grandfather, john, was inside the house. john was not accounted for in ibid.) the multiple victim exception precludes application of section 654. the trial court accordingly did not err in declining to stay the sentence under section 654. 16 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports willhite, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. manella, j. 