filed 6/3/13 p. v. holmes ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. reginald holmes, defendant and appellant. b236128 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta090560) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. ronald s. coen, judge. reversed and remanded. ______ john steinberg, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and michael c. keller, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______ 2 an amended information, filed on june 27, 2011, charged reginald holmes with two counts of murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a))1 and one count of being a felon in possession of a firearm (former  12021, subd. (a)(1)). as to the murder counts, the amended information alleged (1) firearm use enhancements under section 12022.53, subdivisions (b), (c) and (d); (2) the special circumstances of multiple first or second degree murders ( 190.2, subd. (a)(3)) and lying in wait ( 190.2, subd. (a)(15)); and (3) a prior conviction for shooting at an inhabited dwelling ( 246) that qualified as a serious felony under section 667, subdivision (a)(1). as to all three counts, the amended information alleged that holmes had (1) committed the offenses for the benefit of, at the direction of or in association with a criminal street gang within the meaning of section 186.22, subdivision (b); (2) served four prior prison terms pursuant to section 667.5, subdivision (b); and (3) suffered the prior conviction under section 246, -(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)). park brims, a blood gang, obtained two firearms, a colt .45 and a .380 semiautomatic, from a fellow gang member in the early morning of april 22, 2006, and several hours later either shot or had shot by his protg in the gang patrick hemingway and michael taylor, who had tmistaken identification based on descriptions of the assailants that did not match evidence connecting him to the crimes. the jury found holmes guilty on all three counts and found true the two special circumstances, the firearm use enhancements under section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (c), and the gang allegation. the jury found not true the firearm use enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (d). in a bifurcated proceeding, the trial court found that holmes had a prior serious felony conviction under section 246 1 statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 3 that qualified him for sentencing under section 667, subdivision (a)(1), and the three strikes law and had served four prior prison terms within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). the court sentenced holmes to state prison on counts 1 and 2 to consecutive terms of life without the possibility of parole, plus on each count 20 years for the section 12022.53, subdivision (c), enhancement, and 10 years for the gang allegation. the court imposed an additional five years for the section 667, subdivision (a)(1), enhancement and three years for the section 667.5, subdivision (b), prior prison terms. as to count 3, the court imposed a sentence to run concurrently to that on count 1. the court imposed 10 years for the section 12022.53, subdivision (b), enhancement on counts 1 and 2 but stayed execution of those terms pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (f). it also imposed and stayed execution of a one-year term for the remaining section 667.5, subdivision (b), prior prison term because that conviction had been used for the section 667, subdivision (a)(1), enhancement. on appeal, holmes argues evidentiary errors, prosecutorial misconduct and ineffective assistance of counsel, either each independently or some or all cumulatively, require reversal of the judgment for a new trial. he also argues sentencing error with respect to the gang allegation. we agree with holmes that evidentiary errors require reversal of the judgment. we thus reverse the judgment and remand the matter to the trial court. discussion 1. the failure to redact references about holmes in a recorded statement of a witness interview constituted error a. proceedings regarding witness recorded statements friend, was stopped by police two days after the shooting when she was riding in a car as the killing of hemingway and taylor. the following year, police detectives interviewed cherry, who was in custody on unrelated charges. cherry reported that on the morning of the shooting she heard that 4 baby big gunsmoke. holmes told cherry that he had concluded that the two men who were the men because he thought that they were going to kill him. the next month, a polygraph examiner interviewed cherry. although no polygraph examination was administered, cherry gave a statement to the examiner in him. he said that they were trying to set him up some kind of way to have him go to the . . front and passenger seat, the driver and passenger seat, and i guess [holmes] was in the back. you know, he said he had them pull over . . . and he shot both of them in the back those guys died, but the detectives said they were executed so maybe they were shot in the back of the head or something. . . . well, he said he shot them both in the back of the head and his wife followed and he got out of that car and got in the car with his wife and they drove off. and the same car that they drove off in was the car that they were in that later that day, police detectives interviewed cherry again. during that interview, scene, and holmes left the area with his wife. cherry saw holmes at his residence the day after at trial, cherry, who still was in custody on unrelated charges, admitted to testifying at the preliminary hearing that holmes had told her that he killed two people who he believed were attempting to set him up. cherry also admitted to testifying at the preliminary hearing that after the shootings she saw holmes wiping off two firearms. nevertheless, at trial, she testified that holmes had not told her that he killed anyone. she also testified that she had not seen holmes wiping off firearms after the shootings. 5 cherry claimed that she had lied in her interviews with police detectives and the polygraph examiner and at the preliminary hearing. cherry said that she feared for her safety as a witness in this case because someone could try to kill her. statements and preliminary hearing testimony, the prosecutor sought to impeach cherry by playing for the jury recordings of the interviews she had given to the police detectives witness[,] ms. cherry, that the people were going to attempt to play the entire taped certain portions as there is double hearsay throughout that. statements that should not be allowed to come mind as to why she feared testifying at trial]. the redaction of such would be at this time too complicated, as i take it just from listening to the witness, she said different things at different times. i would be glad to give a limiting instruction, and if you want to proffer one, i will consider it, or i can give my own. but just that i can say relates to statements of others, other than the defendant, are not to be received for their truth. . . . and again, the request ounsel expressed concern that with the statements played to the jury, and on the transcripts that the jury would have with it - three recordings were played to the jury, and the trial court instructed the jurors with respect to each of the recordings that it could not consider statements by third parties other than the defendant for their truth. during one of her recorded interviews with police detectives, cherry stalready heard he 6 his . . y murder before, and you p]arolee, been . . . in the prison for killing people, . after the admonition to the jury, i believe that those statements are so egregious as it relates to this case involving my client who allegedly went to prison for murders[,] which he did not, he was never convicted of murders . . . [.] again, bad acts, nothing to support it. there is r claiming to have the authority of the courts and discussing this with the jury. i know what the court has said, omewhat disappointed in that i nd full admonition, and i got a verbal response from every single one of the jurors they are going to follow that admonition. motion for that the statements were rfact that the officers stated to her. . . . but in any event, the record is made. the motion is 7 b. prejudicial error in admitting the unredacted recorded statements police detectives with the references to holmes as someone who had been in prison for murder, had two prior strike convictions, was on parole and was a member of the blood lines constituted prejudicial error. the people, on the other hand, contend that the why her trial testimony was different from the information she had given to the police detectives, and that in any case they did not prejudice holmes. we agree with holmes. state of mind, the trial court should have excluded them, pursuant to evidence code section 352 (section 352), by redacting them from the recording. under section 352, outweighed by the probability that its admission will . . . create substantial danger of r people v. miramontes (2010) 189 cal.app.4th 1085, 1097.) the court did not undertake that careful weighing. although defense counsel objected to the playing of the recording on the ground that it contained prejudicial hearsay statements, the court did not listen to the recording before the prosecutor played it to the jury. it declined to excise any statements from the recording on the ground that doing so would n the recording referring to holmes as having a criminal past, including being in prison for murder, on parole, a two-striker and a member of the blood lines gangeven though those statements were not true. although the court instructed the jury not to consider the statements for their truth, such instruction did not cure the failure of the court to listen to the recording and exercise its discretion under section 352 as to statements regarding holmes that admittedly were not true. (people v. finch (1963) 216 cal.app.2d 444, 453 court should satisfy itself that they are substantially complete and substantially correct as 8 2 given the connection between the murder charges against holmes and the statements that he had been in prison for murder, was on parole and had two prior strike convictions, the probative value of the statements was substantially outweighed by the probability that they would create substantial danger of undue prejudice. admission of the statements thus constituted error. the error was prejudicial, whether harmless error is judged under the state standard in people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 or the federal constitutional standard in chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24). holmes defended the case on the theory of mistaken identification. playing statements to the jury that holmes had been in prison for murder, was on parole and had two prior strike convictions set the tone that holmes was the type of person to commit the charged crimes. in addition, one of the suffering from mental and physical problems. moreover, no forensic evidence tied holmes to the shootings. and, as noted, the subject of the statements was closely connected to the charges against holmes. under these circumstances, reversal of the judgment is required. 2. stimony contributed to the erroneous and prejudicial admission of evidence los angeles police department officer everardo amaral testified as an expert on the six deuce harvard park brims, a blood gang formed in the 1970s and claiming about 240 active members in 2006 at the time of the murders in this case. according to officer gangsters, which are your older members of the gang. you have shot callers, . . . a shot caller is a person within a gang who organizes crimes, plans out crimes and has the younger or more active gang members commit those crimes. and you have your wannabe[]s, or your associates or [y]our affiliates. an affiliate is somebody [who] 2 even though one of the detectives testified that a statement made to cherry in her interview that holmes had been in prison for murder was not true, that testimony did not address any of the other statements on the recording, nor did it necessarily remove for the 9 identifies or officer amaral knew holmes to be a member of the gang in 2006 with the member, so he would be several tattoos amaral knew abadji franklin as a member of nship was like a father and son relationship. mr. holmes was teaching the young member how to be, you know, a gang member. he was teaching him perience from talking to other gang members as how they bring cal question containing the evidence presented to the jury, officer amaral opined that the crimes were committed for the benefit of the six deuce harvard park brims. opinion. we agree that admission of these statements was error. give testimony in the form of an opinion [citation]. under evidence code section 801, expert opinion testimony is admissible only if the subject matter of the testimony is 10 gangs . . . people v. vang (2011) 52 cal.4th 1038, [idguilt. [citations.] the reason for this rule is not because guilt is the ultimate issue of fact for the jury, as opinion testimony often goes to the ultimate issue. [citations.] to the trier of fact. to put it another way, the trier of fact is as competent as the witness (id. at p. 1048.) had some influence on actually motivwere not opinion testimony based on hypotheticals but rather expressions of opinion on particular gang may give hi-related people v. ochoa (2001) 26 cal.4th 398, 438, abrogated on other grounds as stated in people v. prieto (2003) 30 cal.4th 226, 263, fn. 14), officer amaral did a with respect to the ofthat holmes was involved in the charged crimes. the statements thus were not limited to opinion that holmes was responsible for the crimes at issue. given the prejudicial statements in cholmes had been in prison for murder, had two prior strike convictions, was on parole 11 and was a member of the blood lines gang, the testimony from the gang expert that influenced his protg in the gang to commit the impermissibly led to believe that holmes had committed previous crimes and those charged in this case.3 disposition the judgment is reversed, and the matter is remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. not to be published. rothschild, j. we concur: mallano, p. j. johnson, j. 3 because we reverse the judgment on evidentiary grounds, we need not address torial misconduct, ineffective assistance of counsel and sentencing error on the gang allegation. 