filed 11/27/12 p. v. ramirez ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. carlos ramirez, defendant and appellant. b236452 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va115337) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. john a. torribio, judge. affirmed. william hassler, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and timothy m. weiner, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________________ 2 carlos ramirez appeals from a judgment entered after a jury convicted him of willful, deliberate and premeditated attempted murder, shooting at an occupied motor vehicle and possession of a firearm by a felon. in connection with the attempted murder and shooting convictions, the jury found firearm and gang enhancement allegations to be true. the trial court sentenced ramirez to 40 years to life in prison. ramirez challenges the sufficiency of the evidence supporting his convictions, arguing there is insufficient evidence he was the shooter. he also challenges the sufficiency of the evidence supporting the gang enhancement allegations. ramirez further contends the trial court erred when it allowed the gang expert to base his opinion question which tracked the facts of the shooting. we affirm. background prosecution case on february 13, 2009, 14-year-old lehouse on juarez avenue in whittier. between 100 and 200 people attended the party, time, leanne and her friend, corrina c., walked to the nearby corner of nobles and esperanza. the area where leanne lived was territory claimed by the jim town criminal street gang. as leanne and corrina were walking to nobles and esperanza, leanne saw a silver car drive from juarez avenue onto nobles. the car stopped and the people inside the men standing on the passenger side of the car as her cousin, freddie moreno, and his friend, dayvon brazile. brazile is a member of the jim town street gang and moreno is an associate member. leanne did not know the men in the silver car, although they had attended the party at her home. spencer estrada was driving the silver car. he had four passengers, including attempted murder victim, danny rodriguez, who was seated in the middle of the back seat. joseph garcia was seated in the back seat on the passenger side. estrada stopped 3 car brazile approached the car. moreno punched it. estrada drove away. brazile chased after the car. approached 5729 esperanza, estrada saw a group of people standing outside around a the o estrada came to a dead end on esperanza avenue and had to make a u-turn to leave the area. as the silver car was driving back down esperanza, a man jumped in front of the car and motioned for estrada to stop. estrada accelerated and drove around the man. someone threw a burning log which hit the car causing damage. as estrada drove away, he heard three or four gunshots coming from behind the car.1 garcia indicated danny rodriguez had been hit. estrada drove until he saw a patrol car. he pulled over and the deputy called for an ambulance. according to hospital for three weeks. detective ortega arrived at the scene of the shooting at about 2:30 a.m. on febr 1 leanne testified she heard seven gunshots. 4 be intoxicated. ortega asked leanne to provide a list of names of people who had attended her party, and leanne complied. corrina c. was on the list. leanne did not indicate she had seen the shooting or knew the identity of the shooter. ortega did not feel in deputies recovered beer bottles and cans from the area outside 5729 esperanza on march 6, 2009, dete on may 27, 2009, dedefendant carlos ramirez and leanne identified him as the shooter. leanne said she had seen ramirez at 5729 esperanza avenue on occasions prior to the shooting. about the shooting and identified ramirez as the shooter in a photo lineup. leanne explained one of the reasons she recognized ramirez was because of his size. leanne 2 leanne and her mother told ortega they did not want leanne to testify about the shooting. leanne testified at the preliminary hearing and identified ramirez as the shooter.3 she explained ramirez was across the street from her when he fired shots at the silver car. she could see the front of his body. she saw a flash and heard the sound of gunshots 2 when detective ortega interviewed corrina c. on may 27, 2009, she told him the the shooting and stated she did not tell ortega anything about it. 3 record at trial. 5 coming from the location where ramirez was standing. leanne saw only ramirez standing in that location. when leanne testified at trial, she refused to identify ramirez, but she acknowledged she told detective ortega on multiple occasions and testified at the leanne explained at trial why she was reluctant to identify ramirez. shortly bher to deny at trial she knew the identity of the shooter. her aunt told leanne that her cousinsjim town gang memberswould face retaliation if she identified ramirez at trial. at trial, detective ortega, a gang expert, gave his opinion the shooting was cal question from the prosecutor, which tracked the facts of the shooting. detective ortega see someone they believe is a threat to their neighborhood. it is common for gang members to protect their territory by using violence. if an individual responds to the members and associates of jim town in their neighborhood. according to ortega, under s defense case lauren and amber ventura testified on behalf of ramirez. they lived at 5729 eswas dayvon brazile, a jim town gang member. ramirez was a family friend of lauren and amber. attended the party. they testified they saw leanne drinking alcoholic beverages at the 6 party and believed she was drunk. they also stated leanne was vomiting in the backyard backyard of her house on juarez avenue (not at the corner of nobles and esperanza) at the time of the shooting.4 lauren and amber were in their house at 5729 esperanza avenue when they heard the gunshots. they testified they saw ramirez asleep on a couch inside their house at the time of the shooting. when a defense investigator interviewed them, they did not tell the investigator ramirez was asleep inside their house at the time of the shooting. rose perez, who owned and lived at 5729 esperanza avenue, also testified ramirez was asleep on the couch at the time of the shooting. the first time she provided this information to defense counsel was the day she testified at trial. gordon perez testified he is a jim town gang member, but ramirez is not a jim about 40 years. verdicts and sentence the jury found ramirez guilty of willful, deliberate and premeditated attempted murder (pen. code,5  187, subd. (a) & 664; count 1), shooting at an occupied motor vehicle ( 246; count 2) and possession of a firearm by a felon (former  12021, subd. (a)(1); count 3). in connection with counts 1 and 2, the jury found true the special allegations that ramirez personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury to rodriguez ( 12022.53, subds. (b)-the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)). 4 when she testified at trial, martha ortega denied telling leanne to say she did not remember anything about the shooting. she also denied telling leanne her cousins would face retaliation if she testified about the shooting. 5 further statutory references are to the penal code. 7 the trial court sentenced ramirez to 40 years to life in prison: 15 years to life for attempted murder plus 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (d). the court stayed the sentence on count 2 and imposed a concurrent two-year term on count 3. discussion i. sufficiency of evidence ramirez challenges the sufficiency of the evidence supporting his convictions and the gang enhancement allegations. task is to determine whether, in light of the whole record viewed in the light most favorable to the prosecution, a rational trier of fact could have found the elements of the people v. felix (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 1618, 1624.) people v. smith people v. ramos te court must accept logical inferences that the jury might have drawn from the evidence even if the court would have people v. halvorsen (2007) 42 cal.4th people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 331.) substantial evidence must be reasonable, credible and of solid value. (people v. bradford (1997) 15 cal.4th 1229, 1329.) although an appellate court must draw all reasonable inferences in support of the judgment, the court may not rely on speculation as support for the judgment. (people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 8 a. ramirez argues there is insufficient evidence he was the shooter and, therefore, insufficient evidence he committed a crime on february 14, 2009. as ramirez states it, ramirez does not challenge the sufficiency of the evidence supporting any of the other elements of the offenses. leanne made multiple out-of-court identifications of ramirez as the shooter. she also made an in-court identification of ramirez as the shooter at the preliminary hearing. substantial evidence presented at trial demonstrated leanne was familiar with ramirez 5729 esperanza avenue. substantial evidence also demonstrated leanne was standing across the street from ramirez and was able to see the front of his body at the time he fired the shots. [citation-of-court identification is probative for -of-court identification generally has greater probative value than an in-court identification, even when the identifying witness does not confirm the out-of--of-court] identification has greater probative value than an identification made in the courtroom after the suggestions of others and the circumstances of the trial may have intervened to people v. boyer (2006) 38 cal.4th 412, 480.) ramirez had an opportunity to cross-examine leanne about her multiple identifications of him as the shooter. (id. at shooting or that of lauren, amber and rose perez. 9 red by statute, the direct evidence of one witness who is entitled to full credit is sufficient for substantial evidence presented at trial demonstrated ramirez was the man who shot danny rodriguez and committed the charged offenses. b. gang enhancement allegations substantial evidence presented at trial demonstrated estrada drove into jim town at 5729 esperanza avenue. brazile, a jim town gang member, and moreno, a jim town associate, asked estrada and his friends where they were from. estrada disrespected get away. brazile chased the moving car. after estrada made a u-turn at the dead end, someone tried to stop his car. as he evaded the person, a burning log hit his car. who frequented 5729 esperanza avenue. detective ortestreet people v. romero (2006) 140 cal.app.4th 15, 18), and the relationship between the gang and the crimes. (people v. abillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 60-61.) substantial evidence presented at trial demonstrates ramirez committed the offenses charged in counts 1 and 2 for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further and assist in criminal conduct by gang members. estrada and his friends drove into jim town gang territory and disrespected jim town gang members and associates. as they tried to escape the gang-related confrontation, ramirez fired shots at the car. 10 ii. ible error, and violated -hypothetical questions that precisely tracked the alleged facts of the charged crime. that procedure improperly allowed det. ortega to express his opinion on the ultimate issue in the california supreme court rejected this same contention in people v. xue vang whether a crime was gang related. the court of appeal held that the trial court erred in permitting the expert to respond to hypothetical questions the prosecutor asked because (ibidrequired, not prohibited, that hypothetical questions be based on the evidence. the (ibidauto equity sales, inc. v. superior court (1962) 57 cal.2d 450, 455.) ramirez acknowledges the supreme court has ruled against him on this issue and disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. chaney, j. we concur: mallano, p. j. johnson, j. 