filed 10/16/12 p. v. gomez ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. juan gomez, defendant and appellant. b236579 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va104973) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, john a. torribio, judge. affirmed as modified. kevin d. sheehy, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews, supervising deputy attorney general, analee j. brodie, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______________________________________ 2 the jury found defendant and appellant juan gomez guilty of one count of willful, deliberate, and premeditated attempted murder (pen. code,  664, 187, subd. (a)).1 the jury found true allegations that defendant personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury ( 12022.53, subds. (b)-(d)) and personally inflicted great bodily injury (12022.7, subd. (a)). in a separate proceeding, the trial court found there was insufficient evidence to establish defendant was legally insane at the time he committed the offense. the trial court sentenced defendant to 25 years to life on count 1 and imposed two enhancements25 years to life pursuant to section 12022.53 and 3 years under section 12022.7, subdivision (a). in a previous appeal, the judgment was reversed and the cause remanded for a trial ntence for attempted murder to reflect an imposed term of life with the possibility of parole and to stay the section 12022.7, subdivision (a) enhancement as required by section 12022.53, subdivision (f). on remand, the jury found defendant sane at the time of the offense. the trial court sentenced defendant to life for attempted murder ( 664, subd. (a), 187) and a consecutive enhanced term of 25 years to life ( 12022.53, subd. (d)). it also imposed an enhanced term of three years pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (f), which it stayed pursuant to section 654. defendant argues the trial court erred in refusing to augment caljic no. 4.00, the insanity defense instruction, with respect to the issue of moral right and wrong, in violation of his due process rights. defendant also asserts the abstract of judgment and resentencing and the prior order on the original appeal. the attorney general disputes the first contention but concedes the second. 1 unless otherwise indicated, all statutory references are to the penal code. 3 we direct the trial court to correct the errors in the abstract of judgment and the judgment is affirmed. facts at about 9:00 p.m. on march 13, 2008, victim ruben carrillo was standing in his him and fell to the ground. carrillo heard more gunshots and the sound of bullets hitting his shed. he was shot through the chest and suffered broken ribs and a punctured lung, which required hospitalization. on march 20, 2008, deputy art gabriel and his partner responded to a report of a suspicious person wearing jeans, a black long-sleeved tee shirt, and knit gloves. when they asked what defendant was doing there, he responded that someone was chasing him. deputy gabriel waistband. the deputies found a beanie with holes cut out of it near the place defendant had been standing. later that day, defendant was interviewed by detective spencer reedy. defendant told the detective that he was hiding in the area because some guys were chasing him. shooting. defendant responded that he was sure the detective already knew. he then recounted that he had previously lived in his brother-in-become suspicious that carrillo had raped his wife. defendant believed his wife was not the only person this had happened to and thought that other neighbors had likely been molested by carrillo. defendant never spoke to his wife about his suspicions, but he 4 knew the rape had occurred. when his wife gave birth to his infant daughter, the child looked just like carrillo and had light eyes like carrillo. after about two months, defendant could no longer tolerate that carrillo had night of the shooting. he reached over the wall between the properties and shot carrillo. he fired all his bullets and left. defendant did not think he killed carrillo, so he returned to the area on the day of his arrest to finish the job. he was carrying the same gun and wearing the same mask he had on the night of the shooting. he watched and waited for carrillo from where he was later. deputy gabriel and his partner discovered defendant at the location. defendant told detective reedy that he knew he had messed up the lives of his wife and daughter. he understood the authorities took rape charges seriously but could he could not look up sex offenders on the internet without paying a fee. defendant said thought his other neighbors also felt better after the shooting. he admitted that he knew what he had done was wrong. in a later handwritten statement, defendant reiterated that one should have to endure what he had. ive reedy that defendant was the father of her child, and carrillo had not raped her. carrillo testified that he knew a family had lived in him food and drinks. carrillo goodbye. he did not know her name. carrillo and defendant had never argued about dr. kaushal sharma, a forensic psychologist, was appointed to evaluate whether defendant was mentally competent to stand trial and to evaluate him for the sanity trial. he interviewed defendant twice, reviewed the police and investigative reports, and 5 ecords. dr. sharma testified that, in his opinion, have been due, in part, to substance abuse. he concluded that defendant was unable to distinguish moral right from wrong at the time of the shooting because defendant believed that carrillo had raped his wife and would molest other people, and thought he was acting for the greater good. discussion whether the trial court erred in refusing to augment caljic no. 4.00 the jury was instructed under caljic no. 4.00 as follows: murder. time of the commission of the crime. this is the only issue for you to determine in this proceeding. you should consider all of the evidence received in the guilt phase of this trial along with all the instructions you have been given. tion before, during and after the at the time the crime was committed. not necessarily the same as legal insanity. a person may be mentally ill or mentally abnormal and yet not be legally insane. was incapable at the time of the commission of the crime of one of the following: 6 morally wrong. standards of moral obligation. legal wrongfulness and moral wrongfulness are often equivalent but that is not always the case. ving legal insanity at the time of the commission of the crime by a preponderance of the evidence. basis or causative factor for the mental disease or mental defect is a personality or prior to the trial court instructing the jury, the defense requested that it augment caljic no. 4.00 with the following language: n the instruction, is not limited to legal wrong, but properly encompasses moral wrong as well. thus the defendant who was incapable of distinguishing from [sic] what is morally right from what is morally wrong is insane, even though he may understand the defendant argues his state law and federal constitutional rights were violated because the trial court refused to augment caljic no. 4.00 as he requested. he asserts caljic no. 4.00 as given was unclear, as evidenced by the body of case law distinguishing the requirements for proving legal insanity, which have often been that his burden of proof. to the facts and that are people v. burney (2009) 47 cal.4th 203, 246 (burneyextends to defenses upon which defendant relies or for which there is substantial 7 the case. (people v. breverman contain a principle of law applicable to the case, expressed in plain language, indicating people v. wright (1988) 45 cal.3d 1126, 1135.) the trial court may reject an instruction that incorrectly states the law, or is not supported by substantial evidence, is argumentative, duplicative, or presents a possibility of confusing the jury. (burney, supra, at p. 246.) we review a claim of instructional error de novo. (people v. cole (2004) 33 review, we first ascertain the relevant law and proper test for judging the adequacy of instructions is to decide whether the trial court whether error has been committed in giving or not giving jury instructions, we must consider the instructions as a whole . . . [and] assume that the jurors are intelligent persons and capable of understanding and correlating all jury instructions which are support the judgment rather than defeat it if they are reasonably susceptible to such interpretatiopeople v. martin (2000) 78 cal.app.4th 1107, 1111-1112.) defendant does not argue that caljic no. 4.00 incorrectly states the law, but instead that the proposed modification is needed to clarify that if the defendant was unable to distinguish between legal right and wrong or moral right and wrong at the time he committed the crime, the jury must find him to have been legally insane. he contends the proposed language of the modification, taken from people v. torres (2005) 127 cal.app.4th 1391, 1402 (torres), provides the needed clarification. defendant is correct that torres accurately states the law, however, the proposed modification is duplicative of the existing instructional language and would not have provided the jury with anything beyond what it learned from caljic no. 4.00 as given. because it was merely duplicative, the modification was properly was refused by the trial court. (people v. ochoa (2001) 26 cal.4th 398, 455.) 8 in torres, the jury was instructed under former caljic no. 4.00 (oct. 2005 ed.) incapable of either: [] 1. knowing the nature and quality of his act; or [] 2. understanding the nature and quality of his act; or [] 3. distinguishing right from torres, supra, 127 cal.app.4th at p. both legal wrong and moral wrong. the co(ibid., italics omitted.) the torres court held that the trial court erroneously instructed n required defendant to prove that he could not distinguish legal right from legal wrong, in addition to moral right from moral wrong . . . id. at p. 1402, italics omitted.) it thus placed a higher burden on the defendant, who was only required to prove that he was unable to distinguish moral right from moral wrong or moral right from moral wrong, as opposed to both elements. (ibid.) torres, caljic no. 4.00 was revised in 2006 egally insane . . . if he or she is unable to distinguish what is legally right from what is legally wrong, or what is morally right from what is morally revised caljic no. 4.00 removed the offending language of the third prong of the insanity test, which did not distinguish between moral and legal wrong. the current version of caljic no. 4.00 replaced the erroneous language with the current third and fourth prongs, which list the inability to distinguish legal wrong and the inability to distinguish moral wrong separately, thereby remedying the inaccuracy in the instruction identified in torres. separately stating the elements of legal wrong and moral wrong, and framing them in the alternative, rather than the conjunctive, makes clear that the defendant must be found insane if either of the elements is met. the instruction requires no further clarification. furthermore, the language defendant takes specific issue with]egal wrongfulness and moral wrongfulness are often equivalent but that is not always the 9 case. does not conflate the two elements or create a presumption that a defendant must be found to have been able to distinguish moral right from wrong if the jury finds he could distinguish legal right from wrong. the plain meaning of the language highlights the limited distinction between moral and legal wrong, as expressed by the supreme court in people v. skinner (1985) 39 cal.3d 765, 777-784 (skinner). quoting justice people v. schmidt (1915) 216 n.y. 324, 338-340 with approval, skinner permit the inference of knowledge that, according to the accepted standards of mankind, it is also condemned as an offense against good morals. obedience to the law is itself a skinner, supra, at pp. 783-784). moreover, the language at people v. stress (1988) 205 cal.app.3d 1259, 1275 and states the law correctly. because caljic no. 4.00 accurately states the law of legal insanity and the requested modification would have, at best, been duplicative, we hold that the trial court did not err in refusing to modify the instruction.2 correction of the minute order and abstract of judgment although the trial court sentenced defendant to life in prison on count 1 ( 664, 187, subd. (a)), the minute order and abstract of judgment reflect the sentence on count 1 was 25 years to life. we agree with the parties that the minute order and abstract of judgment. (see people v. sharret (2011) 191 cal.app.4th 859, 864 [trial cou 2 rather than the judicial council of california criminal jury instructions (calcrim) attorney general correctly points out, use of the caljic instructions is not a basis for reversal people v. thomas (2007) 150 cal.app.4th 461, 465-466.) 10 pronouncement controls where there is a conflict between the pronouncement and the minute order or abstract of judgment]). prison under section 12022.53, subdivision (f), which it stayed pursuant to section 654, is be imposed under section 12022.7 and stayed pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (f). disposition the trial court is instructed to correct the abstract of judgment and minute order at resentencing to reflect (1) that defendant was sentenced to life in prison as to count 1, and (2) the imposition of the three-year term under section 12022.7 is stayed pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (f). the clerk of the superior court shall send a copy of the corrected abstract of judgment and minute order to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. kriegler, j. we concur: armstrong, acting p. j. mosk, j. 