filed 7/8/13 p. v. herrera ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. christopher herrera, defendant and appellant. b236620 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba371819) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. monica bachner, judge. affirmed. alan stern, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and roberta l. davis, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 a jury convicted christopher herrera (appellant) of attempted, willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder (count 1; pen. code,  664/187, subd. (a));1 and shooting from a motor vehicle (count 2;  12034, subd. (c)), with allegations as to both counts that the offenses were committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)).2 we affirm the judgment. facts on may 25, 2010, los angeles police department (lapd) officers rick corpel and jose merida witnessed a drive-by shooting of two pedestrians. the officers followed nd a female, walking on the sidewalk. both officers heard gunshots and saw muzzle flashes coming from inside screamed. appellant sped off and dropped a gun out of the car. the officers radioed for help and pursued the car with its lights and sirens on. after a short high speed chase, appellant lost control of the car and crashed into parked cars. appellant fled the vehicle immediately after the crash. torres stepped officers took torres into custody and discovered that he had suffered a gunshot wound inflicted days before. appellant fled to the home of santiago m. on south soto street. santiago was an the window and asked santiago to let him inside. appellant was breathing hard and appeared as if he had been running. appellant was bleeding. santiago heard appellant 1 all further section references are to the penal code except as noted. 2 andrew torres faced the same charges but the jury was unable to reach a verdict as to him; he is not involved in the current appeal. 3 officer corpel radioed for a k-9 unit. when the k-9 arrived, it picked up a visible door. santiago guided officers through his home. the officers found appellant, bleeding and placed him into custody. torres and appellant both admitted membership in the white fence gang. a black nine-millimeter pistol was recovered on the ground near the scene of the car crash. officer corpel identified the gun as the weapon that appellant tossed from his third was found when the car was impounded. all the shells were shown by scientific methods to have been ejected from the nine millimeter that officers found on the street. the victim, juan hernandez, suffered a wound in his left thigh and was hospitalized. detective ernest garcia interviewed him and photographed his injury. hernandez was not available to testify at trial, nor was the female pedestrian who accompanied him. the prosecution presented evidence from a gang expert to prove the shooting was for the benefit of the white fence criminal street gang. the gang evidence showed that appellant was an admitted member of the white fence gang and had gang-related tattoos e angeles, northeast los angeles and hollywood. some of their territory boarders the wo gangs. officer jacob avalos testified that juan hernandez actively participated in cuatro 4 before the shooting in this case, cuatro flats members shot torres in white fence territory. as a result, white fence members sought to perform retaliatory shootings against cuatro flats members. officer avalos testified that cuatro flats increased their presence in white fence territory. he also noticed increased cuatro flats gang graffiti in white fence territory. gangs claim territory by marking property in the area with graffiti, a practice create to show allegiance. officer avalos testified he had never heard of a gang moniker included in graffiti where the gang member was not present during the tagging. the night of the shooting in this case, officers noticed gang graffiti outside w to the white fence graffiti, cuatro flats graffiti had been crossed out, demonstrating disrespect for the penal code section for murder. appellant testified on his own behalf at trial. he admitted he joined the white fence gang when he was 15 years old, but said he did so only after he was pressured by t of peer pressure; however, became his girlfriend when he was 16 years old and she was 21. appellant and crystal lived together beginning when he was 17. appellant approximately two years before the shooting. he testified that hernandez had no affiliation to cuatro flats but that the two of them talked and smoked marijuana together. appellant introduced his girlfriend crystal to hernandez. rehabilitation and working in the liquor store at the staples center. he kicked crystal out of his home because she had her own drug problem. after that, appellant saw crystal 5 being affectionate with hernandez at a restaurant. appellant argued with hernandez and then left. around the time of the shooting, appellant received calls from hernandez in which appellant grew angry after receiving the inflammatory phone calls, but he did not react conflict with appellant. so, he acceptabandoned house in white fence territory where torres lived. when appellant arrived, appellant jumped to avoid any harm and quickly left. later that day, he bought a gun from a friend. torres was close with hernandez. appellant and torres had some food and beer and plan with torres, appellant pulled the car over about 5 to 10 feet from hernandez. he pulled a gun from under the seat, ground to scare hernandez. appellant heard hernandez scream, which made appellant think hernandez had been hit by one of the rounds appellant glanced around after the shooting and saw the police car behind him. he sped away, threw the gun out the window and crashed his car. he left torres in the appellant denied that the attack was gang related or done with intent to kill. instead, he was retaliating for what hernandez did and meant only to intimidate him. he and therefore he did not participate in the graffiti. the jury convicted appellant. appellant filed a timely appeal. 6 discussion appellant contends his conviction for attempted premeditated murder must be reversed, or the premeditation finding reversed, because the trial court erred in admitting 3 as noted, the graffiti referenced -defendant torres). next to the white fence gang graffiti, cuatro flats graffiti was the penal code section for murder was placed above that crossed out graffiti. appellant argues the graffiti was not properly authenticated as having been written by him, and that admission of the photographs was highly prejudicial given his defense that the shooting was not gang-related and was not committed with the intent to kill. we disagree. graffiti is a writing (evid. code,  1410.5, subd. (a)); and must be authenticated as a prerequisite to admissibility. (people v. marshall (1996) 13 cal.4th 799, 832-833 (marshall); evid. code,  1401; see also evid. code,  403, subd. (a)(3).) authentication requires proof by a preponderance of evidence that the writing is what the proponent of the evidence claims. (marshall, at pp. 832-833; evid. code,  1400.) there is no strict requirement or restriction on how a party authenticates a writing. (see evid. code,  1410.) a party may validly authenticate a writing by circumstantial evidence; its content and location are valid means of proof. (people v. gibson (2001) 90 cal.app.4th presented for admissibility for an abuse of discretion. (people v. lucas (1995) 12 cal.4th 415; people v. smith (2009) 179 cal.app.4th 986, 1001.) we find people v. olguin (1994) 31 cal.app.4th 1355 (olguin) instructive. in olguin (id. at p. 1373.) id. at p. 1372.) the court of appeal agreed, ruling that regardless of when the lyrics were 3 we do not understand appellant to challenge his conviction for shooting from a vehicle, an offense he openly admitted during his testimony at trial. 7 id. at p. 1373.) the facts providing authentication here were similar. officers corpel and merida testified the graffiti was outside the building where appellant fled and was found after gang. the gang expert testified the gang monikers were those of appellant and torres. officer avalos testified that he had never heard of a gang moniker included in graffiti graffiti did not relate to him went to the weight of the evidence, but did not undermine its admissibility. the trial court did not abuse its discretion when finding there was sufficient circumstantial evidence that appellant was either present when the graffiti was written or authored it himself. even if there were error in admitting the graffiti, it was harmless. the erroneous admission of unauthenticated evidence is reversible only where the defendant can show he would have achieved a more favorable result had the evidence been excluded. (people v. beckley (2010) 185 cal.app.4th 509, 517; and see also cal. const., art vi  13; evid. code,  353, subd. (b); people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) favorable result at trial if the gang graffiti evidence had been excluded. -defendant, shows that the jury did not give the graffiti evidence significant that he did not know the shooting was going to take place and thus could not have been an aider and abettor. appellant admitted he did the shooting, but denied premeditation and denied it was gang-related. we see little if any distinction in the importance of the convicted appellant and could not reach a verdict as to torres. clearly, the jury did not consider the photographic graffiti evidence the linchpin to conviction. 8 appellant argues he would have achieved a more favorable result because sum total of the unauthenticated graffiti indicated a clear planned intent to kill a record showed with more weight that appellant intended to and attempted to kill hernandez. appellant had reason to retaliate against hernandez because he was a cuatro flats gang affiliate. appellant admitted he was a member of the white fence gang, and expert testimony outlined the tensions between white fence and cuatro flats. appellant was armed with a gun and in the car with torres, who had been shot days earlier by a cuatro flats gang member. hernandez shot at appellant earlier the same day. thereafter, appellant immediately bought a gun and used it within hours to retaliate against hernandez. in addition, hernandez was the man with whom his live-in girlfriend began dating after the two split up. added to that, hernandez repeatedly told appellant that he fails to convince us that the photographed graffiti caused the jury to find intent, premeditation or deliberation. disposition the judgment is affirmed. bigelow, p. j. we concur: flier, j. grimes, j. 