filed 2/25/13 p. v. thomas ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. relius thomas, defendant and appellant. b236133 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na087606) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, james b. pierce, judge. affirmed. george w. woodworth for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and roberta l. davis, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction appellant and defendant relius thomas appeals from the judgment following his conviction for stalking and making criminal threats against his ex-girlfriend. he contends that there was insufficient evidence to support the conviction for stalking, that the trial court committed prejudicial misconduct in instructing the jury, and that he received ineffective assistance of counsel. we affirm the judgment. factual and procedural background charges thomas was charged in count 1 with stalking (pen. code,  646.9, subd. (b))1 and in counts 2-6 with making criminal threats ( 422). it was further alleged that he had three prior convictions for felonies ( 1203, subd. (e)(4)), two prior convictions of a serious felony ( 667, subd. (a)(1)) and four prior strike convictions ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)). thomas pled not guilty and denied the special allegations. the case proceeded to jury trial. evidence at trial a. prosecution evidence thomas and rochelle goodwin dated on and off for 12 years, until goodwin against her. thomas began telephoning goodwin and repeatedly showing up at her house. sometimes he would ask her to get back together with him, and sometimes 1 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 he would cuss her out, call her names, and threaten her. goodwin changed her phone number. she said no and asked him to leave, and he cussed at her and threatened to get her and kill her, and threw a glass of wine on her face. she was afraid. at this point, and thomas came towards gayden as if he was going to attack her. he left when he saw that was played for the jury, as were subsequent 911 calls. the next day she obtained a restraining order that required thomas to stay 100 feet away from goodwin and gayden. gayden lived in th on october 19, 2010, gayden passed thomas on the sidewalk near her home. she called 911 because she was scared. on october 26, 2010, goodwin obtained a permanent restraining order against thomas that was effective for two years. on october 29, 2010, gayden saw thomas sitting near the church that was directly across from her house, and she called 911. that same day, thomas man. she called 911 again. she had a security alarm system installed. sometime in november 2010 thomas left goodwin a note at her house that or your house, your car. call me asap. jainote as a threat by thomas to hurt her. on november 5, 2010, gayden and goodwin saw thomas hiding behind a cabinet at the end of their driveway. they called 911. two days later, goodwin saw thomas standing on the 4 contact, and she felt afraid and believed he could carry out his threats. three days later, on november 10, 2010, goodwin again called 911 after she saw thomas standing at her front window looking into the house. on november 12, 2010, she saw him parked down the street from her house and called 911. from the property next door. goodwin set up a booby trap consisting of christmas bells tied on a swing in the corner of her backyard, so that if thomas tried to jump over the fence the bells would ring. on november 19, 2010, gayden heard the bells ring and saw thomas in the backyard and alerted goodwin. thomas called he also threatened that he was going to blast her, which she and gayden interpreted to mean that he was going to shoot her with a gun. they were afraid the responding police officer, officer robert paul, arrived on the scene and observed thomas quickly get into a car and drive away at a high rate of speed. ed to the scene, goodwin and gayden were crying and said they were afraid that thomas would come back again. they also were angry that he kept getting away. gayden officer. the gas tank was also open. thomas previously had threatened to put sugar in the tank. at approximately 4:00 a.m. on november 24, 2010, gayden looked out the 5 when her mothehouse. gayden heard footsteps and then a car speed away. she went outside and everything had been torn down. she noticed a note on the door with blood on it. when the sun came up she went outside to inspect the damage and saw thomas on as she called 911. gayden saw that the light bulb on the porch light had been unscrewed and there was blood on it. there was also blood on the porch and the later that same day, gayden and goodwin found a second note inside their brother, you no dick sucking bitbrother, when he was upset and meant to do what he said he was going to do. she recognized the handwriting on the second note as thomathat he would shoot or stab her and kill her. she knew he had owned a gun in the past. she again called 911.2 he was going to blast goodwin, and she feared he had a gun. she called 911 again. on november 26, 2010, goodwin called 911 seven times after thomas came to her house repeatedly. on november 29, 2010, thomas came to 2 handwriting on the notes, but he could not render a more conclusive opinion. 6 had been watching her leave every day and had seen someone come to her house. the following night, november 30, 2010, her alarm sensor went off. goodwin saw thomas at her front window, looking in. she called 911. house and then going around and peeking in the side window. gaysherita kamil travis, testified that on five to seven occasions in october and s backyard and jumping over a fence. goodwin became very scared and started crying on each occasion when thomas appeared. goodwin did not see thomas again until christmas eve. she ran into him at ee a newborn baby. she was startled to see thomas in the house, but she did not leave. she was a little bit fearful but did not think he would do anything to her with his family there. he kept followed her out to her car, saying he wanted to talk to her. they talked for a few minutes, and she told him he had to stop what he was doing and leave her alone. she denied that she sat in the car with him. even though she felt fearful while that if she talked to him, she could convince him to leave her alone. thomas told her he at least wanted to be friends, and that he would not hurt her. he said he was just upset that she had told him they were done. goodwin left in her car. 7 b. defense evidence thomas did not testify in his defense. before thanksgiving 2010, goodwin came to her house. thomas was there. after goodwin spoke with and talked. goodwin was there for two to three hours, and she and thomas did not merry christmas. thomas was there and goodwin talked with him. she stayed for 30 to 40 minutes and she looked happy, not mad. october and december 2010. in early november, shaquita came home and found into the house, but goodwin remained there talking to thomas for two to three hours. the two did not appear to be arguing. on christmas eve, goodwin again on cross-examination, goodwin acknowledged thomas had not physically abused her during their 12-year relationship. she admitted that she drove thomas to the hearing on the temporary restraining order, explaining that thomas had claimed he would not come otherwise, and she believed she needed him to be there 8 for the court to grant the order. goodwin admitted she had been convicted of welfare fraud approximately 20 years before. c. rebuttal evidence vonnie previously had been convicted of the felony offense of possession of a controlled substance while armed. she was convicted in a different case of transporting or selling pcp, also a felony. verdicts and sentencing the jury returned guilty verdicts on count 1 and counts 3-5, but found thomas not guilty of count 2. a mistrial was declared as to count 6 after the jury deadlocked on the charge. thomas waived a jury trial on the prior convictions and admitted them, and the court found them true. assistance of counsestruck two of his more remote prior strikes and sentenced him to 25 years to life in prison as the base term in count 1, plus five years each for the two prior serious felony convictions. the concurrent sentences on counts 3 through 5 were stayed pursuant to section 654. thomas timely appealed. discussion i. sufficiency of the evidence thomas contends that insufficient evidence was presented at trial to support essing a claim of insufficiency of evidence, the 9 the judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 11questions of credibility in favor of the verdict, and indulge every reasonable people v. mendez (2010) 188 ubstantial evidence people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357; see people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 331.) who . . . willfully and maliciously harasses another person and who makes a credible threat with the intent to place that person in reasonable fear for his or her safety, or the safety of his or her immediate family is guilty of the crime of ) of section 646.9 provides for a harsher penalty for order in effect prohibiting the behavior described in subdivision (a) against the the statute defines course of conduct directed at a specific person that seriously alarms, annoys, 646.9, id., subd. (f).) performed through the use of an electronic communication device, or a threat implied by a pattern of conduct or a combination of verbal, written, or 10 electronically communicated statements and conduct, made with the intent to place the person that is the target of the threat in reasonable fear for his or her safety or the safety of his or her family, and made with the apparent ability to carry out the threat so as to cause the person who is the target of the threat to reasonably fear for his or her safety or the safety of his or her family. it is not necessary to prove that id., subd. (g).) a. thomas first contends there was insufficient evidence that his repeated conduct fell within the definition of harassing behavior. ( 646.9, subd. (e).) tural intent and purpose of any boyfriend the vicpeople v. tran (1996) 47 cal.app.4th 253, 260 (tran).) in tran, the defendant was convicted of stalking the victim, a woman he knew from a club where they were both regular customers. he wanted to have a romantic relationship and wanted her to leave her husband. she repeatedly told him she did not want to see him, and he began to threaten to hurt her and her husband and to damage her car. on one occasion, he smashed the windows of her car, and after another occasion when she saw him sitting in his car id. at pp. 257-258.) one evening, the defendant brandished a hammer trying to prevent the victim from leaving the parking lot of the club. (id. at p. 257.) in the last 11 time. (ibid.) the defendant argued that the element of the stalking statute requiring that vague and gives the violator no sufficiently definite basis for ascertaining what tran, supra, 47 cal.app.4th at p. 259.) he contended actions, which he may have believed had a legitimate purpose, i.e., to convince [the victim] to leave her husband and pursue a romantic relationship (id. his behavior fell outside the stalking provision. the court concluded that an ordinary person understands the conduct prohibited by section 646.9, namely following or harassing a person and making a credible threat with intent to place by did. at p. 260.) threatening [the victim] with a knife or hammer and chasing her husband and baby while wielding a long knife are prohibited, even if he somehow hopes the acts will ibid.) he stalking statute inapplicable. an obsessive attraction to the victim is a trait shared by many defendants convicted under the stalking statute. the statute would be eviscerated 12 were such one-sided, unwanted romantic interest deemed a legitimate purpose for conduct that otherwise would be considered harassing. october 2010 were inherently unlawful because they violated restraining orders t which is lawful, legal, recognized by cannot have served a legitimate purpose. finally, thogirlfriend unfairly minimizes his disturbing criminal behavior that included leaving goodwin bloody notes in which he threatened to kill her, making repeated verbal ing her property, and entering her backyard by purpose. b. thomas also contends that there was insufficient evidence that thomas her safety or the safety of her immediate family. ( 646.9, subd. (a).) thomas contends both that goodwin did not actually fear that thomas would hurt her or a family member, and that any such fear was not reasonable. thomas relies on testimony from his niece shaquita that on approximately november 24, 2010, goodwin and thomathree hours, and on christmas eve, goodwin talked with thomas for another two 13 in the car with him for this length of time demonstrates that she was not afraid of december 24, 2010, he told her he wanted to at be friends and would not hurt her. finally, he relies on evidence that thomas never physically abused goodwin while they were together. he contends that given this evidence, the jury could not reasonably find that goodwin had reason to fear for her safety or the safety of her immediate family. we disagree. first, thomas ignores the contradictory testimony from goodwin that she people v. rasmuson (2006) 145 cal.app.4th 1487, 1508; evid. code,  411.) because we resolve all conflicts in the evidence and questions of credibility in favor of the verdict (people v. mendez, supra, 188 car with thomas. t she was afraid that thomas was going to kill her or hurt her family members. she testified that remained fearful, but she did not believe he would do anything with his family there. further, gayden gave corroborating testimony regarding the fear that goodwin looking scared and crying on the five to seven occasions that travis was visiting them while thomas was lurking near her home. in addition, officer paul testified that goodwin was scared and crying on one instance when thomas got away on november 19, 2010, after threatening her. further, thomas ignores the evidence of the measures goodwin took to protect herself, including obtaining restraining orders, installing a security system, 14 calling 911 repeatedly, and constructing a booby trap to alert her if thomas jumped the fence into her backyard, all of which further support the conclusion that she wapresented at trial that goodwin actually feared for her safety. conduct escalated in severity in october and november 2010 to the point that he left her death threats with his blood on them. we cannot agree with thomas that his repeated threats to blast her, get her, and kill her reasonably should have been considereparticularly when goodwin knew that thomas had owned a gun in the past and christmas eve 2010 that he would not hurt her does not negate the reasonableness of gooreported, that persons . . . in the grips of an obsession, have killed or harmed the object of that obsession, even while maintaining that they have no desire to cause people v. falck (1997) 52 cal.app.4th 287, 298 (falck).) sufficient evidence was presented that goodwin reasonably feared that thomas would hurt her. finally, sufficient evidence was provided at trial from which to infer that thomas intended to make goodwin fear for her safety.3 fear in goodwin may be shown from the surrounding facts and circumstances. (falck, supra, 52 cal.app.4th at p. 299; people v. thomas (2011) 52 cal.4th 336, direct proof and must 3 it need not be shown that thomas actually intended to carry out the threat. (falck, supra, 52 cal.app.4th at p. 295; people v. carron (1995) 37 cal.app.4th 1230, 1240.) 15 the death threats thomas made towards goodwin, particularly the bloody notes nd goodwin afraid that he was going to kill her. even without such explicit threats to restraining order, including instances where he destroyed her property, reasonably could be considered evidence of an intent to place goodwin in fear. (people v. uecker to place [the victim] in reasonable fear for her safety from his persistent phone falck, supra, 52 cal.app.4th from the fact that he insisted on maintaining contact with her although she clearly thomas acted with the intention of inducing fear in goodwin. ii. judicial misconduct thomas was charged with five counts of making criminal threats, and threats. at the conclusion of the statement, the prosecutor asked the court, name of the crime, ladies and gentlemen. they are synonymous. they are thomas contends that the trial court confused the jury, because the term 16 terrorist attacks on innocent people in recent times. he contends that the trial judicial misconduct that irreparably prejudiced him in the eyes of the jury. we reject his argument. first, we note that thomas forfeited the argument because his counsel did people v. sturm not preserved for appellate review if no objections were made on those grounds at people v. abel claim is properly before us, it fails on the merits. the current heading of title 11.5 of the penal code, which contains section 422.) however, before legislative 4; stats. 1988, ch. 1256,  4, p. 4184; people v. toledo (2001) 26 cal.4th 221, 224, fn. 1.) the text of the statute was the same before and after the amendments. (people v. toledo, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 224, fn. 1.) thus, until 2000, a violation of section 422 was people v. moore (2004) 118 cal.app.4th 74, 78-79.) even after the 2000 amendment, courts sometimes still refer to violations of in re q.n. (2012) 211 cal.app.4th 896, 899; people v. gerold (2009) 174 cal.app.4th 781, 784; people v. gaut (2002) 95 cal.app.4th 1425, 1430.) therefore, the trial court accurately told the jury that the thomas in the minds of the jury and caused them to consider him in a worse light 17 given the terrorist attacks on americans early in this century. there was no suggestion during the trial that thomas was involved in political or nationalistic terrorism, and the court correctly instructed the jury on the elements of section 422, which likewise do not reference terrorism. in sum, the court committed no judicial misconduct, and thomas suffered no prejudice. iii. ineffective assistance of counsel thomas contends that his trial counsel was ineffective in two ways: (1) in trial court to permit him to cross-that she had stolen money from him while he was in jail. to prove ineffective assistance of counsel, thomas must show that (1) his (2) the deficiency resulted in demonstrable prejudice. (people v. bolin, supra, 18 performance fell within the wide range of professional competence and that defendant thus bears the burden of establishing constitutionally inadequate people v. carter (2003) 30 cal.4th 1166, 1211.) decisionmaking must be evaluated in the context of the available facpeople v. hart (1999) 20 cal.4th 546, 623.) on a direct appeal, we may reverse a conviction affirmatively discloses that counsel had no rational tactical purpose for his act or 18 people v. fosselman (1983) 33 cal.3d 572, 581; see people v. jones (2003) 29 cal.4th 1229, 1254.) we conclude that thomas has failed to meet the standard for proving ineffective assistance of counsel on a direct appeal. with respect to the trial accurately commented on the state of the law. therefore, defense counsel did not fall below the standard of professional competence to which counsel is held in vigorously sought leave to cross-examine goodwin on the issue of whether she people v. fosselman, supra, 33 cal.3d at p. 581.) the record reveals the following: before defense counsel began his cross-examination of goodwin, the -examine stated he defendant was in custody from another case from . . . at least february until july. in february he signed a document. . . . they were still friendly, right, february 2010. . . . she visited him in jail, and he signed a document allowing her to access his accounts to pay his bills because he was in custody. and we sat down the former attorney believed that she made this all up because she stole his money. we sat down with the former attorney with all of the documentation and proved that every single penny that she took out for him was paying his bills, and that 19 attorney was satisfied. . . . that attorney would never have brought it up. so any accusation of the victim stealing mothe prosecutor stated he had the records, and was happy to sit down with defense counsel. the court asked if any charges were brought against goodwin, and the prosecutor said no. the defendant believes she made many of the allegations in retaliation for his complaints to both the social security -home supportive services unit, because she was also a caretaker receiving moneys from the county to take care of him, take care of his house, in-charges were brought against her based on the alleged theft, a formal complaint was made. the court stated: mplaint against your client. would [goodwin] be able to bring those up? as demonstrated by the foregoing, defense counsel presented an argument justifying cross-examination of goodwin regarding the theft allegations, and the prosecutor indicated that the documentary records showed that the allegations were onceded as much. the trial court ruled against the admission of the testimony4 and defense counsel reasonably 4 the trial court appears to have mistakenly inferred that a complaint was brought against thomas, when defense counsel indicated that a complaint was brought against goodwin based on the alleged theft. thomas does not argue that the trial court abused its discretion with respect to this ruling, and in 20 of proof. in sum, thomas has not demonstrated that his trial below the standard for competent representation. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports willhite, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. suzukawa, j. argument and offer of proof, we conclude that the decision to preclude cross-examination on this issue was not an abuse of discretion. 