filed 12/21/12 p. v. tapp ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. kevin tapp, defendant and appellant. b236715 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na089089) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. arthur h. jean, jr., judge. affirmed in part and reversed in part with directions. siri shetty, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii, supervising deputy attorney general, and sonya roth, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 defendant kevin tapp appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial in which he was convicted of assault with a deadly weapon or by force likely to produce great bodily injury and of disobeying an order of a domestic relations court. defendant discharge of a fireadiscretion by denying his motion under people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497, 529530 (romeroevidence claim and vacat background defendant and tanji harris were married with six children. in december of 1998 defendant stabbed harris numerous times in the face and ear. he was convicted of corporal injury to a spouse with a finding that he personally inflicted great bodily injury. he served 12 years in prison for that conviction and was released on parole in july of 2010. although one of his parole conditions prohibited him from having any contact with harris, theparole was revoked for violating the no-contact condition. while defendant was incarcerated in 2011, harris obtained a restraining order requiring defendant to stay away from her, her residence, and her car. defendant was re-released on parole on may 31, 2011. (undesignated date references pertain to 2011.) at about 5:30 p.m. that day, he phoned harris at her san pedro home and asked her if she had his $700. she said she had used it to pay the rent. car so that it would look like she was not home. as she drove down the side street, she that defendant was at her home in violation of a restraining order, then she drove to a gas station. 3 n, testified that he emerged from his bedroom at -faced, out-of-breath, and disheveled. defendant screwdriver. keewon told derek to leave. while harris was at the gas station, she phoned someone and learned that defendant was no longer at her home. as she was driving home, she saw defendant driving his van. she phoned 911 again and stayed on the line with the dispatcher. as pushed her into the intersection. harris sped away at 40 to 50 miles per hour. thereafter, defeseveral streets, running stop signs and red lights. eventually, she told defendant to stop and promised she would pull over. then she heard sirens and told the 911 dispatcher to direct the police to a particular gas station. harris pulled into that gas station and got out of her car. defendant did the same. seconds later, the police arrived. defendant asked van with her car. a police officer who responded to the gas station testified that the defendant into harribut she heard nothing else and did not see derek leave. soon thereafter, defendant left. he did not appear to be carrying anything. defendant testified that after his release on may 31, he phoned harris and asked if she had used his money for rent. she said she had, but he was not upset and did not ask to get the money back because he had been living with harris before his parole was revoked, and it was appropriate for him to pay a share of the rent. he also asked if she had his stereo and cell phone and if he could retrieve them. she said she would be gone when he 4 arrived. defendant subsequently called jasmine, who confirmed that harris had left and upset, to see derek there. derek leaped off the bed. defendant said he was just there to get his stereo. derek disputhey both fell to the floor, but quickly let go of one another. derek walked out, telling defendant to take the stereo. defendant picked up a screwdriver that was sitting on the table and loosened the speaker wires. he put the stereo next to the door, then left to buy beer. as defendant was driving to get beer, harris sideswiped his van. he honked his horn and began following her to ask why she had done that. he insisted that they ran just one stop sign and no red lights. at one point, harris slammed on her brakes and defendant, who was following too closely to stop, crashed his van into the back of her car. the jury acquitted defendant of burglary and assault on derek with a deadly weapon, but convicted him of assault on harris with a deadly weapon or force likely to produce great bodily injury and of disobeying an order of a domestic relations court. defendant waived a jury trial on the prior conviction and prison term allegations, and the court found all of the allegations true, including allegations he had suffered two prior serious or violent felony convictions. defendant moved to dismiss the prior conviction findings so that he could be sentenced more leniently. the court denied the motion, struck all findings under penal code sections 667, subdivision (a)(1), and 667.5, subdivision (b), and sentenced defendant to a third strike term of 25 years to life in prison. discussion the information alleged that defendant had three prior serious or violent felony case for negligent discharge of a firearm and possession of a firearm by a felon, and a 1999 conviction of corporal injury upon a spouse with a finding of personal infliction of great bodily injury. 5 the prosecutor introduced certified abstracts of judgment from the 1993, 1999, and other cases, along with chronological prison histories, photographs, and fingerprint cards. with respect to the 1993 case, the abstract of judgment reflects imposition of concurrent one year four month terms for the two offenses. the parties agree that negligent discharge of a firearm only qualifies as a serious or violent felony if the defendant personally uses a firearm in the commission of that offense. defendant contends that the prosecutor introduced no evidence showing that he personally used a firearm in that conviction, while the attorney general argues that a firearm, coupled with the stay count, supports a reasonable inference that he did. as noted, the sentence on the possession conviction was concurrent, not stayed. to resolve this issue, we review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment to decide whether substantial evidence supports the conviction, so that a reasonable trier of fact could find guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. ceja (1993) 4 cal.4th 1134, 1138.) scredible and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 1006.) nothing in the documentary evidence introduced by the prosecutor regarding the strikes constitutes substantial evidence showing that defendant personally used a gun in the commission of his negligent discharge offense. he could have aided and abetted the negligent discharge offense by providing a gun that he possessed (giving rise to his felon in possession conviction) to another person, who negligently discharged it. accordingly, discharge conviction constituted a strike. we further note that the felon in possession conviction also fails to qualify as a strike, but it appears that the trial court did not find it to be a ated. 6 because neither the california nor federal constitutions bar retrial of a prior conviction enhancement allegation (monge v. california (1998) 524 u.s. 721, 734 [118 s.ct. 2246]; people v. monge (1997) 16 cal.4th 826, 843845), the prosecutor may retry the strike allegation. romero motion asked only that the court vacate its finding as to the 1991 negligent discharge of a firearm conviction and sentence him to a second strike term, our disposition moots, as least at this time, deftrial court abused its discretion by denying that motion. if the strike allegation as to the 1991 conviction is retried and found true, defendant may renew his romero motion prior to resentencing. disposition vacated. the judgment is otherwise affirmed. the cause is remanded for a retrial of the allegation that prior penal code section 246.3 conviction constituted a serious or violent felony, if the prosecutor elects to retry the allegation, and for resentencing. not to be published. mallano, p. j. we concur: chaney, j. johnson, j. 