filed 2/22/13 p. v. chong ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. daniel chong and charlie wi wang, defendants and appellants. ___________________________________ the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. daniel chong, defendant and appellant. b237494 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka089924 consolidated with no. ga078128) (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka089924 consolidated with no. ga078076 and no. ga078128) appeals from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county. charles e. horan and robert m. martinez, judges. affirmed as to chong. affirmed in part and reversed in part as to wang. 2 joseph f. walsh for defendant and appellant chong. wallin & klarich and stephen d. klarich for defendant and appellant wang. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey, supervising deputy attorney general, and mary sanchez, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ defendants daniel chong and charlie wi wang appeal from the judgments entered following separate jury trials in which wang was convicted of attempted murder and assault with a deadly weapon, with gang findings, and chong was convicted of attempted murder, three counts of assault with a deadly weapon, and two counts of robbery, with gang findings as to the attempted murder and one of the assault charges. chong contends the evidence was insufficient to support his attempted murder conviction, the trial court erred by consolidating the attempted murder charge with the remaining charges and by denying his motion to sever the attempted murder charge, and the trial court violated his confrontation and due process rights by precluding him from cross-examining the gang expert regarding his interviews with codefendants and witnesses. wang contends the evidence was insufficient to support his attempted murder conviction and the gang enhancement findings, and the trial court erred by admitting a photograph of gang enhancement findings, but otherwise affirm. 3 background 1. attempted murder of daniel m. about 5:00 p.m. on march 23, 2009, daniel m., his brother brian, his friend joshua m., and two other friends were walking in el monte. (undesignated date references pertain to 2009.) daniel, who was 17 or 18 years old, was a member of the el monte flores (emf) gang, but he testified none of his companions were gang members. as they walked past a tea shop called e-cup, joshua said that someone inside e-cup was staring at them. joshua began walking toward e-cup and his companions followed. daniel stopped about 30 feet from e-cup, but his brother brian walked up and spat on the window of e-cup. instantly, a group of about seven young asian men came out of e-words and argued. joshua loudly proclaimed his desire to fight wang, who was standing in the doorway of e- including a white lexus and a black acura, rapidly approached them, stopped abruptly, and parked. a total group. they appeared to be angry and ready to fight. two of the young asian men wang and hung le were punching daniel with closed fists. daniel was defending himself by punching back. as far as daniel knew, no one in either group had any weapons, so he anticipated only a fistfight. suddenly another asian man ran toward daniel and plunged a knife into his stomach. daniel took a couple of steps, was struck picked him up, put him in a car, and drove him to a hospital. in the car, daniel lifted his all the way across 4 his body. his wounds required surgery and a week-long hospital stay. he had a foot-long scar from the knife wound and still suffered pain and physical disabilities from his wound at the time of trial in september of 2011. daniel testified that chong was not one of the people he was fighting with or the person who stabbed him. daniel did not remember seeing chong at the fight on strozier private fig-examination that during his investigation he learned that hung le and wang were the people who fought with daniel, hung duong was the person who stabbed daniel, and duong went to the crime scene in the black acura, while chong went there in the white lexus with danny liu and evan dou. yu had no information that anyone in the white lexus had a knife, and daniel never told yu that chong was present. recording was played for the jury. in the interview, chong said he had driven to e-cup in his dark gray scion tc. he was playing poker with wang and hung le when they saw spat on the windows and walls of e-cup, and members of the asian krazy boys gang (akb) who were in e-belonging to any gang, but he said he hung out with some akb members and wah ching members wang, danny liu, and evan dou. chong, wang, liu, and dou followed the sic] there with a truck, 5 chong ran back to the lexus and his group left. on cross-examination, yu testified that daniel had told him that after the stabbing, told yu that everyone fled after the hammer was thrown. yu testified as an expert on asian gangs, including wah ching and akb, which ill back each murders, drive-by shootings, assaults, drug trafficking, robberies, thefts, and weapons violations. the e-cup and the site of the attempted murder on strozier avenue are within territory claimed by the emf gang, with which the wah ching gang does not get along. regarding the events of march 23, yu opined that the crime was committed for the benefit of, and in association with, the wah ching gang. he explained that spitting toward other and their personal member of his group was attacked. yu further opined that it would be important to bring enough gang members and weapons to win the fight. he testified that gang members carry weapons when they go into the territory of a rival gang to carry out a mission because their rivals are likely armed and a failure to carry arms would leave them unprepared and vulnerable. the presence and participation of the groupthose who did not actually stab the victimwas critical because it provided experience, especially [his] 6 yu testified that he had had contact with chong about six times. yu opined that chong was a member of the wah ching gang. he based his opadmission that he was an active member of the gang when yu spoke to chong at a hospital. on cross-examination, yu testified that during prior contacts with chong, chong had told him he was an active member of akb. at the august 8 interview with chong, yu filled out a field identification card for chong on which yu noted chong was was a member of the wah ching gang. 2. assault with a deadly weapon on joshua g. sometime in september, 15-year-old joshua g. accidentally bumped shoulders wang asked joshua where he was from. joshua recognized this as a gang challenge and repliedwhenever they passed one another at school. about 2:45 p.m. on october 2, joshua, david z., clifford c., and adam i. were wang in the parking lot of an el pollo loco. joshua and his friends continued walking apartment, while joshua, david, and clifford sat on a sofa in the carport. about five minutes after they saw wang outside el pollo loco, wang and danny liu quickly and aggressively entered the carport and approached the sofa on which joshua, david, and clifford sat. joshua testified that two additional young asian men g 7 him hard with closed fists and kicking him. joshua put his arms over his head to block the blows, but never got off the couch. clifford and david ran away during the attack. joshua testified that he pursued wang when his attackers ran out of the garage, but car in a photograph at trial. david returned after the attack and helped joshua to the el pollo loco, where a friend with a car drove them to a hospital. joshua suffered injuries to his head, neck, and arms. he had lacerations on his left hand, left elbow, right arm, forehead, face, and right ear. the injuries required sutures and left scars. joshua spent one night in the hospital. although joshua did not testify that he was cut with a knife or scissors, photographic exhibits showing joshua in the hospital depicted numerous long, thin, relatively straight cuts on his face, neck, and left arm and gaping cuts on his left hand, in addition to other wounds. on cross-examination, joshua testified that chong was one of the four men who attacked him. clifford did not know whether chong was one of the men who attacked joshua, but david testified that chong was not one of the attackers. detective john bonomo interviewed chong at the police station along with officer fowler about 10:00 p.m. on october 2. a recording of the interview was played at trial. bonomo asked about a photograph on chon-c from a friend. bonomo asked chong what happened with the fight in arcadia. chong initially denied knowing about a fight. bonomo said he knew chong drove, but was not 8 assertion that the other participants w-to chong when they came back to the car. regarding the attack on joshua, yu opined that the crime was committed for the benefit of, and in association with, the wah ching gang. he explained that respect was critical to acts in the presence of their fellow gang members. yu testified that his opinion was based upon his training and experience in the field of asian gangs. 3. robberi about 4:00 p.m. on october 2, loss prevention officers patricio sanchez and erik men. pelaez thought they looked like gang members. sanchez and pelaez watched the four young men move around the store. one of the men tried on a jacket, took it off, and handed it to chong. chong tried on the jacket, took it off, then put it back on. the group wandered through the store, then walked out. chong was still wearing the jacket when he left, but did not pay for it. at trial, the prosecutor played a video recording from the issue. sanchez and pelaez pursued the group and caught up with them in a parking lot. asked chong to return to the store. chong bumped sanchez and swung his arm at pelaez. pelaez grabchong and asked him to return to the store. chong removed a knife from his trouser swung the knife at pelaez. sanchez and pelaez stepped back, and chong and his group ran away. 9 chong called no witnesses in his defense. 4. verdicts and sentence the jury convicted chong of attempted murder, three counts of assault with a deadly weapon (joshua, sanchez, pelaez), and two counts of robbery. the jury found that the attempted murder and assault with a deadly weapon on joshua were committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in criminal conduct by gang members. the jury acquitted chong of burglary and found not true allegations that he personally used a knife in the robberies. the court sentenced chong to prison for 12 years, consisting of 9 years for attempted murder, 1 year for assault with a deadly weapon on joshua, and 1 year for each robbery charge. the trial court struck the gang enhancement with respect to the attempted murder charge and stayed it with respect to the assault with a deadly weapon charge. 1. attempted murder of daniel m. trial, with minor differences. daniel testified that about 10 young asian men came out of e-cup and confronted danhe felt and saw his intestines protruding and held them in his hands until he collapsed. he identified wang in the courtroom as one of the two young men who was punching him him by pof how he suffered the knife wound across his abdomen. on direct examination, he described the knife as having a blade six to seven inches long. on cross-examination, he te 10 yu testified that he interviewed wang on june 25. a recording of this interview was played for the jury. wang admitted he belonged to the wah ching gang and that he socialized with members of the akb gang at e-cup. wang told yu he was at e-cup when a group spat they just cursed asians, then left. wang and others who had been in e-cup went in four cars looking for them. wang was in the black acura with hung five minutes before they found the offending group. when they got out of the cars, wang knew that me in his role as an expert on asian gangs, yu testified that wah ching and akb are members of the wah ching gang rise within the gang by selling drugs and committing violent crimes, such as stabbings and drive-by shootings, in the presence of their fellow -cup and the site of the attempted murder on strozier avenue are within territory claimed by the emf gang. yu opined that when members of the wah ching gang go on a mission, some of them will be armed to ensure the success of the mission. the prosecutor introduced evidence that wah ching gang member david do was convicted of a december 1, 2006 murder and attempted murder and that on august 2, 2007, wah ching gang member james chang pleaded guilty to two counts of assault with a firearm. 11 in response to a hypothetical question based uregarding the events of march 23, yu opined that the crime was committed for the benefit ah ching gang members present to yu opined that wang was a member of the wah ching gang. he based his opinion testified that when he interviewed wang on june 25, wang was wearing a red hat with a wang testified that he had never been a gang member, but some of his friends were members of the wah ching gang. he explained that he only told yu he was a wah ching gang member because he was trying to impress three friends who were present during the interview, which took place outside tapioca restaurant. wang explained that even involve [sic wang testified that on march 23 he was hanging out at e-cup with his friends, including chong, when four or five hispanic young men approached through the parking lot. one of that group spat on e-e-cup went outside and confronted the group. wang stayed inside, but stood near the door and watched. he did not stare at anyone. the two groups appeared to talk for a few minutes, then the hispanic group walked away and the asian men who had gone outside reentered e-cup. wang and chong talked about what had happened for about 15 minutes. hung le was about to leave and agreed to drive wang home to arcadia. wang got into a black acura, which hung duong drove. wang did not notice anyone else leaving e-cup or see any cars from e-cup driving with them. after a couple of minutes, duong stopped the acura. wang saw people fighting. he got out of the car to get a better view, but stayed right by the car door and did not join the fight. after a while, 12 people stopped fighting and ran to cars. wang got back in the black acura. duong drove to a parking lot. wang asked le what happened. after about 15 minutes, le took wang home. asking him the same questions and he just wanted to go home. wang explained that he 2. assault with a deadly weapon on joshua g. that was the person with whom joshua had an incident at school and as one of the men who came into the garage and array. joshua testified that at the preliminary hearing he was afraid, and thus falsely denied seeing wang in the courtroom. clifford testified that he could not recall who he selected in a photographic array and did not see the person he selected in the courtroom. he admitted he was afraid. bonomo testified that he recorded interviews he had with wang, first at school and gave him internafound a pair of scissors in a cup holder in the back seat. the parties stipulated that jo 13 evidence regarding the attack on joshua, not including the incident at school, yu opined that the crime was committed for the benefit of, and in association with, the wah ching wang testified that after he and joshua bumped into one another at school in walked away with his head down and without saying anything. over the next month, joshua repeatedly laughed at wang and called him names. wang was frustrated by this, but not angry. wang testified that chong was giving him a ride home after school on october 2. danny liu, whom wang knew was a member of the wah ching gang, and kevin were also in the car. as chong drove away from the school, wang saw joshua and said, ng parked the car, and wang, liu, and kevin got out. wang and liu walked into the carport where daniel was seated with two other young men. liu asked daniel, fought foa pair of scissors from the side pocket of his backpack. acting in self-defense, wang daniel chased wang, who ran toward his friends. one of his friends pulled out a knife 3. verdicts and sentence the jury convicted wang of attempted murder and assault with a deadly weapon. the jury found that the offenses were committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in criminal conduct by gang members. the court sentenced wang to prison for 10 years, consisting of 9 years for attempted murder and 1 year for assault with a deadly weapon. the trial court stayed the gang enhancements. 14 discussion 1. that he aided and abetted an assault with a deadly weapon or assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury, a natural and probable consequence of which was an attempted murder. chong contends that the evidence was insufficient to support his older member a [sic] the emf gang. [chong] had no weapon. [he] did not approach or threaten daniel . . . . he was merely present at the scene and did not even know that predicated solely upon his gang membership. d intentionally aids, promotes, encourages, or instigates the crime is guilty as an aider and abettor. (people v. prettyman (1996) 14 cal.4th 248, 259 (prettyman).) although neither mere presence at the scene of a crime nor failure to prevent a crime is sufficient to constitute aiding and abetting (people v. stankewitz (1990) 51 cal.3d 72, 90), the jury may consider facts such as presence at the scene of the crime and companionship and conduct before and after the offense, including flight, in deciding whintentions and intended to facilitate or encourage the crime. (people v. mitchell (1986) 183 cal.app.3d 325, 330.) an aider and abettor is guilty not only of the offense he or she intended to facilitate or encourage (the target crime), but also of any other crime committed by the person he aids and abets that is the natural and probable consequence of the target crime. (prettyman, supra, 14 cal.4th at p. 261.) an aider and abettor need not have intended to encourage or facilitate the particular offense ultimately committed, and need not have any specific intent that is an element of the offense committed. (ibid.) a particular criminal act is a natural and probable consequence of another criminal act if, under all of the 15 have known that the charged offense was a reasonably foreseeable consequence of the act aided and abetted by the defendant. (people v. medina (2009) 46 cal.4th 913, 920 (medinastrong probability; a possible consequence which might reasonably have been contemplated is enough. . . ibid.ave been id. at p. 927.) viewing the record in the light most favorable to the judgment, substantial making gang hand signs before spitting on the window at e-cupchong could have remained in the tea shop or driven his own car home or to some other destination. he did neither. by his own admission, he left e-cup at the same time as the akb gang members liu, whom he knew were wah ching gang members; and went in a caravan of four cars ony, the jury could the window at e-cup. when the four-car caravan caught up with strozier avenue, three or four people got out of each car, ran straight toward the members roup. two people whom chong thought looked like a higher ranking member of the emf gang. chong desisted only when the person he was chasing threw a the nine to eleven other co-perpetrators before the attack, his action in concert with them to leave e- gang-related 16 reasonable inferences that chong both knew his companions intended to agroup and intentionally aided that assault by directly participating in it. in addition, the numerical superiority of the akb-wah ching group over daniof the crime, and his conviction was not premised solely upon his gang membership. we note that chong does not challenge the sufficiency of evidence to show an aggravated assault, as opposed to a simple assault, or to show that attempted murder was a natural and probable consequence of the target crime. nor does he challenge the sufficiency of the evidence to establish that duong specifically intended to kill daniel by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury. (people v. aguilar (1997) 16 medina, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 921), the jury could reasonably infer, based members carry weapons when they go into the territory of a rival that chong knew that one or more people in the group of 10 to 12 akb and wah ching gang members would be armed as they carried out their mission to retaliate against the 2. consolidation of charges against chong the aggravated assault on joshua (no. ga078128), and the attempted murder of daniel (case no. ka089924). three additional codefendants were charged in the aggravated assault case and five additional codefendants were charged in the attempted murder case. 17 the prosecutor filed a written motion to consolidate the three cases, arguing that chong was involved in all three cases and liu and wang were involved in the aggravated assault on joshua and the attempted murder of daniel, all named defendants were members of wah ching and akb gangs or acting in association with those gangs, gang enhancements were alleged in regard to the aggravated assault on joshua and the attempted murder of daniel, the crimes against joshua and daniel were committed in a similar manner and with similar evidence and much of the evidence is cross-admissible. . . . the gang evidence is cross-admissible with respect to all the defendants to prove the gang allegations. additionally, evidence of the substantive crimes is cross-admissible with respect to defendants liu, chong and wang chong opposed the consolidation motion, arguing he would suffer prejudice from joinder. in particular, he argued that codefendants liu, wang, and kevin choi were percipient witnesses that he intended to call to support his claim of self-defense in them from testifying to avoid exposing them to cross-examination on the charges against them in the other two cases. he also argued that he might want to testify as to one of the charges but not the others. chong further argued that the jury might use evidence of one aggregate all of the evidence . . . and convict on both [sic] charges in a joint trial; whereas, at least arguably, in separate trials, there might not be convictions on both [sic] charges. joinder in this case will make it difficult not to view the evidenot result in any significant public benefit. 18 the trial court granted the motion to consolidate without prejudice to future e they are the same class of crime. they have elements of substantial importance and commonality, i.e., gang membership, some very discrete gangs, and some gang activity undertaken jointly by various individuals. and the manner of inflicting injury seems anything specific in terms of a particular piece of type of evidence that would come in that is likely to inflame the jury specifically against . . the prosecutor subsequently elected to try the case two defendants at a time. chong and liu were tried together using separate juries. just before jury commenced, chong moved to sever trial of the attempted murder charge from the remaining charges. he argued that in the trials of the three codefendants that had already occurred, hung duong and evan dou, who had faced only the attempted murder charge, had been acquitted, while wang, who was charged with both the attempted murder of daniel m. and the assault with a deadly weapon on joshua, had been convicted. chong argued that this demonstrated that joining other charges with the attempted murder charge jury might get confused and believe the same knife was used in all of the crimes. the prosecutor noted that the evidence as to each defendant was different and argued that it was speculative to conclude that joinder of the attempted murder and assault s conviction. he further argued that the gang evidence was cross-admissible in the attempted murder and the assault on three incidents involved assaultive behavior and the use of a weapon. 19 codefendants, all of the crimes except the burglary were crimes would result in any prejudice to chong. chong contends tconsolidate and denying his motion to sever. he concedes all of the charges were of the same class of crimes, but argues his case was prejudiced by the joinder because the attempted murder and the assault with a deadly weapon on joshua were weak cases, while consolidated trial violated due process. offenses that are of the same class of crime or are connected in their commission undesignated references are to the penal code.) cross-admissibility of evidence is not required. ( 954.1.) but severance may be required if joinder would be so prejudicial that it would make the trial unfair. (people v. musselwhite (1998) 17 cal.4th 1216, 12431244 (musselwhite).) the first consideration is whether some of the evidence would be cross-admissible in separate trials. (people v. soper (2009) 45 cal.4th 759, 774 (soper).) cross-admissibility pertains to the admissibility of evidence tending to prove a disputed fact of consequence, not the cross-admissibility of another charged offense. (people v. geier (2007) 41 cal.4th 555, 576.) cross-soper, at p. 775.) full cross-admissibility is not required. (alcala v. superior court (2008) 43 cal.4th 1205, 1221 (alcala).) if evidence would not be cross-admissible in separate trials, we consider the oinder were sufficiently -- 20 whether some of the charges are particularly likely to inflame the jury against the defendant; whether the prosecution has joined a weak case with a strong case or another charges carries the death penalty or their joinder turns the matter into a capital case. (soper, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 775.) the party seeking severance must clearly show that a substantial danger of undue prejudice outweighs the benefits of joinder, such as timely disposition of criminal charges and conservation of judicial resources and public funds. (people v. bean (1988) 46 cal.3d 919, 939940.) denial of a motion to sever is reviewed for abuse of discretion in light of the record before the trial court when it ruled on the motion, not in light of what happened at trial. (soper, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 774.) defendant must make a clear showing of prejudice to establish an abuse of discretion. (ibid.) offensestronger showing of potential prejudice than would be necessary to exclude other-alcala, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 1222, fn. 11.) due to the preference for joinder, the trial cdiscretion is broader in ruling on a motion for severance that in ruling on admissibility of evidence. (id. at p. 1221.) is insufficient to render joinder unduly prejudicial. (people v. hill ibid.) and severance is not requiredmerely because properly joined charges might make it more difficult for a defendant to avoid conviction compared with his or her chances were the soper, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 781.) the danger to be avoided in joinder of offenses is that strong evidence of a lesser, but more inflammatory crime might be used to bolster a weak case on another crime. (people v. mason (1991) 52 cal.3d 909, 934.) an extreme disparity in strength or inflammatory character is required 21 in order to demonstrate the potential for a prejudicial spillover. (belton v. superior court (1993) 19 cal.app.4th 1279, 1284.) if a defendant shows that joinder actually resulted in gross unfairness amounting to a denial of due process. (soper, suprathe issue is not whether the evidence is sufficient to support the convictions on the joined counts, independent of the itself substantially influenced the outcome. (people v. grant (2003) 113 cal.app.4th 579, 587588.) the defendant must id. at p. 588.) a. joinder of attempted murder and aggravated assault on joshua the trial court did not err by consolidating, then refusing to sever, the charges of attempted murder of daniel and assault with a deadly weapon on joshua. gang enhancements were alleged for each of these offenses and the vast majority of the gang evidence for each was identical. the gang evidence was thus cross-admissible, and joinder of these charges promoted both case-specific and systemic efficiency throughout the proceedings, in all levels of the court system. (soper, supra, 45 cal.4th at pp. 781probability that joinder of these charges . neither case was weaker or more inflammatory than the other. indeed, neither case was weak. chong admitted some level of participation in each offense in recorded statements that were played for the jury, and joshua identified him as one of the four men who entered the garage and attacked him. b. the koffenses except the burglary. the prosecutor did not raise this point in his motion to consolidate, 22 evidence of the use of the same knife was cross-admissible. although the use of the same knife ultimately had little or no probative value, we review the ruling at the time it was made, and the purported cross-assault with a deadly weapon charges was weak, none of the cases were weak and the and joshua. thus, there was no danger that strong evidence of a lesser but inflammatory crime might be used to bolster a weak case on another crime. chong has not shown a reasonable probability murder and assault with a deadly weapon on joshua . chong argues that joinder violated due process because the prosecutor argued that that charge. the prosecutor gave his opening argument on the remaining charges the next day. the argument chong cites in support of this assertion was nothing more than a gument to focus on count 1, which is the attempted murder of daniel [m]. [] mr. chong is sic] sanchez; count 5, erik pelaez; 6, robbery of mr. pelaez; and 7, robbery of mr. shim of another crime. 23 3. oss-examination of yu chong contends that the trial court violated his confrontation and due process rights by precluding him from cross-about the case from his interviews of the co-defendants and percipient witnesses to the stabbing was a gang related crime; that [chong] was a gang member; and that [chong] was involved in the assault upon the emf gang members as a gang retaliation for the e-cup spitting incident. counsel also wanted to impeach officer yu by showing that he was biased against the asian suspects in this case as evidenced by his harsh interrogation of one of the co-defendants, which included lying to the co-defendant during the neither the right to present a defense nor the right to confront witnesses permits a defendant to introduce irrelevant or marginally relevant evidence. (people v. babbitt (1988) 45 cal.3d 660, 684; delaware v. van arsdall (1986) 475 u.s. 673, 679 [106 s.ct. 1431].) the confrontation clause simply guarantees an opportunity for effective cross-examination, not cross-examination that is effective in whatever way, and to whatever extent, the defense wishes. (delaware v. van arsdall, at p. 679.) judges retain wide latitude to impose reasonable limits on cross-examination. (people v. quartermain (1997) 16 cal.4th 600, 623.) confrontation rights are not violated unless a defendant shows that the prohibited cross-examination would have produced a significantly different impression (id., at pp. 623624.) outside the presence of the jury, chong requested that he be allowed to cross-n of which we can demonstrate that he did, whether he threatens them, which we can demonstrate that he did . . . inst conducted by the two defendants [sic 24 was recorded, there was no dispute as to what was said or what took place, and that yu did not use any purportedly improper techniques on him. chong nonetheless argued that rt denied -examination. establish a bias or prejudice on this officer in the fact that [yu] has an agenda. and i think that because he lies to other people and because he threatens other people when he interviews them or interrogates them i think thatand the way he dresses is also an intimidation factor. i think all of those things make it crucial to be able to fully cross-examine him on the issue of how he conducts these interrogations and how he interviews . . . those kind ofthat kind of conduct was countenance[d] and perhaps encouraged by the -examine yu about any techniques yu used in interrogating chong, but techniques yu used in interrogating other suspects were irrelevant. the court also excluded such evidence jury about what happened in the interview with mr. dou, and i think that would be an motion for mistrial. e, was a member of the wah ching gang. and secondly, that the running away occurred after the stabbing, and , and in particular, portions in 25 secondly, that hewhen he ran away, it was after the that mr. dou somehow implicated your client as running away after the stabbing, that chong said he was unaware of any interview in which yu allegedly used improper interrogation techniques. he thus made no offer of proof regarding the broader category addressed in his appellate claim, that is, -defendants and statements by witnesses and codefendants were likely inadmissible hearsay, and chong has not suggested any hearsay exception or nonhearsay purpose for the unknown statements. nor has chong shown how statements by witnesses and codefendants would have impwas a gang member; and that [chong] was involved in the assault upon the emf gang members as a gang retaliation for the e-is opinion that the stabbing was a gang related crime was based upon his interviews of codefendants or witnesses. after opining, in response to a hypothetical question, that the with the experience, especially [his] experience as a gang detective in the field of asian gangs, hong was a gang gang members as a gang retaliation for the e-involvement was established by his own admission in his recorded interview with yu, and participating in the assault. 26 esentation to the trial court that yu testified that his opinion that chong was a member of the wah ching gang and dou. yu never referred in his testimony to any statements by dou, much less cited such statements as the basis for any of his testimony. commonly use a variety of techniques to attempt to get suspects to confess or make admissions, and, on cross-examination, yu repeatedly explained that he made certain statements to chong or refrained from challenging him in an effort to create and maintain good rapport so that chong would continue to talk and provide information. the use of such tactics has no tendency to establish bias against even the recipient of such treatment, much less other suspects. chong conceded that yu did not use any of the purportedly case. because cross-irrelevant matter that would not have produced a significantly different impressiocredibility, his trial unfair. 4. wang challenges the sufficiency of evidence to support his attempted murder conviction on the theory that there was insufficient evidence that duong intended to kill abdomen, wang argues that the evidence supported only an inference that duong attempted murder requires the specific intent to kill; implied malice is insufficient. (people v. lee (1987) 43 cal.3d 666, 670.) to 27 abettor in this case, there must have been substantial evidence that the direct perpetrator, duong, intended to kill daniel. because there is rarely direct evidence of such intent, it must usually be shown from the circumstances of the attempt. (people v. smith (2005) 37 cal.4th 733, 741.) threatening duong, and nothing suggests daniel posed any threat to wang and le as they beat him. duong nevertheless ran up to daniel and plunged a knife with a six- to seven-duong thus chose to stab daniel in the vicinity of vital organs, such as the spleen, liver, stomach, and intestines, damage to which could be life threatening. then, as daniel turned, duong held onto the handle of the knife with sufficient strength to cause the blade wound would not be life-threatening. which duong plunged his knife, the proximity to vital organs of the stab wound, and could reasonably infer that duong intended to kill daniel. 5. sufficiency of evidence to support gang enhancement finding against wang an essential element of a gang enhancement allegation under section 186.22, subdivision (b), is proof that the purported commission of one or more of the criminal acts enumerated in . . statute. ( 186.22, subd. (f).) compeople v. sengpadychith 28 consistently and repeatedly id. at p. 324.) evidence of both past criminal acts and the circumstances of the charged offenses are relevant to establish this, but such evidence generally will not establish a consistent and repeated commission of any of the enumerated crimes. (id. at pp. 323324.) wang contends there was no evidence of the primary activities of the wah ching activities. this appears to have been an oversight, perhaps caused by having yu testify separately the attorney general attempts to piece together the following bits of testimony by -by shooting, hurting other individuals, doing them, like i said, in the presence of other lowest one on the food chain is your wannabes, your hangouts. we call them associates. people they hang out with are like to be someday. [] the next level is the actual fully jumped-in active members. just out there every day do[] and then above that is [sic] the leaders. the leaders to the gang are the ones who calls [sic] the shots, the shot callers; and they control the politics. they control the drug buys, the weapons trafficking, who to stab, who to shoot, who to go rip off the drugs. 29 ahead by selling drugs for the gang, traffic drugs. they can get ahead mostly committing violent crimes, that is the most common and fastest and efficient way to come up, to earn their stripes and promote their own reputation within their in the quoted testimony, yu addressed only the activities of individuals in the drugs, committing a drive-crimes testimony did not show consistent and repeated commission of even the activities he eveactivities of individual members, not of the gang, and did not identify any of the is prior offenses of two wah ching gang members. the three prior offenses of two other wah ching gang members occurred, as far as the record reveals, in 2006 and 2007. the charged offenses occurred in 2009. these offenses demonstrate occasional commission of crimes by members of the group, not repeated and consistent commission of any of the ment allegations as to each count against wang must be reversed and may not be retried. this 6. wang joined sic] outweighs any 30 express malice, . . projected, but not sending it into the jury room. the photograph was introduced during presented on the digital display for approximately 15 to 20 seconds, and has not been wang contends the trial court erred by permitting the jury to view the photograph and by refusing to grant his motion for a new trial on this ground. he argues that the slicing injury by turning his body. a trial court has broad discretion to admit purportedly gruesome or inflammatory the probative value of the photographs clearly is outweighed by their prejudicial effect. (people v. mills (2010) 48 cal.4th 158, 191.) the photograph in question was relevant to demonstrate the nature, location, and trial court, as he has on appeal. we have reviewed the original photograph and conclude that, while it is unpleasant, it is not unduly gruesome or inflammatory. in comparison with the timony regarding his own observations of his injury, the photograph is not exceptionally gruesome. we further thus attempted to reduce any potential for prejudice to wang. accordingly, we conclude that the trial court did not abuse its discretion. 31 disposition with respect to wang, the true findings on the gang enhancement allegations are rwise affirmed. with respect to chong, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. mallano, p. j. we concur: rothschild, j. johnson, j. 