filed 11/6/12 p. v. mcnabb ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jimmy mcnabb, iii, defendant and appellant. b237604 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga082578) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, dorothy l. shubin, judge. affirmed. rene paradis, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. 2 jimmy mcnabb, iii, appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial which resulted in his conviction of second degree commercial burglary (pen. code,  459)1 and petty theft ( 484, subd. (a)) and his admission that he previously had been convicted of the serious and violent felony of robbery ( 211) within the meaning of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)). the trial court sentenced mcnabb to 32 months in prison. we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. facts. fidel cervantes, jr. is a full-time student and has a part-department store in monrovia as a loss prevention officer. when he first became an officer approximately two years ago, he underwent computer-based training and drove to various stores in order to work with different officers throughout the district. his job was at approximately 9:00 p.m. on february 19, 2011, cervantes, who was working by himself that evening, was watching the sales floor by monitoring the closed circuit camera system in the office. he was watching the camera system because it allowed him covering every angle on the sales floor. in addition, they are always recording. if one wishes to go back to an earlier time in the day, they can simply copy the recordings from the cameras to a disc. department. there, he approached a young woman, angelica carter, who appeared to be shirts he had been carrying in his hand. by watching the camera, cervantes could see mcnabb place the shirts underneath his sweater, in his armpit area. mcnabb then 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 as mcnabb and carter continued to look around the store, they were joined by department, where okon took a grapurse. while mcnabb and okon continued to browse, carter went to the jewelry department. she selected a few items and removed the tags. okon and carter then went to the fragrance department, where okon . minutes later, carter and okon followed. as mcnabb began to leave the store, cervantes contacted the monrovia police department. he came out of the office and, as carter and okon left the store, he er. officers arrived and detained them. the officers retrieved 12 stolen items, including er took approximately $329 worth of merchandise and okon took approximately $379 worth of items.2 with regard to mcnabb, cervantes saw a blue shirt and a green shirt on the the shirts, showing that they were worth $18 each. that evening, approximately nine or ten minutes after mcnabb had entered the prepared a report on the incident and submitted it to the district manager in charge of loss prevention. cervantes also prepared a video of the incident. later, the two shirts which their tags but they did 2 later, cervantes testified that carter took $379 and okon took $329 worth of items. 4 agent luis villalobos works for the city of monrovia police department. he is a supervisor and a field training officer and has been with the department for approximately 14 years. he was one of the officers called villalobos and his partner, officer steven ramos, were in full uniform and driving a marked car when they arrived at the store parking lot. they parked their car west of the officers had also . . . so approximately five minutes after villalobos and ramos had parked their car, mcnabb came out of the store. he stood in front of the store for a time, then two women came out and joined him. as the three individuals walked south on the sidewalk, ved simultaneously and took mcnabb, carter and okon into custody. attempting to walmcnabb drop something. when villalobos went back to retrieve the item, he realized that mcnabb had been carrying two t-shirts under his arm. inside, the officer found a five- to six-including some graphic t-shirts, jewelry, shoes and sunglasses. 5 after the officers had detained mcnabb, carter and okon, they searched an older car. inside were several items which still had the price tags on them from a store called from the ross store. christine garland was the jailer at the monrovia police department on the night of february 19, 2011. as jailer, garland took inventory of the personal possessions computer, then placed the items into a locker. the detainee would review the list, sign a form indicating that it was accurate and receive a receipt. the property booked by to the suspect when he or she leaves the facility. at 1:16 a.m. on february 20, 2011, garland booked mcnabb into custody. he reviewed the list of items, then signed the form. garland had booked for mcnabb tennis shoes, a beanie hat, a cell phone, a key ring, a jacket, a rubber band for his hair, a watch and some shorts. mcnabb was not carrying a wallet, any cash or any credit cards. 2. procedural history. following a preliminary hearing, on june 16, 2011 mcnabb was charged by information with one count of second degree commercial burglary, a felony ( 459) (count 1), and petty theft, a misdemeanor ( 484, subd. (a)). it was further alleged with regard to count 1 that mcnabb had previously been convicted of the serious or violent felony or juvenile adjudication of robbery ( 211) within the meaning of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)). on july 1, 2011, counsel for mcnabb made a motion to dismiss the case against him pursuant to section 995. counsel argued that the magistrate had based his order holding mcnabb to answer on the fact that he was with the two women. if he had been alone, there would have been insufficient evidence to detain him. the trial court disagreed and held mcnabb to answer. 6 on july 19, 2011, counsel for mcnabb filed a motion to dismiss mcnabconviction alleged pursuant to the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)). counsel argued the prior should be stricken in furtherance of justice ( 1385; see people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497) bof the nature and circumstances of his present felon[y] and prior serious and/or violent felony . . . , and the particulars of his background, character, and prospects, [mcnabb people v. williams (1998) 17 his present offenses were neither serious nor remotely violent. he simply made a prosecutor argued that mcnabb had a lengthy criminal record, which began when he was a juvenile and included such crimes as armed robbery, making terrorist threats and grand ed the motion. trial was by jury. after the prosecution presented its case, mcnabb indicated he was choosing not to, after the evidence on the substantive offenses had been presented, the trial court advised mcnabb that, if the jury were to find him guilty of count 1, he had the right to have the jury determine beyond a reasonable doubt whether he had committed the alleged strike. in the alternative, he could have the court decide or he could admit the prior. 1, [he and the jury began deliberating on wednesday, august 17, 2011. that afternoon, the foreperson sent to the trial court two notes. the first note request the following under count no. 1, no. 2, is there a difference between whether he 7 had intent to directly commit theft or had knowledge that a theft was going to be after consulting with counsel, the trial court stated that, since it was nearly 4:00 p.m., the answer to the first note would requested that the court refer the jury to instructions nos. 1700 and 1800.3 the defendant jimmy mcnabb guilty of the crime of second degree commercial burglary crime of petty theft in violation of . . . section 484, subsection (a), a misdemeanor . . . after the jurors were dismissed, mcnabb decided that he would admit the prior three strikes conviction. sentencing would then be put over until september 22, 2011. conviction of . . . section 211, case number sa042023, [which had occurred on] may 15th, 2001 [in] 3 degree commercial burglary in violation of . . . section 459. [] to prove that the defendant is guilty of this crime, the people must prove that: [] 1. the defendant entered a building; [] and [] 2. when he entered a building, he intended to commit theft. [] to decide whether the defendant intended to commit theft, please refer to the separate in violation of . . . section 484. [] to prove that the defendant is guilty of this crime, the people must prove that: [] 1. the defendant took possession of property owned by when the defendant took the property he intended to deprive the 8 regard to count 1 that the prior occurred pursuant to section 667, subdivisions (b) to (i) effect of have all the rights that you had in connection with your trial except it would be before the court: the right to deny the charges against you, the right to present a defense, the right to subpoena witnesses to [the] court free of charge, the right to confront and cross-examine after mcnabb indicated that he understood and waived his right to a trial, he admitted having suffered the three strikes conviction. the trial court determined the waiver on november 18, 2011, counsel for mcnabb renewed his romero4 motion which raised facts which he had not known, and thus had not mentioned, in the initial motion. a hearing was held at whi-year-become aware of this disability when mcnabb was in the fifth or sixth grade and began ems. mcnabb, jr., a mental health professional, was in and he took no action to remedy the situation. mcnabb, jr., stated that, although mild mental retardation may hamaking [and] their cognitive skills. . . . [] sometimes around the age of . . . nine or ten is when you find that their skills academically and their cognitive skills are not keeping up with the other 4 people v. superior court (romero), supra, 13 cal.4th 497. 9 mcnabb, jr. told the court thsitting there, all the crimes and everything that he did, all of his faults [could] be directly help all of his life put it quite simply and bluntly, while this does not absolve mr. mcnabb of the crime and while it does not absolve mr. mcnabb of consideration for sentencing under romero, . . . the court need[ed] to consider as a strong [factor in] mitigation the fact that, while he was at the age of minority, [mcnabb] was not given any real treatment or guidance or assistance from was the type of hard-core recidivist that demanded sentencing under romero for a crime it underscored that shoplift of two t- the trial court indicated that, although it prior strike was extremely violent. and although that offense is about ten years old, mr. mcnabb was in custody for most of that time, and upon release, while he was still on parole, he committed the new offense. [] prior to the 211 he had two theft-related sustained petitions, one for [section] 10851[, subdivision] (a) and one for . . . section 459. so he has a history of theft-related offenses. [] in terms of the testimony that the court heard today, even if mr. mcnabb suffers from some sort of reduced capacity, [it is] not to the . 10 series of crimes that harms others. therefore, the court respectfully denies the romero with regard to count 1, the court imposed the low term of 16 months in state prison, then doubled the term to 32 months pursuant to the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)). for count 2, the trial court imposed six months, then stayed the term pursuant to section 654.5 the trial court indicated it had selected the low term because . ed presentence custody credit for 273 days actually served and 136 days of conduct credit, for a total of 409 days. he was ordered to pay a $200 restitution fine ( 1202.4, subd. (b)), a suspended $200 parole revocation restitution fine ( 1202.45), a $40 court security fee ( 1465.8, subd. (a)) and a $30 criminal conviction fee (gov. code,  70373).6 mcnabb filed a timely notice of appeal and request for appointed counsel on november 18, 2011. contentions after examination of the record, counsel filed an opening brief which raised no issues and requested this court to conduct an independent review of the record. by notice filed august 13, 2012, the clerk of this court advised mcnabb to submit within 30 days any contentions, grounds of appeal or arguments he wished this court to consider. no response has been received to date. 5 by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the act or omission be 6 on the abstract of judgment, it is indicated that the trial court imposed a $60 criminal conviction fee and an $80 court security fee. 11 review on appeal we have examined the entire record and are satisfied counsel had complied fully smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 278-284; people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, 443.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports kitching, j. we concur: klein, p.j. croskey, j. 