filed 8/13/13 p. v. gonzales ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. robert gonzales, defendant and appellant. b237860 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na072796) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, stephen a. marcus, judge. affirmed. deborah l. hawkins, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and tannaz kouhpainezhad, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 the people charged defendant robert gonzales with the first degree murder of christopher ash (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)),1 with three special circumstances allegations, an allegation of a personal use of a deadly weapon (knife), and a gang enhancement. the jury acquitted him of first degree murder but convicted him of second degree murder. in addition, it found the gang enhancement ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)) to be true, but found the personal use of a knife enhancement ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)) not to be true. the court sentenced him to a term of 15 years to life. in this appeal, defendant raises two contentions. the first is that the evidence is insufficient to sustain his conviction for second degree murder. the second is that the trial court erred when it denied his motion for a new trial based upon a claim of juror misconduct. we find no merit to either contention and therefore affirm the judgment. statement of facts 1. factual overview street gang member who was killed because fellow gang members believed he was street member jonathan fajardo. in separate proceedings, fajardo, daniel aguilar 2 1 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 defendant, fajardo, aguilar and silva were jointly charged. aguilar and fajardo life without the possibility of parole. we affirmed his conviction in people v. aguilar (may 31, 2012) b227935. fajardo was convicted of the first degree murders of green 3 2. the green murder the green murder occurred during the afternoon of december 15, 2006, when fajardo fired on a group of african americans gathered in the driveway of a home in los angeles. ernesto alcarez, a member of the 204th street gang, acted as lookout during the shooting. fajardo killed 14-year-old green and wounded three other individuals. s murder, the police executed search warrants on december 21, 2006 at eight residences of individuals connected to the that search, the police escorted ash and seven other individuals, including aguilar, arrested alcarez and took ash and aguilar into custody for questioning but later released the two men. 3. the ash murder covarrubias, a member of the 3 according to covarrubias, ash was murdered on december 28, 2006 in the garage of the home belonging to silva, a 204th street gang member. and ash and was sentenced to death. in a separate proceeding, silva was convicted of people v. silva (feb. 27, 2013) b236916. oined perpetrators 3 covarrubias pled guilty to voluntary manslaughter in exchange for a 22-year state prison sentence on the condition that he testify truthfully against his accomplices, including defendant. 4 a. testimony of the accomplice covarrubias4 covarrubias testified to the following sequence of events. after the police had searched the residences connected to 204th street gang members on december 21, 2006, rumors circulated that the 204th street gang beliapartment. during the late afternoon of december 28, 2006, covarrubias and four other 204th street gang members (silva,5 aguilar, eugenio claudio, and christian claudio) met for an hour at the claudio residence. silva asked covarrubias about gang. ahome. an unidentified woman were present. this was the first time that covarrubias had met defendant. on, fajardo and juan carlos pimentel (also a member of the 204th street gang) arrived. pimentel pulled covarrubias aside and asked him if he thought ash was a snitch and was keeping a 4 the pattern instructions defining an accomplice and explaining the requirement to corroborate accomplice testimony were submitted to the jury. (caljic nos. 3.10, 3.11, stimony was sufficiently corroborated and defendant does not contend to the contrary in this appeal. 5 5 he believed ash was a snitch and that he had heard about the journal. pimentel then had a private conversation with aguilar. thereafter, all seven men, including defendant, gathered together and and down during this discussion. everyone agreed that ash would be brought to the garage and killed. the men decided that because ash trusted aguilar the most, aguilar would bring ash to the garage. defendant offered to drive aguilar to pick up ash. before defendant and aguilar left, defendant gave both covarrubias and pimentel a knife.6 everyone, including defendant, agreed that ash would be killed when he was brought to the garage. after approximately 20 minutes, defendant and aguilar returned to the garage with ash.7 fajardo struck ash from behind with the butt of a shotgun. ash aguilar, silva, and claudio rushed forward and began to punch ash. pimentel told 6 murder, the po2010 proceeding, covarrubias gave ambiguous, if not inconsistent, testimony. when when ashhanded the knife to him and pimentel before defendant and aguilar left to pick up ash. 7 mother testified that aguilar picked up her son shortly before 11 p.m. 6 everyone to calm down, walked ash toward a pepsi machine, and stabbed ash in the neck. ash fell and pimentel stabbed him in the chest. covarrubias stabbed ash in the stomach four or five times but then vomited and dropped the knife. pimentel left in the van. five of the men, including defendant, stayed behind to clean the garage, using water and paint thinner, and to dispose of blood soaked items, including the two knifes used to kill ash.8 b. mately a mile on february 7, 2007, deputy sheriff ferguson and sergeant rodriguez played to the jury. in that interview, defendant gave inconsistent and false statements about the events of december 28.9 8 in his january 2007 interview with the police, covarrubias said that defendant 9 a transcript of the interview was distributed to the jury and admitted into evidence. our statement of facts is taken from the transcript. 7 because he was inside of the house. he asserted that he had not participated in the murder (including the stabbing of ash), the cleaning of the crime scene or the into the van and had not seen anyone clean up blood in the garage. but later in the interview, defendant admitted that he had heard the men talk about identifying a snitch; that he, along with aguilar, had picked up and driven ash to the garage; and that when he, aguilar and ash returned to the garage, someone hit ash with a stick. at that point, defendant claimed that he left the garage for the house. when he returned later, he saw the men cleaning the garage. he realized that a murder had been committed. he knew that three of the 4. gang evidence los angeles county deputy sheriff mark wedel, a gang expert, testified about the fries street gang. the gang, a subset of the carson 13 gang,10 existed street gang: defendant and silva. in 1996 and 1997, defendant admitted membership in the gang and silva admitted membership in 1999, 2002, and 2004. silva residence at which ash was murdered was within that territory. in deputy d not be surprising for a member of the fries street gang to kill a snitch to prevent him from testifying in a serious case. 10 the carson gang is also known as the varrio carson gang. 8 sergeant daniel robbins of the los angeles police department testified as an expert about the 204th street gang. in 2006, the gang had approximately 100 members. its primary activities included community intimidation, attempted murder and murder. when he arrested defendant on december 30, 2006, whether defendant was a member of the 204th street gang but the sergeant knew of at least one member of the fries street gang (john martin) who later joined the 204th street gang. further, sergeant robbins believed that silvawho in the past had admitted he was a member of the fries street gangwas, by december 2006, the prosecutor, utilizing the evidence presented at trial, posed a hypothetical question to sergeant robbins as to what, in his opinion, motivated the december 28 group murder of ash.11 the sergeant replied that he believed that it was protection of some of i204th street by helping to kill christop 11 immediately before sergeant robbins answered the hypothetical question, the 9 t, he was there to benefit the b. the defense case defendant testified on his own behalf, denying membership in the 204th according to defendant, he had been a member of the fries se last remaining members of fries street. defendant was also a member of rsk, a tagging crew. defendant was never a member of the 204th street gang and did not ng known each other for the last 17 years. defendant knew that two group and the 204th st in december 2006, defendant was living with silva. prior to december 28, 2006, defendant had met fajardo and pimentel but not aguilar, covarrubias, or ash. he knew that pimentel, whom he had met five times, was a member of the aguilar, silva, claudio and covarrubias arrived. defendant stayed and spoke with the men but, at some point, began to go back and forth from the garage to his car because he was in the process of removing his belongings from the silva residence. somebody that was 10 conversation about anyone being stabbed. defendant did not give a knife to either a someone hit ash in the back of the head with an object. at that point, defendant garage and went into the silva residence. defendant never participated in assaulting ash, either with his fists or a knife and never again saw ash after he (defendant) left the garage. 12 when body, left the silva premises. when asked why covarrubias would falsely accuse him of participating in . . if 12 11 c. the jury instructions the trial court submitted the pattern caljic instructions defining murder, malice aforethought, and first degree murder. (caljic nos. 8.10, 8.11, 8.20, 8.25.) further, the court instructed on two theories of second degree murder: (1) a homicide committed with malice aforethought but without deliberation and premeditation and (2) a homicide that is the natural and probable consequence of an intentional act (in this case either assault with a deadly weapon or intimidating a witness by force) committed with conscious disregard for human life. (caljic nos. 8.30, 8.31 & 9.00.) in addition, the pattern instructions about aiding and abetting were submitted. (caljic nos. 3.00, 3.01 & 3.02.) discussion a. sufficiency of the evidence defendant contends that the evidence is insufficient to sustain his conviction for second degree murder. he reasons as follows. first, he argues that the jury, by convicting him of second degree murder instead of first degree murder, group that agreed to kill christopher ash for snitching before [defendant] left with reached a second degree murder conviction based upon the testimony of mr. covarrubias, who was clearly out to pin the murder on [defendant] to preserve the ante), defendant covarrubias and did not convict and probable consequence of an assault or of intimidation of 12 defendant then proceeds to argue, based upon a one-sided and selective was no evidence that [he] intended to aid and abet an assault or intimidation of a begin, his assumption that the reviewing his contention of insufficient evidence is not correct. it is well settled portion of it. (people v. maxwell (1979) 94 cal.app.3d 562, 574-575; see also is binding upon us unless that testimony was inherently improbable. (people v. ennis (2010) 190 cal.app.4th 721, 728-729.) but defendant does not urge that ante) and inconsistencies and discrepancies in his testimony (see fns. 6 & 8, ante) to argue, 13 13 as noted earlier, defendant does not contend that insufficient evidence was testimony. (see fn. 4, ante.) corroborated accomplice testimony is sufficient to sustain a conviction. (people v. beaver (2010) 186 cal.app.4th 107, 115.) 13 is not a proper appellate (people v. jones (1990) 51 cal.3d 294, 314-inconsistencies in the testimony is the exclusive province of the trier of fact. people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181.) we therefore the judgment. (people v. swanson (1962) 204 cal.app.2d 169, 173.) we view that evidence in the light most favorable to the judgment and presume the existence of every fact that the jury could reasonably infer from it. (people v. medina (2009) 46 cal.4th 913, 917.) with those principles in mind, we turn to the issue of substantial evidence to sustain the second degree murder conviction. as noted earlier, the jury was properly instructed about the two theories of second degree murder raised by the evidence: (1) a homicide committed with malice aforethought but without deliberation and premeditation (2) a homicide that was the natural and probable consequence of aiding and abetting an assault with a defendant of second degree murder does not, of course, disclose upon which of the two theories it relied. a reviewing court may sustain a general verdict of guilty on any one of the theories upon which the jury was properly instructed as long as substantial evidence supports the theory. (people v. curtin (1994) 22 cal.app.4th 528, 531.) in this case, we explain below that substantial evidence supports the theory of second degree murder based upon the theory of a homicide committed with malice aforethought. we therefore need not determine whether the evidence supports the verdict on the theory of a homicide that was the natural and probable consequence of aiding and abetting an assault with a deadly weapon or witness intimidation. (see, e.g., people v. memro (1985) 38 cal.3d 658, 695.) 14 second degree murder is the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought. ( 187, subd. (a), 189.) malice may be express or implied. ( 188.) implied malice exists when the defendant deliberately commits an conduct endangers the life of another and who acts with conscious disregard for people v. lasko (2000) 23 cal.4th 101, 107.) ittal of the incorrect. the acquittal meant only that the jury found that the people had failed to prove first degree murder beyond a reasonable doubt. here, the jury was instructed that a defendant commits a second degree murder when he kills with malice mony (see fns. 6 & 8, antefailed to prove that by the time defendant left the garage with aguilar to pick up ash, defendant had heard or participated in the conversation(s) in which the other men agreed to kill ash and/or had given both covarrubias and pimentel a knife. on that basis, the jury could have acquitted defendant of first degree murder. but testimony,14 reasonably could have concluded that after defendant, aguilar and 14 testimony closing arguments explained to the jury that determining the credibility of both defendant and covarrubias was key to deciding the case. by convicting defendant of second degree 15 ash returned to the garage and fajardo hit ash on the back of the head with the butt of a shotgun, defendant joined in the fatal assault upon ash by stabbing him multiple times.15 defendant took this action after pimentel had stabbed ash in the neck and chest and covarrubias had stabbed ash in the stomach four to five times. constitutes more than ample evidence that defendant acted with malice: either express (intent to kill) or implied (an action taken in conscious and knowing second degree murder conviction. b. motion for a new trial defendant moved for a new trial based upon juror misconduct. he offered declarations from two jurors that the jury had received and considered evidence not presented at trial: information about the convictions and sentences of aguilar and those events. that credibility determination is binding upon us. (people v. young, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 1181.) pretty strong. clearly, . . . a lot of it depended upon a single witness, mr. covarrubias. but mr. covarrubias did not get some fantastic deal, and i thought his testimony in 15 that the jury found the allegation that defendant personally used a knife during the warranted and was within the province of the jury as an exercise of their mercy. it does people v. brown (1989) 212 cal.app.3d 1409, 1421; see also people v. santamaria not true finding of an enhancement allegation is inconsistent with a conviction of the people v. lewis (2001) 25 cal.4th 610, 654-656 and cases cited therein discussing the principle that inconsistent verdicts do not require reversal of a conviction supported by substantial evidence.) 16 fajardo. the trial court found that this constituted juror misconduct that created a rebuttable presumption of prejudice. an evidentiary hearing was conducted at which nine jurors testified. two testified that misconduct had occurred but the other seven denied any misconduct. in addition, affidavits were submitted from the three remaining jurors, each of whom averred that no misconduct had occurred. in a detailed and thoughtful ruling, the trial court found that the two jurors who alleged misconduct were not credible but that the ten jurors who denied misconduct were believable. on that basis, it concluded that extraneous information had not been presented to the jury; thus, no misconduct had occurred. in addition, it found that even if that information had been presented, there was no substantial likelihood that one or more of the jurors had been biased by it. the trial court therefore denied the new trial motion. defendant now contends that the trial court erred when it denied his new trial motion. we disagree. 1. factual and procedural background a. motion to release juror information after the jury returned its verdict on may 3, defendant sought release of juror information to support a new trial motion based upon the claim that the jury had improperly considered extraneous information during deliberations. defendant included affidavits from two jurors: nos. 6 and 11. each averred that during deliberations, other jurors (either two or three) had stated that they had learned from newspaper articles that aguilar had been sentenced to life without the possibility of parole and that fajardo had been sentenced to death. the trial court found good cause to contact the remaining jurors. it ruled that the defense had onduct, and that raises a rebuttable 17 b. the evidentiary hearing at the evidentiary hearing, nine jurors testified: juror nos. 6 and 11 supported the claim of misconduct and seven other jurors testified that no misconduct had occurred. the particulars are the following. i. evidence of juror misconduct juror no. 6 testified to one incident. during deliberations, juror nos. 7 and 12 told the jury that they had read articles about the sentences the co-defendants 6 testified that he recognized then that this constituted misconduct but explained juror no. 11 testified as follows. after the trial concluded, she and juror no. 6 had a discussion with defense counsel that led to her writing a letter to the court.16 the three-page typed letter, dated may 12, 2011 (nine days after the trial the letter she made no claim that the jury had improperly received information letter launched a broadside attack on her fellow jurors. she accused two of being 16 no evidence was presented that the issue of juror misconduct was discussed in the conversation between defense counsel and jurors no. 6 and 11. 18 unsel no. 6 after juror no. 11 sent her letter to the court, defense counsel contacted her. thereafter, she signed the affidavit submitted in support of the request to release juror information in which she alleged that the jury had received extraneous information. at the hearing, juror no. 11 testified to four instances of misconduct. the first occurred during the second day of jury selection: the individual who was ultimately seated as juror no. 12 told her in the hallway (with no one else around) that the trial of aguilar and fajardo had concluded the previous week. the second cussed becaus 19 sation with juror no. 12 concerning a newspaper article about the co-impression actually was that our foreman was the only person who was allowed to speak to the bailiff [who, in turn, would relay the information to the trial judge]. we were supposed to talk to our foreman, who was supposed to convey anything [but he] was very arbitrary and difficult to deal with. [and] i also felt very when the prosecutor asked juror no. 11 why her letter of may 12 did not letter. [] . . . [] i was concerned about what ii. evidence that no juror misconduct occurred juror no. 1 testified that no one had discussed the co-verdicts or sentences during deliberations. in addition, juror no. 1 signed an information from any source concerning co-defendants in this case. neither the verdicts nor the sentences of any co-defendants entered our deliberations. . . . no juror no. 3 testified that no juror ever mentioned having read a newspaper article about the case. in regard to the deliberations, juror no. 3 testified that no juror brought in information about the conviction or sentencing of any co-defendant and that, in particular, no one said (as juror no. 11 had claimed) that 20 defendant was guilty because a co-defendant had been found guilty in another trial. information regarding the trials of any co- juror no. 7 testified that during deliberations, there was no mention of the co-deany articles about the co-outside source concerning any co-defendant in this case during deliberations. i am not aware of any juror having googled or otherwise sought information concerning this case from any outside source. no outside information (from outside the evidence presented) concerning g-defendants was mentioned during juror no. 8 testified that at no point during deliberations was there any discussion about the co-sentences. he further testified co-or to my knowledge sought or introduced or spoke of any conviction or sentencing of any co-defendant. the subject of conviction and/or sentencing of co-defendants did juror no. 9 testified that during deliberations, the co-dmust be guilty because aguilar must have discussed the purpose of picking up ash aware of juror no. 10 testified that she did not know the co-during deliberations and that none of the jurors mentioned the co- 21 convictions or sentconviction or sentencing of any co- juror no. 12 testified that neither before nor du-of the jurors mentioned the co-deliberations. he denied having made, either during trial or deliberations, any statements about the co-he had spoken to juror no. 11 during jury selection but testified that the or receiving information from any source concerning the convictions or sentencings of any co-defendant. the subjects of conviction and sentencing of co-defendants did not enter delib lastly, affidavits from the three remaining jurors were introduced. juror no. 2 averred: from any source concerning the conviction or sentencing of any co-defendant in this case. the issue of the convictions and sentencings of co- juror no. 4 averred: sentencing of any co-defendant in this case. those issues, the verdict and sentencing of co- and juror no. 5 averred: to any co-defendant, including but not limited to defendants aguilar 22 and fajardo. no juror introduced information from any outside source, including google, concerning the verdict or sentencing of defendants aguilar or fajardo, or any other co- c. ce in the evidentiary hearing as well as the affidavits filed, the court has decided that the prosecution has made an affirmative evidentiary showing that juror misconduct did not occur and, if the misconduct did occur, that there was no prejudice to the d decision to vote a guilty verdict in this case. by her own admission, juror 11 has atneutrality as well as her demeanor in court has made me not credit her statements about what happened during deliberations. this is especially true when compared (italics added.) an agenda and is somewhat biased towards the defense. [] . . . i do believe that juror 11 and juror 6 . . . entered into some kind of alliance to help [defendant] because they were not happy with the verdict despite having voted for it his release from prison . . . goes beyond a normal role a juror would play and calls conclude that [jurors nos.] 6 and 11, through the prism that they were looking at 23 in addition, the court noted that both jurors nos. 6 and 11 testified that the other jurors heard the extraneous information about the co-ictions and sentences but that the 10 other jurors denied that ever happened. the court deliberations cannot coexist. and i choose to find, based on the credibility and the questions asked of the testifying witnesses, the sheer weight of the testifying jurors, the three jurors who provided affidavits, that the seven jurors that testified here supporting misconduct is very weak and that the people have provided affirmative evidence supporting that the court found that even if the jury had been exposed to the information about the convictions and sentences of aguilar and fajardo, there was no substantial likelihood that any juror was biased by the information.17 the court therefore d. discussion determination of a new trial motion based upon a claim of juror misconduct involves a multi-step approach. first, the trial court determines whether the affidavits supporting the motion are admissible. if it finds that the evidence is admissible, it next determines whether it establishes misconduct. if it does, a rebuttable presumption of prejudice arises. the burden then shifts to the people to 17 and sentences was not inherently prejudicial because significant evidence about both been presented at trial. we need not discuss the issue of prejudice because, as we explain, substantial evidence occurred. 24 rebut the presumption of prejudice. (people v. hord (1993) 15 cal.app.4th 711, 724.) was based upon the claim that the jury improperly received information about his co-people v. dykes (2009) 46 cal.4th 731, 809.) here, the trial court found, based upon the initial defense showing, that juror misconduct had occurred that was presumptively prejudicial. at that point, it which because the misconduct, in fact, never occurred. (people v. von villas (1995) 36 cal.app.4th 1425, 1431.) the people carried that burden at the evidentiary hearing. the trial court disbelieved the claim of jurors nos. 6 and 11 that the jury received and considered information about the co-the court found that no miscfactual findings and credibility determinations if supported by substantial evidence. (people v. dykes, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 809.) ermination that juror nos. 6 and 11 were not credible. we begin with juror no. 11. nine days after the trial ended, she sent a three-page letter to the trial judge setting forth multiple concerns about the trial. significantly, the letter contained no mention of to four purported instances of misconduct, she never brought any of the incidents trepresentations in her may 12 letter, sought to help him in multiple ways. lastly, 25 10 jurors disputed her claim that the jury had received or considered evidence not submitted at trial. in particular, both juror no. 12 (the individual whom she testified had introduced the extraneous information into the jury room) and juror ed any misconduct. on this record, the trial was not credible. as for juror no. 6, his impartiality was called into question by his willingness to give defendant a job upon release from prison. further, the trial immediately notify the court about the purported receipt of extraneous information because deliberations were almost over, given that he testified that he recognized no. 11, the ten other jurorsincluding the two he accused of misconduct (jurors nos. 7 & 12)of misconduct. credible is more than amply supported by the record. in sum, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in finding, after having conducted the evidentiary hearing, that the people had rebutted the presumption of prejudice by establishing that no outside information had been brought to the attention of the jury. (people v. san nicolas (2004) 34 cal.4th 614, 651.) essentially rehash the arguments he unsuccessfully advanced in the trial court. it is not our role to reweigh the credibility of the jurors after the trial court has made its findings, particularly since the trial court observed the demeanor of nine jurors and questioned many of them at the evidentiary hearing. (people v. dykes, supra, 46 26 finding that no misconduct occurred, it is not necessary for us to examine the trial there was no substantial likelihood that any of the jurors had been biased as a result. (see fn. 17, ante.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports willhite, acting p. j. we concur: manella, j. suzukawa, j. 