filed 5/22/12 p. v. quaresma ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jayde m. quaresma, defendant and appellant. b237350 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya080527) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, eric c. taylor, judge. affirmed. california appellate project and larry pizarro, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. 2 jayde m. quaresma appeals from the judgment entered following her plea of no contest to false imprisonment (pen. code,  236)1 and assault with a deadly weapon or force likely to produce great bodily injury ( 245, subd. (a)(1)), during the commission of which she used a deadly and dangerous weapon, to wit, a knife ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)), and inflicted great bodily injury ( 12022.7, subd. (a)). the trial court sentenced quaresma to 8 years 8 months in prison. we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. facts.2 megan truxton-ferry met quaresma on august 9 or 10, 2010. the two women met through their respective boyfriends and, during the following six months, began to develop a friendship. however, after six months, truxton-ferry was no longer dating the same man and she did not wish to be friendly with quaresma. at first, quaresma appeared to respect truxton-hes, but as time went on the discussions between -mail sent on february 28, 2011, quaresma -mail sent on the same day, quaresma threatened to -ferry. to that e-mail truxton- -because i would rather show you how i feel with my fists and kicks than respond to one that afternoon, truxton--mailed a message to q-way of defen 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 the facts have been taken from the transcript of the preliminary hearing. 3 -send that message. in one additional message, truxton- later, truxton-ferry began to receive text messages from quaresma. in one -ferry where she was. truxton-ferry indicated that she was at home in her house at 4545 160th street. although truxton-ferry did not invite quaresma to come to the house, approximately one-half hour later, quaresma was knocking on truxton-kitchen door. truxton-ferry opened the door just enough for her body to fill the gap between the door and the wall. when quaresma began to talk, truxton-ferry assessed the situation. truxton-ferry how she was doing, she lunged at truxton-ferry, pushing her into the kitchen. quaresma threw punches and pulled at truxton-truxton- on-hair, quaresma managed to get on top of truxton-ferry, who was by this time lying on her back on the floor. while quaresma was attacking truxton-ferry, she told truxton-ferry that, if truxton-ferry told anyone aboback and kill [truxton- truxton-ferry felt sharp pains in her head as quaresma continued to hit her there, -ferry at her stomach and hit truxton-ferry -ferry indicated that she would not tell anyone. however, after awhile, truxton-ferry felt that she was not going 4 to -ferry for some reason quaresma stopped hitting truxton-ferry, got up and left the house. truxton-ferry locked the truxton-ferry did not know how quaresma would react, truxton-ferry called her neighbor. truxton--that she had left her keys inside. truxton-and did not want to open the door to give them to her. instead, truxton- paramedics arrived and, after bandaging her head, transported truxton-ferry to the hospital. in addition to her head, truxton- the hospital, it was determined that truxton-ferry had a fractured wrist and was required to wear a partial cast and bandage for several weeks. however, she had primarily suffered wounds to her head. doctors were required to use approximately 30 staples and a number of stitches to close the cuts. jesus valenzuela lives at 4543 160th street. at approximately 6:00 p.m. on february 28, 2011, his daughter, j., came into the house to get him. j. was upset, so valenzuela followed her outside. there he saw quaresma, holding a knife in her hand as she stood behind a car parked next to the door to truxton-dropped the knife, came back, got into the parked car and drove off. according to -if truxton-ferry needed any assistance. as she walked over, debbie valenzuela saw quaresma outside truxton-valenzuela saw that truxton- 5 valenzuela dealt with truxton-ferry, called 911,3 then walked back outside. at that time, she noticed that quaresma had a knife in her hand. as debbie valenzuela walked -ferry] to give her her car keys and her sunglasses and . . . to tell her that she was sorry [she had done] this, but she never would have [done] it if [truxton- 2. procedural history. following a preliminary hearing, on august 25, 2011 quaresma was charged with attempted, willful, deliberate, premeditated murder ( 664/187, subd. (a)) (count 1), first degree burglary when the person is present ( 459) (count 2), assault with a deadly weapon or force likely to produce great bodily injury ( 245, subd. (a)(1)) (count 3), and dissuading a witness from reporting a crime ( 136.1, subd. (b)(1)) (count 4). it was further alleged as to counts 2, 3 and 4, that, in the commission of the offenses, quaresma personally inflicted great bodily injury (12022.7, subd. (a)) and that, as to counts 1, 2 use not being an element of t the people had made an offer of 8 years 8 months in prison and that quaresma wished to years for the [great bodily injury] allegation, plus one year for the knife, for eight years and then one-third the mi 3 when debbie valenzuela called 911, the oper 6 know you were bleeding, but the fact is i got hurt and i hurt you, so i know that i have to and you got hurt. and i wish things could have been differently. [] i hope you forgive it was my actions that arethat brought me here obviously, but i know that the bible says that the lord punishes his children like our human fathers punish their children so that we can learn from our mistakes and to change and i never wanti definitely learned from this and i never want to hurt anybody and truxton-e-ferry you so much they did. [] . . . i just hope the prosecutor addressed quaresma, informing her that, in count 3 of the information, she had been charged with assault with a deadly weapon or force likely to offense, quaresma had inflicted great bodily injury upon truxton-ferry within the meaning of section 12022.7. in the same information, in count 5, quaresma had been informed quaresma that, pursuant to the plea agreement, she would be sentenced to 8 within the meaning of the california three-strikes law[.] in other words, if [she were to be] later arrested and convicted [of] another felony, this conviction [would] result in the 7 the prosecutor then explained to quaresma that, by entering a plea, she would be giving up her right to a jury or court trial, her right to confront the witnesses against her, that she understood and was willing to waive her rights and that, in addition, she understood that she would be on parole for a period of up to three years and would be required to pay restitution and other fines. after knowingly and intentionally waiving her rights, quaresma pleaded no contest to section 245, subdivision (a)(1), assault with a deadly weapon or force likely to produce great bodily injury, during which she used a deadly or dangerous weapon, a knife, and inflicted great bodily injury upon truxton-ferry. quaresma then acknowledged that the offense amoumeaning of sections 667.5, subdivision (c) and 1192.7, subdivision (c) for purposes of the three strikes law. with regard to the charge alleged in count 5, false imprisonment in violation of section 236, quaresma again pleaded no contest. allegations. the trial court sentenced quaresma to the upper-term of four years for her conviction of assault with a deadly weapon or force likely to produce great bodily injury. with regard to her admission that she used a deadly and dangerous weapon during the assault, a knife, the trial court imposed an additional year. for her admission that she inflicted great bodily injury during the offense, the trial court imposed a term of three years. finally, for her admission that she committed false imprisonment, the trial court imposed one third the mid-term, or eight months. in total, the trial court sentenced quaresma to the agreed upon term of 8 years 8 months in prison. 8 quaresma was given presentence custody credit for 202 days actually served and 15 percent, or 30 days, of good time/work time, for a total of 232 days. the court then imposed an $80 security assessment ( 1465.8, subd. (a)(1)), a $60 criminal conviction assessment (gov. code,  70373), a $200 restitution fine ( 1202.4, subd. (b)), a stayed $200 parole revocation restitution fine ( 1202.45) and $135 in restitution to the victim, truxton-ferry ( 1202.4, subd. (f)). as requested by letters submitted in support of quaresma, the trial court recommended that she be housed at the chino institute for women, a facility in southern california. the remaining counts1, 2 and 4due to on november 17, 2011, quaresma filed a timely notice of appeal. the notice plea that [did] not affect the validity of the plea. (cal. contentions after examination of the record, counsel filed an opening brief which raised no issues and requested this court to conduct an independent review of the record. by notice filed february 23, 2012, the clerk of this court advised quaresma to submit within 30 days any contentions, grounds of appeal or arguments she wished this court to consider. no response has been received to date. review on appeal we have examined the entire record and are satisfied counsel has complied fully smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 278-284; people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, 443.) 9 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: kitching, j. aldrich, j. 