filed 10/24/12 p. v. venable ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. maurice leon venable, defendant and appellant. b237315 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta117553) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, eleanor j. hunter, judge. affirmed as modified with directions. susan k. shaler, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, linda c. johnson and tita nguyen, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 i. introduction a jury convicted defendant, maurice leon venable, of first degree murder (pen. code,1  187, subd. (a)) and firearm possession by a felon ( 12021, subd. (a)(1)). the jury found the personal firearm use ( 12022.53, subd. (d)) and criminal street gang benefit allegations to be true. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c).) the jury further found two prior conviction allegations within the meaning of sections 667, subdivision (a)(1), 667, subdivisions (b) through (i), and 1170.12 to be true. the trial court subsequently concluded, however, that there was only one prior conviction on charges brought and tried separately under section 667, subdivision (a)(1). the trial court sentenced defendant to 105 years to life in state prison. we modify the judgment and affirm as modified. ii. the evidence a. the prosecution case 1. overview in december 2007, defendant murdered a fellow gang member, clifford ingram. defendant walked up to mr. ingram, who was seated in a car. defendant shot mr. ingram in the chest with a .38 caliber revolver. there was evidence the murder occurred because mr. members of the gang. there was also evidence mr. not arrested for the murder until april 2011. in an attempt to avoid conviction, defendant threatened potential witnesses with harm if they testified. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code except where otherwise noted. 3 2. brent exley defendant and mr. exley were members of the same criminal street gang. mr. exley was 31 years old at the time of trial. he had been a gang member since he was 13 years old. the parties stipulated that mr. exley had previously been convicted of felonies on three occasions in 1998, 2001 and 2004. on several occasions prior to the murder, defendant had spoken to mr. exley. defendant expressed a desire to kill mr. ingram. a week prior to the murder, mr. exley and defendant saw mr. ingram driving up a street. mr. ingram got out of his car and dropped something. it sounded to mr. exley as though the thing mr. ingram dropped could have been a gun. defendant tried to retrieve his pistol. when asked why defendant was trying to get his weapon out, mr. for his weapon, he crashed into a van that had pulled out in front of him. defendant drove away. on december 22, 2007, mr. exley was riding a bicycle on patrol in the neighborhood, looking for rival gang members. mr. exley saw mr. ingram. mr. ingram was sitting in his parked car in the middle of 131st street. mr. ingram was talking to exley saw defendant pass and continue down the street. defendant was driving his car as he continued down the street. thirty seconds later, mr. exley saw defendant walk up to the passenger side of mr. -caliber revolver. defendant shot mr. ingram. mr. exley had seen defendant with the same .38-prior to the murder. (consistent with mr. caliber revolver, no shell casings were found in mr. later, defendant spoke to mr. exley. defendant was glad mr. ingram was dead. in august 2008, while in custody on a parole violation, mr. exley told detectives that defendant shot mr. ingram. on december 22, 2008, someone fired on a vehicle in which mr. exley was riding. one of the occupants of the vehicle was killed. mr. exley 4 believed that, because of his trial testimony, he was at risk of being killed by gang members. 3. mr. scott mr. scott was 50 years old at the time of trial. on december 22, 2007, around noon, mr. 2 mr. ingram pulled up in his car. mr. scott and mr. ingram spoke for a few minutes. as they were talking, mr. scott saw a hand holding a small revolver come through the passenger side window. mr. ingram lifted his arm as if to protect his head. mr. scott heard a pop and dropped to the ground. mr. car rolled backwards and crashed into a fence. mr. on july 17, 2008, while in custody, mr. scott described the shooting to detective richard biddle. the interview was recorded. mr. scott said he was kneeling down talking to mr. ingram. mr. a gun in his asked mr. scott whether defendant fired the shot. detective biddle referred to defendant using a gang moniker. mr. scott said he knew the person detective biddle was referring to. but mr. scott was uncertain the person referred to by detective biddle shot mr. for a long period of time, that he knew he was a gang member and that the neighborhood was afraid of scott declined to look at any photographs. later, detective biddle and a partner, described only as detective 2 for the sake of clarity, we refer to michael and kelvin randle by their first names. 5 hall, walked mr. scott back to a cell. mr. mr. scott was reluctant to testify at trial. mr. scott acknowledged telling two detectives the person who shot mr. ingram was a black male with a shaved head wearing a black jacket and jeans. mr. scott further acknowledged telling the detectives mr. scott denied telling the detectives the assai scott also did not recall telling the detectives he saw the person who shot mr. ingram walk up to the car. mr. who did it. you hav scott denied telling kelvin or stephanie riley, mr. mr. scott whether a list of potential witnesses had been the subject of discussion in the community where the shooting occurred. mr. scott denied such a list existed. 4. ms. riley mr. riley, saw mr. mr. scott told ms. riley that he was talking to mr. ingram when defendant came up to the car on the passenger side with a gun, opened the door, and shot mr. ingram. at trial, mr. scott denied making those statements to ms. riley. ms. riley did not report this conversation with mr. scott until september 20, 2011when detective biddle came to her house with a subpoena. this was two weeks before she testified at trial. ms. riley was frightened because her name was on a list of witnesses that was circulating in the neighborhood. 5. tracey johnson ms. johnson was in her mid-eighties at the time of trial. on december 22, 2007, she was walking to a store with her two grandchildren when she saw a car parked near 6 johnson saw mr. scott talking to the driver. then the car started to roll backwards. defendant ran past ms. johnson holding a gun in his hand. ms. johnson was certain that defendant was the person she saw with the gun. defendant ran into ms. shooting, ms. johnson gave a police officer a description of the man who ran into ms. johnson also said she thought she knew him. the man was a friend or ex-friend of her brother. nearly three years after the murder, on october 14, 2010, ms. johnson told detectives hall and biddle that she had witnessed the shooting. she was unable, ang moniker. ms. johnson told detective biddle she did not know who that was. detective ink about it. johnson a picture of defendant. ms. one month later, on november 12, 2010, when detectives biddle and hall returned, ms. johnson identified defendant by name. the detectives asked whether ms. johnson remembered the name of the person who fired the fatal shot. ms. johnson trial, ms. johnson positively identified defendant as the man who ran past her with a gun in his hand. also on november 12, 2010, ms. johnson told the detectives that since their october visit, she had been threatened to keep her mouth closed. an unidentified individual approached ms. grandchildren to tell ms. johnson to keep her mouth closed, not to go to court, or she would suffer. ten months later, on september 20, 2011, detectives biddle and hall returned with a subpoena. ms. johnson told them that in june 2011, mr. scott had shown her a list 7 michael, kelvin, terry, jennie, oscar, carlos, tracey and stephanie. mr. scott got the list from someone who had been in jail with defendant. the man told mr. scott the witnesses needed to watch their backs. about a week later, a man came to ms. house. he pointed to a list and asked ms. no be consequences if she came to court. ms. johnson had a daughter and grandchildren. as a result, ms. johnson feared for their safety. before she testified, ms. johnson saw the man who had threatened her in the courtroom. at trial, michael, kelvin and mr. scott all denied they had been threatened. 6. michael michael was reluctant to testify at trial. michael denied seeing mr. ingram drive up in front of his house. michael denied telling detective biddle that mr. ingram drove up to the house. michael did, however, see mr. ingram parked in the middle of the street and talking to mr. scott. he denied witnessing the shooting. michael could not remember having a conversation with detective biddle during which a conversation with conversation with detective biddle, and you told him that [mr. scott] he asked you who shot? [] 7. kelvin detectives biddle and hall interviewed kelvin on october 14, 2010. the interview was recorded. kelvin said the person who shot mr. ingram ran to ms. house and tried to enter the residence. ms. jones was ke 8 kelvin testified at trial. kelvin spoke to mr. ingram in front of the randle house on december 22, 2008. kelvin went back inside the house while mr. scott continued to speak with mr. ingram. kelvin was indoors when he heard what sounded like a fire cracker. his sister, jennie, who was on the porch, started screaming. then kelvin heard a boom. kelvin then went outside. kelvin saw mr. the corner. mr. statements by mr. scott concerning the shooting with detective biddle. kelvin denied telling detective biddle that mr. scott claimed to have seen the shooting. kelvin testified mr. scott never said mr. 8. detective brian richardson detective richardson was a gang investigator. he had been gathering intelligence members, some of whom were in prison. detective richardson had known mr. ingram since 2000 or 2001. mr. ingram was an older, respected member of the gang, an ingram was involved in the day-to-day operations of the gang. he had been shot in the past. detective richardson had seen defendant in the gang neighborhood. but detective richardson did not know defendant personally. detective richardson never had any personal contact with defendant. defendant had multiple gang tattoos and was an admitted gang member. he was an active gang member in 2007. ct is district attorney posed a hypothetical situation where two older gang members disrespected one another. detective richardson explained that the older gang member 9 will lose respect in the eyes of the gang. again, he would definitely lose respect from the crucial because it brings in money which in turn buys cars and guns. detective richardson also testified that a gang member who filed a police report implicating other the deputy district attorney asked detective richardson the following well respected in the gang; and he has a dispute with another [original gangster], another well-respected member of the gang; and the dispute is because the first guy called the police on some younger gang members for vandalizing his house, and he filed a report; and then this got out in the gang and they began discussing this . . . snitch, this [original gangster] who cooperated with the police, and they also determined that he was selling dope in ght, on a residential street in an area well within gang territory, one [original gangster], who had expressed on prior occasions a desire to kill this guy, goes up to his car, reaches his hand in and shoots him one time in the back. [] now, sir, do you have an opinion whether that crime was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of or in association with a criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further and assist in criminal conduct by gang trust was broken and so the gang feels a littlethe crimes that they commit because someone from their own circle has informed them to the police. [] so, again, you have tobig fear and intimidation factor. [] the mere fact that this individual told the police and then, as you said, the other individual went and told the younger gang members and then 10 within their own gang, not just the good people that live inside of the neighborhood. so the older gangster, also felt like his contemporary, the victim, was selling dope where he would be more of a status, individual status for thatfor that gang member, especially if -caller, first of all, someone that has a lot of b. the defense case defendant testified. he was 49 years old at the time of trial. he admitted an extensive criminal history dating back 30 years. but defendant denied having any problem with mr. ingram. defendant denied any involvement in mr. he denied any attempt to dissuade witnesses from testifying. suppression of evidence claim mr. exley was in custody on a parole violationfailure to report to a parole officerin august 2008. in august 2008, mr. exley told police officers that defendant shot mr. ingram. mr. exley testified he was not sure why he decided to approach the police at that time. but he was tired of the gang life. he had a girlfriend, and they had a child together. the child was born in april 2008. mr. exley wanted to get away and 11 take care of his family. he had not been promised anything or offered any money to testify. mr. exley had been back to prison on parole violations twice since august 2008. no one had intervened to his benefit. one week before trial began, defens-trial prosecutor, deputy district attorney anthony aguilar. mr. aguilar said mr. exley might have given information to law enforcement officers in connection with a previous case. this case was subsequently assigned for trial to deputy district attorney steven dickman. one week prior to the start of trial, ms. quinones spoke to mr. dickman about mr. exley. they discussed whether mr. dickman discussed the informant issue with the officers assigned to his case. on cross-examination, ms. quinones questioned mr. exley at length about his arrests subsequent to august 2008 and his relationship with law enforcement officers. mr. exley admitted that on may 5, 2010, he was arrested on a weapons charge. but the district attorney refused to file any charges. according to mr. exley, there was insufficient evidence he had been in the car in which the weapon was found. mr. exley testified he did not usually cooperate with police officer- - correct? - - lations, yeah. [] q well, violations come with new cases. [] a naw, not - - q but you have been arrested for separate offenses other than your violation. that just attaches to them. [] a yeah. [] q but never been charged? [] a the gun case, . . . . q by ms. quinones: have you ever given information on other murders? [] a naw. [] q - - other murders to solve them in order for you to get preferential treatment? [] a naw. [] . . . . [] q by ms. - - the police 12 e in jail, but you you said that they - - going to really ask you too much. [] q come on now. you know they ask you a lot of - - - - they just plain started asking me a whole bunch of questions about something on the street. [] q so you seem pretty special, both in your hood and with the police department; is that true? [] a i mean, i - - - - - - how i can crimes? [] a well, they never - - never been - - [] a correct. [] q - - when you gave your statement; is that right? [] a yeah. [] . . . [] q by ms. yeah. [] q but yet - - this particular time you decided to cooperate with them? [] a yeah. ms. quinones also questioned detective richardson about discussions with mr. u know brent exley? [] a yes. [] q do you know mr. exley personally had contact with brent exley? [] a yes. [] q is brent exley a cooperative gang member with your police department? [] . . . [] q . . . do you use the trial court held an in camera hearing. with the agreement of the attorney general, the transcript of the in camera hearing has been unsealed. detective richardson testified he regularly interviewed gang members who had been arrested. mr. exley was 13 not use mr. exley in any way as an informant. but mr. exley had given detective richardson information on seven or eight occasions. the information led detective richardson in the right direction in various investigations. detective richardson had not gotten any information from mr. exley prior to the date of mr. exley began in around june 2009. this was after mr. exley told investigatorsin august 2008that he had witnessed the present murder. but detective richardson did nointerview with mr. exley. detective biddle first told detective richardson that mr. exley was an eyewitness in this case on the day prior to the preliminary hearing, july 26, 2011. detective richardson testifie detective richardson had never given mr. exley any money. detective richardson had not made mr. exley any promises of help in any criminal matter. detective richardson had not provided mr. exley with any benefits at all. in their conversations, mr. exley never explained what his motive was in providing information . . i was investigating. i had never . . . even met [mr.] exley. [] the other gang member runs with a gun. and when i got . . . there, the deputies tell me they take [mr.] exley to jail. later on i believe they found the other gang member also. so they took both of them to jail. the gun was never found on [mr.] exley. the gun was found on the other gang member. i believe that he thought i did him . . . a favor . . . because it was a d.a. reject on that case on him. i had nothing to do with that dfound on him. [] and i believe him that's why he started . . . giving me information. mr. ms. quinones argued mr. the police as an informant and received some type of benefit for doing so. she noted that no new case had been filed against mr. exley since at least 2007. ms. quinones stated: 14 know if he is a snitch, how long, what dates so that i can compare them perhaps with the weeks ago. those kinds of questio dickman responded that mr. exley had not received any benefit of any kind. the trial court denied ms. dismissal or for a mistrial. the trial court ruled ms. quinones could ask detective exley] givea jury instruction with respect to the belated disclosure. when proceedings resumed with the jury present, ms. quinones questioned you know brent dickman: the court: sustained. [] q by ms. quinones: have you gotten information from brent exley before on other cases? [] mr. timing as to[o] vague. [] the court: you can clevague. go ahead. sustain on that. [] q by ms. quinones: other cases where you have used brent exley to get information for prosecution? [] mr. dickman: again, me and the form of the question is vague. [] the court: sustained. [] q by ms. quinones: have you used brent exley in the [] q has he received any benefit for that, monetarily? [] a no. [] q has he received any other benefit for his - - in exchange for his cooperation with law detective biddle gave consistent testimony on cross-interviewed [mr. exley] in custody? [] a correct. [] q and he gives you 15 there a- - [] q yes. [] a - - -make ms. quinones discussed mr. and i asked him that because i have to tell you i had a feeling that he was someone who cooperated with the police, and that came to fruition when detective richardson was on informs and he gives us information. but, no, -47, one of those assault rifle things, is a crime. he was caught with one and not charged. [] he had possession of three bullets and he was charged and convicted. he was arrested several times in the last four years, exley. never -month stint parole violations. helse to help himself, plain and simple. nothing from his mouth was the truth. he gave you his opinion on things just to put the spin to make himself look better, would not even 16 iv. discussion defendant argues his conviction must be reversed because there was insufficient disclosure mr. exley had provided information to law enforcement officers in cases other than the present one. in addition, defendant argues ms. quinones should have been given latitude when cross-examining detective richardson. as a result, defendant argues, his due process, confrontation and effective assistance of counsel rights under the state and federal constitutions were violated which then rendered his trial fundamentally unfair. defendant emphasizes that mr. exley was the sole eyewitness to the shooting. no other witness saw mr. exley at the scene of the murder. detective biddle testified that none of the witnesses said they saw mr. exley on 131st and grandee on the day of the shooting. and the only other witness to place defendant in the area, ms. johnson, made an unconvincing identification of defendant. our review is de novo. (people v. letner (2010) 50 cal.4th 99, 176 (letner); people v. salazar (2005) 35 cal.4th 1031, 1042 (salazar).) as our supreme court held in letner, question whether a brady violation has occurred, but give great weight to any trial court findings of fact that are supported by substantial evidence. (salazar, [supra, 35 cal.4th] letner, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 176.) there are three components to a failure to disclose exculpatory testimony violation: first, there was evidence favorable to the accused; second, the evidence was suppressed by the prosecution; and third, there was prejudice to the defendant. (letner, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 176; people v. bowles (2011) 198 cal.app.4th 318, 325.) our united states v. agurs [(1976)] 427 u.s. 97, 112, fn. 20; accord, u.s. v. fallon (7th cir. 2003) 348 f.3d 248, 252.) . . . banks v. dretke salazar, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 17 1043; accord, letner, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 176.) the united states supreme court has the evidence been disclosed to the defense, the result of the proceeding would have been united states v. bagley (1985) 473 u.s. 667, 682 (bagley); accord, salazar, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 1042.) defendant bears the burden of showing materiality. (people v. hoyos (2007) 41 cal.4th 872, 918; in re sassounian (1995) 9 cal.4th 535, 545.) the first two components are met in this case. there is no question the prosecution had a duty to disclose that mr. exley had provided information to law enforcement officers. even absent a request by the defense, under the due process clause of the federal constitution, the prosecution has a duty to disclose all evidence material to either guilt or punishment. (brady v. maryland (1963) 373 u.s. 83, 87; in re bacigalupo (2012) 55 cal.4th 312, 333; salazar, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 1042; see also evid. code,  1054.1.) suppression of evidence material to either guilt or punishment can violate due process. (brady v. maryland, supra, 373 u.s. at p. 87; letner, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. extends to impeachment and exculpatory evidence. (bagley, supra, 473 u.s. at p. 676; salazar, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 1042.) it includes material evidence bearing on a key giglio v. united states (1972) 405 u.s. 150, 154; people v. ruthford (1975) 14 cal.3d 399, 408, disapproved on another point in in re sassounian, supra, 9 cal.4th at p. 545, fn. 7.) as our courts of appeal have specifically held: brady,extends to evidence reflecting on the credibility of a material witness. [citations.] this people v. kasim (1997) 56 cal.app.4th 1360, 1380; accord, in re pratt nducements for favorable testimony includes information known only to law enforcement entities and not to the prosecutor. (kyles v. whitley (1995) 514 u.s. 419, 437; letner, supra, 50 18 cal.4th at p. 175; salazar, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 1042.) the prosecutor has a duty to letner, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 175; salazar, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 1042.) here, the prosecution failed to disclose evidence reflecting on mr. ibility until after the trial was already in progress. defendant has not, however, shown that the impeaching evidence was material within the meaning of brady in that he suffered prejudice. that is, defendant has not established there was a reasonable probability the result would have been more favorable to him had the impeachment evidence been timely disclosed. (letner, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 176; people v. hoyos, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 918.) mr. exley was an important eyewitness. mr. exley identified defendant as mr. exley was not the sole witness to name defendant as mr. testimony was otherwise corroborated. mr. scott was talking to mr. ingram when defendant fired the fatal shot. mr. scott told ms. riley defendant shot mr. ingram. certainly, at first or during the recorded interview, mr. scott refused to accuse defendant. mr. scott subsequently told detective biddle the authorities were looking at the right defendant. mr. scott testified at trial to actually seeing mr. towards ms. johnson testified she saw defendant run past her with a gun in his hand into ms. defendant as the murderer. she did so despite having been threatened. the impeachment value of this evidence is marginal. the evidence indicated that mr. exley provided information to a law enforcement officer on seven or eight occasions. mr. cooperation only commenced nearly one year after identifying defendant as mr. ingram's killer. exley and detectives biddle and richardson, the informant issue was thoroughly explored. ms. quinones extensively cross-examined mr. exley about his interactions with investigators. she implied, through her questions, that mr. exley had in fact cooperated with law enforcement officers and, in turn, been treated leniently when he repeatedly violated his 19 parole conditions. detective biddle testified mr. exley asked for help with a parole violation in return for information about the present murder. detective biddle said mr. exley was advised no help could be provided whatsoever. detective richardson specifically denied providing mr. exley with any benefit of any kind. further, the jury knew mr. exley was in custody on a parole violation when the first discussion with detective biddle about mr. also knew that, although questioned by investigators previously, mr. exley had not come forward with the information until he was in custody. the jurors knew that mr. exley had subsequently provided reliable information to detective richardson. and there was evidence mr. exley had not been charged with any new cases upon violating his parole. and this occurred after mr. exley identified defendant as mr. heard evidence mr. exley was risking his life by identifying defendant. as permitted by the trial court, ms. quinones asked detective richardson whether mr. exley had given information in the past five years. and ms. quinones asked, as permitted by the trial court, whether mr. exley received any benefit in return. she did not seek to ask any additional questions. defendant has not identified any possible motives mr. exley might have had to provide false information to the authorities that ms. quinones would have explored on cross-examination had she known mr. exley had provided information to detective richardson. through testimony and argument, the jury was sufficiently apprised of the circumstances of mr. no reasonable probability that had the undisclosed information been provided to defense counsel even earlier, the outcome would have been more favorable to defendant. b. cross-examination defendant asserts it was reversible error to limit cross-examination of detective richardson concerning mr. the tria exley provided information; what law enforcement agencies or officers he provided information to; 20 whether mr. exley might have perceived as a potential benefit of so conducting himself. under the confrontation clause of the federal constitution, a trial court retains wide discretion to impose reasonable limits on cross-examination. (delaware v. van arsdall (1986) 475 u.s. 673, 678-679; people v. smith (2007) 40 cal.4th 483, 513; people v. ledesma (2006) 39 cal.4th 641, 704-potential bias or credibility. as the court of appeal for the first appellate district explained in the case of in re ryan n. confrontation clause simply guarantees an opportunity for effective cross-examination; it does not assure a chance to cross-examine in whatever way, and to whatever extend, the defense might wish. (delaware v. van arsdall, supra, 475 u.s. at pp. 679-680; delaware v. fensterer (1985) 474 u.s. 15, 20; davis v. alaska [(1974)] 415 u.s. [308,] 315-316.) as long as the cross-examiner has the opportunity to place the witness in his or her proper ligreasonable test which allows the fact finder fairly to appraise it, the trial court may permissibly limit cross-examination to prevent undue harassment, expenditure of time, or confusion of the issues. (davis v. alaska, supra, 415 u.s. at p. 318; evans v. lewis (9th cir. 1988) 855 f.2d 631, 634; steele v. perez (7th cir. 1987) 827 f.2d 190, 193-194.) or unless the prohibited cross-examination might reasonably have produced a significantly people v. cudjo (1993) 6 cal.4th 585, 611; people v. cooper [(1991)] 53 cal.3d [771,] 816-817; people v. jennings (1991) 53 people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 9-10; people v. cooper, supra, 53 cal.3d at pp. 816-817.) there was no abuse of discretion. as discussed above, mr. exley, when cross-examined, testified that he had provided information to law enforcement officers while in custody. detective richardson likewise testified mr. exley had provided information. detective richardson said mr. 21 evidence that although mr. exley had requested help with a parole violation, he was clearly told no assistance would be provided. detective richardson said department policy prohibited using mr. exley as a confidential informant. consistent with that policy, no benefit of any kind had been provided to mr. exley. ms. quinones challenged this assertion by eliciting evidence from mr. exley that he had been arrested on several occasions without incurring any new criminal charges against him. ms. quinones cross-expand her inquiry while detective richardson was on the stand or otherwise. she did not move to strike mr. impeachment evidence earlier, mr. light. and, the cross-examination placed mr. cross-examination was prohibited that might reasonably have produced a materially different impression of mr. l motion defendant argues the trial court abused its discretion when it denied a mistrial motion, failed to instruct the jury, and ordered no remedy in connection with the should people v. bolden (2002) 29 cal.4th 515, 555; accord, people v. clark (2011) 52 cal.4th 856, 990.) for all the reasons discussed above, we find no 22 d. jury instruction denial the trial court declined to instruct the jury concdisclose or its untimely disclosure. (see calcrim no. 336;3 caljic no. 3.20;4  1054.4, subd. (b).) any error was harmless under any standard. (people v. souza (2012) 54 cal.4th 90, 135; people v. hovarter (2008) 44 cal.4th 983,1022.) e. sufficiency of the evidence the crime was committed to benefit a criminal street gang defendant challenges the sufficiency of the evidence he committed the murder for the benefit of a criminal street gang. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c).) defendant argues there was only evidence of a personal dispute with mr. ingram. there was no evidence, according to defendant, of any gang disapproval of mr. ingram. further, detective richardson had no personal knowledge of defendant. detective richardson had only 3 calcrim no. the testimony of an in-custody informant should be viewed with caution and close scrutiny. in evaluating such testimony, you should consider the extent to which it may have been influenced by the receipt of, or expectation of, any benefits from the party calling that witness. this does not mean that you may arbitrarily disregard such testimony, but you should give it the weight to which you find it to be entitled in the light of all the evidence in the case. [] [an in-custody informant is someone[, other than (a/an) (codefendant[,]/ [or] percipient witness[,]/ [or] accomplice[,]/ [or] coconspirator,)] whose testimony is based on [a] statement[s] the defendant allegedly made while both the defendant and the informant were held within a correctional institution.] [] [ <insert name of witness> is an in-custody informant.] [] [ <insert name of institution> 2006 rev.) 4 the testimony of an in-custody informant should be viewed with caution and close scrutiny. in evaluating this testimony, you should consider the extent to which it may have been influenced by the receipt of, or expectation of, any benefits from the party calling that witness. this does not mean that you may arbitrarily disregard this testimony, but you should give it the weight to which 23 seen defendant in the community. more to the point, detective richardson never had any personal contact with defendant. in addition, defendant challenges detective as a result of mr. people v. livingston (2012) 53 cal.4th 1145, 1170-1172; people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 59-60.) defendant was an active member of the street gang when mr. ingram was shot. defendant previously had expressed a desire to kill mr. ingram. mr. ingram was, in members as the perpetrators of a crime against mr. ingram. mr. ingram was also to detective richardson, both defendant and mr. ingram were older gang members. under these circumstances, it would not be unusual for defendant to kill another older gang such as mr. ingram for being an informant. likewise, if defendant disapproved of where mr. ingram was trafficking in narcotics, a killing could send a message to younger gang members that such behavior is not tolerated. it also elevatewithin the gang. in this way, a murder such as occurred in the present case is for the eet gang. (see people v. albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 63; people v. romero (2006) 140 cal.app.4th 15, 18-19.) f. cumulative error defendant asserts cumulative prejudice. however, as explained, there was no prejudicial error. therefore, defendamerit. (people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 1061; people v. dement (2011) 53 cal.4th 1, 58.) 24 g. sentencing 1. section 12022.53 the trial court sentenced defendant to an additional 25 years to life under section 12022.53, subdivision (d). under an incorrect section 654, subdivision (a) analysis, the trial court stayed punishment for the section 12022.53, subdivision (b) and (c) enhancements. (see people v. gonzalez (2008) 43 cal.4th 1118, 1130.) the trial court should have imposed and then stayed consecutive 10 and 20 year terms under section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (c) respectively. (people v. gonzalez, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 1130; people v. warner (2008) 166 cal.app.4th 653, 659.) the oral pronouncement of judgment must be modified to so provide. 2. section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5) defendant was subject to a 15-year minimum parole eligibility term pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5). (people v. lopez (2005) 34 cal.4th 1002, 1004; people v. camino (2010) 188 cal.app.4th 1359, 1381-1382.) the 15-year minimum parole eligibility term for gang related homicides applies even when the accused has been convicted of first-degree murder with its 25 year minimum term. (people v. lopez, supra, 34 cal.4th at pp. 1008-1009; people v. camino, supra, 188 cal.app.4th at pp. 1381-nevertheless, the judgment and the abstract of judgment must be amended to provide defendant is subject to a 15-year minimum parole eligibility term pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5). 25 3. court operations and facilities assessments the trial court imposed a $40 court operations assessment ( 1465.8, subd. (a)(1)) and a $30 court facilities assessment (gov. code,  70373, subd. (a)(1)). however, the trial court was required to impose those assessments as to each count even though count 2 was stayed pursuant to section 654, subdivision (a). (people v. rodriguez (2012) 207 cal.app.4th 1540, 1543, fn. 2; people v. sharret (2011) 191 cal.app.4th 859, 865; people v. woods (2010) 191 cal.app.4th 269, 272-273.) the judgment and the abstract of judgment must be amended to so provide. 4. state-only deoxyribonucleic acid penalty the trial court imposed a $20 state-only deoxyribonucleic acid penalty pursuant to government code section 76104.7, subdivision (a). this was error. the state-only deoxyribonucleic acid penalty is imposed in addition to the penalty imposed under government code section 76104.6, subdivision (a). (gov. code,  76104.7, subd. (a) section 76104.6, subdivision (a) penalty was imposed in this case. moreover, the state-was imposed in this case. (people v. valencia (2008) 166 cal.app.4th 1392, 1394-1396; 3 witkin, cal. crim. law (4th ed. 2012) punishment,  104, p. 199.) section 1465.8, section 76000) of title 8 of the government code[, including government code section subdivision (b), contains identical language. therefore, neither the court operations assessment nor the court facilities assessment is subject to a state-only deoxyribonucleic acid penalty. (see people v. valencia, supra, 166 cal.app.4th at pp. 1394-1396.) 26 v. disposition the judgment is modified to impose and stay consecutive 10 and 20-year terms under penal code section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (c). the judgment is further modified: to impose a $40 court operations assessment (pen. code,  1465.8, subd. (a)(1)) and a $30 court facilities assessment as to each count; to omit the $20 state-only deoxyribonucleic acid penalty (gov. code,  76104.7, subd. (a)); and to reflect that defendant is subject to a 15-year minimum parole eligibility term under penal code section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5). in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. upon remittitur issuance, the abstract of judgment must be amended to reflect the foregoing modifications. the clerk of the superior court shall deliver a copy of the amended abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published in the official reports turner, p.j. we concur: kriegler, j. ferns, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 