filed 8/14/12 p. v. morgan ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. deandre lee morgan, defendant and appellant. b237870 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka088675) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, tia fisher, judge. affirmed. linn davis, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for respondent. 2 appellant deandre lee morgan was convicted of carjacking and evading an officer. in his first appeal, we conditionally reversed the judgment of conviction, remanded the matter with dirfor a new trial pursuant to the correct legal standard, and directed that the judgment be reinstated if the court denied the new trial motion. upon remand, the court denied the motion. in the insta-appointed counsel has filed an opening brief raising no issues. following our independent examination of the entire record pursuant to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 (wende), we conclude that no arguable issues exist, and affirm. relevant procedural and factual background the history of this case preceding the instant appeal is stated in our previous opinion (people v. morgan (may 16, 2011, b227001 ) [nonpub. opn.]): -count information with felony carjacking ([pen. code],  215, subd. (a)) and felony evading an officer (veh. code,  2800.2, subd. (a)). he pled not guilty to both counts, and a jury trial on the charges commenced on june 29, 2010. vidence that the victim, frankie appellant was accompanied by alan robinson on the first occasion, and by another man on the second occasion. the parties did not reach an agreement on the sale of the car. robinson at a restaurant in covina because robinson was interested in buying the car. robinson wanted to take the car on a test drive, so herrarte suggested that he would drive the car to another location and robinson could drive it back to the 3 restaurant. on the way to the other location, robinson suggested that they continue to another restaurant nearby. r restaurant, robinson asked to look at the car's engine and herrarte agreed. while they were looking at the engine, a man dressed in black with a bandana covering his face approached them. he had the same build as appellant, but herrarte could not recognize his voice. the man first robbed robinson, and then carjacked the vehicle. he was wielding a black handgun that he pointed at herrarte during the entire incident. covina police officer mario corona was on patrol that night near the restaurant, and he noticed the car speeding by his location. he turned on his police lights and pursued the vehicle. the car did not stop, and a chase ensued until the car crashed into another vehicle. when officer corona arrived at the traffic accident, he did not see anyone inside the vehicle or running away from the vehicle. he was able to recover a toy black pellet handgun and a red baseball cap nearby. no forensic evidence, such as fingerprints or dna, could be collected from the carjacked vehicle, the toy gun, or the baseball cap. determined that appellant was likely involved. detective regan asked appellant to come to the police station for an interview, and appellant did so. appellant initially denied being involved, but after being told that the police had cell phone tracking information that contradicted his story, he admitted his original denial was a lie. regan then arrested appellant, and advised him of his rights. appellant asked detective regan if the detective could promise that his family would not be hurt if he told the detective about another person who was involved. although the 4 detective did not promise anything, appellant agreed to speak with the detective. a recording of this interview was played for the jury. vehicle with robinson. on the night of the carjacking, however, when robinson came to pick him up to drive him to the planned site of the carjacking, robinson three people were not necessary to do a carjacking and he would just wait near a spot where they had planned to strip the vehicle. robinson and t then dropped appellant off near the location, and appellant gave t his phone because t wanted to be able to call robinson after he had stolen the car. appellant waited at the location until he heard a helicopter circling nearby and saw t walking down the toy gun and the baseball cap belonged to him, but claimed he had left both items in robinson's car. the toy gun had been left in the car a long time ago. acquittal pursuant to [penal code] section 1118.1 on the basis of insufficient evidence. the trial court denied the motion. carjacking. he told robinson and t that he did not need to be present during the carjacking in order to get out of the car. gang color for the neighborhood where they had dropped him off. he left his cell 5 phone because neither robinson nor t had a phone and they needed it to communicate during the carjacking. during the taped interview because the detective could not promise him protection. for example, he did not tell the detective that he had abandoned the plan completely because he feared retaliation by t. counts. prior to sentencing, defense counsel orally moved for a new trial. the following colloquy then occurred: matter and to make a determination as to his guilt or innocence irrespective of the jury's findings. rial court]: no, i'm not going to do that. i'm not going to--the jury was the fact-finder in this particular case. and the issue is whether there was sufficient evidence. if you would like to cite some case law where the court can completely disregard the jury's verdict, forget we even had a jury trial, and i could decide the case as a judge in a court trial, i would be interested in hearing that. to sit as the 13th juror in the trial. i have every reason to believe that your client received a fair trial both from the standpoint of evidentiary rulings as well as the jury rendering a just verdict based on the jury's belief unanimously that the people have proven the case beyond a reasonable doubt relative to both the carjacking as well as the evading. 6 matter of their fact-we have jury trial[s]. and they rendered their verdict . . . three years and eight month[s] in state prison as follows: the low-term of three years on the carjacking count, and a one-third the mid-term, or eight months, on people v. morgan, supra, [pp. 2-7].) new trial motion, conducted no independent review of the evidence, as required under penal code section 1181, subdivision 6. (people v. morgan, supra, [p. 7].) not arrested at the location of the traffic accident, the case rested entirely on the timony that he had abandoned the carjacking plan. id. [at pp. 7-8].) we thus conditionally reversed the judgment and remanded the matter to the trial court to consider the new trial motion under the correct legal standard. (id. [at p. 8].) upon remand, the trial court reviewed the evidence at trial, including motion for a new trial and reinstated his sentence. this appeal followed. discussion -appointed counsel filed an opening brief raising no issues and requesting this court to review the record independently pursuant to wende. in addition, counsel advised appellant of his right to submit by supplement brief any contentions or argument he wished the 7 court to consider. appellant has neither presented a brief nor identified any potential issues. counsel has fully complied with his responsibilities and that no arguable issues exist. (people v. wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at p. 441.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports manella, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. willhite, j. 