filed 12/21/19 p. v. benedict ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jett p. benedict, defendant and appellant. b237185 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va117873) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. dewey lawes falcone, judge. affirmed. murray a. rosenberg, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and robert c. schneider, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________________________ 2 jett benedict was convicted by a jury of assault with a deadly weapon, with a finding that he inflicted great bodily injury. on appeal, benedict contends that the verdict is not supported by substantial evidence. although the testimony of the victim and an eyewitness varies in the details, it is sufficient to support a conviction. the jury -defense. we affirm. facts cle on the night of december 4, 2010, clements wetzell was driving on arbor road in lakewoodafter dining at a restaurant. wetzell moved to the side of the road and stopped to send a text message on his cell phone, with his left arm resting on the open window sill. a short distance behind his car, a man and a woman were on the sidewalk, arguing. fucking driveway. he pulled forward two car lengths and continued using his telephone. the male voice made a second demand for wetzell to move. wetzell replied that he could park wherever he wanted, but pulled forward another two car lengths. wetzell heard nothing more from the voice behind him. suddenly, he felt a burning sensation in his left arm, saw puncture wounds, and realized that he was bleeding. wetzell immediately jumped wetzell denied threatening defendant before the stabbing. he also denied challenging defendant to a fight, or punching defendant or kicking him, or touching him in any way. wetzell was not carrying a weapon. he did not flail his arm or accidentally defendant promptly entered his house after the stabbing. wetzell and his passenger, daniel siverio, followed defendant. wetzell left a trail of blood from his truck, along the sidewalk, and up to the steps of the house. wetzell sat down in front of 3 wetzell by trying to staunch the bleeding. wetzell saw defendant inside the house. paramedics took wetzell to the hospital, where he had surgery on his arm, received 60 stitches, and was released eight hours later. his arm was painful for five weeks, and he was unable to perform his job as an equipment operator or lift heavy result of the stabbing: they paid him $6,500. suffered a 30-centimeter (11.8 inch) laceration in his upper arm that filleted open the left triceps muscle so that it was widely gaping. in addition, there were two lacerations on his forearm, each about six centimeters long. muscle was exposed in these wounds as well. evening of december 4, 2010, and consumed two or three beers with their meal. but she was not there. as they drove down arbor road, siverio saw a manwhom he identified as defendant benedictarguing with a woman on the side of the road. wetzell stopped near the couple while using a telephone to try and locate his sister. siverio hwetzell rwetzell did not challenge defendant to a fight or punch him. wetzell moved the car forward a second time, another two car lengths. he was not blocking a driveway or any cars. siverio noticed that defendant was quickly approaching the car. defendant made two jabbing motions at wetzell, who was sitting and texting. wetzell did not flail or swing his arm outside the car window. siverio jumped from the car and saw defendant 4 run toward his house with a knife in hand. siverio and wetzell followed defendant; wetzell was asking defendant why would he do this. he could see muscle inside the cut. siverio calland police to arrive. defendant did not come out of the house. law enforcement testimony e at 10:29 p.m., and found clements wetzell who stabbed wetzell was inside the house. he identified the suspect as his son. the deputies found defendant in the dining room of the residence. they did not injury. he did not request medical assistance. defendant told the deputies that the weapon was in his bedroom. they retrieved a folding knife with sharp blades. defendant was advised of his constitutional rights, and indicated that he wished to speak to the deputies. he told the deputies that he wwhen the victim drove up and stopped. defendant was upset, because he was trying to have a private conversation with his girlfriend, and demanded that wetzell move his car. wetzell moved the car only three feet, causing defendant to become more upset. defendant told a deputy he was frightened because his arm was sore from a recent injury. he decided to use a knife he was carrying to scare wetzell away. he held it seeing the weapon, wetzell began flailing his arms and cut himself on the knife. after cutting himself, the victim opened the car door, punched defendant in the face and kneed marks or bruises. there were none. 5 defendant was arrested the deputy who processed defendant at the jail at 11:55 p.m. spoke to him face to face during the booking process, and did not see any red defendant, that does not list any injuries. def in an interview shortly after the incident, siverio told deputies that wetzell that he was interrupting a private conversation. wetzell initially ignored defendant and continued to use his telephone, then moved his vehicle 15 feet. defendant told wetzell to arm. siverio left the passenger seat, came around the back of the car and saw defendant stab wetzell in the arm a third time. deputies interviewed wetzell twice, once in the hospital, after surgery, and a few days later by telephone. wetzell stated that he pulled to the side of the road to use his telephone, near defendant and his girlfriend, who appeared to be having an argument. defendant yelled at him to moburning sensation in his arm, saw blood, and realized that he had been cut. he jumped out of his vehicle and saw defendant run into a nearby house. drove up and stopped nearby. defendant politely asked wetzell to move because he and his girlfriend were having a private conversation and wished not to be overheard. forward. when defendant realized that wetzell was still nearby, he again asked him to move, in a calm voice, without cursing. wetzell became agitated and said that he was 6 when defendant suggested that there was plenty of parking down the block, was not looking for a confrontation. defendant feared he would lose a fight, owing to an arm injury he sustained one day earlier while engaging in horseplay with a coworker. defendant pulled out a knife and pointed it at wetzell to scare him away.1 instead of leaving, wetzell began flailing his arms, kicked defendant, and cut himself on wetzell got out of his car and began following defendant, who retreated to his house. his parents cahe did not resist the police when they arrived, and told them where to find the knife. he also told them about his arm injury, but they incorrectly noted on the medical form that he had no injuries. defendant acknowledged that his father warned him not to carry knives. nt attended his class several years ago, defendant was cordial, friendly, courteous, a good student and fun to be around. a friend testified that defendant hurt his arm on december 3, 2010, while playing with a wooden sword. or interviewed the victim, who recounted that he stopped his vehicle to use his telephone near a couple standing on the sidewalk. a male suddenly, someone came to th 1 defendant works at a knife store and collects knives. 7 moved and the suspect instead slashed his arm. realizing that he was bleeding, wetzell chased the suspect to his house. wetzell recognized defendant, at whom he sometimes waved when wetzell came to arbor road to visit his sister. daniel siverio told the private investigator that he saw a couple standing by a parked car, near where wetzell stopped to use his telephone. a male voice asked wetzell siverio, but moved his vehicle three car lengths down the street. siverio got out of the he saw wetzell bleeding and defendant walking away with a knife in his hand. wetzell procedural history benedict was charged with assault with a deadly weapon, with an allegation that he personally inflicted great bodily injury. (pen. code,  245, subd (a)(1), 12022.7, subd. (a).) he pleaded not guilty. the case was tried by a jury, which found defendant guilty of the assault and of inflicting great bodily injury. he was sentenced to one year in county jail. discussion defendant acknowledges the parameters of appellate review. we draw all reasonable inferences in support of conviction, and do not usurp the role of the jury by reweighing the evidence, reappraising the credibility of witnesses or resolving factual conflicts. (people v. elliott (2012) 53 cal.4th 535, 585; people v. maury (2003) 30 cal.4th 342, 403.) viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements jackson v. virginia (1979) 443 u.s. 307, 318-319; people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 331; people v. wader (1993) 5 cal.4th 610, 640; people v. johnson (1980) 26 cal.3d 557, 576.) 8 the crime charged occurs when a person willfully commits an act with a deadly weapon, which by its nature would probably and directly result in the application of physical force on another likely to produce great bodily injury. (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(1); calcrim no. 875.) self-defense may justify an assault with a deadly weapon if the defendant has an honest and reasonable belief that bodily injury will imminently be inflicted upon him; however, the jury must find that the defendant used reasonable force to repel a threat. (people v. minifie (1996) 13 cal.4th 1055, 1064-1069.) the jury in this -defense. the jury r-defense when it found him guilty. nevertheless, he argues on appeal that the statements and testimony of wetzell and -defense [ ] improband siverio appeared to be making up the facts as they went along to protect wetzell . . . when a defendant argues on appeal that testimony is inherently incredible, after tphysical impossibility that they are true, or their falsity must be apparent without people v. barnes (1986) 42 cal.3d 284, 306; people v. thompson people v. friend (2009) 47 cal.4th 1, 41.) the fact ibid.) here, defense counsel pointed out the evidentiary conflicts during closing argument to the jury. the core facts of this case are essentially undisputed. wetzell was driving on arbor road when he stopped to use his cell phone. defendant and his girlfriend were proximity to his conversation and asked wetzell to move his vehicle, several times. the only discrepancy is whether defendant couched his request for wetzell to move in loud 9 profanity (per wetzell and siverio) or whether defendant was polite and calm (per defendant). r. it is undisputed that defendant was carrying a knife and drew the weapon. there is no evidence that wetzell was armed with any weapon. rather, he was holding a cell phone. the only point of contention is whether defendant deliberately stabbed wetzell in the arm or whether wetzell flailed his arms and cut himselfthree timeson events. wetzell sustained wounds that were so deep that the underlying muscle was expothat wetzell moved his arm around, that action might produce defensive injuries on the forearm, but does not explain a gaping wound nearly one foot long that filleted the minor variations in the detailsin statements given to the police, to the private investigator and at the preliminary hearingdo not make the testimony at trial inherently standing or sitting; the exact words exchanged during the altercation; how far wetzell ttack are ultimately immaterial. the material issues are whether defendant honestly feared for his safety and used reasonable force when he drew a weapon. deadly weapon. -defense, particularly since he suffered no injury at the hands of the unarmed victim, according to the deputies instead, the jury believed the testimony of the victim and an eyewitness, resolving simple conflicts in their testimony in favor of conviction. 10 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. boren, p.j. we concur: doi todd, j. ashmann-gerst, j. 