filed 5/24/13 p. v. campos ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. marcos antonio campos, defendant and appellant. b238020 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka090680) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. douglas w. sortino, judge. affirmed. verna wefald, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a taryle, supervising deputy attorney general, and john yang, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 defendant marcos antonio campos appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial in which he was convicted of committing a forcible lewd act upon a child under the age of 14 and continuous sexual abuse of a child under the age of 14. defendant contends the trial court erred by denying his motion for a new trial on the basis of newly discovered evidence. we affirm. background b.c., who was referred to in the record as jane doe, was born september 21, 1996, was the youngest child of m.c. (mr. c.) and g.c. (mrs. c.). at the time of the charged offenses, b.c. lived in a two-bedroom house with her parents, her sister s. (who was one yeolder than she was. b.c. and defendant also had several other siblings who did not live in the family home, including maria l. and blanca c., who were about 14 and 11 years park, and in the laundry room in their second baldwin park home, to which they moved in february of 2010. defendant moved out of the family home in 1999, but moved back in 2003. b.c. was very close to her sisters and parents. mrs. c. testified that sometime in march 2010, her daughter maria told her that . and defendant. b.c. then told mrs. c. that defendant had done that. she did not call the police, but told defendant to leave the house. defendant nonetheless remained in the house for one or two days while the family b.c. has a below-average iq and a language learning disability. carrera and b.c. 3 but sometime around spring break in 2010, she changed dramatically. she became rude, began withdrawing from and rejecting her friends, anassistance with homework assignments. she also began asking carrera questions such as how a girl becomes pregnant and what kind of language boyfriends and girlfriends use. rera asked b.c. about her behavior but, atypically, b.c. became defensive and said that she had to tell carrera something, but could not do so because people would become very upset. the next day, b.c. visited carrera at lunch and spoke in a disjointed fashion. b.c. mentioned suicide and asked carrera what language a boyfriend used with his girlfriend. the next day, b.c. and nancy visited carrera together. b.c. seemed happy and said she had a lot to tell, though her family would be upset. b.c. said she was no longer considering suicide because an angel had come to her in a dream and told her she could not kill herself because too many people would be sad. the angel told her she needed to do what was right. b.c. revealed she had been upset because her brother had been beautiful . . . old her mother. she began to cry. make some phone calls. b.c. said she felt relieved. carrera phoned school officials and the department of children and family services (dcfs). three days later, b.c. seemed confused and told carrera that the dcfs had visited her home. in response to a report from social services. he spoke to b.c. in thareas of the breasts, vagina, and buttocks. b.c. agreed to go to the police station with rodriguez, and there he conducted a more thorough interview. rodriguez testified that he was calm and friendly with b.c. and never threatened her. she revealed that defendant 4 began touching her sexually under her clothing with his hands when she was six or seven years old. b.c. told rodriguez that when she was about eight or nine, defendant began removing her clothing and penetrating her vagina with his finger. defendant told b.c. that if she told anyone, she and defendant would get in trouble. when b.c. was 9 to 11 years old, defendant penetrated her vagina with two fingers. when she was 11 years old, defendant began raping her. she told rodriguez that defendant held her down on the bed and inserted his penis in her vagina while he wore a condom. she said the experience was physically painful and lasdefendant did this to her two or three times a week until she was 13 years old. as b.c. described the incident, she was nervous and teary-eyed. she said she had not informed anyone until about two months earlier, when she told her sister. rodriguez spoke to mrs. c., who confirmed that b.c. had told her defendant had touched her from the time she was 6 years old until she was 13. she also confirmed that there were times when b.c. and defendant were home alone together. rodriguez, who was concerned that mrs. c. had not reported the molestation, raised the possibility of putting b.c. in foster care. mrs. c. began crying. she expressed anger toward defendant. mrs. c. testified that she did not believe that everything b.c. had reported was true. in particular, she did not believe that b.c. had been abused since the age of 6 because at that time, blanca lived at home and slept in the same room as b.c. b.c. always shared a room with s., who never reported anything. defendant and b.c. were never alone together until b.c. was 12 years old. social worker deborah davies conducted a video-recorded interview of b.c. on may 26, 2010. the parties stipulated to the accuracy of the recording and transcript, and the recording was played at trial in lieu of davies testifying. b.c. told davies that began when she was 10 years old, but later stated it began when she was 11. she remembered telling the police officer that it began when she was 6 years old, but she now remembered she was 10. b.c. said defendant would enter her bedroom at night, pull off 5 her blanket, and touch her all over her body with his hands. sometimes he would take her clothes off. one time she locked her door, but defendant unlocked it with a kitchen knife. b.c. screamed, but her mother was asleep and did not hear her. on occasion, b.c. tried to run from defendant, but he would grab her and touch her. sometimes she slapped his b.c. told davies that defendant raped her when she was 12 years old. she said he would take her clothes off, puafterward, she was in shock and cried all day. she was not able to walk properly and her sister blanca noticed. thereafter, the rapes would occur about once a week when her parents were at work and when defendant was drunk or doing drugs. she tried locking her door, but defendant pried it open and damaged the wood. once, when defendant removed her clothing in the living room, b.c. yelled for s., who came into the room. defendant told s. to go back to bed. s. left, and defendant proceeded to rape b.c. sometimes b.c. tried to phone her mother, but defendant would grab the phone and break it. sometimes defendant would put his fingers inside of b.c. b.c. initially told davies that she was 13 the last time defendant raped her. later she said that defendant had not raped her since she was 12; he had only touched her. defendant always told her not to tell their parents or he would be sent to jail and might get killed. he also threatened that he would take her far away where no one would find them. b.c. told davies that after she told her mother about what defendant was doing, her mother confronted defendant, to rehabilitation. nurse and sexual assault examiner dawn henry testified that she performed a non-acute sexual assault examination on b.c. on june 1, 2010. she found b.c. to be fluent, articulate, and thoughtful during the interview portion. b.c. told henry that defendant 6 began molesting her when she was 11 years old, and the last incident was after christmas of 2009. it began with him touching her breasts and genital area. henry noted on her report that there was also kissing of the genital area. b.c. said defendant first placed his penis in her vagina when she was 12 years old. b.c. said this hurt a lot and she bled. defendant did this on several other occasions. defendant told b.c. not to tell or she would get in trouble. --shaped tear in her hymen that had healed. the tear extended 80 percent of the way to the base. this indicated a penetrating injury and the location was consistent with injury from sexual intercourse. henry thus concluded that the physical findings were consistent with the history reported by b.c. rodriguez testified that during a break was held on april 12, 2011, he observed defense counsel talking to b.c. in the presence you believe that somebody kind of toldetective diana larriva, who then spoke to b.c. and her mother. larriva testified that she also saw defense counsel speaking to b.c. during a break he floor and her hair was covering her face. as soon as rodriguez told larriva what he had heard, larriva interrupted and brought mrs. c. away from the group. b.c. followed her mother. larriva told mrs. c. that dcfs was still investigating her and could remove b.c. from the home if mrs. c. failed to protect her. in evidence. she testified that nothing happened to her before she was 11 years old. the first time defendant room, at night. her sister was in the room, but asleep. defendant told her not to tell anyone. she denied that defendant had ever touched her with any other part of his body 7 and that he had ever put anything, including a part of his body, inside her body. she testified she told the police officer a lot of things that were not true because she was scared, but she told her teacher the truth. she was not sure whether she told the person who gave her a medical examination about what happened between her and defendant, but if she did, she told that person the truth. b.c. admitted telling the police officer d he [sic] feel that it hurt. b.c. admitted that her earlier testimony that defendant never put anything inside her was not true, and explained that she had testifi b.c. further testified at the preliminary hearing that the incident she described to the police officer when she was about 11 years old, when defendant came into her room, held her down on the bed, and put his penis in her vagina was true. she testified that this hurt her and that defendant used a condom. when asked if defendant had ever truthfully told the police officer that defendant thereafter had sex with her approximately b.c. further testified at the preliminary hearing that the charges against defendant made her uncomfortable and she did not want him to go to prison. her parents had told her that they did not want defendant to go to prison. on cross-examination at the preliminary hearing, b.c. testified that when she told her sister maria about what defendant had been doing, she only mentioned that defendant touched her with his hand over her clothing. b.c. agreed that she did not mention 8 as afraid of defendant, but he had never hit her or said sister s., who was sleeping in the same room. b.c. estimated that the incident occurred around midnight. her parents were at work. b.c. two to three times a wee defense counsel also asked b.c. at the preliminary hearing whether she ever found an example her belief that defendant would murder her or do something bad to her. the prosecutor happened, is that because of the conversation that you had with defense counsel before b.c. further testified on redirect examination at the preliminary hearing that she told the police officer the truth to the best of her ability, and while she was talking with the police officer and detective larriva she never made up something that was not true. on recross-examination at the preliminary hearing, b.c. agreed that the police officer seemed pleased if she answered his questions a certain way and the police officer 9 re that what [she] remember[ed] actually is a y. she then testified that defendant began to threaten her after she told their parents about what he had done to her. carrera testified at trial that she had spoken to b.c. at the preliminary hearing and b.c. said she could not testify again because it was too confusing and the case was breaking up her family. b.c. also said she was confused because her sisters were protecting defendant. at trial in late june of 2011, b.c. testified that when she was 12 years old, defendant began touching her breasts and her vagina with his hands over her clothing when no one else was home and he had been drinking. defendant told her not to tell their parents, but did not threaten her. she was nonetheless frightened. thereafter, this type of incident happened about once a week, usually when her parents were at work. one time, defendant did this to her in her bedroom when s. was sleeping with their mother. b.c. told defendant to stop, but he refused. she was going to scream, but he covered her mouth. the last time defendant touched b.c. was about a month before she told maria what defendant had been doing. b.c. was 13 years old at the time of the last incident. b.c. steadfastly denied that defendant had ever engaged in any other type of sexual conduct, including any penetration or touching her under her clothing. b.c. testified at trial that maria had asked her why she was so close with defendant defendant was touching her. maria did not ask how defendant was touching her. she asked b.c. if she was lying. b.c. asked maria to tell their mother, and maria did so. maria told their father, and they called defendant to come home. when defendant arrived, maria screamed at him. defendant acted like he did not know what they were that day and never returned. b.c. testified that between the time of her disclosure and the 10 police becoming involv b.c. testified that she told carrera because carrera kept asking her what was d her previously told b.c. that she had been raped, was with b.c. when she confided in carrera. rodriguez testified. on cross-examination she admitted she had made those statements, but insisted they were not true. she lied to rodriguez because it was her first time in a police station and she was scared. b.c. testified that on may 18, 2010, she and her mother went to a courthouse and obtained a restraining order against defendant, but she testified that the statements on the application for the orderincluding that defendant had been molesting her since she was 10 years old and raping her since she was 12 years oldwere false. b.c. also testified that she did not tell davies the truth, and denied making the vies testified. b.c. testified that she did not tell the truth during the preliminary hearing because she was frightened by the way the prosecution team looked at her and pressured her. she initially denied testifying at the preliminary hearing that defendant first touched her sexually when she was 11 years old, but when she resumed her trial testimony after a recess, she admitted so testifying. she also admitted testifying that defendant put his finger inside her and it hurt. she nonetheless maintained that her preliminary hearing testimony was false. but she said she testified truthfully at the preliminary hearing about telling the truth to the person who gave her a medical examination. b.c. testified that about a week before the trial there was a meeting at her house with herself, maria, defense counsel, and the defense investigator in which they read 11 ed her after the family moved to their second house in baldwin park. she also told them, truthfully, that rodriguez threatened her with foster care unless she cooperated. later she testified that rodriguez never said anything about foster care. b.c. testified that she wanted everyone in her family to get along and she tried her best to protect her family and make them happy. when she reported the molestation, her family was not happy. after defendant was arrested, her family was sad, and b.c. felt it was partially her fault because he was arrested because of what she said. b.c. thought happened to her family and she wanted her family to be happy again. her family would be happy if defendant got out of jail. b.c. did not love her brother in 2010 or at the time of trial and she did not want him to come home. she was not sure whether she wanted him to get out of jail. b.c. also testified that she did not want to testify at trial because she was scared of defendant and the angry way he looked at her in court. defendant was arrested at a rehabilitation facility and interrogated by larriva and sergeant mark harvey at the baldwin park police station on may 19, 2010. harvey recording of the interrogation was played at trial. defendant did not respond when had sex with b.c. once in 2010, when she was 13 years old. he later said b.c. was rubbing her buttocks against him, and he began rubbing against her. he awoke and bed his penis -on-with his penis. defendant later admitted that he had an erection on one occasion when he 12 d his penis. he further her breasts or touching her when she was six years old, but admitted putting his fingers into her vagina once. he later admitted he touched b.c. or had sex with her once a month for over two years. he sometimes tried to insert his penis, but failed due to his impotence. defendant told the police that b.c. h . . -517)~ b.c. just went alo trial. in a call on february 23, 2011, defendant asked his mother whether any witnesses could come to testify that b.c. was . . . plead guilty and, and it 10-years old, like she says, that st . . just for something . . d his mother to say [unintelligible] i really, i did touch her that way, and not the other way, you know 13 in a conversation on march 14, 2011, defendant and his mother talked about maria hiring an attorney for defendant. defendant said that he was going to plead guilty if the all of the evidence that the prosecution had against him, his only choice was to plead he could get a shorter sentence if the charges against him for acts occurring when b.c. entence for my you to do was to ask him if he could get my sentence down. because i never threatened on march 19, 2011, defendant told his mother that his attorney said he could prevail in the case because b.c. was a virgin, but defendant was worried about the admissions he had made to the police. defendant asked his mother if she received the two letters he sent. his mother said she so she can open heeally 14 mrs. c. testified that defendant had sent her letters to give to b.c., but she did not give them to b.c. or read them herself. she testified that when defendant was in the rehabilitation facility he thought the people who ran it were trying to kill him. at some point after he was arrested, defendant went to patton state mental hospital for treatment that made him a little better. mrs. c. testified that she did not believe the statements b.c. made to davies. mrs. c. was always home at midnight and was a light sleeper; if b.c. had screamed, mrs. c. would have awakened. maria testified for the defense. she became suspicious about the relationship between b.c. and defendant because they spent a lot of time together and argued rotch while they were playing. defendant seemed offended and told b.c. not to do that. sometimes b.c. wanted to stay home with defendant instead of going out with other members of her family. she leaned on him when they watched movies together. b.c. became angry if defendant talked to women or said a woman on television was pretty. maria confronted b.c. about her behavior on march 17, 2010. she asked b.c. whether maria asked b.c. where this occurred, b.c. looked at the couch. b.c. asked maria to tell their mother. maria did not think the police should have been called because any touching probably was accidental, she thought b.c. was lying, and she did not believe defendant raped b.c. he had been impotent for a long time, and s. was a light sleeper and never reported observing anything that disturbed her. maria further testified that defendant had a history of mental problems, such as hearing voices and believing that people were going to break in and kill her family. 15 while he was in the rehabilitation facility, his speech was incoherent at times, and at other times he said the employees were poisoning his food and trying to kill him. blanca testified that she moved out of the family home in 2007, but moved back in in 2009. (blanca later referred to babysitting the various children in the family at her own home in late 2009.) in late 2009 or early 2010, blanca noticed that b.c. always wanted to be with defendant. b.c. became angry when blanca told defendant about a nice woman believed that the employees of the rehabilitation facility he went to killed the clients and sold their organs and were going to do that to him. mr. c. testified that dawn henry told him b.c. was a virgin. he further testified house share a common wall and any sound made in one room could be heard in the other. defendant testified that he only touched b.c. sexually twice. the first occasion was around christmas of 2009. b.c. leaned on him while they were watching television. he was in and out of sleep. feeling her against him gave him an erection and he rubbed against her. he woke up and realized what he was doing and stopped. the second b.c. sat next to him on his bed while he was sleeping. he put his leg around her and b.c. in any fashion. he may have inadvertently touched her breast while hugging her. b.c. never seemed bothered until she began hanging around with nancy. defendant testified that he denied touching b.c. when his mother and maria confronted him. he invited them to call the police if they believed he had done anything wrong. they threw him out of the house. by the time he was arrested, he was hearing voices and felt like someone was reading his thoughts and repeating them to him. he was 16 him. he told them the story about having sex with b.c. one time to stop the questioning. his statements to the police were not true. when he told the police b.c. had her hand on his penis, he was referring to the incident to which maria testified. he felt better by the time of trial and no longer heard voices in his head. defense expert dr. mark costanzo, a professor of psychology at claremont, testified that false confessions occur, sometimes due to mental illness, youth, memory impairment, sleep deprivation, interrogation techniques, a need to protect someone else, were susceptible to and compliant with suggestions by an interviewer. recorded interviews were thus essential. penal code section 1118.1 motion to dismiss count 1, which charged defendant with committing a forcible lewd act upon a child under the age of 14 in violation of penal code section 288, subdivision (b) during the period of september 21, 2002, through september 20, 2004, when b.c. would have been six to seven years old. (undesignated statutory references are to the penal code.) the jury acquitted defendant of committing a lewd or lascivious act upon a minor under the age of 14 during the same time period alleged in count 1. it convicted defendant of committing a forcible lewd act upon a child under the age of 14 in violation of section 288, subdivision (b) during the period of september 21, 2007, through march 1, 2008 (when b.c. would have been 11 years old), and continuous sexual abuse of a child under the age of 14 in violation of section 288.5, subdivision (a) during the period of march 2, 2008, through may 1, 2010 (when b.c. would have been 11 to 13 years old). the jury could not reach a verdict on count 3, which charged defendant with oral copulation or sexual penetration of a child 10 years old or younger in violation of section 288.7, subdivision (b) during the interval of september 21, 2005, through september 21, 2007, when b.c. would have been 9 to 10 years old. the court declared a mistrial and later dismissed the charge upon the motion of both parties. 17 defendant filed a motion for a new trial, which the trial court denied, as discussed in greater detail in the next section. it sentenced defendant to prison for 18 years, consisting of consecutive middle terms of 12 years for the continuous sexual abuse conviction and 6 years for the forcible lewd act conviction. discussion defendant filed a motion for a new trial based upon several categories of september 18, 2011, stating ied lucy and the ghost of another little girl had been telling b.c. to kill herself. the other ghost girl carried a bloody knife and urged b.c. to kill her sisters, her mother, and herself she had seen the other ghost girl kill her mother and brother, then hang herself. the other also occurred before b.c. talked to cynthia. the angel told her the other ghost girl was a the other ghost girl bhc alhambra hospital (on july 27 and released august 3). i told all this to the psychiatrists. i was told that i have to take my medicines to stop seeing things and 18 ations. she stated the little ghost girl is whispering in my ear and telling me that she is going to my sisters [sic feel it is my fault. i would like him released as soon as possible. i am not afraid of him but it would be uncomfortable to be living in same [sic] house with him. i was never physically afraid of him and am not afraid now, but i do not want to talk to him or see were false, exaggerated, or in any way inaccurate. as well. more pressure was put on her after the trial by child protective services who apparently threatened to put her in foster care. she reacted very badly to those threats. she was having conversations with people who are dead and tried to kill herself a couple of months ago and we had to put her in a psychiatric facility. trial i have learned that my sister has been hearing voices and suffers from a mental deceased and hallucinating and having visions., [sic] some of them religious but i suspect it is a product of mental illness. i do not trust her to remember anything important or to distinguish between what really happened and what merely happened in her delusions or dreams. she has tried to kill herself last month. she told me that the voice was telling her that she either needed to kill someone else or to kill herself because the voice wanted 19 her to come join her. she has since then been placed i n [sic] a psychiatric hospital and been placed on psych meds. i believe that the mental condition existed prior to her mak the prosecutor filed a written opposition to the new trial motion to which she commencing in may 2010 and resumed in june 2011. those reports indicated that in hubbard, regarding sexual abuse by defendant. dcfs spoke to hubbard again on july the children being august 10, 2010, t 30, 2010, a dcfs employee interviewed b.c., who said she was continuing to see hubbard for counseling once a week, she was making progress in counseling, and hubbard was working with her on ways to control her stress. on june 22, 2011, after b.c. had begun testifying at trial but before she completed her testimony, a dcfs employee interviewed her again in response to concerns expressed that there was no mental illness in her family, and stated she went to therapy once a week to address past sexual abuse by her brother. she stated larriva was threatening to put her in a foster home if she told the truth. she further stated the police wanted her to testify to details she did not remember and believed were exaggerated. the employee interviewed 20 tbelieved the hallucinations were brought on by stress caused by the child testifying in court to sexual abuse and the current dcfs investigation. the child was released on that she is very consistent with coming to counseling once a week. she stated that she has been working with [b.c.] for almost 2 years. according to dr. hubbard, the child, [b.c.,] continues to be re-traumatized due to the criminal proceeding. further, she stated hubbard was very concerned with the amount of stress the child had been undergoing due to the trial and now dcfs investigation. dr. hubbard reported that the child was hospitalized on tuesday, 7/26/2011, after completing a visit with social workers at dcfs office. . . please get her a psychiatrist because i did not trust any psychiatrist that was working within the department of family [sicsic] with the t psychiatrist, erin hubbard, i think she is not being clear or is not being very m . . i asked the family, i pleaded with them, begged the family to send her to a good hallucinations a trial motion is based upon a request for an additional expert witness regarding false lleged hallucinations and fabrications of these 21 incidents, dr. costanzo did testify at trial. he testified about false confessions. he also testified about the suggestability [sic] of young witnesses. [] i believe there was also direct testimony from various witnesses that [b.c.] was having trouble at school, that she was not i guess for lack of a better way to phrase it one of the top students in her class, that she may have had problems with her intellect and her ability to communicate. i think that was fairly presented to the jury that she was notmannerthat she was not the brightest child, the brightest victim that could have testified in a case such as this, but she had certain learning disabilities. her teacher, ms. carrera said she was in a remedial class. her issue, her mental capacity, her suggestability [sic] to fabricating was ad[e]quately covered by other evidence in this case. rding her hallucinations or her mental illness, first of all, as indicated by the dcfs report submitted by [the prosecutor] in support of her opposition, that occurred after the trial. the psychiatrist opined that it was a result of the stress of having attended the trial and so testimony at trial. however, to the extent it might be considered as corroborative of prior instances of mental illness, again, i think that the issue of her mental capacity and the possible suggestability [sic] of a child witness was fairly presented to the jury. [] i also think again that this is also evidence that could have been presented had due diligence been exercised by the defense. there has been no showing by the defense that it could not have been presented had due diligence been exercised . . . defendant contends that the trial court abused its discretion by denying his motion with respect to newly discovered evidence of b.cviolated due process. a motion for a new trial may be based upon newly discovered material evidence that could not, with reasonable diligence, have been discovered and produced at trial. ( 1181, subd. 8.) the evidence, and not just its materiality, must be newly discovered, and it should not merely be cumulative. (people v. howard (2010) 51 cal.4th 15, 43.) 22 the trial court may consider the credibility, as well as the materiality, of the new evidence in determining whether introduction of the evidence in a new trial would render a different result reasonably probable. (ibid.) people v. guerra (2006) 37 cal.4th 1067, 1159, overruled on another point by people v. rundle (2008) 43 cal.4th 76, 151.) the determination of a motion for a new trial rests so completely within the trial d unmistakable abuse of discretion. (people v. fuiava (2012) 53 cal.4th 622, 730.) delusions arose after the trial. b.c. had been in therapy with dr. hubbard since at least was delusional or otherwise mentally ill until about a month after b.c. completed her testimony in the trial (on june 28, 2011) and more than three weeks after defendant had been convicted of two charges. dr. hubbard opined that the hallucinations that had led to -- the reopening of office precipitated her hospitalization. no one who interviewed b.c. and no one in her imony provided no ground for believing her to be delusional, and the trial court was able to observe her demeanor over her hallucinations had begun prior to july of 2011, and it reflected a significant to help free defendant from jail. thexaggerated, and perhaps the product of her suggestibility, susceptibility to pressure by 23 her family, or her own desire incarcerated, as she described in her trial testimony. sexual abuse and her testimony at the preliminary hearing and trial, the trial court did not abuse its discretion by concluding that the evidence was not newly discovered, and it could, with reasonable diligence, have been discovered and produced at trial. this is hearing on the new trial motion that he defense was based upon the theories that (1) b.c. had fabricated most of her allegations and exaggerated the conduct defendant admitted in his trial testimony, and (2) defendant suspected and hoped to develop evidence that would tend to show that b.c. was mentally ill. counsel did not provide a declaration or testimony in support of the new trial motion purported mental illness could not, with reasonable diligence, have been discovered and produced at trial. in addition, in light of the forensic evidence presented by dawn henry, hone calls from jail, his admissions in his trial testimony, and the consciousness of guilt reflected in his statements during jail phone calls about the desirability of b.c. recanting or not testifying, it is not reasonably probable that introduction of bher post-trial hospitalization in a new trial would render a different result reasonably probable. such new testimony would no doubt be rebutted by evidence tending to show that the delusions arose only after trial and resulted from the stress of testifying at the trial not guilty verdict, in support of his contention that a different result would have been 24 reasonably probable after a new trial. but counts 1 through 3, of which defendant was not convicted, alleged crimes committed when b.c. was under the age of 11, as to which even b.c.convicted, alleged crimes committed against b.c. when she was 11 to 13 years old, as to copolice. accordingly, the disposition of counts 1 and 3 has no tendency to establish the likelihood of a different result following a new trial. we need not separately address coextensive with his state law claim. his failure to establish prejudice would require rejection of that claim, as well. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. mallano, p. j. we concur: rothschild, j. chaney, j. 