 filed 12/8/14 p. v. vela ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. victor fidencio vela, defendant and appellant. b238228 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sa067007) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, antonio barreto, jr., judge. affirmed. richard c. neuhoff, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and taylor nguyen, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant, victor fidencio vela (vela), appeals his conviction for first degree murder and assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury, with deadly weapon use, prior serious felony conviction and prior prison term enhancements (pen. code,  187, 245, subd. (a)(1), 12022, subd. (b)(1), 667, subds. (a)-(i), 667.5).1 he was sentenced to state prison for a term of 111 years to life.2 the judgment is affirmed. background viewed in accordance with the usual rule of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established the following. on february 28, 2008, duwayne bennett and co-workers ryan comstock and shaun lucy went for drinks bouncers told vela skateboards were not allowed inside because they could be used as vela was allowed inside without his skateboard just to look around. comstock, who happened to be walking out of the bar at that moment, bumped into him. vela got mad and told comstock to apologize, which comstock did . . he was doing and . . twenty or thirty minutes later, comstock, lucy and bennett left the bar and went across the street to the international house of pancakes (ihop). as comstock walked [th 1 all further references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 2 after we originally filed this opinion, we granted rehearing and directed the trial. we have reviewed and considered the briefs filed by the parties. 3 eventually, vela and his friend walked away. while comstock, lucy and bennett were in the ihop parking lot, lucy heard comstock was standing 10 or 15 feet away. vela seemed agitated and angry. he told about motorcycles in an attempt to calm him down. by this time comstock was standing 20 to 25 feet away and was not involved in the conversation. after talking for about 10 minutes, lucy told vela he was hungry and that he and gry [when you trying to be ung the chain like a whip, hitting bennett in the back and in the head. retreating and trying to defend himself, but vela continued to hit him with the chain and lock. it appeared to lucy and comstock that vela was controlled and focused as he swung the chain. at some point, bennett grabbed the chain and vela got close to him. lucy saw vela make stabbing motions at bennett with his left hand while holding the chain with his right hand. after the chain had fallen to the ground, comstock saw vela punching bennett with a motion indicating vela had something in his hand. bowman, who was watching from across the street, saw vela hitting bennett. another bystander, 4 hit vela in the back with a skateboard. he testified vel testified he believed comstock hit vela either after or while vela was stabbing bennett. oswaldo benedid, who had been inside the ihop, ran outside to stop vela from hitting bennett with the chain. benedid pushed vela off bennett and told him to leave. vela hit benedid with the chain and ran off. bennett was covered in blood. he called a police officer apprehended vela about 1:45 a.m. by that time, vela had neither recovered from a planter box in front of a nearby shop. a witness had seen someone throw an object into the planter box. the autopsy revealed bennet also sustained two non-fatal sharp force injuries to his torso and one to the back of his head. contentions 1. the trial court erred by failing to hold a competency hearing. 2. there was insufficient evidence to sustain a first degree murder conviction. 3. defense counsel was ineffective for not objecting to improper lay opinion testimony. discussion 1. trial court did not err by failing to hold a competency hearing. vela contends his convictions must be reversed because the trial court failed to hold a hearing to determine if he was competent to stand trial. this claim is meritless. a. legal principles. prohibits trying a criminal defendant who is mentally incompetent. [citations.] a consult with h 5 [] when a trial court is presented with evidence that raises a reasonable doubt about a competence. [citations.] only upon a determination that the defendant is mentally competent may the matter proceed to trial. [citation.] [] california law reflects those constitutional requirements. section 1368, in subdivision (a), requires a trial court to t reasonably a defendant can create reasonable doubt through substantial evidence of mental incompetence, or the trial court can raise the issue on its own. . . people v. ary (2011) 51 cal.4th 510, 517.) 1369, subd. (f).) [] . . . [s]ection 1368 provides that if the trial court has any doubt as to the d inquire of counsel whether, in his or her opinion, the defendant is mentally competent. ( 1368, subd. (a).) the trial court is authorized to conduct a competency hearing on its own motion and at the request of counsel. ( 1368, subd. (b).) [] . . . has come forward with substantial evidence of incompetence to stand trial, due process requires that a full competence hearing be held as a matter of right. [citation.] in that event, the trial judge has no discretion to exercise. [citation.] as we also have noted, substantial evidence of incompetence is sufficient to require a full competence hearing even if the evidence is in conflict. [citation.] we have concluded that where the substantial evidence test is satisfied and a full competence hearing is required but the trial people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1216-1217, fn. omitted.) a reasonable evidence is determined when the competence issue arises at any point in the proceedings. cy hearing is reviewed under 6 an abuse of discretion standard. [citations.] [] substantial evidence of incompetence ficient opportunity to examine the accused, states under oath with particularity that in his professional opinion the accused is, because of mental illness, incapable of understanding the purpose or nature of the criminal proceedings being taken against him or is incapable of assisting in his defense or cooperating with counsel, the substantial- . . . [a] defendant must exhibit more than bizarre, paranoid behavior, strange words, or a preexisting psychiatric condition that has little bearing on the question of whether the defendant can people v. ramos (2004) 34 cal.4th 494, 507-perception that his or hepeople v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 738-739, fn. 7.) b. background. during a pretrial hearing at which the defense was seeking authorization to have an mri3 done, defense counsel informed the trial court he had received a report from a trial. argun had been appointed to advise counsel about a potential insanity defense for vela. defense counsel told the trial court it wato stand trial at the present time, and that counsel felt compelled to alert the court to the following colloquy then occurred: to have it with you? 3 defense counsel was seeking authorization to have an mri (magnetic resonance imaging) scan performed, presumably because the defense psychologist believed vela might be suffering from organic brain damage. 7 . . i have part of the report. the other part . . regarding sanity. but i can show the court the part on competence. [4] [] . . . [] says. and i agree with [defense counsel]. that comment cannot be ignored. interestingly dr. argun was not appointed for the purpose of making a competency discretion, i suppose. [] so now what we have to do is we have to have an appointment the trial court restated its concern that argun had provided an unsolicited opinion,5 s desire to conduct an mri examination in order to test one of the things that dr. argun said in the report, the part of which you gave me, is that he would like to have that information on the subject of competence, which is interesting the trial court then summarized its reasoning regarding the competency issue: sic] issues here. number one is, i was dealing with mr. vela for a very long time while he represented 4 confidential report. 5 . . that he has provided information that was not requested. and so the court, based upon that document, is not going to join in the decl 8 vela that indicated any lack of competence. developed. [] but number three, and most disturbing, argun was not appointed for the thnot relying on that report. i appreciate that counsel is doing it for obvious reasons, but at the next hearing, the trial court appointed two other mental health professionals to examine vela. defense counsel asked for the appointment of dr. rebecca crandall, and the prosecutor asked for the appointment of dr. marc cohen. dr. cooperative with my interview. he withheld information and had a petulant attitude. there were no signs of significant mental illness during the interview. i was unable to accurately assess his competency to stand trial due to his noncooperation, which was dr. a documented mental health history. he has never taken psychiatric medication. during my clinical interview, he . . . tried to appear more impaired than he actually is. . . . it was evident . . . he understood concepts of evidence and witnesses as well as the roles of the court personnel. his behavior suggested malingering in order to interfere with the court proceedings. i was unable to make an accurate assessment of his competency to stand trial due to his lack of cooperation, which was voluntary. there was no indication that he was suffering mental illness that would impair his ability to understand his legal dr. cohen also believed vela was malingering. dr. tent with an individual attempting to feign memory impairment linear and logical when he chose to respond to the question asked. . . . [he was] evasive and vague when he was asked to speak about seemingly benign details, such as his 9 upbringing, and there was a noticeable pause in the time it took for mr. vela to reply to basic questions, such as his date of birth. individuals attempting to simulate mental illness will frequently employ long pauses and answer questions in a noncommittal and equivocal manner. . . . in summary, mr. cohen co after considering these two new medical reports, the trial court again declined to declcompetence as defined in the penal code. the court did not declare a doubt in this matter pr c. discussion. vela argues dr. incompetent to stand trial and, therefore, it was improper for the trial court to seek further action that was disapproved in [people v. pennington attorney general points out, however, pennington said the substantial evidence test was accused, states under oathid. at p. 519, italics added.) h. in response, vela cites people v. tomas (1977) 74 cal.app.3d 75, an opinion tomas holds that a single unsworn medical report may constitute substantial evidence of mental incompetence triggering a formal competency hearing, the holding appears to be incorrect and contravenes . . . california supreme court precedent . . . . in that regard, tomas was wrongly decided and should not be f 10 pennington has been stated again and again by our supreme court, most recently in people v. sattiewhite (2014) 59 cal.4th ed the under oath with particularity that in his professional opinion the accused is, because of mental illness, incapable of understanding the purpose or nature of the criminal proceedings being taken against him or is incapable of assisting in his people v. lewis (2008) 43 cal.4th 415, 525, disapproved on other grounds in people v. black (2014) 58 cal.4th 912, 919; people v. lewis and oliver (2006) 39 cal.4th 970, 1047; people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 738.) vela argues relied on for the holding in any case. but even if that assertion is correct, it is well-city of san diego v. shapiro (2014) 228 cal.app.4th 756, 781, fn. 24; accord wechsler v. superior court (2014) 224 cal.app.4th 384, 393-394, fn. 2; people v. gutierrez (2013) 214 cal.app.4th 343, 355.) however, we need not resolve the validity of tomas because, even assuming could have qualified as substantial evidence of incompetency without having been made under oath, we conclude the court did not abuse its discretion by refusing to order a section 1368 competency hearing. rather, the trial incompetency finding was less than credible. it is apparent argun himself believed his incompetency finding was a tentative and preliminary conclusion, and that further diagnostic work needed to be done. at the top of page 5, following a capitalized and bold headinhistorical work are necessary to come to a diagnostic clarity. the results were mixed. objective tests were invalid, suggesting possible malingering. . . . diagnostic 5, beneath a second 11 following two sentences, which are neitsuffering from mental, neuro psychological and medical conditions. he is not competent includes a statement that vela is presently incompetent, the statement taken in context demonstrates this was just a tentative diagnostic impression and that argun recognized he needed to rule out in people v. lewis, supra, 39 cal.4th 970, the trial court disregarded a medical davis to be less than credible and i have id. at p. 1047.) our supreme court affirmed this of mental incompetence and no reason to suspend the criminal proceedings. . . . [] lewis suggests . . . the testimony of dr. davis compels a contrary result. we disagree. the trial court endent of both its doubts about dr. conclude that davis's opinion did not satisfy the substantial-evidence standard described above. [] specifically, the record supports th- . . . moreover, dr. be crucial matter . . . for final pid. at pp. 1047-1048.) vela rightly notes the trial court here seemed chiefly concerned with the fact argun had not been appointed to examine vela on the issue of competency to stand trial. however, the trial court aincompetency finding and his stated need for more information. in any event, we review any ground. (see people v. zapien better or more firmly established by authority, nor one resting upon a sounder basis of reason and propriety, than that a ruling or decision, itself correct in law, will not be disturbed on appeal merely because given for a wrong reason. if right upon any theory of 12 the law applicable to the case, it must be sustained regardless of the considerations which because the single, unsigned page manifestly a preliminary, tentative medical opinion, the trial court was justified in seeking other medical reports before deciding whether or not to declare a doubt regarding the trial court was further justified in refusing to declare a doubt as malingering. hence, the trial court did not abuse its discretion by refusing to hold a competency hearing. (see people v. ramos, supra, 34 cal.4th at pp. 507-508.) 2. sufficient evidence to support first degree murder conviction. vela contends there was insufficient evidence to sustain his conviction for first degree murder. this claim is meritless. a. legal principles. review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidence that is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the federal standard of review is to the same effect: under principles of federal due process, review for sufficiency of evidence entails not the determination whether the reviewing court itself believes the evidence at trial establishes guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, but, instead, whether, after viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the standard of review is the same in cases in which the prosecution relies mainly on circumstantial evidence. [citati that circumstantial evidence is susceptible of two interpretations, one of which suggests guilt and the other innocence [citations], it is the jury, not the appellate court[,] which findings, the opinion of the reviewing 13 court that the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding does not warrant a reversal of the people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 11.) have drawn from the circumstantitrial court can be set aside for the insufficiency of the evidence, it must clearly appear that on no hypothesis whatever is there sufficient substantial evidence to support the verdict of the [finder people v. sanghera (2006) 139 cal.app.4th 1567, 1573.) as our supreme court said in people v. rodriguez, supra, 20 cal.4th 1, while reversing an insufficient evidence finding because the reviewing court had rejected contrary, b . . amounted to nothing more than a different weighing of the evidence, one the jury might well have considered and rejected. the attorney nferences from the evidence were no more inherently speculative than the id. at p. 12, italics added.) the various types of premeditation and deliberation evidence have been described finding of premeditation and deliberation falls into three basic categories: (1) facts about how and what defendant did prior to the actual killing which show that the defendant was engaged in activity directed toward, and explicable as intended to result in, the killing prior relationship and/or conduct with the victim from which the jury could reasonably infer a -existing facts about the nature of the killing from which the jury could infer that the manner of killing was so particular and exacting that the defendant must have intentionally killed according to a 14 jury can reasonably infer from facts of type (1) or (2). [] analysis of the cases will show that this court sustains verdicts of first degree murder typically when there is evidence of all three types and otherwise requires at least extremely strong evidence of (1) or evidence of (2) in conjunction with either (1) or people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15, 26-27.) b. discussion. vela contends the trial evidence failed to satisfy the anderson test. we disagree. vela argues there was no motive evidence because he did not have any interaction whatsoever with bennett prior to the fight. and while vela may have had an animus toward comstock, the fight in the ihop parking lot had been between him and bennett, that night and there was ample evidence vela transferred his animosity from comstock, who had been rude to him at the bar, to bennett. there was substantial evidence vela behavior, vela took offense when bennett tried to calm him down. the manner of the killing also tended to show premeditation and deliberation. much as it is the extent of the reflection. thoughts may follow each other with great rapidity and cold, calculated judgment may be arrived at quickly. . . . people v. koontz (2002) 27 cal.4th 1041, 1080.) the evidence showed vela initially attacked bennett with the lock and chain, and only after hitting him repeatedly with that weapon did vela escalate his attack by pulling out a knife and stabbing the unarmed bennett in the heart. (see people v. harris (2008) 43 cal.4th 1269, 1287 in the heart with enough force to penetrate part of a rib and pierce entirely through the people v. silva (2001) 25 cal.4th 345 multiple shotgun wounds inflicted on an 15 unarmed and defenseless victim who posed no threat to defendant is entirely consistent and deliberated because bennett triggered a sudden explosion of violence, by saying something terribly disturbing to him, demeanor changed radically at what he thought mr. bennett had said and that he spoke provocative. lucy testified bennett was trying had earlier bragged to one of the bouncers that he was in possession of dangerous weapons tended to show he was hardly in need of inflammatory provocation to become violent. finally, the fact vela fled the scene after stabbing bennett and tried to conceal his weapons tended to establish premeditation and deliberation. (see, e.g., people v. perez ditionally, the conduct of defendant after the stabbing . . . would appear to be inconsistent with a state of mind that would have produced a rash, conviction. 3. no ineffective assistance of counsel regarding lay opinion testimony. vela contends the trial court was ineffective for failing to object to testimony constituting improper lay opinion evidence. this claim is meritless. a. background. d you? . . knew what he was doing? 16 swung the chain at [bennett], did he appear in control to you? during her examination of comstock, the pros b. legal principles. a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel based on strickland v. washington (1984) 46 defendant by the sixth amendment. second, the defendant must show that the deficient performance prejudiced the defense. this serious as to deprive the defendant of a fair trial, a trial whose result is rel[citation.] [] t, but for a reasonable probability is a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the williams v. taylor (2000) 529 u.s. 362, 390-3burden of proof that the defendant must meet in order to establish his entitlement to relief on an ineffective-people v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d 171, 218.) on why counsel acted or failed to act in the challenged manner, we must reject the claim on appeal unless counsel was asked for an 17 explanation and failed to provide one, or there could be no satisfactory explanation for people v. castillo (1997) 16 cal.4th 1009, 1015.) before examining the prejudice suffered by the defendant as a result of the alleged strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 697.) tactical choice within the range of reasonable competence, we have held that the people v. bunyard (1988) 45 cal.3d 1189, 1215; see people v. hillhouse people v. mitcham (1992) 1 cal.4th 1027, 1059 [decision whether to put on witnesses is -the case might have been handled more effectively. [citations.] [] rather, the defendant must affirmatively show that the omissions of defense counsel involved a critical issue, and that the omissions cannot be explained on the basis of any people v. floyd (1970) 1 cal.3d 694, 709, disapproved on other grounds by people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258, 287, fn. 36.) c. discussion. vela contends defense counsel should have objected to this testimony because lay witnesses may not give opinions about anogrounds of improper lay opinion, lack of personal knowledge, speculation, and evidence code section 800 provides: his testimony in the form of an opinion is limited to such an opinion as is permitted by law, including but not limited to an opinion that is: [] (a) rationally based on the perception of the witness; and [] (b) 18 concrete observationpeople v. hinton is admissible . . . . observed are too complex or too subtle to enable [the witness] accurately to convey them to court or people v. chapple (2006) 138 cal.app.4th 540, 547.) r pulsive, rash reaction should have been left to the jury. the testimony apart from the questions but a percipient witness may offer such an opinion when it is based on personal people v. chatman (2006) 38 cal.4th 344, 397 [witness who observed defendant kicking high school seemed to be enjoying itpeople v. farnam in a posture like he was going to start fightingased on his defense counsel was not ineffective for failing to object to this testimony. 19 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports edmon, j.* we concur: klein, p. j. aldrich, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 