filed 1/14/14 p. v. perez ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. antonio perez et al., defendants and appellants. b238303 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta112332) appeal from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, ricardo r. ocampo, judge. affirmed. melanie k. korian, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant antonio perez. alan stern, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant jacori armon williams. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, linda c. johnson and robert m. snider, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendants and appellants, antonio perez and jacori armon williams, appeal their convictions for premeditated attempted murder, assault with a firearm, shooting at an occupied vehicle, and possession of a firearm by a felon, with firearm, criminal street gang enhancements, and prior serious felony conviction enhancements (pen. code,  664, 187, 245, subd. (a)(2), 246, former 12021, 186.22, subd. (b), 667, subds. (b)-(i)).1 perez was sentenced to state prison for a term of 231 years to life. williams was sentenced to state prison for a term of 195 years to life. the judgments are affirmed. background viewed in accordance with the usual rule of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established the following. 1. prosecution evidence. the front hood crips gang frequented west 137th street in compton. front -13s, a latino gang whose members had been moving into some of the apartments on 137th street. in addition, the front hood crips were engaged in an ongoing gang war with several other african american gangs. defendants perez and williams were front hood members. a. the april 4, 2010, shooting. on april 4, 2010 2, l.t. was living with his grandmother on the 800 block of west 137th street. that morning, as l.t. and his uncle walked to the market, l.t. noticed the defendants talking with five or six people. williams walked over to l.t., approached to gang 1 all further references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 2 all further date references are to the year 2010 unless otherwise specified. 3 walking home with his uncle. although l.t. had tattoos all over his body, he testified they were not gang-related. later that same day, l.t. was in front of the house washing his grawhen perez drove up in the minivan and blocked the driveway. williams emerged from pointed a semiautomatic handgun at l.t.. without saying a word, williams pulled the off. l.t. later found an unfired bullet on the ground where williams had been standing when he pulled the trigger. by the time of trial, l.t. was afraid for himself and his family because people were saying he would be killed if he testified. a few weeks before trial, two men confronted him near the courthouse and asked if he was testifying against their homeboy. when l.t. said it was none of their business, they threatened him. l.t. recognized one of them as a member of the front hood crips. b. the april 18 shooting. on april 17, while he was with perez, williams was shot in the leg. the following afternoon, a gold sedan carrying four men drove down the 800 block of west 137th street. perez shot at the car from one side of the street and then from the other side. w.s., who was acquainted with perez, witnessed the shooting. afterwa-caliber shell casings and one expended round from the scene. w.s. believed the defendants were gang members and he was afraid for his family if he testified. c. the april 19 shooting. on the afternoon of april 19, w.s. witnessed a second shooting. he saw a man entering a parked truck. then he saw williams come down the stairs of an apartment complex and shoot at the truck. 4 the victim of this shooting, f.s., testified he had been dropping off two employees at their homes on the 800 block of 137th street when someone started shooting at his truck. f.s. thought he heard someone in a nearby group of people say, times, but f.s. kept on driving. the police recovered nine expended .45-caliber shell casings from around the stairs and bullet fragments from the street. the forensic evidence showed the same gun had been used in both the april 18 and the april 19 shootings. the prosecution gang expert, brian richardson, testified gang members often eir gun from gang member to gang member. often, a gang member, if he needs to go put in some work, you go get a gang gun or a hood gun. a hood gun is a gun that is passed throughout the hood. when i say hood, i am talking about that particular gang. an[williams] is willing to put in . . 2. defense evidence. neither defendant testified. according to one of the officers who responded to the scene, l.t. did not say williams had introduced himself as ice from front hood. l.t. said that when he was e was by himself, not with his uncle, and that williams pulled the trigger once, not four times. in march 2010, williams began living part-time with his aunt at her west 137th street apartment. around 1:00 p.m. on april 4, williams and his girlfriend arrived at the p.m., williams was still there. after she returned at 6:00 or 7:00 apartment almost until midnight. 5 for a month after he was shot in the leg on april 17, williams could not walk without limping slightly and he was unable to run. w.s. had told a detective that on april 19 he saw the gunman running. contentions 1. there was insufficient evidence to sustain the convictions arising out of the l.t. shooting on april 4. 2. there was insufficient evidence to sustain the premeditation and deliberation findings related to the april 18 and 19 shootings. 3. the trial court erred by consolidating the l.t. case to the other two shooting incidents. enhancement. discussion 1. there was sufficient evidence to sustain the convictions arising out of the l.t. incident on april 4. defendants contend their convictions for attempted murder and aggravated assault arising out of the april 4 incident, when williams confronted l.t. with a handgun, must be reversed. they argue the required intent for those offenses was missing because there was insufficient evidence the gun had been loaded and, even if it had been loaded, the evidence showed the gun was inoperable. this claim is meritless. a. legal principles. review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidence that is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the federal standard of review is to the same effect: under principles of federal due process, review for sufficiency of evidence entails not the determination whether the reviewing court itself believes the evidence at trial establishes guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, but, instead, whether, after viewing the evidence in the 6 light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the standard of review is the same in cases in which the prosecution relies mainly on circumstantial that circumstantial evidence is susceptible of two interpretations, one of which suggests guilt and the other innocence [citations], it is the jury, not the appellate court[,] which ndings, the opinion of the reviewing court that the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 11.) trial court can be set aside for the insufficiency of the evidence, it must clearly appear that on no hypothesis whatever is there sufficient substantial evidence to support the people v. sanghera (2006) 139 cal.app.4th 1567, 1573.) as our supreme court said in people v. rodriguez, supra, 20 cal.4th 1, while reversing an insufficient evidence finding because the reviewing court had rejected . . amounted to nothing more than a different weighing of the evidence, one the jury might well have considered and rejected. the attorney no more inherently speculative than the assessment of the id. at p. 12, italics added.) a . . . [in this case], we address the required quantum of circumstantial evidence necessary to demonstrate present ability to inflict injury and thus to sustain a conviction of assault people v. rodriguez, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 11, fn. 3.) 7 id. at p. 12.) b. discussion. the encounter with l.t. began when williams detached himself from a group of l.t. responded by saying he was not affiliated with any gang. the prosecution gang expert testified l.t. would have been seen as having insulted williams in front of his peers. just a few hours later, now armed with a semiautomatic pistol, williams got out of times. after williams left, an unfired bullet was found at the spot where he had been standing. loaded. (see people v. rodriguez, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 14 [evidence showing people v. lochtefeld (2000) 77 cal.app.4th 533, 542, and in pointing the gun at officers demonstrated his implied assertion the [pellet] gun was sufficiently , williams our negate a present ability to commit an armed assault. in people v. chance (2008) 44 cal.4th 1164, our supreme court approved the following analysis by people v. ranson (1974) 4police shot and disarmed him, it was discovered that there was no round in the chamber because a cartridge was jammed in the magazine. [citation.] the ranson court noted that while an udefendant wields an automatic rifle with cartridges in the magazine, even if the firing 8 people v. chance, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 1172, fn. omiranson court held the evidence of present ability sufficient, even though ranson had to do much more than turn around to use his weapon against the police. he had to remove the clip, dislodge a jammed cartridge, reinsert the clip, chamber a rid. at p. 1173, fn. omitted.) here, the prosecution firearms expert explained how a jam could have occurred if the magazine had not been properly seated in the weapon, and how such a jam could have been cleared. perez argues the jury could not have rationally concluded williams had immediately after he heard the clicking sound, [l.t.] ducked and his uncle charged up to williams, who then jumped in to that conclusion. l.t. testified he ducked behind the car after hearing williams pull the [a]fter that, my uncle had come out and uncle, he was in the garage when it happened. so he came out of the garage and told them could have reasonably inferred williams had sufficient time to clear a jam. l.t. incident. 2. sufficient evidence to sustain the premeditation and deliberation findings related to the april 18 and 19 shootings. defendants claim there was insufficient evidence to sustain the premeditation and deliberation findings made by the jury in connection with the attempted murder convictions against perez for the april 18 shooting, and against williams for the april 19 shooting. these claims are meritless. 9 a. legal principles. people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15, 26-27, a murder case, discussed the following types of premeditation and deliberation evidence:3 idence which this court has found sufficient to sustain a finding of premeditation and deliberation falls into three basic categories: (1) facts about how and what defendant did prior to the actual killing which show that the defendant was engaged in activity directed toward, and explicable as intended to result in, the killing what may be characterized as prior relationship and/or conduct with inference of motive, together with facts of type (1) or (3), would in turn support an - facts about the nature of the killing from which the jury could infer that the manner of killing was so particular and exacting that the defendant must have intentionally killed accorda (1) or (2). [] analysis of the cases will show that this court sustains verdicts of first degree murder typically when there is evidence of all three types and otherwise requires at least extremely strong evidence of (1) or evidence of (2) in conjunction with either (1) or the anderson factors do not establish normative rules, but instead provide guidpeople v. sanchez (1995) 12 cal.4th 1, 32, disapproved on another ground in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22.) thus, the anderson factors are not a sine qua non to finding deliberation and 3 murder for purposes of determining whether there is sufficient evidence of premeditation people v. herrera (1999) 70 cal.app.4th 1456, 1462, fn. 8, disapproved on other grounds in people v. mesa (2012) 54 cal.4th 191.) 10 premeditation, nor are they exclusive. (people v. sanchez, supra, at pp. 32-33; people v. davis (1995) 10 cal.4th 463, 511 [anderson factors are descriptive, not normative].) b. discussion. (1) april 18. on april 18, perez fired multiple shots at a car driving down the 800 block of west 137th street. there were four african americans in the car. perez then crossed the street and continued to shoot at the car. perez argues the evidence showed no more than an impulsive, unpremeditated act on his part. we disagree. the prosecution gang expert brian richardson testified that, precisely at the time of this shooting, there had been a major street war going on between the front hood crips and three other african american gangs. richardson testified aboacross the street, fruit town piru, which at the time there was a major street war, a gang war going on between the two gangs, as well as other gangs that i mentioned earlier . . . n testified there had been gang rivalry, even if the victim is merely suspected of belonging to a rival gang, can provide evidence of motive and may prove premeditation and deliberation. for example, people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 194, held the trial court did not err argues the issue of gang hostility as a motive was not reasonably raised because the prosecution failed to adduce any evidence that the victim, dunn, was a gang member. was just as arguable on facts suggesting (as they did) that the victim was dressed like a crip when he was shot, as it would have been on facts suggesting he actually was a crip. aving been shot in recognized blood by bloods as well as crips, such that the area would occasionally be the scene of conflict 11 given the context of an ongoing violent gang war, evidence that perez might have believed the gold sedan carried rival gang members would have explained this otherwise within the gang to shoot at people he suspected of belonging to the fruit town pirus or either of the other two gangs with which the front hood crips were at war. is arguing that the attempted murders were not premeditated or deliberaterather than a carefully thought-out and planned shooting, even if the motive was gang- much more likely is the scenario that perez suspected the car contained rival gang members and, in the context of an ongoing gang war, when presented with an opportunity to shoot at rival gang members, perez needed little time to decide what to do. process of premeditation and deliberation does not require any extended period of reflection. thoughts may follow each other with great rapidity and cold, calculated judgment may be arrived at quickly. . . . people v. koontz (2002) 27 shooting even though the time between the sighting of the victim and the actual shooting people v. sanchez (2001) 26 cal.4th 834, 849.) in addition, there were about 10 shots fired, which also tends to show premeditation and deliberation. (see people v. silva multiple shotgun wounds inflicted on an unarmed and defenseless victim who posed no threat to defendant is entirely consistent with a premeditated and deliberate mpeople v. herrera, supra, 70 cal.app.4th at p. 1464, disapproved on other grounds in people v. mesa, supra, 54 cal.4th 191 [dozen shots fired during drive-by shooting was evidence of premeditation and deliberation].) 12 there was sufficient evidenc 18 shooting. (2) april 19. williams makes practically the same argument as perez, but in his situation the argument is much weaker. the evidence, that just before williams fired a flurry of shots someone said, [one] was a member of the b-13s and [f.s.] showed 12 or 13 shots had been fired, again indicating the shooting had been deliberate and premeditated. (see people v. silva, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 369; people v. herrera, supra, 70 cal.app.4th at p. 1464.) car he impulsively and rashly and without reflection fired upon and no gang motive for came down the stairs and immediately but this is just jury argument, and highly implausible at that. s premeditation and deliberation findings in connection with the attempted murder convictions against williams for the april 19 shooting. 3. joinder was proper. perez contends the trial court erred by joining for trial the l.t. incident with the two c-admissible in separate trials, but the consolidation allowed the prosecution to bolster its attempted murder case involving [l.t.] 13 a. legal principles. together in their commission, . . . or two or more different offenses of the same class of crimes or offenses, under separate counts, . . . provided, that the court in which a case is triable, in the interests of justice and for good cause shown, may in its discretion order that the different offenses or counts set forth in the accusatory pleading be tried (italics added.) . . . [] [if t]he statutory requirements for joinder [are] satisfied, g the motion only on a clear showing of motion for abuse of discretion. [citations.] people v. jones (2013) 57 cal.4th 899, 924-925.) ion of prejudice is necessarily dependent on the particular circumstances of each individual case, but certain criteria have emerged to provide guidance in ruling upon and reviewing a motion to sever trial. thus, refusal to sever may be an abuse of discrebe cross-admissible in separate trials; (2) certain of the charges are unusually likely to case, or wseveral charges might well alter the outcome of some or all; and (4) any one of the frank v. superior court (1989) 48 cal.3d 632, 639.) section 954.1 specifically provides that cross-admissibility is not the other offense or offenses before the jointly charged offenses may be tried together charges in question would be cross-admissible, that factor alone is normally sufficient to ever properly people v. soper (2009) 45 cal.4th 759, 774-775; see also people v. 14 cunningham -admissibility is not necessary b. discussion. the trial cour . . similar intent. -admissibility of [evidence code section] 1101(b) evidence, and while there ilevel of substantial prejudice to outweigh the factors that . . . would permit the granting of perez concedes all three cases involved the same class of offense and, therefore, that consolidation was proper under section 954, but he argues the evidence was not cross- perez points to amount to no more than minor factual details, [l.t.] all three incidents occurred on the same city block within a 16-day period. all three incidents apparently involved a gang motivation. all three incidents involved the same two perpetrators, and the evidence showed they shared the same gun that had been used in two of the incidents. moreover, the gang-related motive and intent evidence, generated by all three incidents, was crucial to understanding these otherwise l.t. case. the trial court did not err by ordering consolidation of these cases. 15 4. . williams contends there was insufficient evidence to support imposition of a three strikes sentence based on his federal bank robbery conviction. this claim is meritless. a. background. at trial, the prosecution put into evidence two exhibits for the purpose of title 18 united states code section 2113, constituted a three strikes-qualifying prior. one exhibit consisted of a judgment and commitment order showing that in 2005 codefendant perez pled guilty to armed bank robbery in violation of title 18 united states code section 2113(a)(d), and brandishing a weapon during the commission of a violent crime in violation of title 18 united states code section 924(c). attached to this judgment and commitment order was a copy of a first superseding indictment charging that in february 2000, perez, williams and a third person had robbed the star harbor federal credit union in rancho dominguez, california. according to this indictment, williams personally used a firearm during the robbery. the second exhibit consisted of a certified clets (california law enforcement telecommunications system) computer printout showing that, following his arrest in october 2000, williams was convicted of violating title 18 united states code section 2113(a)(d), sentenced to 130 months in prison, and eventually began a term of supervised release in march 2010. at trial, defense counsel made hearsay and lack of foundation objections to these exhibits, but did not argue the evidence was otherwise insufficient to prove the existence of this prior conviction. the trial court concluded the prior strike had been proven beyond a reasonable doubt. 16 b. legal principles. a reasonable doubt. [citation.] where, as here, the mere fact of conviction under a particular statute does not prove the offense was a serious felony, otherwise admissible evidence from the entire record of the conviction may be examined to resolve the issue. [citations.] this rule applies equally to california convictions and to those from foreign people v. miles (2008) 43 cal.4th 1074, 1082.) multiple ways, and the record of the conviction does not disclose how the offense was committed, a court must presume the conviction was for the least serious form of the offense. [citations.] in such a case, if the serious felony nature of the prior conviction depends upon the particular conduct that gave rise to the conviction, the record is insufficient to establish that a serious felony conviction occurred. [] on the other hand, the trier of fact may draw reasonable inferences from the record presented. absent rebuttal evidence, the trier of fact may presume that an official government document, prepared contemporaneously as part of the judgment record and describing the prior conviction, is truthful and accurate. unless rebutted, such a document, standing alone, is sufficient evidence of the facts it recites about the nature and circumstances of the prior conviction. [citations.] [] on review, we examine the record in the light most (id. at p. 1083.) title 18 united states code section violence, or by intimidation, takes, or attempts to take, from the person or presence of another, or obtains or attempts to obtain by extortion any property or money or any other thing of value belonging to, or in the care, custody, control, management, or possession of, any bank, credit union, or any savings and loan association; or [] whoever enters or attempts to enter any bank, credit union, or any savings and loan association, or any building used in whole or in part as a bank, credit union, or as a savings and loan association, with intent to commit in such bank, credit union, or in such savings and loan 17 association, or building, or part thereof, so used, any felony affecting such bank[, credit union,] or such savings and loan association and in violation of any statute of the united states, or any larceny [] shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than section ng, or in attempting to commit, any offense defined in subsections (a) and (b) of this section, assaults any person, or puts in jeopardy the life of any person by the use of a dangerous weapon or device, shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than twenty- offense described in the first paragraph of section 2113(a) . . . . however, there is no california serious felony that corresponds to the crime described in the second paragraph of section 2113(a). thus, evidence that the defendant suffered a previous conviction under section 2113(a), standing alone, cannot establish that the conviction was for a people v. miles, supra, 43 cal.4th at pp. 1081-1082, fns. omitted.) c. discussion. citing people v. jones (1999) 75 cal.app.4th 616, williams argues there was insufficient evidence his violation of section 2113 constituted a prior serious felony conviction for three strikes purposes. but the problem in jones was that, although the defendant had originally been charged by indictment with violating title 18 united states code sections 2113(a) and 2113(d), he was ultimately convicted only for violating the 2113(a). in this situation, jones presented by the people did not suffice to disclose the facts of the prior offense actually committed, and therefore the trial court should have presumed that the prior conviction was for the least offense punishable under the federal law, which did not constitute a people v. jones, supra, at p. 635.) but that problem did not exist here because the evidence shows williams had been convicted for the aggravated form of the offense defined by the first paragraph of section 2113(a). 18 certified rap sheets are admissible to prove the fact of prior convictions. (people v. morris (2008) 166 cal.app.4th 363, 367-368.) here, the clets rap sheet not aggravated form of federal bank robbery. (see people v. miles, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 1085 . . the statutory provision includes more than one form of offense, one may reasonably infer, absent contrary indicia, that the additional prose notation is not mere surplusage, but an attempt to delineate which as 5 feet tall and weighing 90 pounds, does not materially impair the value of this evidence. in any event, there was more evidence showing tconviction. a charging document is part of the record for purposes of determining the substance of a foreign conviction. (see people v. towers (2007) 150 cal.app.4th 1273, 1285, fn. 11 [tennessee indictment]; people v. mcmahan (1992) 3 cal.app.4th 740, 745-746 [missouri indictment].) here, the federal indictment describes an armed robbery during which williams personally used a firearm, which constitutes more evidence about the nature of his prior. (see people v. miles, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 1088, fns. omitted entering a bank with felonious or larcenous intent, without an attempted or actual taking of property by force and violence or intimidation, would also be found, in the course of to have taken a hostage. in the absence of any rebuttal evidence as to the nature of the prior conviction, the trial court was entitled, prima facie, to draw the more reasonable hence, there was sufficient evidence to sustain the finding that williams suffered a prior felony conviction for purposes of the three strikes law. 19 disposition the judgments are affirmed. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: kitching, j. aldrich, j. 