filed 2/5/13 p. v. hendricks ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. gerome hendricks, defendant and appellant. b238049 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma040987) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. kathleen blanchard, judge. affirmed. thien huong tran, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, blythe leszkay and elaine f. tumonis, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ 2 jerome hendricks was previously convicted of spousal rape (pen. code,1  262, subd. (a)(1)). in an earlier appeal, this court concluded that the trial court erred when it ordered him to register as a sex offender under the mandatory provisions of section 290. we remanded the matter to permit the trial court to assess whether hendricks should be subjected to sex offender registration under section 290.006. the trial court ordered him to register as a sex offender under this provision, and hendricks appeals. he asserts that violates his sixth amendment right to a jury trial because the judge, not a jury, made the factual findings upon which the registration order was based. we affirm. factual and procedural background hendricks pleaded no contest to spousal rape. all facts in this portion of this opinion pertaining to the offense are taken from the transcript of the preliminary hearing; hendricks and his counsel stipulated that the preliminary hearing transcript afforded a factual basis for the plea.2 as of january 13, 2008, t.b. had been married to hendricks for eight years. although they were married, t.b. did not permit hendricks to sleep in her house because he had sexually mistreated her in the past, forcing her to engage in anal intercourse without her consent. at approximately 3:00 in the morning on january 13, hendricks drove t.b. to the hospital because she was sick with the flu. after her hospital visit, the two walked back -rig truck. t.b. lay down in the back of the big rig because she was vomiting. hendricks joined t.b. in the back of the truck, lying down next to her. in a demanding tone, he told her to turn over. t.b. knew hendricks wanted to engage in anal 1 unless otherwise indicated, all further statutory references are to the penal code. 2 pellate record from his prior appeal, people v. gerome hendricks (nov. 10, 2010, b218791) [nonpub. opn.]. 3 shut the fuck up pulled down his pants and underwear, exposing his penis. spread vaseline in her anal area. t.b. had been on her back while hendricks penetrated her vagina. he then instructed t.b. to turn over again. he inserted his penis into her anus again. according he was making noises, like i could tell he t.b. was still crying and she was in pain. she told him to stop. she asked if she could use the restroom because she was vomiting and having diarrhea. he gave her a bag from the floor, which she placed beneath her buttocks. at some point hendricks permitted t.b. to sit up. she told hendricks that he was again. hendricks then inserted a water bottle into her anus. t.b. was in pain. she told hendricks finally stopped. t.b. asked him to take her home so that she could clean herself. he accused her of planning to call the police, but eventually he permitted 4 her to put her clothes on and he drove her home. t.b. was experiencing pain in her anal area. diarrhea and blood began running down her legs. she went to the police station and was directed to go to the hospital. the subsequent medical examination revealed cuts and tears in her vaginal and anal areas, as well as a hickey on her neck. hendricks was h.i.v. positive. he did not use a condom. hendricks was charged with spousal rape, two counts of sodomy by use of force ( 286, subd. (c)(2)), sexual penetration by a foreign object ( 289, subd. (a)(1)), and corporal injury to a spouse ( 273.5, subd. (a)). he pleaded no contest to spousal rape and was found guilty of that offense. the remaining counts were dismissed. the court sentenced hendricks to four years in state prison and ordered him to register as a sex offender under section 290. hendricks appealed, and this court concluded that the trial court had erred when it ordered him to register as a sex offender under section 290. (people v. hendricks (nov. 10, 2010, b218791) [nonpub. opn.].) we remanded the matter to permit the trial court to assess whether hendricks should be subjected to sex offender registration under section 290.006. (id. at p. 6.) on remand, the trial court stated that at the original sentencing hearing it should shadow of a doubt, that this crime was committed for the purpose of sexual gratification. the defendant made that very clear in both his actions and his words to the victim. ne an individual that should register any more than mr. hendricks. what he put this woman through is exactly why he needs to be on the registry, needs to behave law enforcement know where he is, make sure that does get out of state prison because he poses a hendricks appeals the sex offender registration requirement. 5 discussion section 290 provides for mandatory sex offender registration for those convicted of enumerated sexual offenses. section 290.006 permits the trial court to order sex offender registration on a discretionary basis for those who have committed offenses other than those that trigger mandatory registration under section 290. discretionary the person committed the offense as a result of sexual compulsion or for purposes of 290.006.) the trial court made such a finding here, and ordered that hendricks be subject to sex offender registration under section 290.006. all registered sex offenders in california are barred from residing within 2,000 feet of a school or park where children gather. ( 3003.5, subd. (b).) hendricks contends that being subjected to this residency restriction constitutes punishment that increases the penalty for his spousal rape offense beyond the maximum punishment permitted by statute, and that he could not constitutionally be subjected to sex offender registration without a jury finding the facts supporting registration to be true beyond a reasonable doubt. (see, e.g., apprendi v. new jersey (2000) 530 u.s. 466 (apprendi).) the question of whether this residency restriction is an increase in penalty for the purposes of the sixth amendment and cases interpreting the right to a jury trial is presently pending before the california supreme court. (people v. mosley, s187965, review granted jan. 26, 2011.) assuming for the sake of argument that hendricks is correct that the trial court erred in requiring him to register as a sex offender without having a jury find beyond a reasonable doubt the predicate facts required to impose a registration requirement under section 290.006, we determine whether the failure to submit the factual question of whether the offense was committed as a result of sexual compulsion or for purposes of sexual gratification ( 290.006) was prejudicial. apprendi error is not reversible per se but is reviewed under the harmless error standard set forth in chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18. (people v. sandoval (2007) 41 cal.4th 825, 838.) we therefore 6 decide whether we are convinced beyond a reasonable doubt that a jury would have determined that the offense was committed as a result of sexual compulsion or for purposes of sexual gratification. (see id. at pp. 838-839.) we have no difficulty in concluding that under the circumstances presented by this case, a jury would have found beyond a reasonable doubt that the spousal rape was committed for the purpose of sexual gratification. according to the probation report, ng his penis into her anus and he was making noises, like i could tell he was enjoying it. it felt good, like ooh, aah. i is no doubt that a jury faced with this evidence would have determined hendricks committed spousal rape for purposes of sexual gratification. accordingly, even if the sixth amendment is interpreted to require that this factual determination be made by a gratification did not prejudice hendricks. disposition the judgment is affirmed. zelon, j. we concur: woods, acting p. j. jackson, j. 