filed 1/25/13 p. v. barlow ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. prisha barlow, defendant and appellant. b238943 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la067572) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, thomas rubinson, judge. affirmed. johanna r. shargel, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii and alene m. games, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction defendant prisha barlow appeals from the judgment entered following her conviction by jury of child endangerment. ( 273a, subd. (a).)1 she contends that ct. we disagree and affirm the judgment. statement of facts 1. factual overview father, jahamal mayfield. while on the street with her three-month-old daughter, she struck a bargain with jairon arreaga to orally copulate him at her apartment. arreaga drove defendant and her daughter to the apartment. once there, defendant left her sleeping daughter in the bedroom and returned to the living room where arreaga awaited her. what subsequently transpired was vigorously disputed at trial. arreaga testified that after he gave defendant $30, defendant withdrew a gun hidden under an ottoman, pointed it at him, and demanded the remainder of his money. he gave her $20. he started to leave the apartment but defendant continued to point the gun at him. arreaga grabbed her hand. during the ensuing struggle, the gun discharged. neither individual was hit. arreaga left the apartment and reported the matter to the police. defendant, in contrast, testified that after she began to orally copulate arreaga, he insisted upon sexual intercourse. she refused. arreaga forcibly removed her dress and pinned her down on the couch. fearing arreaga would rape 1 all statutory references are to the penal code. 3 her, defendant pulled a gun out from under the couch and told arreaga to leave. arreaga tried to take the gun away and during the struggle, the gun discharged. the people charged defendant with robbery ( 211) and child endangerment ( 273, subd. (a)). the jury deadlocked on the robbery charge (11 to 1 for not guilty) but convicted on the child endangerment charge. 2. arreaga testified as follows. at approximately 6:00 p.m. on january 25, 2011, he saw defendant on the sidewalk with a baby stroller. he had never before met defendant. arreaga gave two explanations as to why he stopped and spoke calm her crying baby, he stopped to ask her if she needed any help. she replied and the two spoke. defendant said that she needed money to buy food for her baby. eventually, she agreed to orally copulate arreaga for $30. she asked him stroller in his car and defendant sat in the front passenger seat with her three-month-old baby on her lap. they d once inside her apartment, defendant put her infant in the bedroom. she returned to the living room and asked arreaga for the money. he gave her $30 whereupon defendant picked up a gun from under an ottoman, pointed the weapon at arreaga and demanded the rest of his money. arreaga gave her an additional $20 as she pointed the gun at his chest. as arreaga started to walk backwards nd pointed the gun upwards. 4 same time, the gun fired. no one was injured by the discharge of the firearm. arreaga left the apartment and ran to his car. later that day, arreaga went to a nearby police station and spoke with los angeles police office cesar corrales. officer corrales testified that arreaga told him that he had been robbed at gunpoint. the officer took two photographs of the 2 partner went to investigate. officer corrales knocked on the apartment door but no one answered. because arreaga had told officer corrales that a baby was in the apartment, the ofon the bed in the bedroom. marijuana and two live rounds of ammunition were found on the floor at the foot of the bed. in the living room, officer corrales found a black pouch under an ottoman. the pouch contained an unloaded revolver, bullet hole was in the ceiling in the living room. while officer corrales was conducting his investigation, mayfield arrived at the apartment.3 he told the officer that the baby was his daughter and that he lived in the apartment. he had unloaded the gun and placed it under the ottoman. lastly, he told the police that defendant typically kept the gun under the ottoman. late that evening, defendant came to the police station to ask about her baby. officer corrales told her that she was charged with child endangerment, 2 the photographs were introduced into evidence. 3 mayfield did not testify at trial. instead, officer corrales testified about investigation. 5 robbery, and discharge of a firearm. after being advised of and waiving her miranda a gun in my life. i never endangered my three-month- 3. the defense case defendant testified on her behalf as follows. she has worked as a prostitute father. approximately a month and a half prior to the events underlying this case, arreaga paid defendant $50 to perform oral sex in his car. on january 25, 2011, she was walking with her daughter when arreaga ed no but soon agreed to perform oral sex for $50. she told arreaga that they would go back a half a at her apartment, defendant placed her sleeping daughter in the bedroom and closed the door. when she returned, arreaga was seated in the living room (approximately 20 to 22 feet from the bedroom). defendant saw that he had placed cash on an end table. she sat down on the couch next to arreaga. after the two drank some vodka, defendant began to orally copulate arreaga. at one point, defendant repto fondle her. defendant repeatedly told him to stop. arreaga pinned her down on the couch. defendant became scared because arreaga was bigger and stronger, six or seven inches taller and 40 pounds heavier than she. fearful that arreaga would 6 defendant remembered that mayfield sometimes kept his gun under the couch. she reached underneath the couch, grabbed tover the gun, it discharged. defendant ran into the bedroom and arreaga left through the front door. defendant testified that approximately 10 minutes later, mayfield returned to the apartment. she told him what had happened. mayfield, angry that she had leave.4 she left. defendant denied that she either attempted to rob arreaga or had endangered her daughter through her conduct. however, in regard to the latter charge, she instead of in a car seat created the risk that the child could have been severely injured or killed if there had been a car accident but that, nonetheless, she had done 3. the jury instructions the pattern calcrim instructions explaining robbery and child people have presented evidence of more than one act to prove that the defendant committed [the] offense [of child endangerment]. you must not find the defendant 4 mayfield did not testify; instead, defendant testified about his statements. (see fn. 3, ante.) 7 guilty unless you all agree that the people have proved that the defendant committed at least one of these acts and you all agree on which act she 4. the closing arguments and whether arreaga or defendant was telling the truth about why defendant used the gun: did she try to rob arreaga or was she defending herself against arreattempt to rape her? the course of committing that robbery [of arreaga], [defendant] did endanger her child. when she decided to take a john up to the apartment and introduced a gun into this equation, at that point in time, ladies and gentlemen, any reasonable o a level of [arreaga] home[,] . . . she was not endangering her baby. she did not intend to when it. she wants to scare him off and she is not endangering her baby at that time. committing a felony child endangerment. her actions are reasonable. anyone dismissed the theory that defendant committed child endangerment when she held th arreaga], not in a car seat, for half of a 8 5. the jury convicted defendant of child endangerment but deadlocked on the robbery charge. at the sentencing hearing, the trial court granted the pdismiss the robbery charge. ( 1385.) discussion insofar as is relevant to this case, a defendant violates section 273a, harm or death [and] having the care or custody of any child [she] willfully causes or permits that child to be placed in a situation where his or her person or health is criminal negligence standard. (people v. valdez (2002) 27 cal.4th 778, 790.) gross or culpable departure from the ordinary standard of due care [that is] (people v. odom (1991) 226 -founded people v. wilson (2006) 138 cal.app.4th 1197, 1204.) child endangerment charge is subject, of course, to the deferential substantial evidence standard of review that recognizes that it is the exclusive province of the jury to determine the facts and decide credibility. (people v. boyer (2006) 38 cal.4th 412, 480.) in this case, the evidence, viewed in the light most favorable to the judgment, establishes that defendant supported herself by working as a prostitute. 9 she recognized the dangers posed by this endeavor, including the possibility of brought arreaga (a man she did not know) to her apartment to engage in sexual conduct for money. she did so while her three-month-old daughter (far too young to protect herself from any harm) was present in the next room. a confrontation with arreaga ensued. defendant withdrew a loaded gun from under the ottoman (the location where she regularly kept the gun) and pointed it at arreaga. a struggle ensued and the gun discharged. based upon these facts, a rational jury which serious physical danger or health hazard to [her was] reasonably 5 (people v. hansen (1997) 59 cal.app.4th 473, 479.) that her 5 the trial court, as indicated by the comments it made at the sentencing hearing, conviction to a misdemeanor, stating: dispute as to the circumstances under which it was used and the jury appeared to struggle somewhat as to what the circumstances of this were, nevertheless, this firearm was taken out by the defendant knowing that her child was in the next room, and the gun was fired. and this is by a person who was in the midst of committing an act of prostitution, with her child in the next room, while she was on probation for p second, the trial court explained its reasons for selecting the midterm sentence as follows: child, who was particularly vulnerable, and this victim was placed in that vulnerable position by this defendant, by her own admission and her own testimony. . . . and i agree [that credibility had some issues as well, as the jury found, but so did this defendant. but what really bothered me about her testimony is how blas she was about this whole lifestyle that this is just the way life is for her. and the most worrisome part of all of it is you know who came last in her mind? her child. the safety of the child came last. her making 50 bucks in the middle of the day to perform oral sex on some guy came first. clearing the portant. 10 daughter was not actually harmed does not matter. (cline v. superior court (1982) ct a child from an people v. jaramillo (1979) 98 cal.app.3d 830, 835.) to avoid the force of this conclusion, defendant argues that her use of the gun in her confrontation with arreaga cannot be considered criminally negligent sensible interpretation of the evidencethe one the jury seems to have adoptedis that she took the gun out in self-defense [and] protecting oneself against imminent rape is not the argument is not persuasive for two reasons. first, it ignores the fact that even were one to credit her testimony that she used the gun in self-defense (a conclusion we do not reach), she created the situation in which the need to use the gun arose. she brought arreaga back to her apartment to engage in criminal conduct (prostitution), fully aware of the risks inherent in that situation and the fact that her three-month-old daughter was in the next room. -of-the-evidence review involves assessment by the courts of whether the evidence adduced at trial could support any rational determination of guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. [citations.] this review should whole different set of circumstances. way that she testified, but by her own admission of the underlying facts of what happened here, it was all about her and nothing about the child. the child was more of an annoyance than something to be loved, cherished and protected like every child deserves. 11 insufficient. the government must convince the jury with its proof, and must also satisfy the courts that given this proof the jury could rationally have reached a people v. palmer (2001) 24 cal.4th 856, 863-864, italics added, quoting from united states v. powell (1984) 469 u.s. 57, 67.) this approach is consistent with the principinconsistent verdict is allowed to stand; if an acquittal of one count is factually irreconcilable with a conviction on another, . . . effect is given to both. people v. santamaria (1994) 8 cal.4th 903, 911.) by a parity of reasoning, the same result follows when, as here, the jury is unable to reach a verdict on one count (robbery) but convicts on another (child endangerment). [citation.] the jury may have been convinced of guilt but arrived at an [citation.] because the defendant is given the benefit of the acquittal [or dismissal following a jaccept the burden of conviction on the count[] on which the jury convicted.ibid., italics added.) ation to this court to reweigh the evidence and substitute its judgment for that of the jury. people v. guzman (1996) 45 cal.app.4th 1023, 1027.) further, there is no need to discuss whether the evidence would also be sufficient to support the conviction on any of the other theories advanced in the trial court or the appellate briefs.6 even were we to find that the 6 tential factual - 12 evidence was insufficient to support a conviction based upon any one of those theories (findings we do not make), reversal would not be required because theory urged by the prosecutor in closing argument) and the jury was instructed that all jurors had to agree that defendant committed the same act. no more is required. (people v. guiton (1993) 4 cal.4th 1116, 1126-1129, relying upon griffin v. united states (1991) 502 u.s. 46; see, in general, 6 witkin & epstein, cal. criminal law (4th ed. 2012) criminal appeal,  170, pp. 453-455.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports willhite, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. manella, j. was any adult taking care of this three- the apartme 