filed 9/6/13 p. v. ambriz ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. fernando ambriz et al., defendants and appellants. b238305 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba376570) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, anne h. egerton, judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part and remanded with directions. allen g. weinberg, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant, fernando ambriz. matthew alger, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant, freddy ambriz. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr. and robert c. schneider, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________________ 2 introduction appellants fernando ambriz and freddy ambriz appeal from judgments of conviction for first degree murder.1 they contend (1) the trial court erred in declining to hold a hearing to examine alleged juror misconduct, (2) the court erred in denying a mistrial motion brought after a prosecution witness mentioned he had previously arrested fernando, (3) there was instructional error with respect to -year gang enhancement must be stricken. the people concede there was sentencing error. we affirm the convictions, and remand for resentencing in light of this opinion. statement of the case a jury found appellants guilty of the crime of first degree murder of shaquana watson (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)).2 it found true the special allegation that the crime was committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang, within the meaning of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c). as to fernando, the jury found that he personally discharged a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivision (d). as to freddy, the jury found true the allegation that a principal personally used a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (d) and (e)(1). after fernando admitted he had suffered a prior serious felony conviction for which he served a prison term, the trial court sentenced him to state prison for 81 years to life, consisting of 25 years to life, doubled for the prior strike for the murder, plus a 25-year firearm use enhancement pursuant to section 12022.53, 1 to avoid confusion, when we refer to appellants individually, we will use their first names. 2 all further statutory citations are to the penal code. 3 subdivision (d), plus six years for the prior conviction and prison term. a section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c) 10-year enhancement was imposed and stayed. freddy admitted he had suffered three prior serious or violent felony convictions and prison terms. he was sentenced to 82 years to life, consisting of 25 years to life, doubled, for the murder, plus a 25-year firearm use enhancement pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivisions (d) and (e)(1), plus seven years for the prior convictions and prison terms. a section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c) 10-year enhancement was imposed and stayed. appellants timely appealed. statement of the facts berneal holman testified that on july 27, 2010, he had gone to a liquor store at 54th street and broadway with his stepbrother, gregory draper, and his cousin, shaquana watson. holman was driving a black lexus. draper was in the front sfrom the broadway gangster crips (broadway) gang. holman pulled over to speak with him. as he did so, he saw two duck. holman turned to see a white van pull up, and fernando start shooting at his car. holman identified fernando in court as the shooter. he had previously identified fernando as the shooter from a photographic six pack. and holman drove away. watson died from a bullet wound to the heart. the shooting was captured on a security camera video, and the videorecording was shown to the jury. ivan matthews testified he knew appellants, as his girlfriend was a friend of identified fernando and freddy at trial. he testified that 4 on july 27, 2010, matthews was at 53rd street and broadway waiting for his friends, who were members of the broadway gang. matthews testified that the area was broadway gang territory. the territories of the playboys gang, which is primarily hispanic, and the broadway gang, which is primarily an african-american gang, bordered each other. matthews noticed a white van making a right turn onto broadway. matthews saw fernando stick his head out the passenger window of the van, and matthews testified he had seen the same van a few days before. at that time, appellants had yelled at matthews from the van in a confrontational manner. two weeks earlier, matthews had been in a fight with fernando and freddy, matthews was with friends, fernando and freddy drove by in a black truck. they thets in spanish. matthews testified that on july 27th, about five to six minutes after first seeing the white van, he saw it again. the van made a right turn onto 53rd street from broadway, and matthews heard 12 or 13 shots coming from the direction of broadway. matthews then saw the van turn onto 53rd, and heard more shots. he saw fernando shooting from the passenger window. he saw that freddy was fernando continued shooting as the van made the turn and passed matthews. some broadway gang members shot back at the van. 5 29, 2010. los angeles police department (lapd) detective julio benavides took matthews to the police station to be interviewed. on the way, matthews told the police fernando and freddy were responsible. at the station, he identified appellants and the white van from photos shown to him by the police. matthews told the police that when they found the van, it would have bullet holes in it. at trial, matthews testified he was 100 percent certain freddy and fernando were in the van. sidence. he found a baseball cap with a playboy pin nine-millimeter handgun loaded with 11 live rounds of ammunition. gomez testified he spoke with detectives benavides and arnega on twice before. gomez owned a white van. he testified that he would often let fernando borrow his van. around july or august 2010, gomez had noticed some holes in the van. the van did not have holes in it when he purchased it. fernando had put caulking and tape over the holes. gomez asked fernando about the holes, and inside the van near the dashboard. an lapd forensics examiner determined that the shell casings from the three of four bullet fragments from the shooting scene and two fragments removed 6 the prosecution gang expert, opined that the shooting and murder in this case were for the benefit of the playboys gang. appellants did not testify. the joint defense called two witnesses. melissa fied she interviewed matthews. matthews told her he did not recognize freddy the first time the van passed by. william tobin, a forensic metallurgist, opined that the reliable. the determination of a match was based upon the questionable notion that firearms of the same type generate firing characteristics unique to that specific firearm. tobin testified he was aware of many examples of firearm misidentification. discussion on appeal, appellants contend the trial court abused its discretion and misconduct. fernando contends a prosecution witness committed prejudicial misconduct by referring to a prior arrest. freddy contends the trial court erred by failing to clarify that an aider and abettor can be guilty of a lesser crime than the perpetrator. finally, appellants contend a 10-year gang enhancement should be stricken. we address each issue in turn.3 3 and the allegedly erroneous aiding and abetting jury instructions are limited to fernando and freddy, respectively. 7 i. juror misconduct a. factual background before opening statements and presentation of evidence, the prosecutor knight, described the incident: evator this morning, this man [juror no. 5] approached me and i did not immediately recognize him as a juror, and he was wearing sunglasses . . . . . . . [t]hen he said was one of our jurors. the trial judge then stated: smiling . . . throughout jury selection and is one of the more upbeat jurors, and conversation with counsel or any officer or anybody they think is a witness. . . . defense counsel for appellants requested that the juror be excused for misconduct. the judge denied the request, stating: and defense made an issue [of] having enough hispanic males on the jury, and i 8 at no time did defense counsel ask the court to conduct a hearing or interview the juror. b. analysis appellants contend the trial court abused its discretion in failing to conduct a ossibility of juror bias, incompetence, or misconduct rests within the sound discretion of the trial court. (people v. burgener (2003) 29 cal.4th 833, 878, italics omitted.) here, there was o justify his removal from the case. his comments did not suggest he could not perform his duties as a juror. rather, the comments were nonprejudicial, and any misconduct was of a trifling nature. people v. stewart (2004) 33 cal.4th 425 is instructive. there, the testimony of a female witness was interrupted by a break for lunch. while in the restroom, a ndant moved for a new trial based upon juror misconduct, which the trial court denied. the nature. (id id. at p. 511.) here, the juror made similarly trifling comments prior to the start of opening statements or witness testimony. 9 against defendants, because he might be romantically attracted to the prosecutor. interested person is not, by itself, sufficient to render the juror misconduct prejudicial. people v. miranda (1987) 44 cal.3d 57 (miranda) is directly on point. there, a male juror had two out-of-girlfriend while the trial was ongoing. the juror admitted that he found the woman attractive, and that he hafter the jury returned its penalty verdict, the defendant moved for a new trial nonprejudicial. the court found that substantial evidence showed the juror appeared to have separated his responsibilities as a juroid. at pp. 115-118.) here, the facts showed a much lesser degree of misconduct than that at issue in miranda. there is no indication the juror had a romantic attachment to the prosecutor, or that he wanted to go out with her after the case ended. nor is there evidence of any subsequent similar conduct by the juror. finally, there is no reason to infer the juror would not follow the se its discretion in declining to conduct an inquiry before denying the motion to excuse the juror for misconduct. ii. a. factual background was familiar with appellants. the following colloquy then occurred: 10 -- defense counsel interrupted and objected. the trial judge sustained the requested that the witness be admonished. the trial judge did so, stating, complied. later that day, during a recess, defense counsel moved for a mistrial based g as to the 402, that the arrest and the nine-millimeter [handgun] were not [to] be mentioned during and started off immediately with the fact that the context of his contact was my the trial judge disagreed. she stated: . . . i do not think he was interaction with somebody or i contacted somebody, they say i arrested him. you immediately objected. i mean, i could order the jurors again to disregard it, ditional attention to it. i told him 11 testimony stricken from the record, you must disregard it and you must not b. analysis receiving a fair trial have been irreparably damaged. (people v. ayala (2000) 23 cal.apprised of prejudice that it judges incurable by admonition or instruction. [citation.] whether a particular incident is incurably prejudicial is by its nature a speculative matter, and the trial court is vested with considerable discretion in people v. haskett jury is presumed to have followed an admonition to disregard improper evidence particularly where there is an absence of bad faith. [citations.] it is only in the effect . . . people v. allen (1978) 77 cal.app.3d 924, 934-935 (allen), quoting people v. seiterle (1963) 59 cal.2d 703, 710; see also people v. bennett assume the jury followed the admonition and that prejudice was therefore ld not be cured by the admonition here, as the statement suggested that fernando had a prior criminal people v. price (1991) 1 cal.4th 324, 431), the brief mention that a defendant had been arrested without any further details is distinct from the intentional admission of evidence that defendant is an ex-convict (people v. ozuna (1963) 213 cal.app.2d 338, 339-341) or that he was on parole (allen, 12 supra, 77 cal.app.3d at pp. 934-935). an arrest does not imply that the defendant was convicted of a crime. people v. bolden (2002) 29 cal.4th 515 (bolden) is address. the officeoffice located at--id. at p. 554.) to a parole office was prejudicial to the defendant because it implied that the defendant had at least one prior felony conviction for which he had served a term in state prison. the trial court denied the motion. the supreme court found no error, and no denial of due procereasonable juror would infer from the fleeting reference to a parole office that defendant had served a prison term for a prior felony conviction. the incident was not significant in the context of the entire guilt trial, and the trial court did not bolden, supra, 29 cal.4th at p. 555.) similarly, here, it is doubtful that any reasonable juror would infer from the brief reference to an arrest that fernando had been convicted of any crime, much less a felony. likewise, the singular mention of the prior arrest was not significant in the context of the trial, which revolved around the identifications by holman and matthews. moreover, any error was harmless. (see people v. garcia (1984) 160 cal.app.3d 82, 93, fn. certain factual matters, the error is usually tested under the standard set out in people v. watson (1956) 46 fernando as the shooter, both from photographic six packs and in court. fernando often used a white van, which matthews identified as the van involved in the shooting. the van had recently been riddled with bullets, consistent with 13 fire during the shooting. bullet casings at the scene were matched to the gun found in the van. under these circumstances, it is not reasonably probable that fernando would have obtained a more favorable result had the incidental remark about his prior arrest not been made. (cf. people v. harris (1994) 22 cal.app.4th 1575, 1580-1582 [in light of overwhelming evidence of guilt, no reversible error where iii. jury instruction on accomplice liability a. factual background before instructing the jury, the trial court asked defense counsel whether there were objections to the proposed instructions. counsel had none. nor did either counsel propose any clarifying or amplifying instructions. the trial court then gave a series of instructions on the criminal liability of a perpetrator (fernando) and an aider and abettor (freddy). the judge gave calcrim no. 521, which instructs the jury that a defendant may be found guilty of first degree murder under two theories: (1) the murder was willful, deliberate and premeditated, and (2) the murder was committed by shooting a firearm from a motor vehicle. the judge also instructed the jury with calcrim no. 562, which states that if a defendant intended to kill one person, but by mistake or accident killed someone else, the crime, if any, would be the same as if the intended person had been killed. the judge then instructed with the recently revised calcrim no. 400, which provides: directly committed the crime, i will call that person the perpetrator. two, he or she may have aided and abetted a perpetrator, who directly committed the crime. 14 aided and abetted the perpetrator. ce establishes aiding and abetting of one crime, a person may also be found guilty of other crimes that 4 to define aiding and abetting, the judge instructed the jury with calcrim no. 401, which provides: abetting that crime, the people must prove that: or during the commission of the crime, the defendant intended to aid and abet the perpetrator in committing the crime; unlawful purpose and he specifically intends to, and does in fact, aid, that crime. . . . [] ant was present at the scene of the crime or failed to prevent the crime, you may consider that fact in determining whether the defendant was an aider and abettor. however, the fact that a 4 calcrim no. 400 was revised in 2010, to remove language stating that an 15 person is present at the scene of a crime or fails to prevent the crime does " the trial court told the jury that the prosecution had another theory of aiding and abetting liability. the court then instructed the jury with calcrim no. 403, on the natural and probable consequences theory of aiding and abetting, as follows: decide whether he is guilty of assault with a firearm. to prove that the defendant is guilty of murder, the people must prove that: (1), the defendant is guilty of assault with a firearm; (2), during the commission of assault with a firearm[,] a co-participant in that assault with a firearm committed the crime of murder; and (3), under all of the circumstances, a reasonable person murder was a natural and probable consequence of the commission of the assault with a firearm. a co-participant in a crime is the perpetrator or anyone who aided and abetted the perpetrator. it does not include a victim or innocent bystander. a natural and probable consequence is one that a reasonable person would know is likely to happen if nothing unusual intervenes. in deciding whether a consequence is natural and probable, consider all of the circumstances established by the evidence. if the murder was committed for a reason independent of the common plan to commit the assault with a firearm, then the commission of murder was not a natural and probable consequence of assault with a firearm. to decide whether crime of assault with a firearm was committed, please refer to the separate instruction finally, the court explained to the jury the verdict forms it would review: -degree murder and second-degree murder. you may consider these different kinds of the jury convicted both appellants of first degree murder. b. analysis freddy contends the trial court erred by giving incomplete instructions on accomplice liability. as an initial matter, we conclude he has forfeited any claim 16 ruction correct in law and responsive to the evidence was too general or incomplete unless (people v. lang no duty to instruct sua sponte on the full spectrum of offenses conceivably committed people v. woods (1992) 8 cal.app.4th 1570, 1592 (woods).) as noted, defense counsel neither objected to the jury instructions nor requested clarifying or amplifying instructions. freddy argues there was no forfeiture. he contends that the jury instructions were incomplete as a matter of law, because the prosecutor suggested in voir dire tor. we disagree. even people v. samaniego (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 1148, 1165; see also people v. mejia (2012) 211 cal.app.4th 586, 624 [referring to caljic no. merely asked the prospective juror whether the juror thought it fair that an aider and abettor was considered as guilty as a perpetrator. no objection was raised to this question, and thus any claim of error was forfeited. (cf. people v. koontz (2002) 27 cal.4th 1041, 1082 [defendant forfeited claim that prosecutor committed misconduct by misstating the law by failing to object or to seek a curative you even if you disagree with it. if you record, freddy has forfeited any claim of instructional error. 17 even were we to find no forfeiture, we would conclude there was no series of instructions that likely led the jury to believe that if . . . fernando was guilty of first degree murder, then appellant, as an aider and abettor, necessarily wmoreover, the jury was instructed that it could consider second degree murder in any order it wished. no reasonable jury could have understood from the instructions that if it found fernando guilty of first degree murder, it must necessarily find freddy guilty of first degree murder. freddy next contends he could be guilty only of second degree murder, as the trial judge failed to specifically connect calcrim no. 403 -- the instruction on aiding and abetting liability as a natural and probable consequence of the crime of assault with a firearm -- with first degree murder, as opposed to murder generally. he relies on woods. in woods, supra, 8 cal.app.4th 1570, the defendant and a companion, armed with guns, set out to find a rival gang member to retaliate for a prior shooting. the men entered the apartment of two acquaintances of the target, but did not find him. after assaulting the acquaintances, they left. as they were leaving, they saw two people getting into a car. the companion fired into the car, killing one occupant and injuring the other. (id. at p. 1577.) at trial, the was that the defendant was guilty of first degree murder, because (1) his companion was guilty of first degree murder, and (2) first degree murder was a natural and probable consequence of the assault with firearms on the two acquaintances. (id. at p. 1579.) during deliberations, the jury asked the court: 18 degree if the actual perpetrator of the same murder is determined to be guilty of convicted the defendant of first degree murder. (ibid.) the appellate court perpetrator beyond the act originally contemplated, the jury must be permitted to consider uncharged, necessarily included offenses where the facts would support a determination that the greater crime was not a reasonably foreseeable consequence but the lesser offense was such a consequence. otherwise, . . . the jury would be given an unwarranted, all-or-id. at p. 1588.) the court concluded that the evidence raised a question whether the first degree murder was a reasonably foreseeable consequence of the armed assaults of included offense of second degree murder was a reasonably foreseeable consequence. (id. at p. 1578.) thus, the court conditionally reduced the murder conviction to second degree. (id. at p. 1596.) woods is distinguishable. first, no evidence suggests the jury here was confused or thought that it could not convict freddy of second degree murder if it found fernando guilty of first degree murder.5 more important, under the specific circumstances of this case, the only reasonably foreseeable murder of which freddy could be found guilty was murder in the first degree. in finding freddy intentional killing was a natural and probable consequence of the assault with a firearm. as the intentional killing of watson was committed from a motor vehicle, 5 as noted, the jury was given individual verdict forms for both first and second degree murder for each defendant. 19 which is perpetrated by means of discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle, intentionally at another person outside of the vehicle with the intent to inflict death, support a determination that the greater crime was not a reasonably foreseeable consequence but the lesser offense was . . . woods, supra, 8 cal.app.4th at p. 1588.) moreover and independently, there was no evidence that freddy intended to aid fernando in any other type of assault. indeed, defense counsel did not argue that freddy was guilty of a lesser included offense, such as second degree murder. rather, the defense presented at trial was that freddy was not the driver, the witness identifications were unreliable, and the ballistics evidence was flawed. as the supreme court recently stated with respect to former calcrim no. 400: circumstances that might have led the jury to find culpability was less than that of the other defendant, nor does the evidence at trial suggest any such defense or circumstances. . . . under the circumstances, there is no reasonable likelihood that the jury was confused opeople v. nunez and satele (2013) 57 cal.4th 1, 44.) similarly, it is mere speculation that the jury would have been confused or misled by the trial liability. iv. gang enhancements freddy contends the 10-year gang enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c), which was imposed and stayed, should be stricken. rather, a 15-year minimum parole eligibility term under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5) 20 should be imposed instead. fernando joins in the argument. the people concede the sentencing error. in people v. lopez (2005) 34 cal.4th 1002, the supreme court held that -related first degree murder, which is punishable by a term of 25 years to -year enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c). rather, it is subject to a 15-year minimum parole eligibility term under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5). (id. at p. 1004.) section 186.22, subdivision in the commission of a felony punishable by imprisonment in the state prison for life shall not be paroled until a minimum of 15 calendar years have been minimum 15-year parole eligibility enhancement pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5). with respect to freddy, however, no enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b) may be imposed, as the court already imposed a firearm use enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (e)(1). (see people v. brookfield (2009) 47 cal.4th 583, 590 [when another principal in the offense uses or discharges a firearm but the defendant does not, the defendant is subject only to the greater of the applicable sentencing enhancements under section 186.22, subdivision (b) or section 12022.53, subdivision (e)(1)].) accordingly, we remand to the superior court to strike the section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c) enhancements in both abstracts of judgment, and to impose a 15-year minimum ied, the sentences are affirmed. 21 disposition the matter is remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion. the clerk of the superior court shall forward corrected abstracts of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. manella, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. suzukawa, j. 