filed 1/8/13 p. v. meza ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. antonio meza, defendant and appellant. b238506 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa069163) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. cynthia l. ulfig, judge. affirmed. kim malcheski, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, linda c. johnson, supervising deputy attorney general, and ryan m. smith, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 defendant antonio meza appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial in which he was convicted of first degree murder and assault with a firearm, with personal firearm-use findings. defendant contends the trial court erred by refusing to instruct upon provocation and intoxication and denying his motion contesting the background about 9:30 p.m. on december 19, 2010, defendant fatally shot his 31-year-old william hernandez and sister-in-law yesenia flores and other family members. marco, flores, and two other male family members were seated at the dining room table. there were three or four beer bottles on the table, in front of several individuals. defendant respond. about that time, william, his wife mayra mendez, and their two young children entered the dining room from the yard. defendant, who was wearing a serape, pulled out a knife, r. he then took out a he removed a handgun from his waistband, put it back in the waistband, then took it out again. he worked the slide to chamber a round and aimed at marco. all eyewitnesses his palms facing out; and he did not reach for anything, fight with defendant, or lunge at defendant. as marco either stood up or was partially standing, defendant fired three defendant pointed his gun at her and yethen walked backward to his room, while continuing to watch the others in the dining room. 3 defendant put the bb gun and knife on his 13-year-house. he parked his car four blocks from the van nuys apartment of his friend, defendant told funes he had problems with his wife, but said nothing about shooting anyone. defendant lay in the back seat as funes drove, and he directed funes to an address in compton. no one answered at that or a second location, so funes drove defendant to a motel in long beach and paid for a room for defendant. police who responded to the house recovered three expended 9-millimeter casings from the dining room, a bullet embedded in the dining room wall, and the bb gun and knife. the medical examiner recovered two bullets during marcoultimately found the gun and two live rounds wrapped in a towel and hidden under the front seat of his truck. ballistics testing established that the recovered casings and bullets were fired from that gun. police arrested defendant at the long beach motel after tracking him through his mobile phone. flores told a police officer that she smelled tequila on defendant when he walked into the dining room the night of the shooting. defendant testified that just before the shooting, his relatives were listening to loud music in the dining room. he picked up his dagger and bb gun and went to speak to them. he asked them to lower the volume. marco opened his hands and asked, dagger and the bb gun - . . marco a choice as to which weapon he to stand, and defendant thought marco might fight. defendant returned to his bedroom, unlocked the dresser drawer in which he kept his handgun and ammunition, and loaded the magazine with six rounds. he walked back into the dining room with his loaded gun. he thought defendant feared marco might strike him in the face with the bottle. defendant also 4 claimed he was afraid because the three men at the table were younger than he was, but he admitted that none of them, including marco, had ever exhibited any violence toward him. from a distance of six or seven feet, defendant fired two or three shots at marco, who remained seated. defendant denied pointing the gun at flores, challenging her to call the police, was tequila in the juice, but he admitted he was not drunk at the time of the shooting. the jury convicted defendant of first degree murder and assault with a firearm, and found defendant personally fired a gun, causing death, and personally used a gun (pen. code,  12022.53, subd. (d), 12022.5, subd. (a)). the court sentenced defendant to prison for 50 years to life for the murder and firearm enhancement, plus 7 years for the assault with a firearm with firearm enhancement, for an aggregate term of 57 years to life. discussion 1. denial of wheeler-batson motion defendant contends the trial court erred by denying his motion based upon people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258 (wheeler) and batson v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 79 [106 s.ct. 1712], ainst two male hispanic prospective jurors. a party violates both the california and united states constitutions by using peremptory challenges to remove prospective jurors solely on the basis of group bias, that is, bias presumed from membership in an identifiable racial, religious, ethnic, or similar group. (wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d at pp. 276277; people v. lancaster (2007) 41 cal.4th 50, 74.) a party who believes his opponent is doing so must timely object and make a prima facie showing of exclusion on the basis of group bias. (wheeler, at p. 280.) if a prima facie case is shown, the burden shifts to the other party to show that the that is, one related to the case, parties, or witnesses. (wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d at 5 pp. 276, 281282.) justification need not support a challenge for cause, and juror may be excused based upon facial expressions, gestures, hunches, and even for arbitrary or idiosyncratic reasons. [citations.] nevertheless, although a [party] may rely on any number of bases to select jurors, a legitimate reason is one that does not deny people v. lenix (2008) 44 cal.4th 602, 613 (lenix).) although a party may exercise a peremptory challenge for any permissible reason or no reason at all, implausible or fantastic justifications are likely to be found to be pretexts for purposeful discrimination. (people v. huggins (2006) 38 cal.4th 175, 227; purkett v. elem (1995) 514 u.s. 765, 768 [115 s.ct. 1769] (purkett).) the trial court must then make a sincere and reasoned attempt to evaluate the explanation for each challenged juror in light of the circumstances of the case, trial techniques, examination of prospective jurors, and exercise of peremptory challenges. (people v. fuentes (1991) 54 cal.3d 707, 718.) it must determine whether a valid reason existed and actually prompted the exercise of each questioned peremptory challenge. (id. at p. 720.) the proper focus is the subjective genuineness of the nondiscriminatory reasons stated by the prosecutor, not on their objective reasonableness. (people v. reynoso (2003) 31 cal.4th 903, 924 (reynoso).) trial court finds the prosecu-neutral explanations to be credible. credibility can how improbable, the explanations are; and by whether the proffered rationale has some basis in accepted tmiller-el v. cockrell (2003) 537 u.s. 322, 339 [123 and bench officer in the community, and even the common practices of the advocate and lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 613.) 6 because wheeler we ial court under the substantial evidence standard, according people v. hamilton (2009) 45 cal.4th 863, 900901, fn. omitted (hamilton).) we also accord (id. at p. 901.) st snyder v. louisiana (2008) 552 u.s. 472, 477 [128 s.ct. 1203] (snyder).) defense counsel made several wheeler-batson motions, all of which were denied after the trial court found defendant had made a sufficient prima facie showing and the appellate claim is limited to two of three jurors addressed in his first wheeler-batson motion. prospective juror no. 2707 was a mhis adult children worked for the post office. he had lived in sylmar for 20 years. his no prior jury experience. his son had been stabbed six years earlier, and someone was convicted of that crime. prospective juror no. 2707 attended the court proceedings in that case, but nothing about that experience would affect his ability to sit as a juror on this case. also, a brother-in-law of prospective juror no. 2707 had been charged with attempted murder about 15 years earlier, but was acquitted. the prospective juror felt that law enforcement dealt fairly with his brother-in-law. in subsequent questioning by the prosecutor, prospective juror no. 2707 stated that he had not attended or testified at his brother-in- after defense counsel asked other prospective jurors about whether witnesses could be mistaken about their observations or have a bias or prejudice for or against 7 eyewitness tesjusti asked if he sic] when they said that, since you have no the prosecutor exercised her third peremptory challenge against prospective juror no. 2707. prospective juror no. 1831 worked for fedex, making deliveries. his wife was a pharmacy technician and they had no children. he had lived in arleta for 15 years. he had no prior jury experience. in response to questioning by defense counsel, prospective juror no. 1831 said he would decide the case on the basis of the facts, not emotions. the moment and if it startled me, and would it jar my ability to make a judgment or just trying to stick to the facts would bedefense counsel asked whet the prosecutor asked prospective juror no. 1831 if he was the type of person who would be able to decide which arguments made sense and which did not. he replied, 8 murder. the prosecutor asked prospective juror no. 1831 to elaborate on why he thought y the evidence that the defendant is guilty sic] tand hearsay was inadmissible. proif the the next day, the prosecutor exercised her eighth peremptory challenge against prospective juror no. 1831. immediately after she did so, defendant made his first wheeler-batson trial court found defendant had made a prima facie showing, and asked the prosecutor to respond. the prosecutor initially argued that she had no reason to exclude male hispanics because the victim and at least three of her witnesses were male hispanics. she noted that she had accepted the panel with a male hispanic juror and complained that ong beard and the way he looks at me through that beard made me uncomfortable and i do 9 recollection of that juror, at least i was planning on using a peremptory challenge as to him for that reason because he seemed to think that if witnesses come and testify that that troublesome to me, which is why i used my peremptory to kick him off my jury in this with respect to prospective juror no. 2707, the prosecutor statedthe fact that he volunteered that information about his knowledge, whatever his knowledge is, of eyewitness testimony being faulty obviously brings me great concern, considering this case rests on eyewitness testimony. [] so i cannot, as a good prosecutor, want somebody who has knowledge of eyewitness testimony being prosecutor is purposely using peremptory challenges or even challenges for cause against a specific ethnic group. there does not appear to be any ethnic bias, whatsoever. additionally, it appears valid reasons have been given for those particular jurors. [] i know the prosecutor exercised eight peremptory challenges, five of them have been to non- relying largely on people v. silva (2001) 25 cal.4th 345, defendant argues that the trial court failed to make a sincere and reasoned attempt to evaluate the credibility of the prospective juror prospective juror to look at the prosecutor through his beard, and prospective juror no. was honest and intelligent. 10 we do not agree that the trial court failed to perform its duty to make a sincere and reasoned attempt to evaluate the credibility of the reasons supporting each strike and to any defense argument supporting the motions. nothing in the record suggests that the trial court either was unaware of its duty to (people v. lewis (2008) 43 cal.4th not required to make specific or detailed comments for the record to justify every instance -neutral reason for exercising a peremptory challenge is being accepted by the hamilton, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 901.) the prosecutor articulated ethnicity-neutral reasons for excusing the two prospective jurors in controversy. with respect to prospective juror no. 2707, the reason, which was supported by the record, related to his potential for skepticism regarding eyewitness testimony. while that skepticism may have been fully justified, the prosecutor was nonetheless permitted to exclude him in favor of less skeptical jurors. (people v. bittaker (1989) 48 cal.3d 1046, 1092 [doubt about convicting of murder where body not hamilton, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 903.) the explanation need not be sufficient to justify a challenge for cause. (lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 613.) even a hunch is sufficient, so long as it is not based on impermissible group bias. (ibid.) genuinenessof the not . . . the objective reasonableness reynoso, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. 924.) with respect to prospective juror no. 1831, defendant focuses solely upon one of two explanatioregarding the beard was literally impossible, unless the prospective juror was pulling the beard up in front of his eyes, the gist of the explanation was that the prosecutor did not 11 like tsubjective matters, such as a prospective people v. johnson (1989) 47 cal.3d 1194, 1218 [overweight, poorly groomed prospective juror]; people v. walker (1988) 47 cal.3d 605, 625 [prospective juror wearing metal-studded motorcycle garb]), body language, or sympathetic or hostile looks at a party or counsel (wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d at p. 276 johnson, at pp. 1217defendant]; people v. granillo (1987) 197 cal.app.3d 110, 117 [body language reflecting animosity to prosecutor, facial expression reflecting disdain for judicial system]) are permissible nondiscriminatory grounds for a peremptory challenge. accordingly, prospective juror no. beard stated an ethnicity-neutral reason that fell within the scope of recognized permissible specific--neutral reasons for peremptory e.g., nervousness, inattention), making the -hand observations of even greater importance. in this situation, the trial basis for the strike attributed to the juror by the prosecutor. we have recognized that lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 614.) the prosecutor also cited hearsay as a basis for her peremptory challenge. even if the prosecutor may have misquoted the prospective juror, her mistake does not compel the conclusion that her stated reason was insincere. (people v. jones (2011) 51 cal.4th 346, 366 (jones).) the record provides substantial evidence supporting her challenge. the prospective juror responded to a straightforward question with his own ques 12 ethnicity-neutral ground that pertained to the prospecti what matters here is not whether the prosecutor articulated objectively persuasive grounds for excusing each of the prospective jurors, but that the grounds were ethnicity-the benefit of its contemporaneous observations of demeanor as she explained her reasons for excusing the two prospective jurors. the record provides substantial evidence supporting the stated reasons. finally, although not conclusive, the trial court could consideras in exercising peremptoriesthat the prosecutor had accepted the panel with an hispanic male on it. (jones, supra, 51 cal.4th at pp. 362363.) we conclude the trial court faithfully performed its duties in accordance with the batson and wheeler lines of authority, and its ruling was not clearly erroneous. 2. refusal of provocation and intoxication instructions -defense and voluntary manslaughter based upon unreasonable self-defense (calcrim nos. 505, 571). defendant requested that the court also instruct upon provocation using provocation may reduce a murder from first degree to second degree [and may reduce a murder to manslaughter]. the weight and significance of the provocation, if any, are for you to decide. [] if you conclude that the defendant committed murder but was provoked, consider the provocation in deciding whether the crime was first or second degree murder. [also, consider the provocation in he identified the 13 evidence of adequate provocation by marco and refused the instruction. on appeal, instruct upon provocation violated due process. defendant further requested that the court instruct with calcrim no. 625, voluntary intoxication only in a limited way. you may consider that evidence only in deciding whether the defendant acted with an intent to kill[,] [or] [the defendant acted with deliberation and premeditation. [] a person is voluntarily intoxicated if he or she becomes intoxicated by willingly using any intoxicating drug, drink, or other substance knowing that it could produce an intoxicating effect, or willingly assuming the risk of that effect. [] you may not consider evidence of voluntary intoxication for any other purpose.the requested instruction, and refused it. defendant cinstruct also violated due process. the trial court need not give a requested instruction unless it is supported by substantial evidence, that is, evidence sufficient to deserve jury consideration. (people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 39.) in deciding whether evidence is substantial enough to require an instruction, the court determines only its bare legal sufficiency, not its weight, and does not weigh the credibility of witnesses. (people v. flannel (1979) 25 cal.3d 668, 684, overruled on another ground by in re christian s. (1994) 7 cal.4th 768, 777.) it need not instruct on matters for which the evidence is minimal and insubstantial. (flannel, at p. 684.) there is no constitutional right to instruction on theories unsupported by evidence. (people v. ayala (2000) 23 cal.4th 225, 283; hopper v. evans (1982) 456 u.s. 605, 611 [102 s.ct. 2049].) a. provocation instruction as noted in the requested instruction, a finding of adequate provocation can negate malice aforethought where 14 manslaughter, or raise a reasonable doubt regarding premeditation and deliberation, making the offense second degree murder. (people v. carasi (2008) 44 cal.4th 1263, 1306 (carasiemotional reaction to the conduct of another, which emotion may negate a requisite mental people v. ward (2005) 36 cal.4th 186, 215.) for heat of passion, the claimed provocation must be sufficient to cause an ordinary person of average disposition to act rashly or without due deliberation and reflection, from passion rather than from judgment. (people v. moye (2009) 47 cal.4th 537, 550; carasi, supraprovocation . . . must be caused by the victim [citation], or be conduct reasonably believed by the defendant to have been moye, at pp. 549550.) a defendant may nown standard of conduct and justify or excuse himself because in fact his passions were aroused . . . people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 12151216.) in ]he accumoye, at p. 550.) -wrought or enthusiastic people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 163.) instruction on provocation negating premeditation and deliberation is required here the evidence of provocation would justify a jury determination that the accused had formed the intent to kill as a direct response to the provocation and had acted immediately . . . . the fact that heated words were exchanged or a physical struggle took place between the victim and the accused before the fatality may be sufficient to raise a reasonable doubt in the minds of the jurors regarding whether the accused planned the people v. wickersham (1982) 32 cal.3d 307, 329, disapproved on another ground in people v. barton erally, it is a question of fact for the jury whether the circumstances were sufficient to arouse the passions of the ordinarily reasonable person. [citations.] however, where the 15 provocation is so slight or so severe that reasonable jurors could not differ on the issue of people v. fenenbock (1996) 46 cal.app.4th 1688, 1705.) here there was neither evidence of provocative conduct by marco nor evidence that defendant formed his intent to kill as a direct response to provocation and acted upon it immediately. in his own testimony, defendant admitted brandishing a dagger and bb marco ever stood up from his seat. defendant thenaccording to his own testimonywent back to his bedroom, unlocked his dresser drawer, retrieved and loaded his handgun, beer bottle that was sitting on the tahad already formed his intent to kill marco before the purported provocation. having a hand on a beer bottle sitting on a table while seated at the table with other family members does not constitute provocation. was a response to constitute provocation. (people v. rich (1988) 45 cal.3d 1036, 1112.) accordingly, the trial court properly deni b. intoxication instruction a defendant is entitled to an instruction on intoxication only when there is intoxpeople v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 635, 677.) merely showing that the defendant drank alcohol before committing a crime is insufficient to warrant an instruction. (people v. cain (1995) 10 cal.4th 1, 40.) this record reflects no evidence that defendant was actually intoxicated and no evidence of the effect of such intoxication on his actual mental state. defendant himself testified he was not drunk when he shot marco. the only alcohol-related evidence in the 16 police that she smelled tequila on defendant. viewing this evidence in the light most favorable to defendant, it showed he had consumed tequila. it did not rise to the level of showing that he was intoxicated, let alone showing the effect of the tequila on his mental state. accordingly, the trinstruction. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. mallano, p. j. we concur: chaney, j. johnson, j. 