filed 10/25/12 p. v. rodriguez ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. raul rodriguez, defendant and appellant. b238121 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka094529) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, juan c. dominguez, judge. affirmed. sunne l. daniels, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. 2 raul rodriguez appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial which resulted in his conviction of possession of methamphetamine (health & saf. code,  the unauthorized possession of a controlled substance (health & saf. code,  11377, subd. (a)); in 2004 he had been convicted of assault with a firearm (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(2)) pursuant to the three strikes law (pen. code,  667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)); and in 2009 he had been convicted of possession of methamphetamine (health & saf. code,  11377, subd. (a)). with regard to all three prior convictions, the trial court determined rodriguez had served prison terms within the meaning of penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b). the trial court sentenced rodriguez to five years in prison (see pen. code,  1170, subd. (h)(3)). we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. . los angeles county deputy sheriff steve busch was assigned to the temple station and had qualified as an expert in the area of narcotics investigation. at approximately 4:14 in the afternoon on june 8, 2011, the deputy, who was accompanied by deputy mario garcia, was on patrol in an unmarked car near 1225 esteban torres drive in the city of south el monte. there, he and garcia observed a parked gray honda with an expired registration sticker on the license plate. busch and garcia decided to go back to the vehicle and contact its occupants. when they arrived at the honda, busch noted that appellant, rodriguez, was just of the deputies, but it was unclear where he had come from. after the deputies had driven back toward the honda and pulled up next to it, busch got out of their car and approached the driver and, because he had noticed something unusual about rodriguez when he was still outside the car, garcia contacted him as he was sitting in the back passenger seat. there were three other occupants in the honda and after busch and garcia had detained the individuals, they called for assistance from back-up units. when the 3 of the passengers in rear. he could not see her hands. a short time later, several patrol cars arrived at the scene. busch, who had initially approached the driver, eventually had all of the occupants get out of the car. as he watched three individuals, garcia searched rodriguez at the rear of the vehicle. garcia, who was also a trained narcotics officer, asked rodriguez to place front pant pocket, garcia found a glass pipe. the pipe was approximately three inches long and had a bulb at the end. there was white residue and some burnt methamphetamine still on the pipe. garcia believed there was enough methamphetamine and smoked. once he recovered the pipe, garcia placed it in the glove box of his car, then locked the car. he later gave the pipe to deputy busch, who took it to the station and booked it and the substance from inside it into evidence. after garcia handed to busch the three- to four-inch glass pipe with a bulb at one and used the straightened end to scrape the residue from the bowl and the rest of the pipe. he then emptied the residue from the pipe into a bag. he put the pipe itself into another bag and booked the two bags into evidence. the container in which the crystallized substance had been placed contained a net weight of .07 grams of powder containing methamphetamine.1 laboratory. he was assigned to the west covina regional laboratory. as a criminalist, best analyzes substances ranging from narcotics to blood samples and has had 1 according to busch, the drug enforcement agency has indicated that .02 grams is 4 . . . color test, micro crystal tests, . . . gas chromatography, [and] mass catastrophe to identify . . . different types of best analyzed the substance obtained by officers busch and garcia in this case. 2. defense evidence. raul rodriguez, sr. lives at 1222 esteban torres drive in south el monte. the appellant, raul rodriguez, jr., is his son and he, too, lives at the house at 1222 esteban torres drive. on june 8, 2011, rodriguez, sr. saw his son leave the house. rodriguez went out the back door toward the grodriguez, sr. had some items he wanted to take out. however, when they got outside, rodriguez changed his mind. he did not go to the truck. he decided to go out the front and across the street to where a small, older car was parked. as rodriguez was slam[med] on the brakes, open[ed] the door[s], and guns were drawn like there was no rodriguez, sr. ind[his] son on the ground telling him [to] get on his knees[,] [a] gun pointed right at his head from a rodriguez was deputy garcia. the other deputy was holding his weapon on the three individuals still in the car. they were all holding their hands up in the air. 5 after several minutto get down on the ground, he was hand-cuffed then picked up and moved approximately four houses down the street to a parked squad car. rodriguez, sr. had never given his son a methamphetamine pipe and he had not rodriguez had in his pockets that day. in addition, rodriguez, sr. did not see any oubt in [his] mind see them season di 3. procedural history. following a preliminary hearing, an amended information was filed on october 4, 2011 in which rodriguez was charged with one count of possession of a controlled substance, methamphetamine, in violation of health and safety code section 11377, subdivision (a), a felony. it was further alleged that rodriguez previously had been convicted of second degree burglary (pen. code,  459) and possession of a controlled substance (health & saf. code,  11377, subd. (a)) within the meaning of penal code section 1203, subdivision (e)(4), had suffered a conviction for assault with a firearm (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(2)) within the meaning of the three strikes law (pen. code,  667, subds. (b)-(i) & 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)), and had been convicted of and served prison terms within the meaning of penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b) for two convictions of possession of a controlled substance (health & saf. code,  11377, subd. (a)) and one conviction of assault with a firearm (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(2)). [that] subdivision [would] be served in state prison pursuant to penal code section 6 1170[,assault with a firearm (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(2)), a serious felony within the meaning of penal code section 1192.7, subdivision (c)(8). before the jury trial on the substantive offense began, rodriguez moved to have the trial bifurcated. he wished to have the trial court take a waiver as to his right to have a jury trial on his priors and to instead have the trial court sit as the trier of fact. the following colloto have the issue [of your prior convictions] decided by a jury? you understand that? [] [rodriguez]: yes, i do. [] the court: you are giving up that right and will allow the court to be the trier of the fact? the court will listen to the evidence and decide whether these are your priors or not? [] [rodriguez]: yes. [] the court: you agree to that? after the presentation of evidence, defense counsel made a motion for entry of a judgment of acquittal pursuant to penal code section 1118.1. he argued that, although it was clear rodriguez possessed a controlled substance, there was no evidence to indicate smoked a pipe? does it follow circumstantially from the fact that [one has] a pipe that [one] ever smoked methamphetamine in . . backwards in time to the first time he ever picked up a pipe. what knowledge and experience [about methamphetamine] does that person have the first time he ever pick[s] 3 is he knew of the character of the controlled substance. well, there again, rodriguez had a pipe. . . . how do we know that someone t it is[.] . . . i am just saying what do we know from the mere fact that someone has something? what other fact can [we] logically get to? 7 ers [patting] down the defendant and removing a pipe containing [what we now] know to be methamphetamine. he can argue to the jury that [rodriguez] knew [what it was]. you after the prosecutor presented a statement regarding the matter, the trial court reduced to a misdemeanor. defense counsel asserted that rodriguez should not go to state prison for a mere .07 grams of methamphetamine. the trial court disagreed. the . . . the defendant has been to state prison. he was just released in 2009. he . . . suffered a after counsel presented their arguments and the trial court gave its final instructions, the jury began its deliberations on december 6, 2011. the following morning, on december 7, 2011, the foreperson indicated that the jury had reached a [above] entitled action find the defendant raul rodriguez guilty of possession of [a] controlled substance, to wit, methamphetamine, in violation of health and safety code the matter was then continued to december 21, 2011 for trial on the alleged prior convictions and prison terms and for sentencing. at those proceedings, los angeles had made well over 100,000 fingerprint comparisons and was a board certified examiner. that day, he had examinecontained in a series of documents from the department of corrections and comparisons to three separate fingerprint cards 8 after reviewing the documents contained in the packet, including the abstracts of judgment, the trial court found beyond a reasonable doubt that the convictions were [subdivision] (a) [on] april 19, 2000, in [case no.] ka048176; and [on] december 13, 2004, under case [no.] ka068260 [he was convicted of] a 24[5,] [subdivision] (a)(2) and finally[,] on or about august 11, 2009, in [case no.] ka087682 [he suffered a conviction] for a violation of [section] 11377[,] [subdivision] (a) of the health and safety rodriguez requested that sentence be imposed at a later time because he wanted to stay likely] be sentenced to . . . life in prison, and he want[ed] to spend some time with that the trial assault with a firearm. counsel argued, among other points, that rodriguez had never in addition, he noted that there was so little methamphetamine in the pipe that the in response, the prosecutor argued that rodriguez fell outside the provisions of the romero2 case because, among other factors, his prior strike had been fairly recent. he had suffered the conviction in 2004 and served five years in prison for it. in addition, since having been released from prison for that offense, rodriguez had committed other offenses, including a 2009 conviction for possession of methamphetamine for which he 2 people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497. 9 served four years in prison. the prosecutor indicated that the factors the trial court the trial court agreed with the prosecutor and sentenced rodriguez to two years in state prison, then doubled the term pursuant to penal code sections 667, subdivisions (b) to (i) and 1170.12, subdivisions (a) to (d), the three strikes law. the trial court then imposed a one year (pen. code,  667.5, subd. (b)) for assault with a firearm in violation of penal code section 245, subdivision (a)(2). the court struck the remaining two penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b) allegations and, in total, imposed a term of five years in prison. the trial court awarded rodriguez presentence custody credit for 197 days of actual custody and 98 days of good time/work time, for a total of 295 days. rodriguez was ordered to pay a $200 restitution fine (pen. code,  1202.4, subd. (b)) and a stayed $200 parole revocation restitution fine (pen. code,  1202.45). he filed a timely notice of appeal on the day of sentencing, december 21, 2011. contentions after examination of the record, counsel filed an opening brief which raised no issues and requested this court to conduct an independent review of the record. by notice filed july 13, 2012, the clerk of this court advised rodriguez to submit within 30 days any contentions, grounds of appeal or arguments he wished this court to consider. on august 15, 2012, rodriguez filed a letter brief in which he asserted the trial court, by denying his romero motion and sentencing him to prison, abused its discretion and denied him the ability to obtain the treatment he needs as a drug addict. he urged the program, no treatment, no rehabilitation, when the court possessed the power to implement a treatment [program]. clearly the court is not addressing the issue at hand, 10 here, the trial court was required to impose jail time, in part because rodriguez had suffered a three strikes conviction. in people v. superior court (romero), supra, 13 prior felony conviction allegations in furtherance of justice is limited. . . . [] . . . [] consideration both of the constitutional rights of the defendant, and the interests of society represented by the people, in determining whether there should be a dismissal. ave recognized without a showing of detriment to the defendant is an conveniendiscretion by dismissing a case, or a sentencing allegation, simply because a defendant apeople v. superior court (romero), supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 531.) firearm so that it could place him, not in state prison, but in a drug-rehabilitation facility, the court would have been acting in part orecord. although rodriguez is clearly an addict, he has a substantial criminal record which includes crimes other than narcotics offenses. his probation report indicates that 11 committed burglary, twice battered an ex-spouse or person in a dating relationship and committed assault with a firearm. in addition to those offenses, rodriguez has suffered three convictions for possession of a controlled substance. it is unclear why, on a previous occasion, rodriguez did not opt for drug treatment. however, at this stage of his criminal career, the trial court properly chose to impose a prison term pursuant to the three strikes law. considering his background and the nature of his present offense, the trial court properly determined it would be an abuse romero motion, to reduce the offense to a misdemeanor or to place rodriguez in a drug-treatment program. as the trial court . . and his convictions have not stopped. [he] [h]as continued placed on parole, [he] has not complied with the terms and conditions of parole, almost on a yearly basis, other than the time period 1170[,] [subdivision] (a)(3) of the penal code due to the fact that he has a conviction for five years in state prison. review on appeal we have examined the entire record and are satisfied counsel has complied fully smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 278-284; people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, 443.) 12 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: croskey, j. kitching, j. 