filed 1/25/13 p. v. mendoza ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. rudy nicholas mendoza, defendant and appellant. b238536 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va118246) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, philip h. hickok, judge. affirmed. marcia c. levine, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and esther p. kim, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 appellant rudy nicholas mendoza was convicted of two counts of oral copulation/sexual penetration of a child and two counts of lewd acts on a child. he contends on appeal that the trial court erred in failing to instruct the jury, sua sponte, on the lesser included offense of battery. finding no reversible error, we affirm. factual and procedural background a. information by information dated march 28, 2011, appellant was charged with two counts of oral copulation/sexual penetration of a child under the age of 10 (pen. code,  288.7, subd. (b)/ 289, counts one and two)1 and two counts of committing a lewd act upon a child ( 288, subd, (a), counts three and four). the crimes allegedly occurred between april 5, 2007 and january 29, 2009. it was further alleged that pursuant to section 1170.12, subdivisions (a) through (d), section 667, subdivisions (b) through (i), section 667.5, subdivision (b), and section 667, subdivision (a)(1), appellant had suffered a prior conviction for burglary in january 2006. b. evidence at trial 1. prosecution evidence the alleged victim, s., who was 10 at the time of trial in 2011, testified that esperanza a. she had a room with a bunk bed, which she shared with appellant for a brief period moved her from the top bunk to the bottom bunk, took off her pants, and put his 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 appellant threatened to hit s. if she told anyone. she did not tell anyone for three years, when she told her mother with whom she had been reunited sometime earlier. on cross-examination, defense counsel asked whether appellant had just two recordings were played to the jury. one was of a telephone call appellant. it was set up by officers in an attempt to obtain an admission. diane ched her in [an] denied knowing what she was referring to or that anything had happened with s. his arrest, which occurred on the same day as the conversation with diane. appellant first denied everything. eventually, he admitted touching s. he said that s. touched his penis, but denied that she manipulated it and indicated that her touching had occurred when she jumped on him during play. he denied putting his fingers inside her or ejaculating in front of her. he said he went into the bathroom to masturbate after getting aroused. he admitted the inappropriate touching incidents happened more than once during the two weeks he stayed with his 2. defense evidence genital area and put her hand on his penis. he denied putting anything inside her vagina or putting his mouth on her. he denied moving her from the top bunk to 4 times. on cross-examination, appellant testified he did not remember the details of how the molestation began. he further testified that he was using methamphetamine and drinking at the time, which caused his mind to play tricks on him. however, he claimed he would have remembered if he had penetrated her he denied threatening s. he admitted having suffered a prior felony conviction for residential burglary. the defense also called louis jacquez, who became acquainted with appellant when jacquez participated in a christian drug rehabilitation program where appellant was a director. jacquez testified that appellant had been helpful to his rehabilitation and was a truthful person with a good reputation at their church. april 2007 until february 2009. appellant stayed in her home for only two or three weeks during that period. a social worker visited the girl weekly when she lived with esperanza a. s. said nothing to the social worker or esperanza a. about being molested by appellant. esperanza a. continued to babysit for s. after the girl was returned to her family and both families attended the same church. when s. said if they married, esperanza a. could become her grandmother. c. pertinent instructions and argument 18 years of age or older who engages in oral copulation or sexual penetration with a child who was ten years of age or younger, is guilty of violation of penal code 5 body, or any part or member thereof, of a child under the age of 14 years, with the specific intent of arousing, appealing to, or gratifying the lusts or the passions, or the sexual desires of that person or of the child, is guilty of the crime of committing a lewd or lascivious act upon the body of a child, in violation of penal code secti after the close of evidence and prior to reading the instructions, the court asked counsel if there were any lesser included offenses on which to instruct the jury. both the defense attorney and the prosecutor said there were none. during final argument, the prosecutor urged the jury to convict appellant of counts one and two based on the evidence of penetration and oral copulation. the defense attorney conceded that appellant had committed the section 288, subdivision (a), violations alleged in counts three and four, but contended there was insufficient evidence to support counts one and two. d. verdict and sentencing the jury found appellant guilty of all four counts. appellant admitted the truth of the prior conviction allegation. the court sentenced appellant to state prison for a total of 81 years to life, consisting of: for count one, the upper term of 15 years, doubled; for count two, the upper term of 15 years, doubled; for count three, the midterm of six years, doubled; and for count four, one-third the midterm of two years, doubled, plus an additional five years due to the prior serious felony allegation. discussion the parties do not dispute that a trial court has a duty to instruct the jury on the general principles of law necessary to properly determine the material issues in 6 the case, including instructions on any lesser included offenses supported by the evidence. (see, e.g., people v. breverman settled that in criminal cases, even in the absence of a request, the trial court must instruct on the general principles of law relevant to the issues raised by the evidence. [citations.] the general principles of law governing the case are those principles closely and openly connected with the facts before the court, and which people v. reeves (2001) 91 cal.app.4th 14, 51.) instructions on lesser included offenses are nt is guilty only of the lesser offense [persons] could . . . ser offense, but not the greater, was people v. breverman, supra, at p. 162.) (people v. rundle (2008) 43 cal.4th 76, 144, disapproved on another ground in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390.) courts have held that battery is a lesser included offense of certain sexual crimes, including forcible sodomy and rape. (people v. hughes (2002) 27 cal.4th 287, 366; people v. guiterrez (1991) 232 cal.app.3d 1624, 1636, fn. 2, disapproved on other grounds in people v. cromer (2001) 24 cal.4th 889, 901, fn. 3.) appellant contends the evidence -- particularly, his testimony that he fondled s. and placed her hand on his penis, but did not penetrate her or orally copulate her as charged in counts one and two -- was sufficiently substantial to allow the jury to reasonably conclude that the lesser offense of battery, but not the greater of oral copulation/sexual penetration, was 7 committed. accordingly, he contends that the court erred in failing to instruct on battery as a lesser included offense of counts one and two.2 the failure to instruct on a lesser included offense is judged under the standard of people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836. under that standard, we reverse only if an examination of the record establishes a reasonable probability that the error affected the outcome. (people v. breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 165.) appellant cites people v. ramkeesoon (1985) 39 cal.3d 346, 351-352 for threquires reversal unless it can be determined that the factual question posed by the omitted instruction was necessarily resolved adversely to the defendant under other, propramkeesoon was effectively overruled by brevermana lesser included offense in a noncapital case is, at most, an error of california law alone, and is thus the entire record establishes a reasonable probability that the error affected the t p. 165, citing cal. const., art. vi,  13.) assuming the court should have instructed on the lesser included offense of battery, we conclude any error was harmless under the applicable standard. the jury had no reason to credit the testimony of appellant, a convicted felon, who was heard in recorded statements changing his story from complete innocence to an 2 respondent does not contend that appellant invited the error. (see people v. valdez . . . be found if counsel expresses a deliberate tactical purpose in resisting or acceding to the complained-of people v. maurer invited error to apply, it must be clear from the record that counsel had a deliberate tactical purpose in suggesting or acceding to an instruction, and did not act simply out of 8 else. both pre-trial statements were at odds with the version of events he related at trial, where he testified that he fondled the girl and deliberately put her hand on his penis. during his testimony, he admitted that he had lied in speaking with her mother and during the initial part of his interview with officers when he claimed innocence. he also testified that he was high when the encounters occurred and penetrated her, put his mouth on her, and moved her hand on his penis until a substance fitting the description of ejaculate came out remained consistent. the and no alternative explanation for her knowledge of the sexual activities she described and the mechanics of male sexual climax. defendant, on the other hand, had every reason to minimize his admitted misconduct in using the girl for his sexual gratification. on this record, we find no reasonable probability that if instructed on the elements of battery, the jury would have reached a different result. 9 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports manella, j. we concur: willhite, acting p. j. suzukawa, j. 