filed 9/25/12 p. v. poolsiri ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. piyanut poolsiri, defendant and appellant. b238740 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la067215) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, joseph a. brandolino, judge. affirmed. g. martin velez, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, mary sanchez and jonathan m. krauss, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant piyanut poolsiri appeals her conviction of possessing a counterfeit seal (pen. code,  472),1 receiving stolen property ( 496d, subd. (a)), and attempted grand theft of personal property ( 664, 487, subd. (a)). at trial, the prosecutor introduced statements defendant made to a police officer before her arrest. because the officer had not admonished defendant pursuant to miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 (miranda) before obtaining her statements, she contends the trial court erred in admitting them. we conclude a miranda advisement was not required because defendant was not in custody, and thus we affirm the judgment. factual and procedural background i. underlying facts glenn diaz is the owner of a 1998 honda crv, license number 4cxe382. on february 11, 2011, he parked the car across the street from his apartment on parthenia avenue at 7:00 or 7:30 p.m. when he returned about 45 minutes later, the car was gone. he reported it stolen, which activated the lojack system installed on the car. the same evening, at about 7:30 p.m., miguel lopez saw a craigslist posting offering a honda crv for sale for $4,800. he called the telephone number indicated in the posting and spoke to the man who answered. the man told lopez the car belonged to his wife, who was visiting friends in the san fernando valley. the man said his wife could show lopez the car that evening at an address on sepulveda boulevard. lopez, with his wife and 14-year-old daughter, drove to the location at about 9:00 that evening. when they arrived, defendant was waiting outside a car. she was holding a purse and a pink slip. she asked if lopez was looking for a car, and he said he was. she handed him the key. he asked whether she could do better than the listed price, and she said he would have to discuss that with her husband. lopez used the key to turn on the car and then began inspecting it with a flashlight. 1 all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 while lopez was inspecting the car, police officers arrived and shined spotlights approached with their guns drawn and instructed defendant and the three members of the lopez family to put their hands on a nearby wall. all four were briefly detained. the police interviewed lopez, who said defendant had offered to sell him a car. few buildings away from where the vehicle was parked, but she could not identify the after the police interviewed lopez, his wife, and his daughter, they apologized and asked lopez to use his cell phone to call the man he had spoken to about the car. lopez did, putting the call on speaker. when the man answered, lopez asked if they could make a better deal on th matter further. the ma the arresting officers recovered from defendant a handbag that contained a single honda key and a counterfeit pink slip. ii. miranda hearing defendant was charged by information with receiving a counterfeit certificate of title, receiving stolen property (the honda crv), and attempted grand theft of personal property (money) from miguel lopez. 4 on the grounds that they were not voluntary and did not satisfy the requirements of miranda. in opposition to the motion, the prosecution called california highway patrol (chp) officer oscar serrano, who testified as follows. on february 11, 2011, officer serrano was assigned to the west san fernando valley. he and his partner went to sepulveda boulevard and weddington street to back up another unit that had received a stolen vehicle report. serrano was in uniform in a marked chp patrol vehicle. when he and his partner arrived at the scene, they saw a honda crv surrounded by four individuals: a hispanic man, woman, and child, and serrano and his partner drew their weapons and initiated a felony stop by ordering the four individuals to put their hands on a wall where the officers could see them. the officers then handcuffed the suspects, searched them for weapons, and separated defendant from the other three suspects, whom the officers believed were a family. once officers determined that none of the four suspects was carrying a weapon, the officers returned their weapons to their holsters and removed the handcuffs. serrano asked to view the honda crv because she was interested in she had received the keys and other documentation, we later found, from a and i quote with herserrano spoke to defendant in english, and she answered in english. defendant appeared defendant three or four questions, serrano said that while he and other officers questioned defendant and the 5 . . everyone at that location is not arrested, but they are four officers were present when the felony stop was initiated. as the officers approached the suspects, another unit with two officers arrived. after hearofficers were not required to give a miranda of a terry2 stop. i understand that weapons were drawn and people were cuffed because of the situation. you know, the officers were concerned for their safety, and that, to me, did unhandcuff people or at least figure out there was no threat. . . so does that keep it from being an interrogation for purposes of miranda a terry stop to try going to be incriminating to the defendant, or are they really just trying to figure out tements are going to be incriminating. does that take it out of miranda? miranda? after hearing argument from counsel, the court ruled as follows: whether the defendant has been formally arrested, whether the objective indicia of arrest 2 terry v. ohio (1968) 392 u.s. 1. 6 are present, the lengths of the detention, the ratio of officers to suspect, the demeanor of the officer, including the nature of the questioning. custody goes, but i . . miranda only because of the original approach of the officers, but my decision is based on the fact that, once the officlater. . . . it does not appear the officer was, you know, acting in a commanding manner. it seems like it was a normal conversation. the defendant seemed to understand. and, you know, there [were] no other indicia of formal arrest. . detention for purposes of mirandamiranda. . . the officers really were just . . . you have cases that indicate that, in those types of situations, especially given the facts and circumstances and, again, . . . you focus on the specific circumstances of every case, but, in this case, the officers really were asking questions that . . . that were not necessarily going to result in incriminating answers. they just wanted to know why these people were around the car. and in this type of situation . . . . intending to elicit incriminating statements. so, in that situation, it may not . . . be interrogation for purposes of miranda. not in violation of miranda iii. trial and sentence a jury convicted defendant of all three counts alleged in the information. the court suspended the imposition of sentence and placed defendant on formal probation for three years. defendant was ordered to serve 210 days in county jail and make restitution to diaz in the amount of $290.80. defendant timely appealed. 7 discussion defendant contends the trial court erred when it admitted evidence of her pre-arrest statements because officers did not advise her of her miranda rights before eliciting the statements. thus, the issue is whether the officers were required to provide miranda warnings before questioning defendant. miranda berkemer v. mccarty (1984) 468 u.s. 420, 440 (berkemer).) this determination presents a mixed question of law and fact. (people v. ochoa (1998) 19 cal.4th 353, 402.) we apply a deferential substantial evidence standard to the trial s custodial. (ibidpeople v. pilster (2006) 138 cal.app.4th 1395, 1403 (pilster).) reasonable person interpret the restraints used by the police as tantamount to a formal arrest? (berkemer, supra, 468 u.s. at p. 442; people v. aguilera (1996) 51 cal.app.4th 1151, 1161.) [fn. omitted.] the totality of the circumstances surrounding an incident must be considered as a whole. (people v. boyer (1989) 48 cal.3d 247, 272, disapproved on another ground in people v. stansbury (1995) 9 cal.4th 824, 830, fn. 1.) although no one factor is controlling, the following circumstances should be considered: [w]hether the suspect has been formally arrested; (2) absent formal arrest, the length of the detention; (3) the location; (4) the ratio of officers to suspects; and (5) the people v. forster (1994) 29 cal.app.4th 1746, 1753.) additional factors are whether the suspect agreed to the interview and was informed he or she could terminate the questioning, whether police informed the person he or she was considered a witness or suspect, whether there were w, and whether 8 suspect was arrested at the conclusion of the interview. (aguilera, at pilster, supra, at pp. 1403-1404.) the court applied these factors in in re joseph r. (1998) 65 cal.app.4th 954 (joseph r.) (cited with approval in people v. thomas (2011) 51 cal.4th 449, 477-478), to conclude that a minor was not in custody when he was questioned by police officers. in joseph r., a witness saw two boys throwing rocks at a bus. the witness told a police officer that one of the boys was wearing a plaid shirt, and he pointed the officer to the house the boys entered. as the officer approached the home, he saw two boys through a window, one (joseph) wearing a plaid shirt. when the mother of one of the boys came to the door, the officer told her of his suspicions and asked to speak with the boys, who then came out onto the porch. the officer told joseph that a witness had seen him throw a rock at a bus; joseph said he had no idea what the officer was talking about. the officer then placed joseph in handcuffs and told him to sit in the back of the patrol car. the officer left joseph sitting in the car for about five minutes. when the officer returned, he took joseph out of the car and began asking questions about the incident. early in the a bus, joseph r., supra, at pp. 956-957.) the prosecutor used that admission against joseph at his jurisdictional hearing. (ibid.) joseph contended his statement should not have been admitted because he was questioned without having been given miranda warnings, after having been handcuffed and placed in the back of a patrol car. he argued that he reasonably believed he was in custody. (joseph r., supra, 65 cal.app.4th at pp. 956-at the point joseph was cuffed and placed in the back seat of the patrol car, the record reveals no evidence to indicate he was ever told he was going to be taken to the station house or, for that matter, taken anywhere at all. rather, because the time during which joseph was restrained was extremely short, it seems likely he was handcuffed and placed in the police car merely so the officer could maintain control of the minor while he carried on another portion of his inid. at p. 958.) further, 9 temporary restraints he experienced while the officer tended to another aspect of his admission, he was never told he was going to be arrested, but he was lasted only about 15 or 20 minutes. after the interrogation was completed, the officers id. at p. 961.) the court concluded that, under these his involvement in the crime. (ibid.) the supreme court reached a similar result in people v. thomas, supra, 51 cal.4th 449 (thomas). there, a young woman was found murdered in a high school that he had been seen washing his hands in a bathroom where blood was discovered. an officer asked the defendant to accompany him to his patrol vehicle. the officer told due to the severity of the crime the detectives would probably be handling the interviews id. at p. 476.) the officer placed the defendant in the back of the patrol car and closed the doors, which could not be opened from the inside. after the defendant had been in the car for about 20 ibid.) the deputy spoke to the defendant for 20 to 30 minutes, and then returned him to the back seat of the patrol car and went to interview another witness. (id. at pp. 475-476.) on appeal, the defendant contended that the trial court should not have admitted the statements he made at the crime scene because officers had not advised him of his miranda rights before interviewing him. (thomas, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 476.) the court disagreed. after quoting joseph r. miranda (id. at p. 478.) 10 the present case is analogous to joseph r. and thomas. like the defendants in those cases, defendant here was not restrained when she was questioned and she had not been told she was under arrest. further, the tenor of the questions the officers asked herwere, as in those cases, people v. lopez (1985) 163 cal.app.3d 602, 608, fn. 4) as to make clear to defendant that the officers were not arresting her, but were simply trying to determine what had happened. and, as in joseph r. and thomas, the encounter between defendant and the police was briefaybe a minute, officers illuminated the scene with spotlights and red lights from two patrol cars, approached defendant with guns drawn, and placed defendant and the lopez family in reasonable under the circumstances, and the officers reholstered their guns and removed the handcuffs as soon as they determined that none of the four potential suspects was armed. as in joseph r. and thomas, the brief show of force would not have communicated to a reasonable person that he or she was in custody. other factors relevant to a miranda determination also support our determination that defendant was not in custody when she initially spoke to the police. as we have discussed, defendant was not formally arrested and she was detained for only a short time. further, the detention occurred in public, on a well-traveled street, permitting passersby to witness the interaction between defendant and officers. as our supreme policeman to use illegitimate means to elicit self-incriminating statements and diminishes (berkemer, supra, 468 u.s. at p. 438.) and, although there were four to six officers on the scene, there were four potential suspects, and thus the ratio of officers to suspects was never more than one and a half to one. 11 defendant contends the present case is analogous to people v. taylor (1986) 178 cal.app.3d 217 (taylor). in taylor, officers saw the defendant leaving a residence trol cars and a police helicopter pursued him at high speed with red lights and sirens activated for approximately a mile and a half. eventually, the patrol cars and helicopters stopped the defendant, and an officer, with his gun drawn, ordered him to step forward. officers searched the nearby area and found a (id. at p. 222.) the defendant was arrested. the bracelet later was identified as having been taken during a burglary that had occurred earlier that month. (id. at pp. 222-223.) on appeal, the defendant contended the trial court erroneously denied his motion to suppress evidence, urging that his statement to the officer, on which the officers and trial court relied to establish probable cause to arrest, was obtained unlawfully because he had not been given a miranda warning. (taylor, supra, 178 cal.app.3d at p. 223.) the at gunpoint. [fn. omitted.] we have no doubt that a reasonable person surrounded by at least four officers, several vehicles and a helicopter, and held at gunpoint, was subject to restraints on his freedom of action comparable to those associated with a formal arrest. . . give him miranda warnings before detective long effectively questioned him by id. at pp. 229-230.) in so concluding, the court distinguished the case before it from one in which officers initially use weapons to effect an investigative stop, but reholster their weapons miranda warnings must be given in each instance where police officers initially use weapons or other force to effect an investigative stop. for miranda purposes, we think the crucial consideration is the degree of coercive restraint to which a reasonable citizen believes he is subject at 12 the time of questioning. police officers may sufficiently attenuate an initial display of force, used to effect an investigative stop, so that no miranda warnings are required when questions are asked. thus, for example, a police officer may well act reasonably in drawing his gun while he approaches a citizen in an uncertain situation. however, having ascertained that no immediate danger justifies his display of his weapon, the officer may also reholster it. [citation.] assuming the citizen is subject to no other restraints, the play of his reholstered weapon does not require him to give miranda warnings before asking the citizen questions. as a practical matter, a contrary conclusion would imprudently endanger police officers by discouraging them from using protective measures r(taylor, supra, 178 cal.app.3d at p. 230.) defendant contends that the present case is analogous to taylor, but we do not agree. unlike in taylor, where officers questioned the defendant at gunpoint after taylor, supra, 178 cal.app.3d at p. 229), the officers in the present case reholstered their guns before asking defendant any questions. this case is much more analogous to the hypothetical case taylor taylor.3 (id. at p. 230.) further, the ratio of officers to suspects is much lower in the present case than it was in taylor. in taylortaylor, supra, at p. 229), while in the present case, there were four to six officers and four potential suspects. 3 nothing in taylor, however, suggests that the length of time between the initial show of force and the questioning of a suspect is relevant to the miranda analysis. moreover, we believe that the reholstering of the officershandcuffs would suggest to her that she was not in custody, without regard to the amount of time that passed between those events and the subsequent questioning of defendant. 13 defendant also analogizes the present case to people v. bejasa (2012) 205 cal.app.4th 26 (bejasa). there, the defendant hit another vehicle head-on, seriously injuring his passenger. an officer (maddox) asked the defendant what had happened, and defendant said his passenger had been thrown from the vehicle because she was not odshot and he asked the defendant to sit on the curb. maddox called for additional traffic officers and then resumed questioning the defendant. during this exchange, the defendant admitted he was on parole and consented to a search, which yielded two syringes, one of which id. at p. 33.) maddox then handcuffed the defendant and placed him in the back of a police car, telling him he was being detained for a possible parole violation. maddox did not give the defendant miranda warnings. allowed him to get out of the police car. a second officer (spates) then interviewed the bejasa, supra, 205 cal.app.4th at pp. 32-33.) in response to those questions, defendant made incriminating statements about his use of drugs. (id. at p. 33.) spates also administered a number of field sobriety tests, at the conclusion of which he advised defendant he was under arrest. (id. at p. 34.) on appeal, the defendant contended that his statements to officer spates were inadmissible because he had not been given a miranda warning. (bejasa, supra, 205 cal.app.4th at p. 37.) the court of appeal agreed, concluding that a reasonable person ibid.) it explained: ways. while talking to officer maddox, defendant admitted he was on parole. 14 defendant then consented to a search of his person. that search yielded two syringes, one of which contained a liquid. defendant further admitted that the syringes were used quickly thereafter weighs strongly in favor of a finding of custody. a reasonable person paraphernalia is a parole violation and a crime, and that arrest would likely follow. itself, cannot abrogate the likelihood of custodial pressures. a reasonable person would probably not be parole and had been using and carrying methamphetamine. in this context, a reasonable person would unleave. comparable to formal arrest, the physical restraint that followed crosses that boundary. defendant was confronted with two of the most unmistakable indicia of arrest: he was handcuffed and placed in the back of a police car. a reasonable person, under these [cbejasa, supra, 205 cal.app.4th at p. 37.) bejasa. although defendant is correct that she was both handcuffed and held at gunpoint, while the defendant in bejasa was merely handcuffed, the events that preceded the handcuffing here were entirely different than those in bejasa. in bejasa, before an officer put the defendant in handcuffs, defendant acknowledged he was on parole, consented to a search, had syringes discovered on his person, and admitted using methamphetamine. 15 that possession of methamphetamine and related paraphernalia is a parole violation and a crime, and thus would believe he was placed in handcuffs because he was under arrest. this reasonable belief was strengthened by the fact that as the officer handcuffed the bejasa, supra, 205 cal.app.4th at p. 37.) in the present case, in contrast, prior to being handcuffed, defendant did not make any incriminating statements and was not told she was being arrested or detained. further, officers drew their weapons and placed defendant and the three members of the lopez family in handcuffs only long enough to search them for weapons. upon discovering defendant was unarmed, the officers circumstances, a reasonable person would not have believed that the handcuffs were an indicia of arrest. rather, in the context of the present case, a reasonable person would safety while defendant and the lopezes were searched for weapons. for all of the reasons set forth above, we conclude the trial court did not err in for purposes of miranda when she was questioned. disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports suzukawa, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. manella, j. 