filed 8/19/13 p. v. santos ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. oscar enrique santos, defendant and appellant. b238362 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba366770) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, sam ohta, judge. affirmed with directions. david m. thompson, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, mary sanchez and shawn mcgahey webb, deputy attorneys general, for plantiff and respondent. 2 appellant oscar enrique santos challenges his convictions for sexual offenses against two victims. he maintains that there was insufficient evidence to support his convictions with respect to one victim, and that he received ineffective assistance from his counsel. in addition, he contends the abstract of judgment does convictions, but conclude that the abstract of judgment contains an error. we therefore affirm the convictions, and direct that the abstract of judgment be corrected. procedural background on june 15, 2011, an amended information was filed, alleging that appellant committed sexual offenses involving two victims, e.p. and j.g. regarding e.p., the information charged appellant under counts 1 and 3 with sexual battery by restraint (pen. code,  243.4, subd. (a)) and under count 2 with sexual penetration with a foreign object (pen. code  289, subd. (a)(1)).1 regarding j.g., the information charged appellant under counts 4 through 12 with oral copulation of an incompetent person ( 288a, subd. (g)), and under counts 13 through 21 with oral copulation of a person under 18 years of age ( 288a, subd. (b)(1)). appellant pleaded not guilty. a jury found appellant guilty as charged under counts 1, 3, 4, and 13. regarding the remaining counts, the jury found appellant guilty of the lesser offenses of attempted sexual penetration with a foreign object (count 2), attempted oral copulation of an incompetent person (counts 5 through 12), and attempted oral copulation of a person under 18 years of age (counts 14 through 21). on january 19, 2012, the trial court sentenced appellant to a total term of 18 years in prison. 1 all further statutory citations are to the penal code, unless otherwise indicated. 3 facts a. prosecution evidence 1. background in the 2005-2006 and 2006-2007 academic years, appellant was employed at -on-chair-bound student named ruben, who took special classes intended to teach living skills. appellant was responsible for feeding ruben and changing his diapers. 2. offenses against e.p. in 2005 and 2006, louanne estrada was the director of the victory outreach .p. and her daughter, e.p. lived in the home. both were unable to live independently, as they shared a mental deficiency that affected their memory. as a result of the deficiency, e.p. had difficulties remembering phone numbers and the directions to locations. from november 2005 to april 2006, she was a student at garfield high school, where she took the same classes as ruben. e.p. attended garfield high school when she was 17 years old. she testified that she knew appellant as a staff member who took care of another student in a . . e.p. sometimes used elevators within the school to go to her classes. although she lacked the key needed to operate the elevators, appellant had a key. e.p. further testified that on one occasion, appellant engaged in misconduct with her in an elevator. after she entered the elevator with appellant and the student in the wappellant pushed her against the elevator wall, gave her a french kiss (that is, 4 eath her jeans. later, appellant pulled down her was against the opposite wall, facing e.p.2 e.p. reported the incident to several people, including her mother c.p. and a teacher, daniel martinez. in early january 2006, after c.p. related the incident to estrada, e.p. met with laura alvarado, an assistant principal at garfield high school. e.p. told alvarado that appellant had kissed her while they were in an elevator. after determining that the incident occurred on or about december 21, 2005, alvarado department. deputy sheriffs made a preliminary investigation of the incident and forwarded a report to the special victims bureau (svb), assigned to investigate the physical and sexual abuse of children, but the report never arrived at the svb. 3. uncharged incident involving r.p. in the fall of 2006, r.p. attended garfield high school. she was then 16 or 17 years old. she had been assessed as a person with mental retardation, and was enrolled in the special education program. r.p. gograbbed her backpack as he pushed ruben in his wheelchair. appellant then invited r.p. to enter a school elevator. she felt uncomfortable and refused. appellant asked r.p. not to tell anyone about his request, explaining that he could lose his job. r.p. related the incident to her mother, h.p. afterward, appellant 2 e.p. -on--on-one was not present in the elevator. she also testified that from time to time, the elevator stopped and its doors opened. after one stop, a woman entered and briefly rode the elevator. according to e.p., appellant resumed his misconduct after the woman left the elevator. 5 confronted r.p. during a school nutrition break, asked why she had made a complaint regarding him, and denied the misconduct. h.p. testified that when she reported the incident to school officials, she was told that appellant would be asked to stay away from r.p. later, in february 2007, h.p. complained to the school that appellant continued to appear near r.p. and sometimes entered her classroom. 4. offenses against j.g. j.g. had spina bifida and used a wheelchair. she had been assessed as lectual functioning. j.g.attended garfield high school when she was 16 and 17 years old. in 2007, she took special classes in english, math, history, and science. because the school had several floors, she relied on the elevators to get to class. she had her own elevator key. j.g.testified that she used the elevator with appellant and ruben. on more hugged and kissed her, and made her touch his penis with her hands. she also testified that he repeatedly tried to place his penis into her mouth, but she refused to let him do so. according to j.g., she saw his penis emit a yellow fluid. during these events, ruben faced an elevator wall. a.r. j.g.at garfield high school. in november 2007, during the class, j.g.gave a.r. a note that stated: . . . . [] the thing is the young man loves me[,] i think, but i love him and i do not know how to tell him. how can i tell him that i love him? [] . . . [w]hen we [sic] see him in the elevator, he embraces me and kisses me and he tells me that he loves me, but i cannot tell him that i love h 6 a.r. understood the note to refer to appellant. in reply, a.r. wrote on the hey then corresponded by passing the note and adding remarks to it. j.g.asked a.r. not to tell anyone about a.r. than j.g. a.r. brought the note to the attention of barbara torres, an assistant in the special education program, and william bazadier, an assistant principal responsible for the special education program. bazadier interviewed j.g.regarding the note. she initially denied that it was truthful, but soon stated that she was in love with appellant. bazadier reported the conduct described in the note to the los 5. investigation in november 2007, deputy sheriffs investigated the complaint regarding j.g., and forwarded their initial report to svb. on december 19, 2007, svb detective patrick martinez contacted j.g. according to martinez, j.g.initially refused to speak to him. later, she stated that appellant had kissed her in an elevator, but asked martinez to stop his investigation because she liked appellant and did not want to get him into trouble. shortly afterward, martinez discovered e.p.he interviewed her. according to martinez, e.p. said that while she and appellant finger into her vagina. e.p. also identified appellant in a photographic line up. on january 30, 2008, martinez went to the los angeles unified school district headquarters to talk to appellant, who repeatedly denied that he had engaged in misconduct with e.p., invited r.p. into an elevator, and kissed j.g. 7 on. at the station, martinez interviewed appellant, who waived his miranda rights. 3 ith [r.p]e.p. and j.g. he stated that while he and e.p. were in the elevator, he gave her a french kiss and e.p.that on one occasion in an elevator, j.g.became emotional when she described a problem with her mother. to comfort her, he hugged her, and briefly gave her a 4 in january 2010, martinez again interviewed j.g., who was to be a witness in a trial of charges alleged against appellant in connection with e.p. j.g.initially told martinez that she did not want to testify. however, after martinez showed j.g.the note that she had passed to a.r., j.g.described in the note. j.g.stated that while she and appellant were in the elevator, ruben faced a wall. on multiple occasions, appellant gakisses and touched her under her clothing. he touched her body with his penis, and made her handle it. he also placed his penis in her mouth, and removed it before it produced a fluid, which he wiped on his shirt. 3 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 4 an audio recording of the interview was submitted to the jury. 8 b. defense evidence appellant, who testified on his own behalf, denied any misconduct regarding e.p., j.g., and r.p. regarding e.p., he stated that on one occasion in a classroom, he denied her request. regarding j.g., he testified that he once gave her a brief hug when she celebrated her quinceanera. according to appellant, he had no interactions with r.p. appellant further testified that his admissions of misconduct to detective martinez were the product of threats. according to appellant, when martinez station, but stopped for a period near a park that appellant did not recognize. martinez then told appellant that he intended to take away his children and prevent him from obtaining resident alien status. martinez also said that child abusers are raped, killed, or beaten up in jail. martinez assured appellant that acknowledging some miscomade the admissions that martinez suggested. daniel martinez testified that in 2005 and 2006, he was employed as a special education teacher at garfield high school. he denied that e.p. ever reported misconduct by appellant to him. heidi hishaw testified that in december 2005, she was temporarily assigned to e.p. as a one-on-one for two consecutive days. on the first day, hishaw accompanied e.p. the entire day. the following day, a man entered the garfield directed the man to a teacher. hishaw believed that the man was associated with e.p.e.p. home in a van. hishaw also testified 9 that she once overheard e.p. ask appellant for a kiss while both were located in a classroom. according to hishaw, appellant declined to do so.5 c. rebuttal s department station after he arrested appellant. according to detective martinez, he discussed only standard booking information with appellant during the drive.6 discussion appellant contends there was insufficient evidence to support his convictions regarding the offenses against j.g., and that he received ineffective assistance of counsel. in addition, he contends the abstract of judgment incorrectly reflects his convictions. for the reasons discussed below, we reject his contentions, with the exception of his challenge to the abstract of judgment. a. sufficiency of the evidence regarding the offenses involving j.g. appellant contends his convictions for the offenses involving j.g.fail for want of substantial evidence. he argues that j.g.confusing, and inconsistent versions of the claimed events occurring . . . in the 1. standard of review m of insufficiency of evidence in a criminal case is whether, on the entire record, a rational trier of fact 5 in addition to these witnesses, defense investigator jesus morrell testified that he interviewed appellant. 6 detective martinez also tworkplace to his home went past the two parks identified by morell. 10 could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citations.] on appeal, we must view the evidence in the light most favorable to the people and must presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence. [citation.] [] although we must ensure the evidence is reasonable, credible, and of solid value, nonetheless it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts on which that determination depends. [citation.] thus, if the verdict is supported by substantial evidence, we must accord due deference people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206.) under these principles, the testimony of a single witness is ordinarily in re frederick g. (1979) 96 cal.app.3d 353, 366.) the circumstances in which an appellate court may properly decline to credit testimony are exceptional and rare. (people v. ennis (2010) 190 cal.app.4th 721, 728-732 (ennisphysically impossiblid. at p. 729, quoting oldham v. kizer (1991) 235 cal.app.3d 1046, 1065.) 2. appellant challenges j.g.contention is that j.g.-trial accounts of his misconduct differed from her testimony at trial. he also argues that j.g. 11 elevators. as explained below, we reject the contentions.7 a. appellant maintains that the differences between j.g.-trial descriptions hat testimony. we disagree. regarding j.g.-trial statements, detective martinez testified that when he first contacted her in december 2007, j.g.said only that appellant had kissed her in an elevator. later, on january 7, 2010, martinez interviewed j.g.in her home regarding her impending testimony in a trial of charges alleged against appellant in connection with e.p. when martinez showed j.g.a copy of the note that she had passed to a.r., j.g.here was more to j.g.stated when she and appellant were in the elevator, appellant gave her and also placed his penis in her mouth. she also mentioned someone named on january 9, 2010, detective martinez interviewed j.g.department station. there, she reaffirmed the january 7, 2010 account of when he asked her to clarify the incident at .r. during the underlying trial, j.g.elevator closely tracked the descriptions that she provided to detective martinez in 7 j.g.rejected because she suffers from developmental disabilities, we reject that assumption in our analysis of the contentions. (people v. catley (2007) 148 cal.app.4th 500, 506-508.) 12 january 2010, although she maintained -- with exceptions that we note below (see pt. a.2.b., post) -- that she never permitted him to place his penis fully in her mouth. regarding her december 2007 statements to martinez, she stated that she trouble. regarding her january 2010 statements to martinez, she stated that the service who provided her with transportation and tried to take advantage of her. in j.r. because she did not know j.r. when the incident occurred. the differences between j.g.-trial statements and her trial testimony do not warrant the rejection of that testimony. the fact that a victim of sexual abuse initially denied or minimized the scope of the abuse prior to trial does not for the existence of substantial evidence. (ennis, supra, 190 cal.app.4th at pp. 728-732; in re s.a. (2010) 182 cal.app.4th 1128, 1140-1150 (s.a.).) furthermore, the fact that j.g.testified that appellant attempted -- but did not complete -- the act of oral copulation, in contrast with her pre-trial statements, does not nullify the status of her testimony as substantial evidence. (see in re sheila b. (1993) 19 cal.app.4th 187, 198-200.) b. purported inconsistencies in j.g. appellant also asserts that internal inconsistencies in j.g.it incapable of supporting the judgment. he is mistaken. as our supreme court has explained, even internally inconsistent testimony from a single witness may support a judgment. (clemmer v. hartford insurance co. (1978) 22 cal.3d 865, ernal inconsistencies in testimony, to 13 resolve them if this is possible, and to determine what weight should be given to ibid.) during j.g.penis out of his pants, but later testified that he repeatedly tried to place his penis into her mouth. in addition, although j.g.generally denied that she permitted appellant to put his penis in her mouth, she sometimes stated that her january 2010 statements to detective martinez were true. furthermore, on cross-examination, j.g.before she wrote the note to a.r., during which appellant merely hugged and kissed her. however, during the prose-direct examination, she testified as follows: . . the way you answered made me think that the guy in the wrong? [] . . . [] j.g.:] . . . [w]hen i was in school, he was touching me every single day. j.g.:] yes. j.g.:] it was just touching me and then just kiss [sic] o that he did things to you and it happened while you were 17, the whole year, was that the truth? j.g.:] yes we see nothing in j.g.attributable to j.g.or a failure to understand questions. in this regard, her testimony concerning the 14 incident preceding her note may be understood to mean that it was the only episode j.g. to her testimony, which were for the jury to decide. (s.a., supra, 182 cal.app.4th at pp. 1149-1150.) people v. casillas (1943) 60 cal.app.2d 785, upon which appellant relies, is distinguishable. there, the defendant was charged with rape and incest with respect to his minor daughter, who had given birth to a son. (id. at pp. 787-789.) during the bench trial, the daughter repeatedly changed her testimony regarding id. at pp. 788-792.) on direct examination, she stated that the defendant had engaged in sexual intercourse with her on two occasions; on cross-any sexual relations with the defendant; later, on re-direct examination, she stated that she had sex with both the defendant and manuel. (id. at pp. 788-793.) the nd contradictory versions as to who ravished her and the id. at p. 794.) in contrast, no inconsistencies of that magnitude appear in j.g.8 c. misconduct within elevator appellant contends that j.g. 8 in a related contention, appellant argues that the trial court improperly overruled his objection to the relevancy of a remark by j.g. conduct. however, as the record discloses no reasonable likelihood of a more favorable outcome for appellant had the objection been sustained, the error (if any) was harmless. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) 15 rejected when it is physically impossipeople v. huston (1943) 21 cal.2d 690, 693, reversed on another ground in people v. burton (1961) 55 cal.2d 328, 352.) appellant [jg.] claims that the incidents happened during school hours in elevators used by numerous people, including faculty and other wheelchair-bound students with their one-on-ones. . . . moreover, the time between classes was only about six or seven minutes and if a student was tardy for class, it j.g.neither physically impossible nor false on its face. during closing arguments, the prosecutor offered a theory regarding how appellant secured an adequate opportunity to abuse j.g. in the elevator. the j.g. occupied it. the prosecutor argued instead that appellant repeatedly pressed the elevator buttons to keep it moving, and positioned ruben so that bypassers noticed only included relatively quiet periods following class breaks when the students were in their classrooms and the administrators were in their offices. the record discloses sufficient evidence to support this theory. the elevator in which the misconduct occurred was located between two adjoining buildings, the main administration building and a building housing the special education program. the elevator served three floors and had two sets of doors, allowing individuals to enter on one side and leave on the opposite side. a key was needed to use the elevator. according to j.g., the only students with access to the elevator were those in wheelchairs. generally, the breaks between classes were six or seven minutes, and teachers were required to mark students as tardy or absent when they failed to make a timely appearance in an assigned classroom. 16 according to assistant principal bazadier, j.g.reasonable inference that appellant abused j.g. by waiting until class breaks ended and positioning ruben to hide his misconduct. people v. headlee (1941) 18 cal.2d 266 and people v. carvalho (1952) 112 cal.app.2d 482 is misplaced. in each case, the reviewing cobecause she did not attempt to escape, even though the evidence unequivocally showed that she could have done so. (people v. headlee, supra, 18 cal.2d at pp. 273- made . . . to . . . attempt an escape . . . . this is not the conduct of a person who has been kidnapped . . . . people v. carvalho, supra, and ordinary conduct of one who is the victim of j.g.offenses against j.g. b. ineffective assistance of counsel appellant contends his trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance by ruben, (2) ensure that an admonition was given regarding a stricken portion of ruben during closing arguments. for the reasons explained below, we reject these contentions. 1. governing principles ineffective assistance of counsel, a defendant must 17 below an objective standard of reasonableness . . . under prevailing professional performance or lack thereof. [citations.] prejudice is shown when there is a the proceeding would have been different. a reasonable probability is a (people v. jennings (1991) 53 cal.3d 334, 357.) 2. underlying proceedings on january 30, 2008, after detective martinez talked to ruben, he interviewed appellant twice. during the first interview, martinez described his meetings with ruben to appellant, who repeatedly denied any misconduct with e.p. and j.g. department station, where appellant admitted some misconduct concerning e.p. and j.g. during pre-trial proceedings, the prosecutor requested a ruling regarding whether she would be permitted to play a redacted audio recording of the first interview, in addition to the audio recording of the second interview. she argued interview. defense counsel replied that the second interview showed that he argued that during the second interview, appellant made his admissions before martinez referred to ruben. the trial court deferred ruling on the admissibility of the first interview until it had reviewed the transcript of that interview. 18 later, shortly before the trial, the prosecutor offered to forego presenting the first interview, provided that she would be permitted to submit the second interview, with no further redactions. in response, defense counsel maintained that martinez extracted the admissions during the second interview through deceptive tactics, and indicated that appellant intended to testify that he engaged in no misconduct with e.p. or j.g. defense counsel further stated that he could show that appellant denied any misconduct during the first interview through his cross-examination of martinez. the trial court ruled that the audio recording of the first interview would not be played for the jury unless it became relevant. ruben did not testify at trial. during the direct examination of detective martinez, the prosecutor inquired regarding the events preceding his january 30, 2008 interviews of appellant. the following questioning occurred: ruben? interview him? . . . ruben has his faculties. . . . [] . . . he has a tracheotomy. he feeds through another tube into his abdomen area. he cannot speak. he cannot write. he cannot communicate other than moving his that interview i asked him if anything occurred, something did occur. nce of the interview, but the fact is that you did ask him questions? 19 did occinstructed to disregard it. the court sustained the objection and struck the remark, but did not immediately admonish the jury to disregard it. shortly afterward, in response to martinez testified that on january 30, 2008, before appellant made his admissions spoken to ruben. the prosecutor then played an audio recording of the interview admitted some misconduct involving j.g. and e.p., but denied that he touched e.p.urred between appellant and detective martinez: e.p.] tell me all the truth about the kissing and everything and tell me about you going down there with your hand and why would you deny it . . . ? lling you the truth. . . lying to me about this stuff. okay? . [e.p.]what whole truth about it. why would you not tell me the whole truth about it and be done with it? . . [l]ike i said, i never put my hands inside her pants or inside 20 following the presentation of evidence, the trial court instructed the jury purpose any offer of evidence that was rejected, or any evidence that was stricken during closing arguments, defense counsel urged the jury to disregard hey resulted from coercive and of the second interview, immediately after detective martinez asked whether appellant had something to say. in reply, the prosecutor desappellant knew from his first interview with detective martinez that j.g. had not yet fully divulged his misconduct, and that ruben was a potential witness to that [j.p.] said everything yet. she still has feelings for me, but ruben was in that elevator. i point [appellant] knew more about what happened. he knew [that] ruben knew more about what happened than detective martinez knew at that moment . . . when later, the prosecutor contended that appellant took advantage of the quiet periods following class breaks. the prosecutor maintained that following the that elevator . . . 21 3. evidence regarding interviews with ruben appellant contends defense counsel rendered ineffective assistance in failing the reference of ruben in the italicized portion of detective martwith appellant. we disagree. (people v. price (1991) 1 cal.4th 324, 387.) furthermore, regarding tactical decisions such as objecting to evidence, no showing of ineffective assistance is manner challenged, unless counsel was asked at trial for an explanation and failed people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 1037.) this is because ineffective assistance any knowledgeable choice of tactics. (people v. shoals (1992) 8 cal.app.4th 475, 501.) tendency in reason  210). we reject this contention. the evidence was offered to support the ruben prompted his admissions. because defense counsel stated during the pretrial proceedings that appellant intended to testify that martinez coerced his admissions, the prosecutor was entitled to present evidence supporting that theory er, as appellant did, in fact, 22 fact. for this reason, defense counsel reasonably declined to object to the evidence. . . during [the] recorded interrogation should have been redacted as no evidence of what ruben may have t foreclose a admissible as an adoptive admission by appellant, for purposes of the hearsay rule. (people v. davis (2005) 36 cal.4th 510, 535; see brown v. surety co. of pacific (1981) 122 cal.app.3d 614, 618-accusations against him by third parties were true was admissible adoptive admission].)9 for this reason, if defense counsel had objected on the ground that have been entitled to try to establish those remarks by examining martinez or presenting portions of his first interview with appellant. as the remarks were to open the door to their admission. in addition, because ruben occurred after appellant made his admissions, defense counsel may have motivated the admissions. in sum, appellant has shown no ineffective assistance of counsel in connection with the pertinent items of evidence. 9 or other conduct manifested his adoption [of] or his belief in i(people v. davis, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 535.) 23 4. admonition appellant asserts that his counsel rendered ineffective assistance by failing to secure an admonition immediately after the trial court struck detective issued an appropriate admonition in instructing the jury. we presume the jury followed this instruction. (people v. delgado (1993) 5 cal.4th 312, 331.) 5. pr appellant contends his counsel was ineffective because he raised no we disagree. in closing arguments, prosecutors may properly urge the jury to accept a theory logically inferred from the evidence. (people v. huggins (2006) 38 cal.4th 175, 207.) that is what occurred here. 2008 admissions, the prosecutor argued that after appellant learned that martinez . . in developing this theory, the prosecutor relied solely on properly admitted evidence showing that ruben was present in the elevator with appellant, that martinez interviewed ruben, and that appellant was aware of that interview. that age of evidence correctly admitted at trial, defense counsel had no meritorious ground to object to them. in sum, appellant has failed to show ineffective assistance of counsel. 24 c. abstract of judgment appellant contends the abstract of judgment incorrectly states that his sic], rather than for attempted forcible sexual penetration by a foreign object. respondent agrees that the notation on the abstract of judgment does not under count 2. disposition the judgment is affirmed. the superior court is directed to prepare an under count 2 is for attempted sexual penetration with a foreign object ( 289, subd. (a)(1), 664), and to forward a copy of the amended abstract of judgment to the california department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published in the official reports manella, j. we concur: willhite, acting p. j. suzukawa, j. 