filed 11/20/14 p. v. sims ca2/3 received for posting 11/24/14 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. chevelle jamal sims, defendant and appellant. b238001 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sa077244) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, katherine mader, judge. affirmed. valerie g. wass, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, eric e. reynolds and peggy z. huang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant and appellant chevelle jamal sims appeals his convictions for second degree commercial burglary and grand theft. the trial court sentenced him to six years four months in prison. sims contends the evidence was insufficient to support six of his convictions, and the trial court committed instructional error. we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. facts maria kristin samson and appellant sims acted together to carry out a cash advance scheme, by which they managed to fraudulently obtain large cash sums from several chase bank branches. the evidence relevant to the issues presented on appeal established the following. a. the burglaries and thefts samson, who was 19 years old at the time of trial, moved to the united states from the philippines in march 2009, and lived in virginia and new jersey before moving to los angeles. she met appellant sims in los angeles in january 2011, when they were introduced by a mutual acquaintance. sims told samson to call him about a job if she needed when samson asked what the job entailed, sims replied that she just needed a card and an identification. sims called samson and sent her text messages thereafter, but she did not respond because she was not interested. however, samson lost her job in march 2011 and faced numerous medical bills. she contacted on march 31, 2011, sims picked samson up in his pickup truck. samson brought with her a provident bank visa debit card linked to her closed new jersey bank account, and also her virginia identification card. sims for the first time explained the nature of had samson speak on a cellular telephone with a man identified as to whom samson provided her identification information and provident card information. sims explained the scam to samson as follows. he would drop her off at a chase bank branch. she was to pretend to attempt to withdraw cash from the atm using the provident card. then she was to enter the bank and explain to a chase employee that 3 she needed a cash advance for $5,000 but had been unable to withdraw the money from -888 telephone number sims provided to her. cyrus would answer her call, and she was to inquire about her inability to withdraw the cash. cyrus would ask her for her credit card and identification information, purportedly for verification purposes, confirm her money was purportedly in the bank, and ask to speak to the chase bank teller. chase employee to talk to cyrus, posing as a provident bank employee. samson would receive $1,200 of every $5,000 she was able to obtain. after the scam was complete, samson was to report to provident that her card had been stolen. samson knew her provident account was closed and that what she was doing was wrong. after explaining the scheme, sims drove samson to a chase bank downtown and told her he would park across the street and wait for her. following their plan, samson managed to obtain $5,000. sims drove samson to four or five more chase bank branches, where their efforts were sometimes successful, sometimes not. after each stop, samson returned to sims gave him any money she had obtained, whereupon he gave her her share. by 6:00 p.m. samson had amassed a share of $3,600. she and sims agreed to meet the following monday, april 4, 2011, to perpetrate the scheme at additional chase branches. samson sent sims several text messages in early april. among them were the following. on april 3, 2011, we were just going to go local tomorrow. right? and i can go homsubsequently sent another message asking if thethan april 4, because she had a conflict with a medical appointment. samson sent sims another message on april 4 asking what time they would meet, and if he knew whether in yet another message, samson told sims she was serious, [ on april 5, 2011, sims again picked samson up in his pickup truck. his girlfriend was in the truck as well. sims took samson to approximately six bank branches that morning, and obtained approximately $8,000, of which samson kept $1,200 or more. 4 before heading to their next target, sims stopped at a u.s. bank branch while samson waited in the car. that afternoon the duo attempted the scam for the last time at a chase branch in el segundo. the branch manager, lekili palmer, had received an e-mail sent to all regional chase bank branches advising that a woman was making large, unauthorized cash advances. samson entered the bank at approximately 2:00 p.m., and proceeded in the same fashion as previously, first speaking with a bank employee and then using the however, palmer, alerted to what was happening, called 911. unfortunately for samson and sims, a police station was located across the street from the bank and officers arrived within three to four minutes. they arrested samson. palmer spoke with cyrus and, at the direction of an officer, falsely told him the transaction had been completed. shortly thereafter, el segundo police officers located and stopped sims in his pickup truck two blocks from the bank. a woman was in the car with him. police removed ermine who owned the phones. samson testified that she never attempted the scam on her own. b. the investigation samson confessed to police and explained the scam to them. as part of a negotiated plea, samson agreed to testify for the people. detective eric atkinson examined the cellular teleone of them contained the text messages from samson. in addition to the messages testified to by samson, detective atkinson identified an additional message that stated, other text messages on the same phone were from cyrus. a text sent from cyrus on april 5, 2011, at 12:39 p.m., had second text message stated, 5 [got] off the phone with that bank and spoke with the mana chase fraud investigator linda kristman testified that she investigated a series of fraudulent cash advance withdrawals made at different chase branches on march 31 and in the banks at the time of each of the transactions. electronic bank records showed that on march 31, 2011, and national and barrington branches each disbursed $5,000 for an sbursed $3,000. on h disbursed $5,000 from u.s. bank records showed a deposit of approximately $3,000 made at manhattan beach branch, to the account number listed in the april 5, 2011 text message from cyrus, found on the cell phone taken from the name on the u.s. bank account was cyrus ashford. 2. procedure sims was tried twice. his first trial ended in a mistrial after the jury deadlocked. upon retrial, the jury convicted sims of six counts of second degree commercial burglary (pen. code,  459)1 and five counts of grand theft ( 487, subd. (a)). in a bifurcated proceeding the trial court found sims had suffered convictions ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)), but subsequently granted his romero motion2 to strike them. the trial court sentenced sims to a term of six years four months in prison. it imposed a restitution fine, a suspended parole restitution fine, a court security fee, and a criminal conviction assessment, and ordered sims to pay victim restitution in the amount of $19,455. sims appeals. 1 all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497. 6 discussion 1. the eviden sims contends his convictions for burglary and grand theft, arising from the march 31, 2011 offenses at the culver city, national-barrington, and pico-doheny chase bank branches (counts 6, 7, 8, 9, 12, and 13), must be reversed because there was insufficient evidence to corroborate the testimony of his accomplice, samson. we disagree. a. applicable legal principles the applicable standard of review is well settled. in assessing a claim of we review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. snow (2003) 30 cal.4th 43, 66; people v. elliott (2012) 53 cal.4th 535, 585.) we presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier of fact could reasonably deduce from the evidence. (people v. medina (2009) 46 cal.4th 913, 919.) the same standard of review applies to cases in which the prosecution relies primarily on circumstantial evidence. (people v. brown (2014) 59 cal.4th 86, 106.) for the identical offense charged against the defendant on trial in the cause in which the testimony of the ; people v. whalen (2013) 56 cal.4th 1, 55.) samson was an accomplice as a matter of law, and the jury was so instructed. section 1111 provides that a contestimony unless that testimony is corroborated. entirely circumstantial, and entitled to little consideration when standing alone. [citations.] it need not be sufficient to establish every element of the charged offense or to establish the precise facts to which the accomplice testified. [citations.] it is the jury that the accomppeople v. valdez (2012) 55 7 cal.4th 82, 147-148; people v. chism (2014) 58 cal.4th 1266, 1301; people v. nelson (2011) 51 cal.4th 198, 218.) however, t is not sufficient to merely connect a defendant with the accomplice or other persons participating in the crime. the evidence must connect the defendant with the crime, not simply with its perpetrators. (people v. falconer (1988) 201 cal.app.3d 1540, 1543.) the corroborative evidence must connect defendant with the crimes without assistance testimony. (people v. davis (2005) 36 cal.4th 510, 543.) the testimony of one accomplice is not sufficient to corroborate the testimony of another. (id. at pp. 543-544.) the trier of the reviewing court unless the evidence should not have been admitted, or does not reasonably tend to connect the defendant with the commission of the crime. (people v. mcdermott (2002) 28 cal.4th 946, 986; people v. narvaez (2002) 104 cal.app.4th 1295, 1303.) b. application here was sufficient to corroborate samson testified that she sent sims a number of text messages in early april regarding their participation in the scheme. atkinson examined two cell on one of them. the content of the messages did more than simply link sims with samson; they linked him to the crimes. (see people v. beaver (2010) 186 cal.app.4th 107, 115 while corroborating evidence it is not sufficient to merely connect a defendant with the accomplice or other persons participating in the crime. the evidence must connect the defendant with the crime ].) the text messages included: (1) [ed] to work with you, and i really need the query, ; and (3) several me , and were sent on april 4 and 5, 2011, shortly after the first set of offenses and shortly before the second. samson he was the person who posed as a provident bank employee to facilitate the scam. the detective 8 discovery of various text messages on the cell phone from cyrus were damning. one stated, you got the money. i just . . . [got] off the phone with that bank and spoke with another stated, and another, sent on april 5, 2011, at 12:39 p.m.a time in between the thefts carried out that daydetermined to be that of an account owned by cyrus ashford. these messages clearly linked sims with the crimes. in arguing to the contrary, sims makes three points, none of which persuade us. phone was never definitively shown to be his. he urges that there was no evidence he owned or used the phone; it might have belonged to his female passenger; and the messages were not addressed to him by name. but corroborating evidence may be circumstantial, and slight. (people v. valdez, supra, 55 cal.4th at pp. 147-148; people v. whalen, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 55.) it was a reasonable inference that a phone found in him. therefore it was also reasonable to infer that the text messages from both cyrus and samson were directed to him. second, sims urges that evidence he was involved in a scheme on april 5, 2011 . . . this case, we disagree. on both dates was sufficiently corroborated by the text messages from cyrus demonstrating his involvement in the scheme. videotapes from the banks showed that the offenses on both dates were committed by samson, who defrauded chase bank branchesand only chase bank branchesby making large cash withdrawals in all the crimes, leading to the inference that the offenses were all part of a single ongoing scheme covering both dates. to some extent, the tenor of the text messages suggested an ongoing relationship. cor is sufficient if it tends to connect the defendant with the crime in such a way as to satisfy the jury that the accomplice is telling people v. whalen, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 55; people v. valdez, 9 supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 148.) that standard was met here as to both dates. no independent evidence that [he] was an integral part of the scheme. he argues that there was no corroboration that he drove samson to the banks, or masterminded the scam. however, it is well settled that corroborating evidence need not be sufficient to establish every element of the offense, or every fact to which the accomplice testifies. (people v. whalen, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 55; people v. valdez, supra, 55 cal.4th at pp. 147-148.) the evidence was sufficient.3 2. instructional error a. instructions on uncharged conspiracy sims aiding and abetting, and uncharged conspiracy. in regard to the latter theory, the trial court gave calcrim nos. (coconspirators statements), 419 (acts committed or statements made before joining conspiracy), and 420 (withdrawal from conspiracy). sims urges that this was reversible criminal he contends that the legislature has defined conspiracy as a substantive offense, not a theory of vicarious liability. in his view, cases holding a defendant may be found guilty of an offense on an uncharged conspiracy theory conflict with section 31, which defines principals to a crime and does not mention coconspirators. while acknowledging that cases since at least 1907 have recognized conspiracy as a theory of liability in california, sims nonetheless avers that this rule is an unwarranted enlargement of section 31. simshas repeatedly held conspiracy is a valid theory of liability. in people v. hajek and vo (2014) 58 cal.conspiracy as a theory of derivative liability. (id. at p. 1200.) the court explained: 3 regarding recalculation of joint and several liability, a question which would arise only if reversed. 10 iracy can itself be the basis of derivative liability quite apart from aiding and properly be used to prove criminal liability for acts of a coconspirator. [citations.] proving that those substantive offenses which are charged were committed in furtherance of a criminal conspiracy [citation]; nor, it follows, does it preclude the giving of jury . . . contrary to on 31 does not include id. at pp. 1200-1201.) id. at p. 1203; see also, e.g., people v. valdez, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 150 [o]ur decisions have long and firmly established that an uncharged conspiracy may properly be used to prove criminal liability for acts of a coconspiratorin re hardy (2007) 41 cal.4th 977, 1025 [ who conspires with others to commit a felony is guilty as a principal. ( 31.); people v. mohamed (2011) 201 cal.app.4th 515, 523-524.) the same result is required here. (auto equity sales, inc. v. superior court (1962) 57 cal.2d 450, 455.) b. instructions on theft and burglary sims was charged in counts 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 12 with second degree commercial burglary, and in counts 3, 5, 7, 9, and 13 with grand theft. sims urges the trial court erred by (1) failing to instruct on the elements of theft; (2) misstating the dollar amount required to prove grand theft, and (3) informing the jury theft was a general intent crime. we agree the court erred, but conclude the errors were harmless. (i) additional facts the trial court instructed as follows. it gave calcrim no. 1700, on commercial burglary. that instruction stated, in pertinent part, that to prove sims guilty, the people were required to establish: the defendant entered a building; [] and [] 2. when he/she entered a building, he/she intended to commit theft. [] to decide whether the 11 defendant intended to commit theft, please refer to the separate instructions that i will give/have given you on that crime[]. [] if you find the defendant guilty of burglary, it is burglary of the second degree. [] a burglary was committed if the defendant entered with the intent to commit theft. the defendant does not need to have actually committed theft . . . as long as he/she entered with the intent to do so. the only instruction provided on the offense of theft was an excerpt of calcrim no. 1801, which stated in pertinent part: a theft, you must decide whether the crime was grand theft or petty theft. [] the defendant committed grand theft if he stole property or services worth more than $400. [] all other theft is petty theft. [] the people have the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that the theft was grand theft rather than a lesser crime. if the people have not met this burden, the court also gave calcrim no. 252, regarding general and specific intent. as given, the instruction stated that the crime of grand theft reintent,and burglary required specific intent. it defined the specific intent for burglary thus: [the] person must not only intentionally commit the prohibited act or intentionally fail to do the required act, but must do so with a specific intent. the act and the specific intent req the jury was also instructed on principles relevant to aiding and abetting and conspiracy. (ii) applicable legal principles a trial court must instruct, sua sponte, on the general principles of law relevant to and governing the case, including instructions on all of the elements of a charged offense. (people v. cummings (1993) 4 cal.4th 1233, 1311; people v. haraszewski (2012) 203 cal.app.4th 924, 936; people v. gerber (2011) 196 cal.app.4th 368, 390.) errors in jury instructions are questions of law, which we review de novo. (people v. jandres (2014) 226 cal.app.4th 340, 358.) an instructional error that omits an element of the offense generally is not structural error requiring automatic reversal. instead, it is reviewed under the harmless 12 error standard of chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24. (people v. gonzalez (2012) 54 cal.4th 643, 662-663; people v. haraszewski, supra, 203 cal.app.4th at p. 936.) under the chapman s an otherwise valid conviction should not be set aside if the reviewing court may confidently say, on the whole record, that the constitutional error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (haraszewski, at p. 936; gonzalez, at pp. 662-663.) consideration of an element of an offense and that which affects only an aspect of an element.people v. cummings, supra, 4 cal.4th at p. 1315.) an instructional error that withdraws from the jury consideration of substantially all of the elements of an offense is reversible per se, unless other facts necessary to a conclusion that the omitted element haibid.; people v. mil (2012) 53 cal.4th 400, 413.) (iii) forfeiture the people contend that sims has forfeited any appellate challenge to the instructions because he failed to object to them below. this contention is meritless. as noted, a trial court has a sua sponte duty to instruct on the general principles of law relevant to the evidence. accordingly, there is no forfeiture. (people v. mil, supra, 53 it is well settled that no objection is required to preserve a claim for appellate review that the jury instructions omitted an essential element of the chargepeople v. gerber, supra, 196 cal.app.4th at p. 390.) moreover, we court may . . . review any instruction given, refused or modified, even though no objection was made thereto in the lower court, if the substantial rights of the defendant were affected (iv) the burglary instructions burglary is the entry into any building with the intent to commit grand or petty larceny or any felony. ( 459; e.g., people v. smith (2006) 142 cal.app.4th 923, 929.) in a burglary case, the trial court, on its own initiative, must identify and define the 13 elements of the target offenses the defendant allegedly intended to commit upon entry into the building. (people v. hughes (2002) 27 cal.4th 287, 349; people v. rathert in a burglary prosecution, complete and accurate jury instructions include the definition of each felony the defendant is alleged to have intended to commit upon entry into the burglarized structure].) so-called target offenses and instruct on (hughes, at p. 349.) here, the court identified the target offensetheftbut did not instruct on the elements of theft, except to state, in calcrim no. 1801, that stole (italics added.) similarly, the court has a sua sponte duty to instruct on the elements of the offense alleged to be the target of the conspiracy. (people v. cook (2001) 91 cal.app.4th 910, 918.) the court here instructed that theft and burglary were targets of the conspiracy, but did not further define the elements of theft. burglary counts. (see people v. hughes, supra, 27 cal.4th at p. 352 [applying the chapman standard to a failure to instruct on the elements of target offenses].) this court addressed the issue over 70 years ago in people v. corral (1943) 60 cal.app.2d 66. there, the defendant shoplifted clothing from a large department store, and was charged with second degree burglary. the trial court instructed on burglary using the language of section 459, that is, that every person who enters a building with the intent to commit theft or any felony is guilty of burglary. (corral, at pp. 71-72.) the court did not give further instructions defining theft. the defendant argued that the statutory definition of theft included several different acts, and the absence of instruction on the elements left id. at p. 72.) corral an argument would be well taken, but this is not one of them. only one sort of theftlarcenywas indicated by the evidencs intent to commit that crime is so clear that we do not see how the jury could have had any doubt about it, or misunderstood the instruction. [citation.] even if such an instruction should properly 14 have been given here, its absence has not resulted in a miscarriage of justice.(ibid.) the same is true here. this was not a case in which the jury could have speculated about which of several crimes samson intended to commit when she entered the banks. the people did not advance multiple theories regarding what crime samson intended. indeed, that samson intended to, and did, commit theft was undisputed. the key or coconspirator. having found that he was, the jury could not possibly have concluded he lacked the intent to commit felony theft, or that he intended samson to commit some crime other than theft when she entered the banks. people v. failla (1966) 64 cal.2d 560, does not compel a different result. in failla, the court instructed the jury that one who enters an apartment with the intent to commit theft or any felony is guilty of burglary. (id. at p. 564, italics added.) this was held to be prejudicial error. distinguishing people v. corral, supra, 60 cal.app.2d 66, failla reason[w]here the evidence permits an inference that the defendant at the time of entry intended to commit one or more felonies and also an inference that his intent was merely to commit one or more misdemeanors or acts not punishable as crimes, the court and must instruct the jury which acts, among those which the jury could infer the defendant intended to commit, amount to felonies. failure to do so is error, for it allows the triers of fact to indulge in unguided speculation as to what kinds of criminal conduct are serious enough to warrant punishment as felonies and incorporation into the burglary statute.failla, at p. 564.) unlike in failla, here the evidence did not permit an inference that samson entered the banks intending only a misdemeanor, non-criminal conduct, or a crime other than theft. accordingly, failla is inapplicable. (see people v. parson (2008) 44 cal.4th 332, amount to criminal theftfailla . . . , the burglary instructions here, the evidence was such that when defendant entered [the dwelling], he intended to commit no cibid.) 15 difference between the legal definition of theft and the commonplace understanding of the crime. the elements of theft by larceny are: (1) the defendant took possession of personal property owned by someone else; (2) the defs consent; (3) when the defendant took the property, he or she intended to deprive the owner of it permanently; and (4) the defendant moved the property, even a small distance, and kept it for any period of time, however brief. (people v. catley (2007) 148 cal.app.4th 500, 505; calcrim no. 1800.) these elements are all conveyed by 3d new internat. dict. (2002) p. 2369.) this commonly understood definition readily tracks the legal definition. [i]t has long been recognized that fixed and well-defined meaning, and is, perhaps, in its common, every-day use and general acceptation, as welpeople v. parson, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 352.) thus, as a practical matter, define the elements of theft in regard to the burglary counts was insignificant on the facts of this case. sims argues that the error must have been prejudicial because the jury deadlocked at his first trial when properly instructed on theft, whereas it convicted him when the instruction was omitted. the people counter that other differences in the evidence and theories presented at the two trials accounted for the difference. we need not speculate chapman otherwise valid conviction should not be set aside if the reviewing court may confidently say, on the whole record, that the constitutional error was harmless beyond a reasonable people v. haraszewski, supra, 203 cal.app.4th at p. 936.) such is the case here. 16 (v) the theft instructions the trial court committed three errors in regard to the jury instructions on grand theft. first, section 484, subdivision (a) defines theft, in pertinent part, as follows: very person who shall feloniously steal, take, carry, lead, or drive away the personal property of another, . . . or who shall knowingly and designedly, by any false or fraudulent representation or pretense, defraud any other person of money, labor or real or personal property, . . as noted ante, the elements of theft by larceny are: (1) the defendant took possession of personal property owned by someone else; (2) property, he or she intended to deprive the owner of it permanently; and (4) the defendant moved the property, even a small distance, and kept it for any period of time, however brief. (people v. catley, supra, 148 cal.app.4th at p. 505; calcrim no. 1800.) the court failed to give calcrim no. 1800 or any other instruction that would have set forth these elements. second, the court wrongly informed the jury that grand theft is a general intent crime. in fact, theft is a specific intent crime, that is, it requires that the perpetrator have, at the time of the taking, the specific intent to permanently deprive the owner of the property. (in re jesus o. (2007) 40 cal.4th 859, 867; cf. people v. abilez (2007) 41 cal.4th 472, 510.) third, the court erroneously informed the jury that sims was guilty of grand theft, as opposed to petty theft, if the value of the property stolen was over $400. prior to january 1, 2011, section 487, subdivision (a) provided that a defendant committed grand theft if he or she stole property worth more than $400. (see stats. 2009-2010 (2010 3d ex. sess.) ch. 28,  17.) effective january 1, 2011, the legislature amended section 487, subdivision (a) to define grand theft as the taking of property worth more than $950. (stats. 2010 (2010 reg. sess.) ch. 693,  1; people v. wade (2012) 204 cal.app.4th the higher threshold took effect. 17 a. were the instructional errors harmless? instructions given on aiding and abetting and conspiracy. as noted, sims was only liable for the crimes as an aider and abettor or coconspirator. the jury was instructed, via calcrim no. 401, that to be liable as an aider and abettor, sims had to know that the perpetrator intended to commit the crime or during the commission of the crime, the defendant intended to aid and abet the perpetrator in committing the crime(italics added.) the instruction reiterated: meone aids and abets a crime if he knows specifically intends to, and does in fact, aid, (italics added.) likewise the conspiracy instructions stated that to prove sims was a [the] he people were required to establish, inter alia, that the defendant intended to agree and did agree with one or more persons to commit burglary and theftt the time of the agreement, the defendant and one or more of the other alleged members of the conspiracy intended that one or more of them would commit burglary and theftno. 416, italics added.) it is well established in california that the correctness of jury instructions is to be determined from the entire charge of the court, not from a consideration of parts of an instruction or from a particular [t]he fact that the necessary elements of a jury charge are to be found in two instructions rather than in one instruction does not, in itself, make the [citation.] the absence of an essential element in one instruction may be supplied by another or cured in light of the instru [citatiopeople v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 328.) likewise, the erroneous instruction on the threshold amount for grand theft was harmless under any standard. there was no dispute that samson took well over $950 in each of the thefts. it is clear beyond a reasonable doubt that the jury would not have rendered a more favorable verdict for sims had the instruction stated the correct amount of $950. (see people v. wilkins (when the jury is ement of the offense . . . reversal . . . is required unless we are able 18 ]; chapman v. california, supra, 386 u.s. at p. 24.) the omission of an instruction setting forth the elements of theft presents a much closer question. in people v. cummings, supra, 4 cal.4th 1233, one of the defendants was charged with numerous counts of robbery, attempted robbery, and conspiracy to commit robbery, based on seven separate incidents. (id. at p. 1306.) our supreme court concluded that reversal of the robbery-related counts was required because the trial court failed to instruct on the elements of robbery, other than the intent to permanently deprive the owner of property. (ibid.) the people argued omission of the instruction was harmless because the evidence established all of the robberies were accomplished at defendant did not dispute that the offenses constituted robbery but instead challenged only the identification of himself as one of the robbers. (id. at p. 1312.) cummings to permanently deprive the owner does not compel a conclusion that the jury has found people v. cummings, supra, 4 cal.4th instructional error that entirely precludes jury consideration of an element of an offense and that which affects only an aspect of an element. moreover, [no authority] suggests that a harmless error analysis may be applied to instructional error which withdraws from jury consideration substantially all of the elements of an offense and did not require by other instructions that the jury find the existence of the facts necessary to a conclusion id. rgument that [the defendant] did not dispute the existence of the predicate facts and that the evidence overwhelmingly established all of the elements of be reversed. (ibid.) in people v. mil, supra, 53 cal.4th 400, our supreme court considered whether omission of two elements from a jury instruction was susceptible to harmless error 19 analysis. in mil, the jury convicted the defendant of first degree murder and made true findings on burglary-murder and robbery-murder special circumstances. the instructions did not fully instruct on the elements of the special circumstances for a defendant who was not the actual killer, including the requirements that in the absence of a showing of intent to kill, a non-killer must have acted with reckless indifference to human life and as a major participant in the commission of the underlying felony. (id. at p. 405.) the defendant argued that, although the omission of a single element is susceptible to a chapman harmless error analysis, when, as in his case, two or more elements are omitted from the instructions, the error is reversible per se. (id. at p. 409.) the court found a harmless error analysis permissible (although the instructional errors were prejudicial in that case). (people v. mil, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 405.) the court observed that most constitutional errors can be harmless: omission of an element of a charged offense or sentencing factor is haromitted element was uncontested and supported by overwhelming evidence, such that the jury verdict would have been the same absent the error . . . . id. at p. 410.) the court reasoned that omissions of more than one element may differ from the type of constitutional violations that infect the entire trial process, render a trial fundamentally unfair, and thus amount to structural error. (id. at pp. 410-omits some elements of the offense . . . , but the elements were uncontested and supported by overwhelming evidence, it would not necessarily follow that the trial was fundamentally unfair id. at p. 411.) while establishing harmlessness may prove more difficult in the context of multiple omissions, prejudice. (id. at p. 412.) the court found the distinction between omission of one element and multiple elements overly artificial. (id. at pp. 412-413.) the court reasoned: directing a verdict for the prosecution in a criminal trial by jury. [citation.] and our offense is reversible per se. (people v. cummings[, supra, 4 cal.4th at p. 1315].) but 20 these limitations derive not from an arbitrary counting game, but from the effect of the omission on the function and importance of the jury trial guarantee. . . . [w]e do not s instruction removing an s consideration will be the equivalent of failing to submit the entire case to the juryan [citation.] the critical inquiry, in our view, is not the number of omitted elements but the nature of ts consideration. where the effect of the omission can be quantitatively assessed in the context of the entire record (and does not otherwise qualify as structural error), the failure to instruct on and thus amenable to harmless-error review.people v. mil, supra, 53 cal.4th at pp. 413-414.) harmonizing mil and cummings in regard to the particular facts of this case, we conclude omission of the theft instruction is harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. sims was not tried as the direct perpetrator of the thefts, but as an aider and abettor or coinstructions told the jury that sims could be guilty only if he knew samson intended to commit the crimes and intended to aid and abet her. the conspiracy instructions likewise required, as an element, that sims must have intended that one of the conspirators commit burglary and theft. as described ante, the concept of theft is commonly understood. there was no dispute that samson committed the thefts; the evidence was overwhelming and uncontroverted. (see people v. mil, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 411.) the only real question was whether sims was her accomplice or coconspirator. thus, the nature of the without its consent, with the intent to permanently deprive the bank of it, moved the property at least a small distance, and kept it for a period of time, however briefcan be quantitatively assessed in the context of the entire record. (id. at pp. 413-414.) to hold otherwise would amount to the drawing of an artificial line condemned by mil. 21 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports aldrich, j. we concur: klein, p. j. kitching, j. 