filed 4/10/13 p. v. ordonez ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. martin ordonez, defendant and appellant. b238528 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la068187) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, michael v. jesic, judge. affirmed as modified. steven schorr, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and pamela c. hamanaka, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * * * 2 defendant and appellant martin ordonez was convicted by jury of one count of first degree murder of crystal zaldivar (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)). the jury also found true the special allegation that he personally used a deadly weapon, a knife, in the commission of the murder ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)). defendant was sentenced to a term of 26 years to life in state prison. defendant contends the trial court committed reversible error by refusing to instruct on (1) the lesser included offense of voluntary manslaughter, based on imperfect self-defense and heat of passion, and (2) voluntary intoxication causing unconsciousness, as well as its effects on homicide crimes. defendant further contends the trial court erred by ordering him to pay attorney fees in the amount $400, without notice or an opportunity to be heard. (pen. code,  987.8, subd. (b).) we conclude the trial court did not err in refusing to instruct on voluntary manslaughter, under either theory, and voluntary intoxication causing unconsciousness. we do not decide whether the trial court should have instructed on the effects of voluntary intoxication on homicide crimes as we find any alleged error to be harmless. we therefore affirm. however, we reverse the attorney fee order and strike it from the judgment in that the trial court failed to hold a hearing pursuant to section 987.8, subdivision (b). facts and procedural background 1. the crime scene sergio munoz worked for a company that handled maintenance at an apartment complex in the 7000 block of whitsett avenue. at about 10:00 a.m., on june 26, 2009, floor. at about 3:00 p.m., munoz responded to the location, observed the leak and requested a key from the building manager to enter apartment 4, above apartment 1, to identify the source of the leak. the manager did not have a key. nevertheless, munoz gained entrance via an unlocked screen door and an open front door. inside, he saw 3 los angeles police officer joel gutierrez responded to the location. he, too, saw crystal lying on the floor. she was not breathing and had no pulse. no one else was inside the apartment, only a small dog (or dogs). water was overflowing from the bathtub. gutierrez turned off the bathtub faucet and secured the crime scene. los angeles police detective thomas townsend responded to the whitsett apartment complex sometime after 3:30 p.m. en route to apartment 4, he observed what appeared to be drops of blood at the bottom of the stairs, on various steps and at the top of the landing. townsend entered the apartment and observed crystal lying on the wet carpet floor. someone from the fire department had placed a blanket over her. in the kitchen, detective townsend observed six glass slats had been removed from a louvered window and stacked on the counter. the window screen had also been removed. in the bathroom, townsend observed water on the floor. ogbonna chinwah, md, deputy medical examiner, los angeles county department of coroner, observed that crystal sustained between 40 and 42 sharp force injuries. she suffered 15 stab wounds to her face, seven of the which were fatal, six stab wounds to her neck, all fatal, four stab wounds to her chest, two of which were fatal, and eight stab wounds to her abdomen, none of which were fatal. she had multiple defensive wounds to her hands and arms, and bruising on her forearm, consistent with being held in place. chinwah determined the manner of death to be homicide and the cause of death to be multiple sharp force injuries. although crystal had carboxy thc and 0.07 percent methamphetamine in her blood, neither contributed to her death. around noon, june 26, 2009, los angeles police department officer rafael at the whitsett apartment c13-year-old brother. juan stated that he and defendant were in an alley nearby and were approached by a couple of individuals who tried to rob them. 4 defendant was taken by ambulance to the hospital. at the hospital, tobar were walking down the alley when two male blacks, wearing black ski masks and black clothing, approached from behind and demanded that they grobbers lunged at defendant. defendant grabbed the knife and told his brother to run for help. later that afternoon, officer tobar returned to the whitsett apartment and stated he was robbed at knife point, townsend suspected the two crimes might be related townsend also considered if defendant had stabbed crystal with a knife without a hilt, he could have caused the injuries to his hands. defendant and juan were transported to the north hollywood police station. men with ski masks tried to rob defendant and him at knife point in the alley, and that he ran while defendant fought them off, sustaining cuts to his fingers. the detectives informed juan they expected to obtain security video footage of the incident from an adjacent chevron gas station. a few minutes later, after some cajoling ying. then my said, okay. and then i i go and get something to eat. . . . [] then i hear he just knocks hard. and . . . i just opened the listen . . . if the police come, tell them . . . that you were with me the whole day and that 5 we went to go back here [sicfor less than an hour, maybe 10 to 20 minutes.1 black guys with the ski masks detectives then asked if juan was telling the truth (i.e., there were no black robbers with defendant then gave a second version of what transpired. he stated he woke up aro[] . . . i covered her. and then i started crying. and then there was this guy, i doknow who he was, but he had tattoos all over him. . . . he was . . . hispanic. and he was short. [] but he had like you know when you enter the marines and you have those kind of tats . . . . [] . . . [] . . . i saw the kitchen knife, like it was jammed in her. and i took it out. and i got scared because i had my fingerprints on it. and the guy grabbed it and tried to slash me. and i actually did fight him off. [] and then he had the window open, and he had jumped out the back window and he ran for his life. and i got scared. and then i was looking out her door. like, so there was no one there, and then i townsend bluntly asked just grabbed her. i hit her in the is i was on top of 1 although juan testified at trial defendant appeared normal when he left the apartment that morning, he corroborated defendant had been huffing while they were playing xbox, prior to him leaving the apartment. 6 air duster. [] she was saying fuck you for listening to her. mad. [] . . . [] i grabbed the knife. [] . . . [] [it was defendant added when he stabbed crystal, she was sitting on the couch, facing the television, petting her dog. defendant stated, going and then in her face. then i guess i missed a couple of times and got myself. [] i just remember laying on top of her. i was twitching when i was laying on top of her. i poured water over her face and stomach. he then kissed her on the forehead and told her touched out the window, including a pillow, a bag, his flannel shirt, a blanket and the kitchen knife. defendant stated he put all the items in a laundry bag and hid them in the back of the building parking lot. the interview concluded with the detectives inquiring about air duster. defendant makes you go to stated he finished three cans that morning, prior to stabbing crystal. at trial, defendant testified he awakened at 3:00 a.m. on june 26, 2009. he was 7 fresh air and saw crystal coming home. they chatted for a moment. she suggested, defendant returned to his apartment and tried to sleep, but he felt fidgety. he could not stay still, so he played xbox and started huffing again. he woke up juan, and for the next couple of hours they took turns playing xbox. home to watch juan. later that morning, defendant received a phone call from his girlfriend. she was extremely upset upon learning michael jackson had died. defendant unsuccessfully tried to comfort her. defendant hung up and decided to go outside, maybe to smoke a cigarette. defendant testified he had been huffing prior to leaving his apartment. knocked. she was texting when she answered the door. she invited him in and they engaged in pleasantries. according to defendant, crystal was just an acquaintance. they did not hang out f she found out he was with her, in her apartment, alone. defendant told her his girlfriend would be mad; that she does not like him hanging around with other girls. his response caused crystal hy would you listen to her? got heated. [] . . . [] [] . . . [] yeah, i was still thirsty because i kept getting sort of cotton mouth. and i went over there to get a glass of water. also to, you know, give her 8 defendant walked the four or five steps to the kitchen to get water; he was feeling uncomfortable, scared and angry. crystal continued yelling, insulting defendant and his defendant testified he was just getting a glass of water and he hoped crystal sister. so it just got me scared someone to do those things [sic she or the rest of her family has come to hang out with. . . . they come try to beat someone up, punk somebody, bring a knife ou sic] anybody to kill my little sister, my brother, my family like nothing. and i snapped. [] . . . [] i grabbed a knife. [] . . . [] on the counter. [] . . . [] i ran towards her. i covered her mouth, and i stabbed her in the stomach. the i started coming to my senses. and i seen [sic] her he had cut himself. defendant admitted to removing the slats from the kitchen window and throwing certain items out it, including the kitchen knife, then hiding the items in a storage locker [sic], and i whe was scared. 9 to demonstrate defendant was cognizant throughout the incident, during cross-examination, the prosecutor engaged the defendant in the following dialogue: you thought about it. what am i going to do to get away with this, right? yes. you knew when you came to, according to yourself, when you the first thought that came back to you after you were in the kitchen, you knew you had killed crystal, correct? correct. and you knew that you used that knife, correct? [] . . . [] correct. put that in the bag with everything else, and you threw all that stuff out the window, correct? yes. and it was then you decided, i need to come up with a story to cover up what happened because i got injuries to my hands and i got a dead neighbor, right? yes. i ran to my house. before you even got to your house had you already decided that there was an attempted robbery you were going to make up? or was it when you got to the apartment? no. so when you asked your brother to lie for you, which you did do, right? correct. you had already intended on lying about this? yes. you already knew you were going to lie to the police about what happened to you at that point, correct. correct. and you decided to ask your 13-year-old brother to also lie to the police for you, correct? 10 yes. and then you came up with a story about guys in the alleyway with knives and had your brother also tell that story too, correct? correct. that was your story, right? i mean you came up with that? correct. and you came up with the facts that they had knives because you knew you needed to explain the cuts on your hands, right? right. when asked why he never mentionepolice, defendant stated he tried to but was cut off by the detectives.2 out the front door and left. he reiterated he snapped when she said she might kill his had no idea what was going on while he was stabbing crystal, although he admitted he remembered covering her mouth, getting on top of her, holding her down and repeatedly stabbing her in the stomach and the face. the following colloquy: 2 the following colloquy appears to be when defendant claims the detectives cut him off: -- got t 11 correct. . . . and the day before? correct. no. correct. right? correct. and while you were there, you were just planning on having just a little time hanging out with her, right? yeah. you started getting mad, right? yes. and then when she said something about killing your family is when she crossed a line for you? correct. that has nothing to do with huffing, right? defendant stated he took her threats personally. defendant called john treuting, ph.d., as an expert in clinical and forensic pleasurable effects, in addition to slurred speech, clumsy movement and/or dizziness. disruption of normal brain activity occurs and the individual does not process information well. 12 sic] both your reasoning and your judgment. and if enough of it continues to be used, some individuals have been shown to be delusional or can hallucinate. and there are cases someone huffing three or four cans of air duster over a three-to-five-hour period would be -altering effects if on cross-examination, dr. treuting was capable of making decisions, however normal brain function will be impaired and ability to process information will be affected. 7. jury instruction hearing defendant requested lesser included instructions on voluntary manslaughter based on heat of passion and imperfect self-defense. after entertaining argument, the trial court declined to instruct on imperfect self-explaining defendant never suggested he killed crystal because the things she allegedly defendant also requested instructions on voluntary intoxication and voluntary intoxication causing cannot say i find substantial evidence of intoxication since [defendant] said [huffing] had nothing t 13 8. the verdict and sentencing the jury returned a verdict finding defendant guilty of first degree murder, in violation of penal code section 187, subdivision (a). the jury also found true the special allegation that defendant personally used a knife in the commission of the murder, within the meaning of section 12022, subdivision (b)(1). defendant timely submitted a motion for a new trial. it was heard prior to sentencing. in it, defendant argued the court erred in failing to instruct on imperfect self-defense and heat of passion.3 a new trial. the court sentenced defendant to a term of life on the murder charge, with a minimum eligibility date for parole of 25 years. the court imposed a consecutive one-sentence was 26 years to life in state prison. the court awarded defendant 929 days of custody credit and imposed various fines and penalties. the trial court also ordered defendant to pay attorney fees in the amount $400, although there is no record of either notice or of a hearing pursuant to penal code section 987.8, subdivision (b). this timely appeal followed. discussion defendant contends the trial court committed reversible error when it failed to instruct the jury on the lesser included offense of voluntary manslaughter, based on imperfect self-defense and heat of passion. defendant further argues the trial court committed reversible error by refusing to instruct on voluntary intoxication. finally, defendant contends the trial court erred by ordering defendant to pay attorney fees, without notice or a hearing. we disagree with defendant that the trial court erred by refusing to instruct on voluntary manslaughter, based on imperfect self-defense and heat of passion, as well as 3 defendant did not argue, either orally or in the written motion, that the court erred by failing to instruct on voluntary intoxication. 14 voluntary intoxication causing unconsciousness. we do not herein determine whether the trial court should have instructed on the effects of voluntary intoxication on homicide crimes as we find any alleged error to be harmless. finally, we agree with defendant that the trial court erred by ordering him to pay attorney fees, without notice or hearing. i. voluntary manslaughter a defendant has a constitutional right to have the jury determine every material issue presented by the evidence. (people v. lewis (2001) 25 cal.4th 610, 645 (lewis).) uct sua sponte on general principles of people v. lopez (1998) 19 cal.4th 282, 287.) absence of a request, whenever there is substantial evidence raising a question as to lewis, supra, 25 cal.4th y lesser offense unless people v. cunningham any evidence, no matter breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 162.) evidence is substantial for this purpose if it could cause a jury composed of reasonable persons to conclude that the defendant committed the lesser but not the greater offense. (ibid.) voluntary manslaughter is a lesser included offense of murder. either imperfect self-defense or heat of passion will reduce an intentional killing from murder to voluntary manslaughter by negating the element of malice. ( 192, subd. (a); people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 154 (breverman).) a. imperfect self-defense defendant contends he snapped and killed crystal because of her threat to have his family killed. defendant argues he feared imminent danger to life or great bodily injury 15 because he knew crystal asmoreover, she was texting when he entered her apartment so she could easily have inferred he actually believed he needed to use deadly force right then and there to prevent we do not agree. -defense, when the trier of fact finds that a defendant killed another person because the defendant actually but unreasonably believed he was in imminent danger of death or great bodily injury, the defendant is deemed to have acted without malice and thus can be convicted of no crime greater than voluntary in re christian s. (1994) 7 cal.4th 768, 771.) the supreme court defendant must have had an actual belief in the need for self-defense. [the supreme court] also emphasize[d] what should be obvious. fear of future harm no matter how great the fear and no matter how great the likelihood of the harm will not suffice. the imminent danger to life or great bodily injury. must appear to the defendant as immediate and present and not prospective or even in the near future. an imminent peril is one that, from appearances, must be instantly dealt withid. at p. 783.) imperfect self-defense also applies when a person kills under an actual but unreasonable belief in the necessity to defend another person from imminent peril to life. (people v. randle (2005) 35 cal.4th 987, 996-997, overruled on other grounds in people v. chun (2009) 45 cal.4in the actual but unreasonable belief he must defend another from imminent danger of death or great bodily injury id. at p. 993.) here, however, the epeople v. booker (2011) 51 cal.4th 141, 183 [defense request for imperfect self-defense instruction properly refused because evidence, including 16 sufficiently substantial to support giving the instruction].) when defendant stabbed crystal, she was seated on her couch, facing the television, with her back to him, petting her dog; she was unarmed. the record is devoid of evidence crystal was still in possession of her cell phone. defendant did not allege crystal was going to have his girlfriend or family tional threats of possible future harm, such as moreover, no evidence was presented that either crystal or the people she associated with had ever killed anyone. at most, defendant testified they were known to rob and beat people up. defendant conceded on cross-examination that nothing prevented him from ly in fear for his no matter how great the fear and no matter how great the likelihood of the harmwill not suffice. the imminent danger to life or great bodilin re christian s., supra, 7 cal.4th at p. when she said she might kill his family. since we find no evidence of imminent danger, we find the trial court did not err in refusing to instruct on voluntary manslaughter based on imperfect self-defense. as and federal constitutional due process and jury trial rights to be unavailing. (see breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at pp. sua sponte on a lesser included offense in a noncapital case is, at most, an error of california law alone, and is thus subject only to state standards of reversibility. we further determine, in line with recent authority, that such misdirection of the jury is not subject to reversal unless an examination of the entire record establishes a reasonable keeble v. united states (1973) 412 u 17 instruction on a lesser included offense if the evidence would permit a jury rationally to b. heat of passion defendant contends the trial court erred in refusing to instruct on voluntary manslaughter based on heat of passion. we do not agree. . . . and is thus voluntary ma[person] of average disposition . . . to act rashly or without due deliberation and reflection, a-and the fatal blow for passion to subside and reason to return, the killing is not voluntary breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 163, citations omitted.) heat of passion has two elements: (1) an objective or reasonable person element and (2) a subjective element. (people v. wickersham (1982) 32 cal.3d 307, 326-327, disapproved on other grounds by people v. barton (1995) 12 cal.4th 186.) the objective wickersham, under the actual influence of a strong passion at id. at p. 327.) be such that an average, sober person would be so inflamed that he or she would lose reason and judgment. adequate provocation and heat of passion must be affirmatively people v. lee (1999) 20 cal.4th 47, 60, citing people v. sedeno (1974) 10 cal.3d 703, 719; people v. williams provocation -- the surrounding circumstances -- and whether it was sufficient to cause a 18 people v. najera (2006) 138 cal.app.4th 212, 223 (najera).) here, we find an average, sober person would not have been so inflamed by at he would lose reason and judgment. in najera, supra, was found to be insufficient provocation to cause an ordinary person to lose reason and ocation of slight and trifling character, such as words of reproach, however grievous they may be, or gestures, or an assault, or even a blow, is not recognized as sufficient to arouse, in a reasonable man, such passion as reduces an unlawful killing with ibid., quoting people v. wells (1938) 10 cal.2d 610, 623.) in people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 586, the victim called the t d an instruction on voluntary manslaughter based upon the theory (cf. people v. wickersham, supra, 32 cal.3d at p. 327, disapproved on other grounds by people v. barton, supra, 12 cal.4th at p. 200 [substantial evidence of strong passion when two police officers who observed the many of her statements were unintelligible, and several witnesses testified she was very here, the evidence demonstrates defendant was calm both before and after he trying to get her -door neighbor for 12 years, without incident. we find under these circumstances, her purported threats and insults were insufficient to cause a reasonable person to act rashly and therefore, we find the trial court did not err in refusing to instruct on voluntary 19 manslaughter based on heat of passion. assuming arguendo the trial court did err in failing to so instruct, we find the failure to do so was harmless. we review error in failing to instruct on a lesser included offense under the standard set forth in people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836. (breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 165.) when analyzing whether a defendant was offense, we must decide if it is reasonably probable that the jury would have found the defendant guilty of only the lesser offense. (people v. leal (2009) 180 cal.app.4th 782, the jury necessarily decides the factual questions posed by the omitted instructions adversely to defendant under other lewis, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 646.) here, the court instructed the jury that it could consider evidence of provocation in deciding whether the crime was first or second degree murder and it instructed on second degree murder. (calcrim nos. 520-522.) nonetheless, the jury implicitly rejected any mitigating effect of provocation by finding defendant guilty of murdering crystal willfully, deliberately, and with premeditation. as such, it is not reasonably probable the jury would have found defendant guilty of only voluntary manslaughter had it been instructed on heat of passion. ii. voluntary intoxication a. voluntary intoxication causing unconsciousness defendant contends the trial court erred by refusing to instruct on voluntary intoxication causing unconsciousness. defendant argues had the jury been properly instructed, they could have found he acted while unconscious and therefore, he would only be guilty of involuntary manslaughter. 995 amendments to [penal code] section 22 precludes a defendant from relying on his or her unconsciousness caused by voluntary 20 (people v. carlson (2011) 200 cal.app.4th 695, 705, italics added.) notwithstanding carlsonthe subject physically acts, bpeople v. halvorsen (1970) 42 cal.4th 379, 417, citing people v. newton (1970) 8 cal.app.3d 359, 376.) we nonetheless agree with the trial court that the record does not contain substantial evidence defendant was unconscious when he stabbed crystal to death. defendant testified he played xbox for much of the morning prior to stabbing crystal to death. when defendant left his apartment to smoke a cigarette, his younger brother testified defendant appeared normal. defendant even remembered a conversation some time. defendant recalled thinking to himself, [crystal]. i have nothing else was able to notice and recall that she was texting when she first opened the door. he was able to exchange pleasantries with crystal upon entering and he was able to relate that his girlfriend would be jealous if she knew he and crystal were hanging out alone. defendant even exchanged insults with crystal, telling hereither . . . defendant repeatedly told crystal to chill and had the wherewithal to ask for water, then the presence of mind to mily and girlfriend, causing him to be in fear for their safety. defendant was able to locate and most telling of all, though, defendant recalls grabbing the knife from the counter, running towards crystal from behind, covering her mouth with his hand and stabbing her defendant also recalled getting on top of crystal, holding her down and repeatedly stabbing her in the face and stomach. after the attack, defendant managed to hide the 21 knife and his bloody clothing and make up a story to tell the police. finally, dr. john in short, the evidence is overwhelming defendant was not unconscious during this incident and engaged in purposeful, direct and goal oriented conduct. that defendant does not recall every one of the 42 stab wounds he inflicted on crystal is not surprising. woefully inadequate, given the facts set forth herein, to justify instruction on voluntary intoxication causing unconsciousness (calcrim no. 626). since we find the trial court did not err by failing to instruct on voluntary without merit. b. voluntary intoxication: effects on homicide crimes defendant requested the trial court to instruct the jury on voluntary intoxication and its effects on homicide crimes, pursuant to calcrim no. 625.4 the trial court declined, finding the evidence in support thereof to be insubstantial. the trial court explained: evidence, but there was some evidence based on the video that the defendant had been huffing sometime prior and that he may have still been feeling some of the substantial evidence at that point; however, when the defendant took the issue in this case. and he was very clear in his testimony when asked on cross- 4 (people v. lam (2010) 184 cal.app.4th 580, 585; people v. turk (2008) 164 cal.app.4th 1361, 1376-1377; people v. timms (2007) 151 cal.app.4th 1292, 1298; people v. martin (2000) 78 cal.app.4th 1107, 1114-1115.) 22 a trial court has no sua intoxication may be considered in determining the absence of the required criminal intent. rather, the defendant must request a voluntary intoxication instruction. (see people v. hughes (2002) 27 cal.4th 287, 342; people v. saille (1991) 54 cal.3d 1103, 1119-1120.) to warrant the instruction, there must be substantial evidence of the (people v. roldan (2005) 35 cal.4th 646, 715, quoting people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 635, 677, disapproved on another point in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22.) in other words, even if requested, uction is not required when the evidence shows a defendant ingested drugs or was drinking, unless the evidence also shows he became intoxicated to the point (people v. ivans (1992) 2 cal.app.4th 1654, 1661-1663; see also people v. ramirez (1990) 50 cal.3d 1158, 1180-1183.) here, there was substantial evidence defendant had been huffing air duster prior to stabbing crystal to death. defendant told the detectives in an interview (played for the jury), that he had been huffing since the day before and that he still felt the affects of his huffing three cans prior to stabbing crystal. juan corroborated defendant had been huffing prior to stabbing crystal. at trial, defendant repeated these statements regarding his huffing, adding he blacked out and had no idea what was going on while he was stabbing crystal. , john treuting, testified someone huffing three or four cans of air duster over a three-to-five-hour period would be under the influence. he sic] both your reasoning and your judgment. and if enough of it continues to be used, some individuals have been shown 23 a that a result more favorable to the [defendant] people v. watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836.) we need not decide, therefore, whether the trial court should have given a voluntary intoxication instruction despite of air duster had nothing to do with his actions, because we are not persuaded it is reasonably probable such an instruction would have led to a more favorable result. here, defendant testified he stabbed crystal because he was mad she had threatened to kill his family and again, that huffing played no role in this incident. ujohn treuting, conceded on cross-examination that it is possible defendant stabbed crystal unrelated to his huffing. as detailed above in our discussion of unconscpurposeful and goal-oriented. defendant had total recall of virtually all that transpired on june 26, 2009. both before and after the attack, defendant behaved in a rational manner, including hiding evidence and fabricating a story about what transpired so as to avoid responsibility. a lesser included offense wherein the refusal to so instruct removes potential options from the jury here, the option of returning a not guilty verdict as to first degree murder and a guilty verdict as to second degree murder remained available to the jury. while defense counsel from arguing to the jury that voluntary intoxication could negate express malice, deliberation and/or premeditation. defense counsel chose not to so argue, 24 intoxicat5 regardless, we do not herein second-guess defendant now argues the jury could have disbelieved his trial testimony as to the affect huffing had on his mental state when he stabbed crystal to death. however, if the substantial evidence of voluntary intoxication. alternatively, if the jury were to disregard huffing, the jury would be forced to wade through a veritable minefield of lies told by defendant and his younger brother resulting in pure speculation as to how huffing actually affected defendant, since he never explained what he meant when he told the detectives we thus find that the evidence supporting the existing judgment is so strong, and the evidence supporting a different outcome is so comparatively weak, there is no reasonable probability the error of which the defendant complains affected the result. (breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 177.) therefore, we find any error by the trial court in refusing to instruct on the effects of voluntary intoxication to be harmless. given that 5 heated argument led to this heinodefendant had been huffing. in closing argument, defense counsel stated with respect to intoxication levels of [crystal] or my client. but it was testified to. you can consider all towsen [sic defense counsel made no further argument regarding huffing; he did not explain its significance to the elements of first degree murder. nor did defense counsel, in jury on voluntary intoxication. (defense counsel only argued the trial court erred in failing to instruct on voluntary manslaughter based on heat of passion and imperfect self-defense.) 25 iii. attorney fee order defendant contends the trial court improperly assessed attorney fees for two reasons. first, it did so without making a determination that defendant had the ability to pay after notice and a hearing as required by penal code section 987.8. second, given 6-to-life), the trial court could not reasonably have found the unusual circumstances to overcome the presumption in section 987.8, subdivision (g)(2)(b) -- that a defendant sentenced to state prison does not have the ability to pay defense costs. as a result, defendant requests we reverse the $400 fee order and strike it from the judgment. and a hearing, make a determination of the present ability of the defendant to pay all or a either notice of a hearing or the hearing itself. the preferred solution when a trial court fails to make a necessary finding is to remand the case for a new hearing on the matter (see people v. flores (2003) 30 cal.4th 1059, 1068-1069; people v. verduzco (2012) 210 cal.app.4th 1406, 1421). here, however, defendant was 18 years old at the time of his arrest and, according to the probation report, unemployed and living in an apartment with his parents. defendant was sentenced to 26 years to life in prison and thus has no realistic prospect for gainful employment. given these facts and the presumption in section 987.8, subdivision (g)(2)(b), benefit, remand would be futile.6 we therefore reverse the $400 attorney fee order and strike it from the judgment. 6 penal code section 987.8, subdivision (g)(2)(b) states in pertinno event shall the court consider a period of more than six months from the date of the hearing for purposes of determining financial position. unless the court finds unusual circumstances, a defendant sentenced to state prison shall be determined not to have a reasonably discernible future financial ability to reimburse the costs of his or 26 disposition the judgment is affirmed. the $400 attorney fee order is stricken. karlan, j* we concur: bigelow, p. j. grimes, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 