filed 7/22/13 p. v. nava ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. javier nava, defendant and appellant. b238947 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka092372) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, douglas sortino, judge. affirmed. thomas t. ono, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and herbert s. tetef, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________ 2 a jury convicted javier nava of first degree murder and found true special allegations he had personally used and intentionally discharged a firearm causing death. on appeal nava contends the evidence was insufficient to support his conviction and the trial court erred in denying his request for a pinpoint jury instruction on third party culpability. we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. the information nava was charged in an information filed june 16, 2011 with murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)).1 the information specially alleged nava had personally used and intentionally discharged a firearm causing death ( 12022.53, subds. (b)-(d); 12022.5, subd. (a)). nava pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. 2. the evidence at trial placencia, was found wrapped in a plastic shower curtain on the shoulder of the interstate 210 freeway. the body had been set on fire and was still burning when firefighters found it. placencia had been shot in the face; a large exit wound was found at the back of her neck. the coroner testified the gunshot had severed her spinal cord and caused her immediate death. forensic testing revealed gasoline had been applied to the body at the scene after she was killed. the caliber of firearm used in the shooting could not be determined. and his car, a lincoln navigator. they found a five-gallon gas can with only a minute quantity of gas inside, a plastic bag containing two black tennis shoes apparently belonging to nava and a latex glove with six .357 caliber bullets inside it. dna testing n one of the tennis shoes. a blood smear matching 1 statutory references are to the penal code. 3 the one found wrapped around placen smeared on it in a purse in her bedroom. detectives also found tiny droplets of blood in included or excluded with a high degree of certainty. the criminologist, cristina gonzales, also acknowledged one of those mixed samples included alleles that did not there was a contributor of dna other than nava or placencia; however, another reasonable explanation, she testified, was that the alleles could be an artifact from the amplification process used to analyze the dna and not, in fact, dna at all. on the street in front of his home the morning of june 28, 2010. she did not see both the navigator and the 4runner parked on the street. around 5:00 p.m. nava asked morales if he could park his truck in the back of the driveway, an unusual request morales thought because he had never parked there before. nava told her he was going to sell some things and move out. morales saw placencia with nava at 6:00 p.m. that evening. the next morning morales saw the navigator parked in the driveway but the 4runner was gone. later that day, morales saw nava washing the inside of his navigator. nava worked as a security guard, but was not licensed to carry a gun and did not use one for his job. sometime in june 2010, while placencia was still alive, nava had asked another security guard where he could buy a cheap gun. dy after she had been killed, as evidenced by the blood belonging to placencia found on the top of his right tennis shoe, but he did not kill her. he also argued there was no motive, 4 no evidence he was the perpetrator, no evidence of express or implied malice and no evidence of premeditation or deliberation. 3. the verdict and sentence the jury convicted nava of willful, deliberate and premeditated murder ( 189) and found true the special allegations he had personally used and intentionally discharged a firearm resulting in death. nava was sentenced to an aggregate state prison term of 50 years to life, 25 years to life for first degree murder, plus 25 years to life for the intentional discharge of a firearm causing death ( 12022.53, subd. (d)).2 discussion 1. nava contends there was insufficient evidence he killed placencia, acted with premeditation and deliberation or intentionally discharged a firearm.3 none of these contentions has merit. 2 sentence on the remaining firearm enhancements found true by the jury was imposed and stayed. (see  12022.53, subd. (f); people v. gonzalez (2008) 43 cal.4th 1118, 1129-1130.) 3 whole record to determine whether any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime or special circumstances beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the record must disclose substantial evidence to support the verdicti.e., evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] in applying this test, we review the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution and presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably subject to justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends. [citation.] we resolve neither credibility issues nor evidentiary conflicts; we look for substantial people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357.) 5 a. nava as perpetrator as a latex glove, the latter the night she was killed; and no evidence or explanation was offered for the presence of perpetrator. (see people v. kraft (2000) 23 cal.4th 978, 1053-reasonable interpretations, one of which suggests guilt and the other innocence, it is the jury, not the appellate court that must bfindings, the opinion of the reviewing court that the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrpeople v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 1006 [same].) b. premeditation and deliberation degree. ( verdict of deliberate and premeditated first degree murder requires over in advancit is the extent of the reflection. thoughts may follow each other with great rapidity and people v. koontz (2002) 27 cal.4th 1041, 1080.) in people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15, the supreme court identified three categories of evidence relevant to deciding the issue of premeditation and deliberation: 6 (1) planning activity, (2) motive, and (3) manner of killing. (id. at pp. 26-27; accord, people v. steele (2002) 27 cal.4th 1230, 1249.) the list was not intended to be exhaustive or require the identified factors to appear in any specific combination or be afforded any particular weight. (people v. pride (1992) 3 cal.4th 195, 247; people v. perez (1992) 2 cal.4th 1117, 1125.) the anderson ding first degree premeditated murder. (people v. memro (1995) 11 cal.4th 786, 863-864; accord, people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 331; see steele, at p. 1249 [anderson evidence supports an inference that the killing occurred as the result of preexisting reflection rather than unconsidered or rash of first degree premeditated murder. (people v. anderson, supra, 70 cal.2d at p. 25 [premeditation often established by circumstantial evidence].) in the weeks just prior to the killing, nava, who was not licensed to carry a gun for his job as a security guard, inquired where he could obtain one. hours before placencia was killed, nava requested to park his navigator in the driveway, rather than on the street where he had always parked it. the jury could reasonably infer the aberrant arrangement was madher. there was also evidence from which the jury could reasonably infer nava had used gloves during the crime to prevent the discovery of his identity, supporting a finding the murder was planned rather than the result of an unconsidered or rash impulse. in addition, placencia was killed by a single gunshot to the face; there was no evidence of a struggle or provocation. this, too, supported an inference of premeditation. (see people v. marks (2003) 31 cal.4th 197, 230 [a close-range shooting to the head or face without evidence of struggle or provocation supported premeditation finding].) c. personal use and intentional discharge of firearm ontention the evidence was insufficient to 7 causing death. the same evidence supporting a finding nava killed placencia was also e personally used and intentionally discharged the 2. third party culpability a raw dna analysis of involved in the homicide, nava requested a pinpoint jury instruction to highlight his third-party-evidence to show that some other persons committed the charged offenses. the prosecution has the burden of establishing beyond a reasonable doubt that it was the defendant who committed the charged offense. if, after considering all of the evidence, you have a reasonable doubt that the defendant was the person who committed the charged offense, you must find the certainly free to argue the theory of third party culpability, the instruction itself was proper. the instruction nava requested simply told the jury the prosecution had to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that he, rather than someone else, was the perpetrator of the crime. that instruction, as the trial court properly recognized, was fully covered by the reasonable doubt instructions in calcrim nos. 220 and 521 given to the jury.4 4 has been filed against the defendant is not evidence that the charge is true. you must not be biased against the defendant just because he has been arrested, charged with a crime, or brought to trial. [] a defendant in a criminal case is presumed to be innocent. this presumption requires that the people prove a defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. whenever i tell you the people must prove something, i mean they must prove it beyond a reasonable doubt unless i specifically tell you otherwise. [] proof beyond a reasonable doubt is proof that leaves you with an abiding conviction that the charge is true. the evidence need not eliminate all possible doubt because everything in life is open to some possible or imaginary doubt. [] in deciding whether the people have proved their case beyond a reasonable doubt, you must impartially compare and consider 8 sed pinpoint instruction was not error. (see people v. panah people v. bolden (2002) 29 cal.4th 515, 558-on that does no more than affirm that the prosecution must prove a particular element of a charged offense beyond a reasonable doubt merely duplicates the standard instructions defining the charged offense and explaining the people v. hartsch (2010) 49 moreover, even if failure to give the requested instruction was error, it was plainly harmless in light of the reasonable doubt instructions given. (people v. hartsch, supra, 49 the theory of third party liability, their omission is not prejudicial because the reasonable doubt instructions give defendants ample opportunity to impress upon the jury that prosecution has met its bupeople v. ledesma (2006) 39 cal.4th 641, 720-721 [same].) all the evidence that was received throughout the entire trial. unless the evidence proves the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, he is entitled to an acquittal and you the jury was also instructed with calcrim no. 521, which provides in part, ave the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that the killing was 9 disposition the judgment is affirmed. perluss, p. j. we concur: zelon, j. segal, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 