filed 7/15/13 p. v. lopez ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. michael lopez, defendant and appellant. b238805 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma047412) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, lisa m. chung, judge. affirmed as modified. cannon & harris and donna l. harris, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, blythe j. leszkay and toni r. johns estaville, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________________ 2 the jury found defendant and appellant michael lopez guilty in count 1of second degree murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a))1 and in counts 2 and 3 of attempted murder ( 664, subd. (a) & 187, subd. (a)). allegations that the attempted murders in counts 2 and 3 were deliberate and premeditated were found not true. the jury found true the allegations that defendant personally and intentionally used and discharged a firearm, causing great bodily injury or death in commission of all three counts ( 12022.53, subds. (b-d)), and that the offenses were committed at the direction of or for the benefit of a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(4)). the trial court denied probation and sentenced defendant to 40 years to life on count 1, comprised of a base term of 15 years to life ( 187, subd. (a)) and a consecutive enhancement of 25 years to life for use of a firearm. as to count 2, the court ordered defendant to serve the aggravated term of nine years for the attempted murder, enhanced by consecutive terms of 10 years for the gang finding and 25 years to life for the firearm use. with respect to the attempted murder in count 3, defendant was sentenced to 2 years 4 months, plus consecutive enhancements of 10 years for the gang finding and 25 years to life for the firearm use. the court stayed sentencing on the remaining gun enhancements. defendant contends: (1) the trial court erred in failing to instruct the jury on imperfect self-support the true finding on the gang allegations; (4) the abstract of judgment and minute order must be corrected to reflect that defendant is prohibited from possessing or owning firearms or ammunition; and (5) the 10-year gang enhancement in count 3 should be reduced to 3 years 4 months. defendant also requests that this court review the personnel records of two police officers pursuant to pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531 (pitchess). we modify the 10-year sentence for the gang enhancement in count 3 ( 186.22, subd. (b)(4)) to a term of 3 years 4 months and direct the trial court to correct the errors in 1 unless otherwise indicated, all statutory references are to the penal code. 3 at sentencing. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. facts prosecution evidence about a month before the incident in this case occurred, defendant was in custody on other charges and agreed to give police information on the illegal activities of twins derek and darion smith in exchange for leniency. defendant was a close friend of the smith twins and was also friendly with their younger brother, zyon.2 soon afterward, police raided the smith house, where they found contraband, including drugs and weapons. the smith twins were arrested, and one of the twins was kept in custody. zyon thought defendant was the snitch but did not confront defendant. on october 20, 2009, zyon got a telephone call from sheliece dugan. she told zyon that defendant pulled a gun on her and accused her of calling him a snitch. dugan at around 7:30 that evening, zyon and his friends chad johnson and ephron vivion went to an apartment complex on larkin and east avenue q-3 in east palmdale to confront defendant about the incident with dugan. when they approached defendant, he was with three or four other men that zyon did not recognize. zyon asked defendant what was going on. defendant responded by pulling out a gun. defendant said he was not a snitch and threatened to shoot if anyone had a problem with him. he cocked the gun but kept it pointed toward the ground. zyon, johnson, and vivion backed away and went to a party down the street. 2 because they share the same last name, we refer to the smith brothers as zyon, derek, and darion to avoid confusion. 4 zyon, johnson, and vivion stayed at the party for about 30 minutes and then returned to the apartment complex to get a ride home from a friend. while they were waiting at the security gate, zyon heard gunshots and saw sparks. he, johnson, and vivion started to run through the gate, which had begun opening. zyon heard johnson say he had been shot, and then zyon realized that he had also been shot in the shoulder. zyon saw the shooter standing about 25 to 40 feet away behind a concrete wall where some bricks were missing. the shooter was wearing the same clothing defendant was wearing when he threatened the group with a gun. zyon testified inconsistently as to johnson died of a gunshot wound to the left side of his abdomen. a projectile was bullet trajectory was slightly back to front and left to right. officers found a bullet strike on the metal security gate to the apartment complex and another bullet strike east of the gate. a projectile was found embedded in the gate and another was located on the ground. four shell casings were recovered under a car to the east of the apartment complex a few days later. the four shell casings were .40-caliber smith & wesson. zyon testified he had known defendant for years. defendant was a member of the gang moniker was huero, meaning white boy. zyon, johnson, and vivion were big homey. zyon testified that his brothers derek and darion were not gang members. zyon did not believe there were any problems between pj watts and ckf. he got along with defendant. he did not believe the shooting was gang-related. a transcript of defenddefendant said that the day before the shooting, one of the twins had put a gun to his head and said he was going to kill defendant. he demanded that defendant tell him whether he snitched on the twins. defendant said he did not snitch, and the twin let defendant go because he believed him. 5 in the afternoon on the day of the shooting, a black girl came out of an apartment mething for cursed him for he would be dead by that night, and that they knew where he lived. defendant ran up to the men ran away, and defendant went back inside another apartment. when the officers asked who shot the victims, defendant said daniel lipson, who did and fled the scene. defendant stated that he fled the apartment complex with lipson. he went to shoot anyone. he got a call telling him that he was wanted for a shooting. adrianes henry heard gunshots from the shooting. he saw a man who looked hispanic and was the same size and height as defendant running across a dirt field with a gun in his hands. henry identified defendant as the person he saw running with the gun, dugan was in her apartment when she heard gunshots. she looked outside, but she did not remember if she saw defendant shooting anyone. she did not want to testify. detective boyd zumwalt testified that when he interviewed her, dugan told him defendant was the shooter. she also told detective zumwalt she did not want to be involved. lipson testified that he heard about the shooting, but he was not the shooter. gang expert detective tyrone berry testified that ckf and pj watts were criminal street gangs. defendant admitted to detective berry and other officers that he 6 was a member of ckf. defendant had a palmas tattoo on his forearm and ckf tattooed on his back. lipson is also a member of ckf. pj watts is a primarily black criminal street gang originating in watts. there was hostility between pj watts and ckf due to an influx of black pj watts members to a predominately hispanic area in east palmdale. detective berry believed the hostility resulted in two unsolved murders involving pj watts and ckf members and was the cause of a large fight that occurred a week before the shooting. detective berry testified that within the gang community, snitching is the worst thing that a person can do because it indicates that that person is untrustworthy. he explained that it is worse to snitch on a rival gang member because the snitch upsets both their own gang and the rival gang. snitches may be exiled or murdered. to redeem himself, a gang member must prove that he is not a snitch by committing a violent act to restore his reputation. shooting and killing a rival gang member would redeem a snitch. detective berry opined that if a hispanic gang member snitched on a black gang member causing the black gang member to go to jail, and the hispanic gang member shot at other members of the black street gang, his murder of a black gang member would be committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang. in this scenario, the hispanic gang member enhances his reputation and elevates his status within his own gang because he is a killer. regardless of whether the hispanic gang member actually snitched, no one would call him a snitch after such a violent act. even though rival gang members can be friends, gang affiliation overrides friendship. defense evidence kristopher leivas lived in the apartment complex where the shooting occurred. he knew defendant but was neither his friend nor his enemy. leivas was friends with the time of the shooting, leivas was visiting a neighbor in the apartment complex and heard zyon and johnson at the gate. he opened the gate for them and heard gunshots. 7 he did not hear arguing prior to the gunshots. he heard johnson say that he was shot, and he saw that zyon was shot in the shoulder. leivas testified that neither zyon nor johnson had a gun, and that they did not shoot anyone. he saw several people running towards the desert, but he did not see anyone shooting. leivas did not recognize lipson gunshots and saw a young man putting away a gun in her rearview mirror when she was parking her car at the apartment complex the night of the shooting. the man with the gun was not defendant. when shown a picture of lipson at trial, she did not think lipson was the man with the gun. sandra herrera testified that defendant was in her apartment in the complex where the shooting occurred, from approximately 7:30 p.m. to 8:30 p.m. she dropped defendant off near his house, which was a five-minute drive from the apartment complex. she heard gunshots about 15-20 minutes after she returned. when she went outside, she saw several people fighting and a body in the street. she recognized some of the people involved in the fight but did not see defendant or lipson. defendant testified that at around 7:00 p.m. on the night of the shooting, he went to the area of larkin and east avenue q-3 because he was bored. he was hanging around the candy truck when he saw lipson and dugan. dugan called him a snitch. he argued with her for calling him a snitch, and they also argued about defendant slapping dugan on the butt, which he denied doing. defendant did not see zyon, and he did not pull a and then herrera dropped him off near his house. he did not go directly home, but he also did not return to the apartment complex on larkin and east. defendant had no reason to kill zyon, and he did not shoot at the victims. defendant testified he was under the influence of cocaine when he gave the statement to police. he lied about lipson being the shooter. he did not know who the shooter was. he also lied about having a run-in with zyon. he did not see zyon that 8 said that one of the twins put a gun to his head and asked him if he snitched. the twins were not upset with him about snitching. he used to be in ckf, but he left the gang in 2006 or 2007. discussion lack of instruction on imperfect self-defense defendant first contends the trial court erred in failing to instruct the jury on imperfect self-defense. we find this contention without merit. (people v. gutierrez (2009) 45 cal.4th 789, 824; see people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 154 (breverman).) this obligation includes the duty to give instructions on lesser included offenses. (ibid.) imperfect self-defense is not a true defense, but a description of one type of voluntary manslaughter. (breverman, supra,19 cal.4th at p. 159.) voluntary manslaughter is a lesser included offense of murder. (people v. lewis (2001) 25 cal.4th 610, 645; breverman, supra, at p. 154.) thus, in a murder case, the trial court must instruct on imperfect self-defense, as a form of voluntary manslaughter, if there is substantial evidentiary support to support the theory. (breverman, supra, at p. 160.) the regardless of the deid. at p. 162.) we review de novo the claim that a trial court failed to properly instruct the jury on the applicable principles of law. (people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1215.) in determining whether substantial evidence exists, trial courts should not usurp the breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th composed of reasonable [perso 9 ibid.) due process does not require more. (hopper v. evans (1982) 456 u.s. 605, 611.) speculation is insufficient to require the giving of an instruction on a lesser included offense. (people v. mendoza (2000) 24 cal.4th 130, 174.) -defense, when the trier of fact finds that a defendant killed another person because the defendant actually, but unreasonably, believed he was in imminent danger of death or great bodily injury, the defendant is deemed to have acted without malice and thus can be convicted of no crime greater than rrow. it requires without exception that the defendant must have had an actual belief in the need for self-defense. we also emphasize what should be obvious. fear of future harmno matter how great the fear and no matter how great the likelihood of the harmwill not imminent danger to life or great bodily injury. or even in the near future. an imminent peril is one that, from appearances, must be instantly dealt withpeople v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 581.) in his opening brief, defendant relies heavily on evidence tending to show that he had an actual fear of danger to his life or great bodily injury. his contention fails, however, because there is no evidence in the record that danger was imminent. easily concluded that [defendant], while denying involvement, was actually describing what happened to him immediately before the shooting [in his recorded statement the jury. neither defendant nor any other witness in the case testified that the scenario experience. defendant consistently denied any involvement in the incident. moreover, there is no evidence that the victims fired shots at defendant. the victims were unarmed, and the evidence lends no support to the conclusion that shots were fired in the 10 he was shot from behind. from this, it can be inferred that defendant was the aggressor. any conclusion that defendant was relaying what happened to him rather than what he claimed happened to pupu would necessarily be founded on speculation. absent substantial evidence to support this theory, the trial court had no obligation to instruct on imperfect self-defense. (see breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 162.) we conclude our discussion by quoting at length from our decision in people v. sinclair (1998) 64 cal.app.4th 1012, 1018-1019, which fully supports the conclusion defendant, who at all times denied the killing, was not entitled to instructions on imperfect self-set forth the law applicable to this case in people v. medina (1978) 78 cal.app.3d 1000, 1005-1006 [(medina)], a decision materially different from and not discussed in [people v.] barton [(1995) 12 cal.4th 186]. in medina, the defendant testified he did not shoot the decedent. the victim was shot while outside in a residential neighborhood. shooting. ([medina], supra, 78 cal.app.3d at pp. 1002-1004.) justice kaus held the defendant was not entitled to voluntary manslaughter instructions based on diminished capacity; the reason--the defendant testified he was not present when the victim was entitled to have the jury instructed on inconsistent defenses. of course he was. (e.g., people v. rodriguez (1969) 274 cal.app.2d 487, 497-498 . . . ; people v. stewart (1968) 267 cal.app.2d 366, 374 . . . consideration wharest. (e.g., hansen v. bear film company inc. (1946) 28 cal.2d 154, 184 . . . ; people v. langley (1974) 41 cal.app.3d 339, 348 . . . .) yet, while the rule that liars often speak the truth is, as wigmore points out (3a wigmore, evidence,  1010 (chadbourn rev. 1970)) rooted in experience and common sense, these faculties--rather than any legalistic formula--also tell us how far the rule can be stretched in any particular case. [] here the 11 entire thrust of the defense testimony was that at the time of the murder defendant was at oubt that he was, in fact, participating in a well executed, hit-and-run street assassination. it defies common sense that a jury, which has so decisively rejected the alibi sworn to by four witnesses, would nevertheless rely on one incidental aspect of that alibifor the purpose of entertaining a reasonable doubt as to his capacity to harbor malice seven blocks away. to have given the requested instructions would have been an insult to the jurors, as well as an embarrassment to the law, the court and even, we suspect, to the medina], supra, 78 cal.app.3d at pp. 1005-1006, fn. omitted.) in the footnote to the foregoing cited language, justice kaus emphasized that there was an absence of any judicial error and the opinion did not turn on questions of prejudice. he witnesses, to a partial one which demands that these same witnesses be branded as perjurers? this aside should not be misconstrued to mean that there was harmless error. id. at p. 1006, fn. 2.) thenopinion in people v. chambers the trial court instructed the jury on attempted murder with judicial council of california criminal jury instructions (2010-2011) calcrim no. 600. during aparagraph of calcrim no. 600, which reads, as modified: tend to kill a specific victim or victims and at the same time defendant of the attempted murder of ephron vivion, the people must prove that the defendant not only intended to kill zyon smith but also either intended to kill ephron 12 vivion, or intended to kill everyone within the kill zone. if you have a reasonable doubt whether the defendant intended to kill ephron vivion or intended to kill zyon smith by killing everyone in the kill zone, then you must find the defendant not guilty of the the trial court also provided the jury with additional clarification as follows: s to kill a particular target does not preclude a finding that defendant also concurrently intended to kill others within directed at a primary victim, is such that one can conclude that the defendant intended to harm a primary victim by harming added.) clarification of the definitierroneously believe that mere intent to harm was sufficient to convict defendant of attempted murder. the attorney general contends that defendant forfeited the issue on appeal by failing to object at trial, or alternately, that the whole of the instructions made clear to the jury that the requisite intent was intent to kill, and not merely harm, the victims. even assuming that defendant did not forfeit the claim by failing to object, we agree with the attorney general that it fails on the merits. ing an instruction as being subject to erroneous interpretation by the jury must demonstrate a reasonable likelihood that the jury people v. cross (2008) 45 cal.4th 58, 67-68sense [citation] and do not assume that these virtues will abandon them when presented people v. coddington (2000) 23 cal.4th 529, jury instructions is to be determined from the entire charge 13 of the court, not from a consideration of parts of an instruction or from a particular people v. carrington (2009) 47 cal.4th 145, 192.) a person who shoots at a group of people may be found guilty of attempting to murder everyone in the group, even if he or she primarily targeted only one of them, if people v. bland (2002) 28 cal.4th 313, 329-330 (blandnature and scope of the attack, while directed at a primary victim, are such that we can conclude the perpetrator intended to ensure harm to the primary victim by harming everyone in that against a primary victim create a zone of harm around that victim, the factfinder can reasonably infer that the defendant intended that harm to all who are in the anticipated zone. . . ibiddefendant charged with the murder or attempted murder of an intended target can also be people v. stone (2009) 46 cal.4th 131, 138 (stoneused lethal force designed and intended to kill everyone in an area around the targeted under such circumstances, a rational jury could conclude beyond a reasonable doubt that the shooter intended to kill not only his targeted victim, but also all others he knew were people v. smith (2005) 37 cal.4th 733, 745-746.) here, we conclude that, viewing the clarification in context of the entire charge of the trial court, there is not a reasonable likelihood that the jury would have believed that proof of intent to harm was sufficient to convict defendant of attempted murder. the bland, supra, 28 cal.4th at page 329. subsequent to bland, our supreme court has noted stone, supra, 46 cal 14 is preferable, in people v. bragg (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 1385, it was held that use of the blandit is charm of death and that the law required that defendant had to have intended to kill the id. at p. 1396.) that is the case here. the jury was instructed that the perpetrator could intend to kill a particular person and everyone in the zone of harm, or kill zone, at the same time; that it could find defendant guilty of the attempted murder of vivion under the kill zone theory only if it found that defendant intended to kill zyon and either intended to kill vivion or everyone in the kill zone; and that a guilty verdict for attempted murder required the finding that defendant had the intent to kill the victim. these instructions clearly conveyed to the jury that the intent to kill was prerequisite to a finding that defendant was guilty of attempted murder and that the harm in question was death. accordingly, there was no legal error. gang allegations defendant contends there is insufficient evidence to support the true findings on direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4). he argues that the disputes that led to the shootings were of a personal nature and not gang-related. we disagree. enhancement, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] we presume every fact in support of the judgment the trier of fact could have reasonably deduced from the 15 reversal of the judgment is not warranted simply because the circumstances might also people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 59-60 (albillar).) reversal on the ground of insufficiency people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 331.) section 186.22 requires that the prosecution prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the underlying crime was committed: (1) for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang; and (2) with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by the gang. (albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at pp. 63, 65-66.) to meet the first prong, the crime must be gang-related. (albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 60.) a crime is not gang-related simply because it is committed by gang members. (ibid.benefited a gang by enhancing its reputation for viciousness[, this] can be sufficient to id. at p. 63.) benefit the gang is people v. morales (2003) 112 cal.app.4th 1176, 1198; see people v. villalobos (2006)145 cal.app.4th 310, 32the prosecution required to] establish specific crimes the defendant intended to assist his albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 66, quoting people v. vazquez (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 347, 353-354.) in this case, evidence was presented that defendant was a member of the crazy kings familia, a criminal street gang and a rival of the pj watts gang, to which all three vi 16 arrest, and in the case of one twin, prolonged detention. one of the twins was also a rival gang member. defendant was confronted and threatened several times for being a snitch prior to the shootings. detective berry testified that snitching is the greatest offense a gang member can commit, and that the offense is even greater when committed against a rival gang member because the rival gang is likely to retaliate against both the individual member who snitched and the gang that the alleged snitch belongs to. to redeem his reputation, a gang member who is labeled a snitch must stand up for himself. this involves proving himself and his continued commitment to the gang rival gang member, shooting and killing a rival gang member will elevate his status a killer in their ranks. in re frank s. (2006) 141 cal.app.4th 1192, 1196.) here, based on the member would need to retaliate to regain his reputation after snitching, and that the gang with respect to the gang allegations. use or possession of firearms or ammunition at sentencing, the trial court gave defendant notice that he was prohibited from possessing or owning any firearms or ammunition pursuant to section 12021. the minute order and abstract of judgment inaccurately reflect that the trial ordered that defendant be prohibited from owning, using, or possessing any dangerous or deadly weapons, including any firearms, knives, or other weapons. we agree with the parties that the pronouncement at sentencing and order the trial court to do so. (people v. zachary 17 pronouncement of judgment and the minute order or the abstract of judgment, the oral gang enhancement defendant filed a supplemental brief in which he contends that the consecutive 10-year gang enhancement imposed in count 3 was unauthorized and must be modified to a consecutive term of 3 years 4 months. the attorney general concedes this contention is correct. we agree. determinate low, middle or upper term of incarceration is imposed. it also sets forth the either the statutory low, middle or upper termfor each of the crimes. ( 1170; cal. rules of court, rule 4.405(2).) second, if the court determines that a consecutive sentence is term and the other crimes as subordinate terms. ( 1170.1, subd. (a).) third, the court sentences the defendant to the full base term it selected for the principal term crime and one-third of the middle term for any crimes for which the sentence is ordered to run consecutively. (ibid.; see people v. felix (2000) 22 cal.4th 651, 655.) a subordinate term is one-third of the middle term even if the trial court had initially selected the lower people v. neely (2009) 176 cal.app.4th 787, 797-798.) consecutive offense . . . shall include one-third of the term imposed for any specific here, defendant was convicted of two counts of attempted murder, which carried determinate terms of imprisonment (counts 2 and 3). the trial court selected count 2 as the principal term crime and imposed the upper term of nine years. it designated count 3 18 as the subordinate offense, correctly imposing one-third of the middle term (seven years) for a sentence of two years four months in prison. the trial court imposed consecutive gang enhancements of 10 years ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)) with respect to both counts, as well as consecutive enhancements of 25 years as to both counts under section 12022.53, subdivision (d). although the other enhancements were correctly calculated, the trial court erred in imposing the 10-year gang enhancement on count 3. because count 3 was the subordinate offense, the proper term is one-third of the 10-year term, or 3 years 4 months. imposition of one-third of the middle term for a special enhancement on a subordinate term is mandatory under section 1170.1, subdivision (a). the 10-year enhancement could not have lawfully been imposed under any circumstance in this case and was therefore an unauthorized sentence that this court may correct without remanding for further proceedings. (see people v. smith (2001) 24 cal.4th 849, 854.) we modify the 10-year sentence for the gang enhancement in count 3 ( 186.22, subd. (b)(4)) to a term of 3 years 4 months. pitchess motion defendant requests that this court independently review the record of the in camera hearing held on his motion filed under pitchess, supra, 11 cal.3d 531. in carrying out our duty to conduct an independent review (people v. mooc (2001) 26 cal.4th 1216, 1228-1232), we issued a record correction order to have a complete record of proceedings. having reviewed the corrected record and conducted an independent review of the proceedings, we hold the trial court did not abuse its discretion in ruling on the pitchess motion. 19 disposition the trial court is instructed to strike from the abstract of judgment and minute order the prohibition against defendant owning, using, or possessing any dangerous or deadly weapons, including any firearms, knives, or other weapons, and correct the or owning any firearms or ammunition. the trial court is further instructed to amend the abstract of judgment to impose a term of three years four months for the gang enhancement ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)) on count 3 and to forward a certified copy of the amended abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. kriegler, j. we concur: mosk, acting p. j. kumar, j.* * judge of the los angeles county superior court assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 