filed 6/17/13 p. v. gallegos ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. rodolfo gallegos, defendant and appellant. b238571 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma047368) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. bob s. bowers jr., judge. affirmed with directions. fay arfa for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and john yang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________ 2 introduction in 1991, gang member rodolfo gallegos (then 16) shot at five people, killing one of them. after admitting the shooting to others, he fled to mexico but was apprehended and tried nearly 20 years later. a jury convicted gallegos of one count of first degree murder and four counts of attempted premeditated murder and found true related gang and firearm allegations. the trial court sentenced gallegos to state prison for a term of 85 years to life on the murder and four attempted murder counts plus another 5 years for the firearm enhancement. gallegos appeals, claiming insufficiency of the evidence as well as various evidentiary errors and sentencing error. we affirm the convictions but remand for resentencing. factual and procedural summary on friday, august 23, 1991, several friends (johnnie nieto, felipe curiel, canea rowan (also known as robin rowan), ruben perez and kenny caldera) attended a party. later, another guest at the party (reinaldo morales) agreed to drive the friends home, and the group left at about 1:00 a.m. (on august 24). after dropping off curiel, morales stopped at a red light. another car pulled up on the right, and someone inside that car a gun (later identified as rodolfo gallegos) leaned over the driver and fired several shots. morales drove off, but bullets hit caldera, nieto and rowan, and caldera died of his injuries shortly thereafter. the other victims described the car involved in the shooting as white. los angeles police officer carlos sanchez told detectives about a cream colored monte carlo owned by kevin lopez. ar it. gallegos told lopez he had a stolen car and thought the victims were from a rival 3 - that same day or so, gallegos spoke with fellow bst gang members raul garay, brand handgun, saying he had killed someone with the gun.1 two days after the shooting, gallegos called rosa gomez when garcia was there, and she (garcia) and gallegos spoke. gallegos told garcia he and his friends had gone someone had garcia knew caldera and already knew he had died at the exact location gallegos from a gang, and was very upset. after that, gallegos said it had not been him; it had been his friends.2 after the shooting, the police prepared several photographic lineups which included photographs of bst gang members kevin lopez, his brother leon, raul urquiza and gallegos. at the time, none of the victims identified gallegos. morales initially identified someone named david soto, saying he looked like the shooter, and later identified kevin lopez, based on his eyes. on september 11, 1991, the police interviewed garcia, and she recounted her telephone conversation with gallegos. she told police gallegos lived with kevin lopez. 1 garay then destroyed the gun with a grinder. he later testified at trial under a grant of immunity and said he had used the same gun six months earlier to commit a someone he thought was from a rival gang. 2 after that phone conversation, garcia did not hear from gallegos for six months. 4 brother leon, urquiza and renee vargas. when detective hooks told kevin lopez he had been identified as the shooter, he w, bst gang member robert rivera known as agreement for a cabin) regarding a trip to big bear he had taken with other bst members. rivera, accompanied by raul urquiza ( a third car. at about 11:00 p.m. on august 23, they were all pulled over by police on the eastbound interstate 10 freeway near the intersection with the interstate 15 freeway. the police questioned the group, noting each of their names and completing field identification cards. kevin lopez gave a police, the detention lasted until 12:21 a.m. when everyone then continued on to big bear. the group also had receipts reflecting various purchases and rentals in big bear. everyone including kevin lopez stayed until sunday (august 25) when they left around noon, arriving in their neighborhood in the evening. the police looked for gallegos but were unable to locate him. a warrant was placed in a law enforcement database on september 19, 1991. a bulletin was distributed in the area and published in spanish newspapers. gallegos did not contact the police. neither rivera nor urquiza who had regularly seen gallegos in the neighborhood in the 5 past saw gallegos again after the weekend of the shooting. kevin lopez did not leave the area. (refugio espino) learned police sought gallegos for murder. when he later visited the town (tarimoro), he saw gallegos there, noted his address and provided it to police upon his return to the united states. the case had been reassigned to detective angel lopez who then attempted to locate witnesses from the 1991 shooting. in 2004, garcia told detective lopez that gallegos contacted her six months after the shooting and told her to date other people because he was not returning. urquiza reported gallegos had taken his belongings with him. kevin lopez recounted that right passenger closest to the car involved in the shooting, said he did not think he could make an identification and declined to view a lineup because he feared gang retaliation; in 2005, morales told detective lopez he had identified kevin lopez because he was unable to recognize the shooter. detectives did not tell him who to identify, but kept pressing him to make an identification after the shooting he said. in 2006, detective lopez conducted a photographic lineup with nieto who first saw this picture, when i first saw it, it was a confirmation to my memory of the incident. i saw that picture and thought, so this is how he looks. this is the guy with the had relived the saying he had nothing to add. in april, detective hooks located raul garay and, after gallegos was charged with one count of murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a) [all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code]) (count 1, relating to caldera) as well as four counts of attempted premeditated murder ( 187, subd. (a); 664) in counts 2 through 5 (relating to nieto, rowan, morales, perez, respectively). as to all counts, it 6 was further alleged gallegos had committed the crimes for the benefit of his criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(4)); had personally used a firearm ( 12022.5, subd. (a)); was a minor at least 16 years of age at the time of each offense (welf. & inst. code,  707, subd. (d)(1)); was a minor at least 14 years of age at the time of each offense (welf. & inst. code,  707, subd. (d)(2)(b)); and was a minor at least 14 years of age at the time and the crime was committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang (welf. & inst. code,  707, subd. (d)(2)(c)(ii)). at trial, the people presented evidence of the facts summarized above. nieto testified he had not initially identified gallegos because he was young (14) at the time of the shooting and had been afraid but said he was certain of his identification; he had been when police reinterviewed kevin lopez in november 2010, he was scared and did not want to be involved, indicating the defense had contacted him. he acknowledged gallegos had admitted committing the shooting and after hearing his interview from 1991, confirmed what he said then was true. in addition, detective lopez testified as a gang expert regarding bst. given a hypothetical based on the facts of the case, detective lopez opined the shootings were gang motivated as a way to tell others to srespect. los angeles police officer steve park testified that he had come into contact with gallegos on july 25, 1990 (more than a year before the shooting). a photograph taken at the time showed that galle entification expert testified as to various factors affecting reliability of eyewitness identifications. in addition, a defense investigator said kevin lopez had told her his statements to police were inaccurate. he 7 juvenile warrant and was told he would not be arrested if he cooperated. he the jury found gallegos guilty on all counts and found true the allegations he had used a handgun and had committed his crimes for the benefit of a criminal street gang. the trial court sentenced gallegos to state prison for a term of 85 years to life plus 5 years, calculated as follows: on count 1, 25 years to life for murder, plus 5 years for the firearm enhancement; on count 2 (attempted premeditated murder), a consecutive term of life as the base term, with a minimum parole eligibility period of 15 years for the gang enhancement; on counts 3, 4 and 5 (attempted premeditated murder), consecutive sentences identical to the sentence imposed on count 2. gallegos appeals. discussion -prosecution failed to produce forensic evidence to corroborate the witnesses testified against him, their terecord. testimony of a single witness is sufficient to sustain a (people v. scott (1978) 21 cal.3d 284, 296.) nieto identified gallegos as the shooter, and it was for the jury to assess the credibility of his explanation for his delay in doing so. in addition, as he acknowledges, fellow gang members kevin lopez and raul garay and with gallegos and had been in contact with him during the proceedings) testified gallegos had admitted the shooting, and he fled to mexico shortly thereafter. similarly, 8 given the evidence gallegos followed the victims with a gun and fired at them in spite of their denials of any gang affiliation, his claim there was no evidence of premeditation and deliberation is meritless. (people v. halvorsen (2007) 42 cal.4th 379, 419-420.) admission of tape recorded police statements. gallegos says he was prejudiced by the admission of the statements of kevin lopez and raul garay to police, arguing the rule of completeness set forth in evidence code section 356 only applies to allow the opponent of the admission of an out-of-court statement to seek admission in its entirety. we disagree. at the time of trial, kevin lopez (who was 16 at the time of the shooting but who had left the gang a year of so later and was working as a financial manager by the time of trial) did not want gallegos to see his face because he was afraid of retaliation. at trial, had been talking about. the prosecution argued he was feigning and sought to impeach him with his prior testimony. (evid. code,  1235.) similarly, garay was denying gallegos has failed to demonstrate error. (people v. fierro (1991) 1 cal.4th 173, 221-222; people v. johnson (1992) 3 cal.4th 1183, 1219-1220). gallegos has demonstrated no error relating to evidence of uncharged conduct. gallegos says the trial court erred in allowing the prosecutor to introduce testimony from an accomplice (raul garay) regarding an uncharged offense without giving the jury an accomplice instruction, and his trial counsel was ineffective for failing liable to prosecution for the identical offense charged against the defendant on trial in the 9 gallegos has failed to demonstrate ineffective assistance of counsel for failure to present evidence of his good character while in mexico. gallegos says he had evidence he went to mexico to do good deedshe taught argument he fled to escape prosecution. as the attorney general observes, citing people v. freeman (1994) flight to mexico, and the record does not support the conclusion there could have been no reasonable tactical reason to forego this line of inquiry. (people v. anderson (2001) 25 testimony. accordiexpert testimony. contrary to this testimony, gallegos says, the evidence shows he shot, if he shot, by mistake; there is no evidence he gained any respect; and witnesses snitched on 3 (people v. vang (2011) 52 cal.4th 1038, 1048.) remand for resentencing is appropriate in this case. because he was 16 at the time of the shooting, gallegos argues, his sentence is unconstitutional.4 we conclude the case should be remanded for resentencing in light of recent case law. members) was noted repeatedly throughout the trial. in addition, in their sentencing 3 r claim of cumulative error necessarily fails. 4 gallegos characterizes his sentence as a term of 6 years to life plus another 25 years to life in prison, but he misreads the record. 10 great bodily harm, or other acts disclosing a high degree of cruelty, viciousness or of prosecution for 20 years and failure to show any remorse for the devastation he had caused served as justification for the maximum sentence. gallegos (represented by new trial counseland now appellate counsel) filed a the sentence the people sought to impose on a 16-year-old offender (a term of 30 years plus 53 years to life in state prison) violated both the united states and california constitutions. first, gallegos argued, the united states supreme court has consistently refused to impose the harshest sentences on juvenile offenders. in roper v. simmons (2005) 543 u.s. 551, for example, the supreme court extended the prohibition against general differences between juveniles and adults. first, the supreme court noted lack of maturity and an underdeveloped sense of responsibility are found in youth more often than in adults and are more understandable amount the young. these qualities often result in impetuous and ill-considered actions and decisions. [citaid. at p. 569.) . . juveniles are more vulnerable or susceptible to negative influences juvenile is not as well formed as that of an adult. the personality traits of juveniles are id. at p. 569.) worst offenders. the susceptibility of juveniles to immature and irresponsible behavior [citations.] their own vulnerability and comparative lack of control over their immediate surroundings mean juveniles have a greater claim than adults to be forgiven for failing to escape negative influences in their whole environment. [citations.] the reality that juveniles still struggle to define their identity means it is less supportable to conclude that even a heinous crime committed by a juvenile is evidence of irretrievably 11 bad character. from a moral standpoint it would be misguided to equate the failings of a deficiencies will be reformed. indeed, derives from the fact that the signature qualities of youth are transient; as individuals mature, the impetuousness and recklessness that may dominate in younger years can id. at similarly, gallegos argued, his case was analogous to people v. dillon (1983) 34 cal.3d 441, 479, in which our supreme court stated that, in making a determination of e court ibid.culpability as shown by factors as his age, prior criminality, personal characteristics, and ibid. dillon, supra, in which the court struck down a sentence imposed on a juvenile offender. in dillon, a 17-year-old with no criminal record joined a group of youths hoping to steal some marijuana grown in a nearby field. the youths knew the field was being guarded by armed men, so they armed themselves before embarking on their night-time raid. dillon happened on one of the armed guards, and hearing gunfire, panicked and began shooting at the guard, fearing the guard would shoot him. (dillon, supra, 34 cal.3d at pp. 451-452.) and no contrary expert testimony was presented. (dillon, supra, 34 cal.3d at p. 483.) the trial court expressed its belief that dillon did not pose a danger to society, but notwithstanding that belief, the felony-murder rule required imposition of a first degree murder penalty. (id. at pp. 485-486.) moreover, no alternative was permitted than the most severe form of a prison sentence: life imprisonment in state prison . . . . (id. at pp. 485-487.) nor received a12 (dillon, supra, culpability, background and participation led it to conclude he had been unjustifiably punished via the felony-murder rule, it reduced the conviction to second degree murder, thereby permitting dillon to serve his sentence in cya. (id. at p. 489.) onditions leading the dillon court to reduce the sentence in that member. gallegos, like dillon, led a crime-free life. (see prob. rpt. at pp. 10, 14.) gallegos acted immaturely and without thinking. (see, dillon, supra, 34 cal.3d at p. 483; see also roper, supra, 543 u.s. at pp. 569-570.) the prosecution never even prosecuted the driver of the car and therefore, the driver never received any punishment. since the incident, gallegos has never suffered any adult convictions. require this court to conclude that gallegos will be unjustifiably punished with a determinate sentence of 30 years and an indeterminate sentence of [53] years to life. such a sentence would violate the constitutional prohibitions against cruel and unusual at the january 2012 sentencing hearing, the trial court heard argument on and i think the court recognizes how 16 year olds are vulnerable and have a lack of maturity and an underdeveloped sense of responsibility. think the united states supreme court has recognized this. since this has happened, he has developed and matured into a matured human being. [t]he issue we would like the court to consider is that . . . he is looking at a life sentence in terms of what happened. this happened all the way around for everybody. and so we would like the court to consider a lesser sentence based on his background, his participation and his age. 13 [a]nything beyond a determinate sentence would be cruel and unusual[ given] the facts and circumstances of this case, mr. gallego . . . [] basically his young age and the fact that he was impressionable and apparently got ments were misplaced as the proposed sentence was not a true life-without-possibility-of-parole sentence, and he was e trial court inquired whether defense counsel wished to augment that report. she indicated she did not believe the report acknowledged that gallegos was teaching english at a school while he was in mexico and submitted a letter from the school where he worked and brother, always be who work in courts, who handle cases such as this, we all know that this is [a] tragedy, appellate] attorney who came in after the verdict was taken in this matter . . . the trial court then sentenced gallegos to state prison for a term of 85 years to life ars to life, plus an additional and consecutive term of 5 years for the firearm enhancement, and on counts 2 through 5 (four attempted premeditated murder counts, with true findings on the gang allegations), four consecutive 14 terms of life with the possibility of parole (consecutive to count 1 and consecutive to each other), with minimum parole eligibility periods of 15 years on each of the four attempted sentence, the defendant shall serve the determinate term of five years plus life with the possibility of parole, the aggregate total minimum parole eligibility period which is [60] on appeal, gallegos raises the same arguments, adding that in graham v. florida (2010) __ u.s. __ [176 l.ed.2d 825] the united states supreme court concluded the eight amendment prohibits the imposition of a life sentence without possibility of parole for a juvenile offender who did not commit homicide, notroper[, supra, 543 u.s. 551] about the nature of juveniles. [d]evelopments in psychology and brain science continue to show fundamental differences between juvenile and adult minds. . . . juveniles are more capable of change than are adults, and their actions are less likely to be evidence of roper, 543 u.s. at 570, 125 s.ct. 1183, 161 l.ed.2d 1. it remains true thamisguided to equate the failings of a minor with those of an adult, for a greater possibility ibid. these matters relate to the status of the offenders in question; and it is relevant to consider next the nature of the offenses to which this harsh penalty might apply. foresee that life will be taken are categorically less deserving of the most serious forms of 15 homicide crimes in a moral sense. not kill or intend to kill has a twice diminished moral culpability. the age of the offender and the nature of the crime each bear on the agraham v. florida, supra, 560 u.s. at pp. __, 130 s.ct. at pp. 2026-2027.) graham was careful to distinguish and did not address life sentences for juveniles like gallegos who do commit homicide. in addition, gallegos now cites miller v. alabama (2012) __ u.s. __ [132 s.ct. 2455, 2475] (miller), in which the supreme court recently determined mandatory life-without-possibility-of-parole sentences for juvenile offenders who commit homicide al punishment, emphasizing the the opportunity to consider mitigating circumstances before imposing the the miller roper and graham establish that children are constitutionally different from adults for purposes of sentencing. because juveniles have graham, 560 u.s., at ___, 130 s. ct. 2011, 176 l. ed. 2d 825. those cases relied on three significant gaps between juveniles and -taking. roper, lack the ability to extricate themselves from horrific, crime-producing settings. ibidid., at 570, 125 s. ct. 1183, 161 miller, supra, 132 s.ct. at p. 2464.) 16 graham said about childrenabout their distinctive (and transitory) mental traits and environmental vulnerabilitiesis crime-specific. those features are evident in the same way, and to the same degree, when (as in both cases here) a botched robbery turns into a killing. so graham-without-parole sentence imposed on a juvenile, even as its categorical bar relates only to nonhomicide offenses. (miller, supra, graham insists that youth matters in determining the appropriateness of a lifetime of ibid.youth from the balanceby subjecting a juvenile to the same life-without-parole sentence applicable to an adultthese laws [at issue in miller] prohibit a sentencing authority from assessing punishes a juvenile offender. that contravenes grahamroper grahammiller, supra, 132 s.ct. at peverything we said in roper and graham about that stage of life also appears in these decisibid.mitigating factor of great weight, so must the background and mental and emotional [citid. at p. 2468.) grahammandatory life-without-parole sentences on juvenile homicide offenders. such mandatory penalties, by their nature, preclude a sentencer from taking account of an these schemes, every juvenile will receive the same sentence as every other--the 17-year-17 old and the 14-year-old, the shooter and the accomplice, the child from a stable household and the child from a chaotic and abusive one. and still worse, each juvenile (including these two 14-year-olds [the defendants in miller]) will receive the same sentence as the vast majority of adults committing similar homicide offenses--but really, as graham miller, supra, 132 s.ct. at pp. 2467-2468, footnote omitted.) graham and roper and our individualized sentencing cases alike teach that in imposing a s child as an adult. to recap: mandatory life without parole for a juvenile precludes consideration of his chronological age and its hallmark features--among them, immaturity, impetuosity, and failure to appreciate risks and consequences. it prevents taking into account the family and home environment that surrounds him--and from which he cannot usually extricate himself--no matter how brutal or dysfunctional. it neglects the circumstances of the homicide offense, including the extent of his participation in the conduct and the way familial and peer pressures may have affected him. indeed, it ignores that he might have been charged and convicted of a lesser offense if not for incompetencies associated with youth--for example, his inability to deal with police officers or prosecutors (including on a plea agreement) or his to assist his own attorneys. [citations.] and finally, this mandatory punishment disregards the possibility of miller, supra, 132 s.ct. at p. 2468.) mandates life in prison without possibility of parole for juvenile offendemiller, supra, 132 s.ct. account how children are different, and how those differences counsel against irrevocably ibid.) the miller decision today retains the[e] distinction [between homicide and nonhomicide cases]: 18 graham established one rule (a flat ban) for nonhomicide offenses, while we set out a id. at p. 2466, fn. 6.) in people v. caballero (2012) 55 cal.4th 262, 265 (caballero), the california supreme court considered whether a 110-year-to-life sentence imposed on a juvenile convicted of nonhomicide offenses contravenes grahamunusual punishment under the eighth amendment and concluded that it does. in caballero, the attorney general had argued grahamole sentences does not apply to juvenile offenders who commit attempted murder, with its requisite intent to kill and that a cumulative sentence for distinct crimes could not constitute an eighth amendment violation because each sentence was permissible in(id. at p. 267.) the caballero court rejected both arguments. (id. at pp. 267-268.) miller, the united states supreme court extended graham not its categorical ban) to homicide cases, and, in so doing, made it clear that grahammission, or how a sentencing court structures the life without parole sentence. (miller, supra, 567 u.s. at pp. ___, ___ [132 s. ct. at pp. 2465, 2469].) the high court was careful to emphasize that grahamid. at p. ___ [132 s. ct. at p. 2465].) but the court also observed graham] said about childrenabout their distinctive (and transitory) mental traits and environmental vulnerabilitiesis crime-specific. those features are evident in the same way, and to the same degree, when . . . a botched robbery turns into a killing. so graham-without-parole sentence imposed on a juvenile, even as its categorical bar relates only tmiller, supra, 567 u.s. ___ [132 s. ct. at p. 2465].) miller therefore made it clear that grahamoffenders, including the term-of-years sentence that amounts to the functional equivalent caballero, supra, 55 cal.4th at 19 pp. 267-268.) the caballero court expressly acknowledged that miller requires sentencers in homicide cases (miller, supra, 567 u.s. at p. __ [132 s.ct. at p. 2469].) we leave millerthe homicide context to a case that poses the issue.5 (caballero, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 268, fn. 4, italics added.) miller, supra, 567 u.s. __ [132 s.ct. 2455], and caballero, supra, 55 cal.4th 262. although the record establishes defense counsel argued the trial court should consider the factors distinguishing juvenile offenders from adult offenders as discussed in roper, supra, 543 u.s. 551, because roper concerned imposition of the death penalty for juvenile offenders, we cannot conclude the trial court nition that a sentence of life rare juvenile offender whose crime reflects irreparable corruptionmiller, supra, 567 u.s. at p. __ [132 s.ct. at p. 2469], italics added), we are persuaded the preferred course in this case is to remand the matter so the trial court will have the opportunity to reconsider its sentence in light of miller. 5 the california supreme court recently granted review in two cases to consider whether a sentence of life without parole imposed on a juvenile offender under section 190.5, subdivision (b) violates the eighth amendment under miller. (people v. moffett, review granted jan. 3, 2013, s206771; people v. gutierrez, review granted jan. 3, 2013, s206365.) 20 disposition the judgment is affirmed. the case is remanded for resentencing consistent with the views expressed in this opinion. woods, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. zelon, j. 