filed 1/28/13 p. v. gutierrez ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jonathan gutierrez, defendant and appellant. b238329 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta116464) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. paul a. bacigalupo, judge. affirmed and remanded with directions. james koester, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, and lawrence m. daniels and rene judkiewicz, deputyattorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ 2 appellant jonathan gutierrez appeals from the judgment entered following his conviction of three counts of second degree robbery (pen. code,1  211), with true findings on the gang enhancements alleged as to each count ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)). on appeal, gutierrez argues that the evidence was insufficient to support the that each of the robberies was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a gang, and with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in criminal conduct by gang members. gutierrez also asserts that the trial court erred in imposing an additional term on a personal use of a firearm enhancement alleged as to one of the robbery counts when the jury specifically found that enhancement allegation to be not true. we remand the matter to the trial court for resentencing, but otherwise affirm. factual background and procedural history i. charged crimes in an amended information, the los angeles county district attorney charged gutierrez with the second degree robberies of juan parada (count 1), john liu (count 2), and matias sanchez (count 3). as to count 1, it was alleged that gutierrez personally inflicted great bodily injury on parada during the commission of the robbery ( 12022.7, subd. (a)). as to count 2, it was alleged that gutierrez committed the robbery of liu against a victim who was over the age of 60 ( 1203.09, subd. (f)). as to counts 2 and 3, it was alleged that a principal was armed with and personally used a firearm during the commission of the robberies of liu and sanchez ( 12022, subd. (a)(1), 12022.53, subds. (b), (e)(1)). as to all three counts, it was alleged that the offense was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang, and with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in criminal conduct by gang members ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)). gutierrez pleaded not guilty to each count and denied 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 bifurcate trial of the gang enhancement allegations from trial of the underlying charges. ii. trial of the underlying charges a. robbery of juan parada (count 1) on january 17, 2011, at approximately 3:00 p.m., parada was walking home from the train station near the imperial courts housing projects. after parada turned onto grape street, gutierrez and another unidentified man grabbed parada from behind and threw him to the ground. both men proceeded to punch and kick parada repeatedly in his ard. gutierrez then ran into the housing projects while the other man ran into an alley. at the time of the robbery, gutierrez was wearing a bluish striped shirt over a white t-shirt and the other man was wearing both a black t-shirt and a white t-shirt with jeans. parada suffered a dislocated jaw and a painful head injury during the assault. shortly after the robbery, a patrol car responded to the scene. parada provided a description of his attackers to the police, but did not mention any tattoos or other markings on their persons. less than two weeks later, parada identified gutierrez in a six-pack photographic lineup shown to him by the police. at a preliminary hearing in july 2011 and at trial in november 2011, parada made in-court identifications of gutierrez as one of the men who robbed and assaulted him. at the preliminary hearing, parada testified that he did not notice any tattoos or markings on the face of either attacker. at trial, however, parada provided conflicting testimony on this iright eye as he was being beaten. he indicated that he had not described the tattoo to anyonarticulate what about the tattoo made him feel afraid. parada never testified that he 4 b. robberies of john liu and matias sanchez (counts 2-3) on january 25, 2011, at approximately 9:30 a.m., liu and sanchez were performing electrical work at a house on grape street. the house was directly across the street from the imperial courts housing projects and approximately one block from the location where parada was attacked. liu was working inside the attic of the house as sanchez stood on a ladder leading into the attic. gutierrez and another unidentified man walked into the house and asked sanchez for permission to retrieve something from the backyard. when sanchez stepped off the ladder and went to the back door, gutierrez pointed a gun at him and told sanchez to give him all of his money. sanchez complied and handed gutierrez $150 in cash. gutierrez then handed the gun to his companion, climbed the ladder to the attic, and told liu to give him all of his money. upon hearing sanchez say that the men had a gun, liu handed gutierrez his wallet, which contained $100 in cash. after taking the money, gutierrez and the other man walked out of the house through the back door. at the time of the robbery, both gutierrez and his companion were similarly dressed in a gray or white hooded sweatshirt and pants. immediately after the robbery, sanchez called the police. in describing the perpetrators to the responding officers, both sanchez and liu noted that the man who demanded their money had a tattoo below his right eye. sanchez described the tattoo as a rial as resembling a butterfly. neither victim referred to the tattoo as being gang-related. later that day, the police drove sanchez to a field show-up inside the housing projects where gutierrez had been detained. sanchez, who was seated in the back of a patrol car about 50 feet away, was unable to make a positive identification at that time. the following day, liu identified gutierrez in a six-pack photographic lineup shown to him by the police. sanchez also was shown a six-pack lineup that includephotograph, but did not identify anyone. at the preliminary hearing in july 2011 and at trial in november 2011, both sanchez and liu made in-court identifications of gutierrez as one of the men who robbed them. 5 gutierrez was arrested inside the housing projects on january 26, 2011. his accomplice in the robberies was never identified. iii. trial of the gang enhancement allegations los angeles police officer francis coughlin testified as a gang expert for the prosecution. he had been assigned to the southeast division for approximately 14 years where he was responsible for monitoring certain housing development gangs, including the pj watts crips gang. the pj watts crips were a predominately african-american gang with 600 to 800 documented meclaimed territory consisted of the area in and around the imperial courts housing development with the heart of its territory being inside the development itself. each of the robberies in this case was committed in the territory claimed by the gang. the gang the primary activities of the gang included vandalism, robbery, carjacking, assault, rape, firearm possession, and narcotics sales. in committing crimes, the gang mostly targeted innocent hispanic members of the community rather than rival gang members. specific crimes committed by active members of the pj watts crips included possession of a firearm by a felon in september 2008 and second degree robbery in august 2011. officer coughlin was familiar with gutierrez based on his review of the field identification cards completed by other gang officers. between may 2007 and january 2011, gutierrez had seven documented contacts with gang officers in which he admitted the two most recent contacts occurred shortly before 2:00 p.m. on january 25, 2011, approximately five hours after the robberies of liu and sanchez. gutierrez was observed known gang members. he admitted to officers at that time that he was still an active member of the pj watts crips. at the time of his arrest, gutierrez had numerous gang-related tattoos, including 6 n his right hand, and the a strong affiliation with the pj watts crips and a willingness to commit crimes for the tattoo of your gang on your face, other gang members hold you accountable for that tattoo. . . . [i]f he does not put in the poser or someone who is not down for his hood, who is taking the credit of the instant money like robbery and carjacking. officer coughlin explained that it was more identifiable to crime witnesses, when presented with a series of hypothetical questions rooted in the facts of the case, officer coughlin opined that each of the robberies was committed for the benefit of and in association with the pj watts crips gang. officer coughlin testified that the crimes would benefit the gang by instilling fear in the surrounding community which would make its residents less likely to report future crimes committed by the gang, and by providing the gang with monetary profits which could then be used to purchase drugs for resale and guns for use against rival gang members. the crimes also would benefit gutierrez directly by enhancing his reputation within the gang, which in turn would make on cross-examination, officer coughlin admitted that a gang member who commits a crime in gang territory does not necessarily commit the crime for the benefit of his or her gang. he also acknowledged that a gang member at times may commit a crime in gang territory for his or her own personal gain. however, officer coughlin opined that, in this case, the pj watts crips so tightly controlled the area in and around 7 the housing projects that the gang would not allow robberies to occur in its territory unless those crimes benefited the gang. as officer -house. additionally, because a pj watts crips gang member who committed a crime in the d police presence into the area, the gang member would have to be accountable for that crime to the gang. as officer coughlin explained, bringing police presence into have to answe officer coughlin further testified that, due to the dynamics of the area controlled by the pj watts crips, a gang member who committed a robbery with another person in f knowing watching out. they know they have a place to run. they can run inside their understanding of knowing that if things do turn difficult, other members of the gang who robberies are committed by the project crips in this neighborhood, not by other gangs. coughlin, over 90 percent of the crimes committed inside the housing development were gang-related. s accomplice in the robberies was a gang member, but explained that, in his experience as a gang officer, pj watts crips gang members only committed crimes with other members of that gang. 8 officer coughlin also admitted that he had no personal knowledge that any of the proceeds from the robberies went to the gang, that the gang was made aware that enhanced by his participation in the crimes. in addition, officer coughlin acknowledged that there were no known witnesses to the robberies other than the three victims and that was affiliated with a gang. however, officer coughlin testified that it was not necessary that the victims in this case actually knew that gutierrez was a gang member because iv. verdict and sentencing at the conclusion of the trial on the underlying charges, the jury found gutierrez guilty of the second degree robberies of parada, liu, and sanchez. in addition, the jury made true findings on the great bodily injury enhancement alleged as to the robbery of parada ( 12022.7, subd. (a)), the elderly victim enhancement alleged as to the robbery of liu ( 1203.09, subd. (f)), and the principal armed with a firearm enhancements alleged as to the robberies of liu and sanchez ( 12022, subd. (a)(1)). the jury also made a true finding on the personal use of a firearm enhancement alleged as to the robbery of sanchez, but not on the same enhancement alleged as to the robbery of liu ( 12022.53, subds. (b), (e)(1)). at the conclusion of the bifurcated trial on the gang enhancement allegations, the jury made true findings on each of the three gang enhancements alleged ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)). the trial court sentenced gutierrez to a total term of 34 years and eight months in state prison. as to the robbery of sanchez (count 3), the court selected it as the base count, and imposed a term of five years on the robbery count, 10 years on the personal use of a firearm enhancement ( 12022.53, subd. (b)), and 10 years on the gang enhancement ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)). as to the robbery of liu (count 2), the court imposed a consecutive term of one year on the robbery count, three years and four 9 months on the personal use of a firearm enhancement ( 12022.53, subd. (b)), and a stayed term of three years and four months on the gang enhancement ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)). as to the robbery of parada (count 1), the court imposed a consecutive term of one year on the robbery count, one year on the great bodily injury enhancement ( 12022.7, subd. (a)), and three years and four months on the gang enhancement ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)). following his sentencing, gutierrez filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion i. sufficiency of the evidence on the gang enhancements on appeal, gutierrez challenges the sufficiency of the evidence supporting the that he committed the robberies for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a gang, and with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in criminal conduct by gang members. gutierrez reasons that, apart from the evidence that he committed the tory, there were no particularized facts to support the interests of his gang. considering the totality of the evidence in this case, however, we conclude that the gang enhancements were supported by substantial evidence. enhancement, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidence that is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value from which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] we presume every fact in support of the judgment the trier of fact could have reasonably deduced from the reversal of the judgment is not warranted simply because the circumstances might also reasonably be reconcile 10 people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 59-60.) the california street terrorism enforcement and prevention act was enacted by ion of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any iminalize mere gang membership; rather, it imposes increased criminal penalties only when the criminal in (people v. gardeley (1996) 14 cal.4th 605, 623-624.) the sentence enhancement id. at p. 622.) of (people v. ferraez an expert may render in (people v. ward (2005) 36 cal.4th 186, 209.) while a gang expert may not ordinarily testify whether the defendant express an opinion, based on hypothetical questions that tracked the evidence, whether (people v. vang t only permissible but can be sufficient to (ibid.) 11 gutierrez argues that each of the gang enhancements must be reversed because, ed opinion that almost any crime committed by a gang member in gang territory would be for the benefit of a gang, there was no evidence that the robberies committed in this case were gang-related. as gutierrez points out, the prosecution did not present any evidence that his accomplice in the robberies was a gang member. nor was there any evidence that either gutierrez or his accomplice displayed any gang signs, called out any gang names, or otherwise announced their gang affiliation during their commission of the crimes. in addition, officer coughlin admitted that he had no personal knowledge that any of the proceeds from the robberies was distributed to fellow gang as to how the robberies might have benefited the gang was based solely on speculation, not on any facts shown by the evidence. gang. first, each of the robberies was committed in thin very close proximity to the imperial courts housing development. the robberies of liu and sanchez occurred directly across the street from the development, and the robbery of parada occurred approximately one block away. immediately following the robbery of parada, gutierrez fled into the development itself. as described by officer coughlin, the housing development was in the heart of the territory claimed by the pj watts crips and was subject to strict control by the gang. approximately 90 percent of crimes committed in the development were gang-were mostly innocent hispanic residents rather than rival gang members. officer coughlin further testified that a pj watts crips gang member who committed a crime could seek refuge inside the development and rely on the protection afforded by his fellow gang members who resided there. notably, when gutierrez was detained a few hours after the second robbery, he was inside the development and in the company of 12 other pj watts crips gang members. from this evidence, the jury reasonably could have inferred that gutierrez acted in association with the pj watts crips by targeting his onghold and the safe refuge that it provided to its members. second, at the time of the robberies, gutierrez had a number of visible gang eye elow one ear. each of the victims testified that they saw a none of the victims directly associated the tattoo with a gang in their testimony, parada admitted that he never disclosed this identifying feature to the police because of fear. consistent with this evidence, officer coughlin explained that prominent gang tattoos on affiliation with a gang, such visible tattoos were intended to communicate to crime victims and witnesses that the gang member was not concerned about being identified wh-related, the jury reasonably could have inferred that gutierrez intended to make his membership in a gang known to his victims through his prominent gang tattoos. third, officer coughlin testified that the pj watts crips gang so tightly controlled the profit-based crimes in its claimed territory that it would not allow such crimes to be committed by its members unless they benefited the gang. officer coughlin explained that the pj watts crips were unique in the level of control that they exerted over the area in and around the imperial courts housing development. because the commission of a crime by a pj watts crips gang member would bring an unwanted police presence into the area, the gang would discipline the perpetrator and refuse to provide him or her with protection if the crime did not benefit the gang. with respect to the specific benefits received by the gang, officer coughlin testified that the pj watts crips used the proceeds from the robberies committed by its members to fund other criminal activities, such as the purchase of drugs for resale and firearms for use against rival gangs. the pj watts 13 crips also used the violent nature of the robberies to instill fear in the surrounding community, which would facilitate the commission of future crimes by the members of the gang. (see e.g., people v. albillar, supra that particular criminal conduct benefited a gang by enhancing its reputation for viciousness of people v. gardeley, supra, 14 cal.4th at p. 619 [based on expert testimony that a gang relied on could reasonably conclude that the attack on [the victim] . it is true that officer coughlin lacked personal knowledge that gutierrez shared any of the proceeds from the robberies with his fellow gang members, or that either gutierrez or his gang claimed responsibility for the robberies to enhance their reputations in the community. however, contrary to gutifurther the interests of the gang. eight days after gutierrez robbed and brutally assaulted parada in broad daylight on a public street, he robbed liu and sanchez at gunpoint only a block away from his prior crime. gutierrez fled into the housing development immediately after the first robbery, and was observed inside the development associating with fellow gang members shortly after the second robbery. such evidence reasonably could support an inference that gutierrez was never disciplined by his gang for acting for his own personal benefit, but rather was allowed to continue committing robberies in his or the broader benefit of his gang. for these reasons, the cases on which gutierrez relies, including in re daniel c. (2011) 195 cal.app.4th 1350, people v. ochoa (2009) 179 cal.app.4th 650, people v. ramon (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 843, and in re frank s. (2006) 141 cal.app.4th 1192, do not support a reversal of the gang enhancements in this case. none of those prior decisions included the specific factual scenario present here a gang member displaying prominent gang-related tattoos commits a series of rob 14 stronghold associating with other gang members. based on the totality of the evidence, the jury reasonably could have found that gutierrez committed each of the robberies for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with the pj watts crips, and with the true findings on the gang enhancements were supported by substantial evidence. ii. sentencing error gutierrez contends, and the attorney general concedes, that the trial court erred in imposing a section 12022.53, subdivision (b) firearm enhancement on count 2 because the jury specifically found that enhancement allegation to be not true. we agree. as to count 2, the robbery of liu, there were two firearm enhancements alleged. although the jury made a true finding that a principal was armed with a firearm within the meaning of section 12022, subdivision (a)(1), it found the allegation that gutierrez personally used a 2 however, at the sentencing hearing, the trial court erroneously imposed a consecutive term of three years and four months on count 2, a subordinate count, under section 12022.53, subdivision (b). the section 12022.53, subdivision (b) enhancement must therefore be vacated. as gutierrez acknowledges, because the jury made a true finding on the firearm enhancement alleged under section 12022, subdivision (a)(1), he may be subject to an additional term as to count 2 based on this separate enhancement. consequently, we remand the matter to the trial court for resentencing on count 2 in light true finding on the firearm enhancement alleged under section 12022, subdivision (a)(1) 2 in its verdict form, the jury was not asked to make any finding as to whether a principal other than gutierrez personally used or discharged a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b), (c), (d), or (e)(1). 15 sider the propriety of the stay of the gang enhancement. disposition the judgment is affirmed. the matter is remanded to the trial court for finding on the firearm enhancement alleged under sectiothe firearm enhancement alleged under section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (e)(1). zelon, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. jackson, j. 