filed 4/14/14 p. v. burton ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. joshua burton et al., defendants and appellants. b238653 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba347302) appeal from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, anne h. egerton, judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded for resentencing. randy s. kravis, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant joshua burton. gordon s. brownell, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant anthony mitchell. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii and sonya roth, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendants and appellants, joshua burton and anthony mitchell, appeal their convictions for first degree murder with a multiple murder special circumstance, second degree murder, burglary and robbery, with firearm use and criminal street gang enhancements (pen. code,  187, 190.2, subd. (a)(3), 459, 211, 12022.53, 186.22, subd. (b)).1 they were sentenced to state prison for terms of life without possibility of parole. the judgments are affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded for resentencing. background viewed in accordance with the usual rule of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established the following. 1. prosecution evidence. on december 24, 2007, los angeles police detective stephanie rosa responded to a homicide call at 6733 11th avenue in los angeles. upon arrival, rosa and her partner entered apartment number 6 and found shelton summerall dead on the living room floor, and monica youngblood dead in the bedroom. there were two .45-caliber cartridge casings in the living room and one in the bedroom. the autopsies showed summerall had sustained three fatal gunshot wounds, two to the head and one to the chest, and youngblood had sustained a single fatal gunshot wound to the head. on january 10, 2008, detective rosa met with a.a., who lived in the same apartment complex as summerall. on the night of the killings, a.a. saw defendants hell five minutes later. about 10 minutes after through a back window. 1 all further references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 3 b.b. testified summerall was an old friend who occasionally hired him to do chores around the apasummerall kept money in a shoebox in his bedroom. b.b. knew summerall made his living selling crack cocaine. on the night of the shootings, b.b. was visiting his friend c.c. who lived in the same apartment complex as summerall. when b.b. and c.c. walked into the building late that night, they saw the defendants standing outside. burton asked c.c. if he and hoebox according to b.b., burton bought a brand new cadillac after the killings. d.d., a rolling testified that a few days before the killings he witnessed a discussion between the defendants and a high-ranking gang member named scooby. asked if scooby was a -which meant summerall had to be killed. d.d. left and called summerall to warn him that scooby was out to get him. the next time d.d. saw mitchell, after the killings, brand-new impala. los angeles with 1,200 documented members, 600 of whom are active. because of its size, there are various cliques within the gang and tensions can arise between them. the defendants were self-admitted members of the rolling brynhurst clique, the same clique to which d.d. belonged. summerall was also a rolling 4 another clique called the avenues. the gang expert was acquainted with summerall, who was always well-dressed, owned various cars including a brand new corvette, and carried around thousands of dollars in cash. asked to assume summerall had been dealing drugs from his apartment, which was in territory controlled by another clique of the same gang, the expert opined the killings had been committed for the benefit of the rolling threatened by the fact summerall had been depriving them of drug profits. in addition, the young gang members doing the killing would gain status for having successfully carried out the orders of a senior gang member. 60s from a particular clique that go commit a violent crime against a member of a rival clique or a clique within rolling 60s that is sometimes rival with them. we have only one shooter during the course of that violent crime. what is the role of the . . . is there for help in case things go sideways. . . the consequences for an innocent bystander who happened to witness this violent crime, hypothetical question based on the particular facts of this case, the expert opined that [the intended target], and then they kill the witness because, obviously, that witness was a threat to them because they [sic] saw their faces or saw the crime when it happened, so they want nobody to be able to testify against them or report them to [the] 5 2. defense evidence. dyran culpepper testified he lived in the apartment next door to summerall, and burton lived with his girlfriend in the same building. on the night of the killings, culpepper was in front of the building when he heard gunshots. walking over to see if anyone had been injured, culpepper saw burton peeking out of his apartment door. culpep upper-floor apartment in the same complex as summerall. on the night of the killings, she and burton were watching television when they heard gunshots. they went downstairs together and saw culpepper walking into the building. culpepper asked if burton had heard anything. after a minute, butler and burton went back upstairs. butler cadillac which burton drove on occasion. mitchell was with blockman at a party from 1:00 p.m. until 11:00 p.m. after getting home, they washed and fed the baby and then went to sleep. the baby awoke every few hours after that and mitchell would get up to feed and tend to him. mitchell was there all night and did not leave the apartment until the next afternoon. a defense gang expert testified shot-callers do not have authority over members fellow gang member; indeed, it could hurt his standing in the gang. it was doubtful a gang member would allow a rival clique member or the friend of a targeted individual to be present during a discussion about murdering someone. 6 contentions 1. the trial court erred by failing to instruct the jury, sua sponte, with calcrim no. 417 on the natural and probable consequences of a conspiracy. 2. the trial court erred by failing to instruct the jury, sua sponte, with calcrim no. -judicial statements with suspicion. 3. there was cumulative error. under section 654. -without-possibility-of-parole sentences on count 2 are invalid. discussion 1. trial court erred by failing to instruct on calcrim no. 417. defendants contend their second degree murder convictions for killing youngblood (count 2) must be reversed because the trial court failed, sua sponte, to instruct the jury with calcrim no. 417 on the natural and probable consequences of a conspiracy. although the trial court erred by failing to give this jury instruction, the error was harmless. a. background. at a jury instruction conference, the prosecutor asked the trial court to give calcrim no. 416 (evidence of uncharged conspiracy), which states in pertinent part: criminally responsible for the acts or statements of any other member of the conspiracy killing and both defendants entered summe 7 when the trial court asked if the prosecutor also wanted calcrim no. 417 consequences) the following colloquy occurred: and then it just became a murder through circumstances during the course of a robbery or whatnot. the intent, based on the evidence, was to go in there and kill him. [] so i think [calcrim no.] 417 when we say a member of a conspiracy 416, the second sentence says a member is criminally responsible for acts of other members. [] . . 417 for just that re 416, which no. responsible for the crimes that he or she conspires to commit, no matter which member of the conspiracy commits the crime. [] a member of a conspiracy is also criminally responsible for any act of any member of the conspiracy if that act is done to further the conspiracy and that act is a natural and probable consequence of the common plan or design of the conspiracy. this rule applies even if the act was not intended as part of the original plan. . . . [] a natural and probable consequence is one that a reasonable person would know is likely to happen if nothing unusual intervenes. in deciding whether a consequence is natural and probable, consider all of the circumstances first italics added.) 8 b. standard of review. resolution of a mixed question of law and fact that, we believe, is however predominantly people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 733.) the failure to instruct on an element of an offense is subject to chapman2 harmless error analysis. (see neder v. united states (1999) 527 u.s. 1, 18 ry would have c. discussion. mitchell argues the trial court erred by failing to couple calcrim no. 416 with either calcrim no. supported a reasonable doubt as to which of two scenarios occurred: (1) both defendants were involved in the killing of monica youngblood . . . or (2) while one defendant was in the living room, the other defendant found ms. youngblood in the bedroom and killed her withoin the latter scenario, it was for the jury to decide whether or not ms. killing was a natural and probable consequence of the . . . conspiracy to kill mitchell acknowledges there was evidence the defendants conspired to murder but he argues there was no evidence any member of the conspiracy contemplated what either . . . mitchell or burton individually ine was not an obvious target of the conspiracy. 2 chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18 [87 s.ct. 824]. 9 together to commit any unlawful act, each is criminally responsible for the acts of his associates or confederates committed in furtherance of any prosecution of the common design for which they combine. in contemplation of law the act of one is the act of all. each is responsible for everything done by his confederates, which follows incidentally in the execution of the common design as one of its probable and natural consequences, even though it was not intended as a part of the original design or common plan. nevertheless the act must be the ordinary and probable effect of the wrongful act specifically agreed on, so that the connection between them may be reasonably apparent, and not a fresh and independent product of the mind of one of the confederates outside of, or foreign to, the common design. even if the common design is unlawful, and if one member of the party departs from the original design as agreed upon by all of the members, and does an act which was not only not contemplated by those who entered into the common purpose, but was not in furtherance thereof, and not the natural or legitimate consequence of anything connected therewith, the person guilty of such act, if people v. kauffman (1907) [w]hether or not the act committed was the ordinary and probable effect of the common design or whether it was a fresh and independent product of the mind of one of the conspirators, outside of, or foreign to, the common design, is a question of fact for the juryid. at p. 335, italics added.) in people v. zielesch (2009) 179 cal.app.4th 731, zielesch bailed volarvich out wife. zielesch furnished volarvich with a gun and $400 to buy methamphetamine. the next day, volarvich was stopped by a chp officer for a traffic violation. high on the methamphetamine, and afraid of going back to jail, volarvich shot and killed the officer without any provocation. boyfriend and also for murdering the chp officer. on appeal, he sought reversal of the conspiracy and was, therefore, unforeseeable. 10 citing kaufman and other case law, zielesch more than a century that each member of a conspiracy is criminally responsible for the acts of fellow conspirators committed in furtherance of, and which follow as a natural and probable consequence of, the conspiracy, even though such acts were not intended by people v. zielesch, supra, tion whether an unplanned crime not whether the aider and abettor actually foresaw the additional crime, but whether, judged objectively, [the unplanned crime] was reasonably be reasonably foreseeable a possible consequence which might reasonably have been contemplated is enough. . . . [citation.] whether the unplanned act was a reasonably foreseeable consequence of the conspiracy must be evaluated under all the factual circumstances of the individual case and is a factual issue to be resolved by the jury [citation], whose determination is conclusive if supported by substantial evidence. [citations.] [] properly treating the issue as a question of fact, the trial court instructed the jury with id. at pp. 739-740, fn. omitted.)3 the bench note for calcrim no. s instruction when there is an issue whether the defendant is liable for the acts of coconspirators. (see people v. flores (1992) 7 cal.app.4th 1350, in the case at bar, the jury was never informed of this principle. however, the error was harmless because all of the trial evidence indicated the only motive for killing potential witness was a natural and probable consequence of the conspiracy to kill summerall. the forensic evidence indicated youngblood had been killed execution- 3 zielesch went on to hold there was substantial eviden 11 style; she was found lying in a crouched or kneeling position in a corner of the bedroom, and her only injury was a single gunshot wound which entered near the top of her head and had a downward trajectory toward the base of her skull. as discussed ante, the gang expert testified an innocent bystander such as youngblood would likely be killed in order to eliminate a potential eyewitness. 417 was neder v. united states, supra, 527 u.s. at p. 18.) 2. the trial court erred, but not prejudicially, by failing to instruct the jury with calcrim no. -judicial statement with suspicion. defendants contend the trial court erred by failing to instruct the jury, sua sponte, with calcrim no. -judicial statements with suspicion. their focus is on whether the evidence showed they had asked b.b. and c.c. to act as lookouts on the night of the killings. although the trial court erred by failing to give the instruction, we conclude the error was harmless. a. legal principles. orded, out-of-court oral admissions should be viewed with caution. [citations.] the purpose of the cautionary language in caljic no. 2.71 is to assist the jury in determining whether the defendant ever made the admissions. [citations.] for this reason, the cautionary language is inapplicable to recorded people v. mckinnon (2011) 52 cal.4th 610, 679.) . . the courts of this state have not distinguished between actual admissions and damaging pre-offense statements of the accused relating people v. lopez (1975) 47 cal.app.3d 8, 12.) normal standard of review for state law error: whether it is reasonably probable the jury 12 whether the statement attributed to the defendant was in fact made, courts examining the prejudice in failing to give the instruction examine the record to see if there was any conflict in the evidence about the exact words used, their meaning, or whether the admissions harmless the erroneous omission of the cautionary language when, in the absence of such conflict, a defendant simply denies that he made the statements. [citation.] further, when the trial court otherwise has thoroughly instructed the jury on assessing the credibility of witnesses, we have concluded the jury was adequately warned to view their people v. mckinnon, supra, 52 cal.4th at pp. 679-680.) b. discussion. burton points out there was conflicting evidence as to what he allegedly said to his initial interview with detective rosa, b.b. said the question had been whether they wanted to make money. later in the but b.b. subsequently distanced himself from that characterization and said they had only [b.b.] and[ c.c.] if they wanted to make money or sell drugs, that could be written off as having nothing to do with any conspiracy to shoot and kill summerall. but if burton alleged plan to murder summerall. therefore, there was a conflict in the evidence regarding what burton said to [b.b.] and [c.c.] that probably had a material impact on 13 -of-court statements with had said anything at all to b.b. whatever conflict existed in the evidence, therefore, calcrim 226 on its responsibility to assess the credibility of witnesses, thus any the witness able to remember o not automatically reject testimony just because of inconsistencies or conflicts, consider whether the differences are important or not. people sometimes honestly forget things or make mistakes about what in these circumstances, we conthe cautionary instruction was harmless. (see neder v. united states, supra, 527 u.s. at p. 18.) 3. cumulative error. defendants contend their convictions must be reversed for cumulative error. however, people v. hinton (2006) 37 cal.4th 839, 897.) 4. improper multiple punishment under section 654. defendants contend the trial court erred by not staying their sentences for the count 3 burglary convictions because, under section 654, it constituted improper multiple punishment. as the attorney general concedes, this contention has merit. 14 section 654, the prohibition against multiple punishment, provides in pertinent law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the act or omission be punished under more than one to more than one act within the meaning of section 654 depends on the intent and objective of the actor. if all of the offenses were incident to one objective, the defendant (people v. latimer (1993) 5 cal.4th 1203, 1208.) section 654 is factually applicable to a given series of offenses is for the trial court, and the law gives the trial court broad latitude in making this determination. its findings on this question must be upheld on appeal if there is any light most favorable to the respondent and presume in support of the [sentencing] order the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence. people v. hutchins (2001) 90 cal.app.4th 1308, 1312-1313; people v. mccoy (1992) 9 cal.app.4th implicit, may not be reversed if supported by substantial evidence].) intent to commit murder, so there was necessarily an indivisible course of conduct. indeed, the jurors had been instructed that, in order to find the defendants guilty of the burglary charged in count 3, they had to find the defendants entered a building with the intent to commit murder. (see people v. hester (2000) 22 cal.4th 290, 294 [where burglary perpetrated in order to commit assault, section 654 prohibited multiple sentencing]; people v. mcelrath (1985) 175 cal.app.3d 178, 191 [if factual basis for burglary conviction was entry with intent to commit sexual assault, then concurrent term for burglary conviction was barred by section 654].) 3 must be stayed pursuant to section 654. 15 5. apparent sentencing error regarding count 3 and count 4. sentencing on count 3 and count 4 (burglary and robbery) was incorrect. as to both counts, the jury returned true findings pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c), of the street gang enhancement statute. but that section prescribes determinate 10-year terms, not the indeterminate life terms imposed by the trial court. we will remand to the trial court for resentencing on count 3 and count 4. 6. sentencing error regarding count 2. the defendants contend, and the attorney general properly concedes, they were impermissibly sentenced to life without possibility of parole on both count 1 and count 2. the trial court imposed life-without-possibility-of-parole terms on both count 1 (the first degree murder of summerall) and count 2 (the second degree murder of youngblood). however, section 190.2, subdivision (a)(3), only authorizes a multiple murder special circumstance finding for first degree murder, not second degree murder.4 hence, the trial court erroneously imposed life-without-possibility-of-parole terms for the second degree murder of youngblood. on remand, the trial court shall correct this sentencing error. 4 section 190.2, subdivision the penalty for a defendant who is found guilty of murder in the first degree is death or imprisonment in the state prison for life without the possibility of parole if one or more of the following special circumstances has been found under section 190.4 to be true: [] . . . [] (3) the defendant, in this proceeding, has been convicted of more than one offense of murder in the first or second 16 disposition the judgments are affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded for 3 2, 3 and 4 are stricken and the trial court is directed to resentence on those counts in accordance with this opinion. the trial court is directed to prepare and forward to the department of corrections and rehabilitation an amended abstract of judgment. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: kitching, j. aldrich, j. 