filed 2/11/13 p. v. johnson ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. corey jamal johnson, defendant and appellant. b239193 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba318031) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. charlene f. olmedo, judge. affirmed, as modified. maxine weksler, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and viet h. nguyen, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________ 2 corey jamal johnson appeals from the sentence imposed by the trial court sentence, and as modified, affirm. discussion in 2008, a jury convicted appellant corey jamal johnson (and a co-defendant who is not a party to this appeal) of attempted premeditated murder and multiple robberies of multiple victims committed over two nights in january 2007. the jury found true a information, the court sentenced appellant to a term of seven years and eight months in of victim mark huddleston labeled count three of the charging information, the court initially imposed a consecutive term of five years and eight months, but then recalled the judgment and instead sentenced appellant to a concurrent term of 17 years. appellant appealed from the judgment and sentence. in an unpublished decision, t to stay the gang enhancements under counts six and seven for the robberies of alegria and castro. (people v. bowers et al. (apr. 18, 2011, b215679)[nonpub.opn.][at pp. 21-22].) we appellant corey jamal johnson, the matter is remanded for resentencing for his convictions for the robberies of vanessa castro and melvin alegria for which the court shall stay the section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1) gang enhancement. in all other respects id. at p. 27.) following remand to the trial court, the prosecutor correctly told the court that urt y imposed 3 ounsel and the -appeal recall three. the sentencing memorandum thus erroneously stated appellthat offense was a consecutive term of five years and eight months, when it was actually a concurrent term of 17 years. hence, when the trial court upon remand imposed a consecutive term of five years and eight months for count three, neither the court nor the parties realized that the court was exceeding the scope of our remand order by changing the sentence for count three. he contends the trial court had jurisdiction only to stay the gang enhancements under counts six and seven, and the modification of the term for count three was unauthorized. following appellate affirmance of a trial court judgment and issuance of a rbut only to carry out the judgment as ordered by the appellate court. people v. picklesimer (2010) 48 cal.4th 330, 337, italics in original.) our unpublished decision directed the trial court to stay two gang enhancements and affirmed the rest of the judgment. accordingly, we shall direct the clerk of the superior court to correct the abstract of judgment to show that the sentence imposed for count three following remand is, as stated in the original 2009 judgment, a concurrent term of 17 years. as modified, the judgment is affirmed. as both parties note, people v. burbine (2003) 106 cal.app.4th 1250 is ted the trial id. at pp. 1254, 1258-1259.) here, in contrast, we did not vacate the original sentence; instead, we ordered the trial court to stay two gang enhancements and otherwise affirmed the judgment -- nothing more, nothing less. 4 disposition the trial court is directed to correct the abstract of judgment to show a concurrent term of 17 years for count three and to forward a copy of the corrected abstract to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. as modified, the judgment is affirmed. rubin, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. flier, j. 