filed 4/29/13 p. v. calderon ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose calderon, defendant and appellant. b239037 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba357912) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, anne h. egerton, judge. affirmed. h. russell halpern for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, linda c. johnson, supervising deputy attorney general, gary a. lieberman, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury found defendant and appellant jose calderon guilty of second degree murder. (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)1.) the jury found true the allegation that the offense had been committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)) and the allegations that defendant personally used and intentionally discharged a firearm causing death ( 12022.53, subds. (b)-(d)). the trial court sentenced defendant to state prison for a term of 40 years to life. on appeal, defendant contends that insufficient evidence supports his murder conviction and the trial court erred in admitting certain gang and medical expert testimony. if his challenge to the admission of that gang and medical expert testimony contends that he received ineffective assistance of counsel. defendant also contends that he received ineffective assistance of cocause one of the jurors. we affirm. background defendant was a member of the toonerville gang. the toonerville gang claimed feliz boulevard, on the east by san fernando road, on the north by the 134 freeway, and on the west by the los angeles riverbed. the toonerville gang had a rivalry with the rascals gang. the area occupied by the rascals gang was bordered on the north by los feliz boulevard, on the south by the 2 freeway or fletcher drive, on the west by the los angeles river, and on the east by san fernando road. juan correa was a member of the echo park gang. the echo park gang and the rascals gang were not rivals. as long as each gang remained in its territory, there were 1 all statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 3 hollydale drive in the rascals gang territory. melissa lived her whole life in that neighborhood. she had friends and family members who were rascals gang members. the fathers, respectively, of her two children were rascals gang members. correa lived with melissa during the last five months of 2008. because of his relationship with melissa, correa was permitted for purely personal reasons, so long as that gang member limited his activities in the neighborhood to his personal matters and did not engage in gang or other activity. about 5:30 p.m., on december 26, 2008, melissa and correa returned home after shopping. later, correa left the house. melissa believed that correa had gone to the knew not to walk around the neighborhood because melissa told him that she was afraid that members from the toonerville or frogtown gangs might come to the neighborhood and assume he was a rascals gang member. marcos f. lived in an apartment on hollydale near silver lake. about 5:45 p.m., on december 26, 2008, he was watching t.v. in his apartment when he heard about five to six gunshots. another neighbor called 911. los angeles police department sergeant carlos figueroa responded to the scene. he found correa lying face down, unconscious and not breathing, in a driveway on the east side of silver lake just north of hollydale. correa had a bullet hole in his back. the paramedics arrived shortly after sergeant figueroa, and began treating correa. when the paramedics rolled correa over, a nine-millimeter semiautomatic pistol fell from his right hand. the gun appeared to have malfunctioned and jammedfeed where essentially two rounds, two bullets attempt to go into the chamber which only at some point, melissa went outside to look for correa in the backyard. correa was not there. melissa went to the front of the house and saw a police car pass by. she grabbed her purse and drove down the street, but it had been blocked off due to a 4 shooting. she drove around the block and made her way to the shooting scene on silver hospital where she ultimately learned that correa had passed away. in their investigation, the police created a map and took measurements of the crime scene. silver lake ran north/south. hollydale ran east/west and "dead-silver lake boulevard. there was a bend or curve at the end of hollydale. an expended nine-hollydale, west of silver lake boulevard. the casing was located 86 feet, 2 inches from the west curb of silver lake, and 9 feet, 6 inches north of the south curb of hollydale. measuring from the north curb of hollydale, the first blood drop was located 100 feet, 4 inches north of hollydale; the second blood drop was located 104 feet, 4 inches north of hollydale; the third blood drop was located 108 feet, 5 inches north of hollydale; and the located 120 feet, 7 inches from the north curb of hollydale. dr. james ribe, a coroner with the los angeles county department of coroner, performed the autopsy on correa. dr. ribe testified that correa suffered a gunshot of his right shoulder blade and traveling through his right eighth rib and his right lung causing entrance and exit wounds to the lung of about one half inch in size. the bullet then bounced off ugh his left main stem bronchusthe main air pipe that connects the left lung to the windpipecutting it in half, through his left main coronary arterythe main artery that connects the heart to the left lungputting a one half inch hole in it, and through his left lung before striking and breaking a rib that halted its progress. a .38- or .357-caliber bullet was recovered from collapse of both lungs, which disables breathing, and the second 5 run a very shor from the location on hollydale where the nine millimeter shell casing was found to the 0 feet from the with two collapsed lungs and gushing blood into the chest from the main pulmonary artery and a severed main stem bronchus, this is immediately disabling and i would expect that person to be incapacitated in a matter of seconds from this, most likely just a . ribe testified that if a person so injured did not drop immediately, the farthest he had seen or heard of such a person running was 50 feet. was subject to a wiretap. about 5:49 p.m. on december 26, 2008, defendant called serna. a transcript of the call was played for the jury. in the call, defendant and serna had the following conversation: hello. hey, be careful. i caught somebody in trash,[2] right now. who is it? some fool? yeah. 2 6 yeah. on foot, or . . . or in the car? on foot. yeah. he dropped? yeah. alright, then. late. . . . you coming back? [defendant]: [3] alright. that was you right now? yeah. [4] over here, right now. alright, then. alright, late. expert. the prosecutor presented sergeant strasner with the following hypothetical facts: the streets dead-in the area, maybe say an echo park gang member that has a pass to be in the area 3 ghborhood. 4 7 based on those hypothetical facts, the prosecutor asked sergeant strasner the for the benefit of, at the direction of or in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promotestrasner added that shooting a rascals gang member in rascals gang territory would defense case defendant, testifying in his own behalf, admitted that he was a toonerville gang member. defendant testified that during the late afternoon or early evening of december he did not know her last namedefendant never picked up daisy from her househe picked her up at various locations in the areaand did not know her phone number. defendant knew that he was picking up daisy in rascals gang territory, but his nt armed himself with a gun in case he had to protect himself. when defendant arrived, daisy was not at their appointed meeting place. defendant turned right on hollydale, intending to walk back to the corner to see if daisy had arrived. as he crossed hollydale, heading toward silver lake, he noticed correa standing in the street looking at him. correa was standing about 15 to 25 feet from defendant in the area where the casing was later found. facing out. correa did not say anything. by his gesture, defendant believed that correa are you doing in my 8 p, correa pulled out a gun and fired a shot at kept correa in his line of sight. defendant saw correa back up towards silver lake and make a motion that looked as if he was attempting to shoot at defendant again.5 defendant pulled his gun from his back pocket and fired four rounds at correa as fast as he could. he was afraid and wanted to scare correa. correa turned as defendant was firing. correa stumbled and then fell. defendant was still on hollydale when correa fell. defendant could not remember which round hit correa. he only fired at correa to protect himself. without looking back, defendant ran back to his car and left. discussion i. sufficiency of evidence defendant contends that insufficient evidence supports his murder conviction. sufficient evidence supports the conviction. e sufficiency of the evidence to support a conviction, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the people v. avila (2009) 46 fact that the trier of fact could rea(people v. medina insufficient evidence people v. zamudio 5 another five to 10 feet. 9 court resolves neither credibility issues nor evidentiary conflicts. [citation.] resolution of conflicts and inconsistencies in the testimony is the exclusive province of the trier of people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181.) people v. ugalino (2009) 174 cal.app.4th 1060, 1064.) people v. zamudio, supra, 43 cal.4th at pp. 357me when the prosecution relies mainly people v. valdez (2004) 32 cal.4th 73, 104.) defendant states that he was the only witness to the shooting. according to defendant, his testimony clearly established that he shot correa in self defense and circumstantial evidence, conceded by the prosecution, corroborated his testimony that correa first shot at defendant and was prevented from shooting at him further because his ot correa as correa was mr. corea [sic], at the most could have lasted only 15 seconds after being shot, a man running at less then [sic] average speed of 9 miles per house would have covered a distance of 190, well beyond dr. ribe tesimmediately. he further testified that at most a person so injured would have lived 15 seconds and that he had heard of a case where a person ran 50 feet after sustaining such significant injuries. dr. ribe did not testify that correa could have run nine miles per hour and traveled 120 feet with the injuries he sustained. defendant shot correa in the back. correa died a significant distance from the location where his shell casing was found, and defendant testified that he shot correa. because correa was found at some distance from his shell casing and he was shot in the back, an inference can be drawn that 10 he was running from the scene and defendant must have chased and then shot correa. defendant was a member of the toonerville gang which had a rivalry with the rascals gang. the shooting took place in rascals gang territory. sergeant strasner testified that by shooting a rascals gang member in rascals gang territory, defendant would have increased his stature within his gang. based on such evidence, the jury reasonably could and murdered correa believing him to be a rascals gang member after correa fired his gun at defendant and then attempted to flee. accordingly, sufficient evidence supports people v. avila, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 701; people v. medina, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 919; people v. zamudio, supra, 43 cal.4th at pp. 357-358; people v. young, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 1181; people v. valdez, supra, 32 cal.4th at p. 104; people v. ugalino, supra, 174 cal.app.4th at p. 1064.) ii. defendant contends that the trial court erred in permitting sergeant strasner to this issue, and any claim that defense counsel provided ineffective assistance by failing to object is properly raised in a petition for writ of habeas corpus. a. background the prosecutor presented sergeant strasner with the following hypothetical facts: the streets dead-in the area, maybe say an echo park gang member that has a pass to be in the area 11 based on those hypothetical facts, the prosecutor asked sergeant strasner the for the benefit of, at the direction of or in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further or assison those facts. b. application of relevant principles evidence will not be reviewed on appeal in the absence of a specific and timely objection people v. benson (1990) 52 cal.3d 754, 786, fn. 7; people v. gutierrez (1993) 14 cal.app.4th 1425, 1432-1434 [failure to object in the trial court forfeited appellate review]; evid. code,  353.) defendant concedes that defense counsel forfeited. (people v. benson, supra, 52 cal.3d at p. 786, fn. 7; people v. gutierrez, supra, 14 cal.app.4th at pp. 1432-1434; evid. code,  353.) defendant argues that if this issue was forfeited, then he received ineffective n direct appeal, the conviction must be affirmed unless there could be no satisfactory explanation. people v. anderson laim of ineffective (people v. mendoza tello (1997) 15 cal.4th 264, 266-267.) the record on appeal does not reveal the reason defense counsel failed to object to sergdefense counsel may have concluded that any objection would lead to further clarification by the witness or that he could successfully impeach the witness on cross- 12 examination. there is no way of discerning if defense counsel had a tactical reason for not objecting. any claim of ineffective assistance with respect to the claimed deficiency is better suited to a petition for writ of habeas corpus. (people v. anderson, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 569; people v. mendoza tello, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 267.) iii. although not clear, defendant appears to contend that the trial court should have lived given the type of wounds correa suffered because the prosecution failed to establish failure to object tdefense counsel provided ineffective assistance by failing to object is properly raised in a petition for writ of habeas corpus. a. background cases involving the type of wounds suffered by mr. corea [sic], dr. ribe was unable to answer or even give an estimate. he was unable to give any basis for his opinion at all. in fact the 15 seconds he quoted as the maximum that a person would live after the would [sic] suffered by corea [sic], would have allowed a person running at a moderate pass [sic] of 15 miles an hour, to cover a distance of 190 feet. the court on its own motion should have excluded the t on direct examination, dr. ribe testified that the extensive injuries correa injuries, both persons had been found to run a very short distance. injuries of the type correa suffered 13 injured had run was 50 feet, although the distance usually was far shorter. defense on cross-seconds. defense counsel asked dr. ribe the number of cases he had seen with injuries similar could not give you a number. i would guesswant dr. ribe to guess and asked if dr. ribe could provide an estimate. dr. ribe respwould r b. application of relevant principles a trial court has no sua sponte duty to exclude evidence. (people v. montiel qualifications forfeits appellate review of the issue. (people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 321; people v. lewis (2008) 43 cal.4th 415, 503.) similarly, objections to the admissibility of expert witness testimony must be raised in the trial court or forfeited. (people v. gutierrez, supra, 14 cal.app.4th at pp. 1432-1434; evid. code,  353.) as de this issue on appeal. (people v. bolin, supra, 18 cal.4th at p. 321; people v. lewis, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 503; people v. gutierrez, supra, 14 cal.app.4th at pp. 1432-1434; evid. code,  353.) 14 that if this issue was ense counsel may have believed that he could successfully impeach dr. ribe on cross-examination or that the prosecution might produce a stronger expert witness. there is no way of discerning if defense counsel had a tactical reason for not objecting. any claim of ineffective assistance with respect to the claimed deficiency is better suited to a petition for writ of habeas corpus. (people v. anderson, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 569; people v. mendoza tello, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 267.) iv. juror no. 9 defendant contends that defense counsel provided ineffective assistance by failing to challenge for cause juror no. 9 on the ground that the juror expressed fear of gangs and defendant and by failing to ask the trial court to survey the other jurors to determine counsel claim is properly raised in a petition for writ of habeas corpus. a. background on the second day of testimony, the trial court discussed in chambers with juror had never had such a trial court explained to the juror that the bailiff and it kept a close eye on everyone in the courtroom and promptly addressed contact with jurors by anyone. juror no. 9 stated that he was dealing with the sudden death of his brother-in-law. he was the only person available to help his sister and her three children. also, the murder scene was in the general area of his home and where he conducted his daily 15 about how persons associated with the casewould react to a guilty or not guilty verdict. likepeople who are here. [] whatever verdict we give, i do not know how they might take it or how long, however long this might taconcern. i just wanted to share through right now an the trial court suggested that it speak with juror no. 9 again at the end of the trial s concern about being recognized in the community. contacted much less injured. the trial court asked the prosecutor and defense counsel if they had any questions for juror no. 9. neither had any questions. juror no. 9 stated that he was not trying to get out of jury duty and would appreciate speaking with the trial court at the time for deliberations. court said to the consider whether he should continue at that point unless ei 16 your idea is a good idea. let him sit there question is whether, now that you have been here for eight days and sort of seen how things go and you have had a chance to think about it, whether you think you can deliberate with the other jurors and base your verdict on the evidence and the law and not any fear and not this very tragic situation with your brother-in-law. [] do you think you at the beginning of trial he had some trepidation about who would be in the audience to support defendant, but noticed that it was only i just feel a little bit more at ease, the trial court asked the juror if he felt as if he could proceed. bit at the beginning, b. application of relevant principles examining a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel (see people v. wright (1990) 52 cal.3d 367, conduct falls within the wide range of reasonable professional assstrickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 689 [80 l.ed.2d 674, 694, 104 s.ct. 2052].) ound of inadequate counsel only if the record on appeal affirmatively discloses that counsel had people v. zapien (1993) 4 people v. lucas (1995) 12 cal.4th 415, 436-437.) 17 the record on appeal does not affirmatively disclose that defense counsel did not have a rational tactical purpose for declining to challenge juror no. 9. defense counsel may have had a tactical reason for not challenging the jurordefense counsel may have notwithstanding his anxiety over serving as a juror. also, defense counsel may have believed that juror no. 9 was a more favorable juror than any of the alternate jurors. people v. lucas, supra, 12 cal.4th at pp. 436-437.) any claim with respect to defense cin a petition for writ of habeas corpus. (people v. mendoza tello, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 267.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. mosk, j. we concur: armstrong, acting p. j. kriegler, j. 