filed 8/12/13 p. v. hunter ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. adrian deon hunter, defendant and appellant. b239980 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va117610) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, raul a. sahagun, judge. affirmed. joshua l. siegel, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., supervising deputy attorney general, and robert c. schneider, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________________ 2 the jury found defendant and appellant adrian deon hunter guilty in counts 1-4 of second degree robbery (pen. code,  211)1 and in count 6 of street terrorism ( 186.22, subd. (a)). defendant was found not guilty of second degree robbery in count 5. with respect to counts 1-4, the jury found true allegations that defendant committed the charged crimes for the benefit of a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)) and a principal was armed with or used a firearm ( 12022, subd. (a)(1), 12022.53, subds. (b) & (e)). the jury also found that a principal was armed with a firearm in count 6. following a bench trial, the trial court found defendant suffered a prior strike under the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)), suffered a prior serious felony conviction ( 667, subd. (a)), and served a prior prison term ( 667.5, subd. (b)). with respect to count 1, the trial court imposed the middle term of 3 years, doubled pursuant to the three strikes law, with a 10-year enhancement for the gang allegation, and an additional year pursuant to section 12022, subdivision (a)(1), for a total of 17 years. the court also imposed and stayed an additional 10 years pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (e). an identical concurrent sentence was imposed as to count 3. as to both counts 2 and 4, the trial court imposed consecutive terms of five years four months in state prison, calculated as follows: one year in state prison (one-third the middle term of three years), doubled pursuant to the three strikes law, with a three years four months enhancement for the gang allegation (one-third of ten years), and an additional term of four months pursuant to section 12022, subdivision (a)(1) (one-third of one year). the court also imposed and stayed a term of three years four months pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (e) (one-third of ten years). in count 6, defendant was sentenced to the upper term of three years, with an additional year for the firearm allegation (12022, subd. (a)(1)) for a total of four years. the sentence was stayed pursuant to section 654. 1 unless otherwise indicated, all statutory references are to the penal code. 3 codefendants maurice lotten, ameen bryant, and dashawn combs2 were also charged in connection with the robberies. lotten negotiated a settlement prior to trial by entering a plea of no contest in counts 2-5. defendant and bryant were tried together, with bryant charged in counts 1, 4, and 6. the jury was unable to reach a verdict with respect to bryant on counts 1 and 4, but he was found guilty in count 6. combs was charged in counts 1-4, but the record fails to indicate the disposition of the charges against him. defendant contends he was prejudiced by: (1) admission of a minute order enhancement as a basis for expert testimony; (3) admission of testimony regarding uncharged robberies; (4) instructional error; and (5) cumulative error. we affirm the judgment. facts3 count 1robbery on october 2, 2010, at approximately 9:00 p.m., lucy ramirez saw three men in hooded sweatshirts enter the shell gas station in paramount, where she worked as a cashier, and jump over the counter. the tallest man, a black male, held a gun to her head and told her to open the cash register. ramirez did so, and he took the money from the register. the other two men were also looking for money. the robbers also took a carton of cigarettes and then left the store. interviewed ramirez after the robberies and showed her a series of 10 to 15 photos of 2 codefendants are not parties to this appeal. 3 because defendant did not call witnesses on his behalf, the statement of facts reflects the evidence as presented by the prosecution at trial. 4 various men. ramirez identified defendant as the lookout and identified bryant as the described his actions during the robbery. ramirez was positive when she made her identifications and demonstrated no difficulty in discerning the different robbers. ramirez identified defendant and bryant at the preliminary hearing, but at trial, she could not identify either of the men. ramirez testified that she had told the truth when interviewed by detective davis, and she was positive the men she identified in the photographs were the man with the gun and the lookout. counts 2 and 3robbery man gurang testified that he and jalal aranki were working as cashiers at a 7-eleven store in artesia on october 2, 2010. at approximately 9:45 p.m., three or four open it. aranki opened his register, and the robbers took the money. one of the robbers told gurang to open his register. gurang did not want to open it, so he pushed the wrong ran. aranki testified that three black men entered the store on the night of the incident. one of the men produced a gun and asked for money from his cash register. aranki opened the register, and the two other men took money from the register drawer. aranki man, but the robber quickly pulled it up. one of the robbers took some cigarette lighters, and they left the store quickly. detective davis interviewed gurang and aranki on october 12th or 13th. he showed them a book of photos that included bryant, but not defendant. neither gurang nor aranki was able to make an indentification. they looked at the photos in a cursory manner and pushed them back toward detective davis as if they were not interested. 5 detective davis returned two weeks later and showed gurang and aranki more photos, this time including a photo of defendant. gurang identified defendant and codefendants bryant and lotten. gurang told detective davis he was 80 percent sure of his identifications of lotten and bryant and 60 percent sure of his identification of defendant. he told detective davis that lotten was the robber with the gun, bryant took the money, and defendant was the lookout. aranki identified defendant as the man who stood by the door, and lotten as the man with the gun. he was positive that his identification was correct and told detective davis he did not identify anyone the first time davis showed him photos because he was afraid. at trial, gurang testified that a detective showed him photos after the robbery, but he cothe detective. he denied assigning a percentage value of his certainty as to the identification of the robbers at the interview. gurang was not able to identify any of the robbers at trial. gurang viewed surveillance footage of the robbery captured by a video camera installed at the store and identified it as accurately depicting the robbery. the video was played for the jury. aranki did not identify defendant as one of the robbers at trial but said he thought bryant was involved in the incident. he confirmed that he was able to identify two of the robbers the second time he met with detective davis. he denied telling detective davis that he had not identified the robbers in the first interview because he was scared. aranki described the robber with the gun as being tall, and the robber wearing a green hood as one in the green hood. following the robbery and took the video into evidence. he testified that at the scene the other two men 6 count 4robbery baljit johal was working as a cashier at cerritos market on october 2, 2010. at approximately 10:00 p.m., three black men entered the market wearing hoodies. two of the men approached johal and told him to open the cash register. johal opened the register but then closed it when the men tried to take the money. when johal closed the register, one of the robbers, who had a gun, hit him on the head with something, but johal was unsure if it was the gun. he shouted for his grandfather, who was working in the johal found his necklace on the floor. at approximately 9:45 p.m., deputy ivan delatorre responded to the robbery call at the 7-eleven store in artesia. while he was at the 7-eleven, he received another call informing him of a robbery at the cerritos market. he responded to the call at the cerritos market, and after speaking with johal, he determined the account of the robbery at the cerritos market sounded similar to other recent robberies. johal told deputy delatorre the robber with a gun hit him on the head with the gun when he closed the cash register drawer. johal also recounted the robber pulled his necklace from his neck as the robbers left. while deputy delatorre was at the market, johal found the necklace on the floor, near the location where it had been pulled from his neck. detective davis interviewed johal on two occasions after the robbery and showed him photographs of suspects. during the first interview, johal identified codefendants bryant and lotten as the robbers. the photos did not include defendant. at the second bryant and lotten. johal stated that lotten was the robber with the gun, and bryant demanded money. detective davis initially testified johal s-examination, he corrected himself and testified that johal told him the men as a look out. johal told detective davis he 7 johal did not identify any of the robbers at trial. he could not remember the details of his identification of suspects with the police, but he testified that his memory of the events and the identifications of the perpetrators was fresher when he spoke with the police, and that he told the police the truth. count 6street terrorism officer armando leyva of the los angeles police department testified as a gang expert on the avalon gardens crips (avalon crips). avalon crips is a criminal street gang that engages in burglary, robbery, assault with deadly weapons, homicide, narcotic sales, and possession of firearms. officer leyva was familiar with defendant, lotten, and bryant as active members of the gang. he viewed videos of robberies around los angeles county from the end of september to the first part of october and identified members of the avalon crips in the videos. based on his experience with the avalon crips, if officer leyva were asked to identify a committing robberies with lotten, he would identify defendant. defendant and his father defendant is of the correct physical descriptiowithin the avalon crips. officer leyva opined the robberies would benefit the gang by experience, it is common for witnesses to gang crimes to not want to testify or to identify gang members out of fear of retaliation. discussion in counts 2-5, 8 committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang and with the specific intent to further criminal conduct by gang members. the minute order was offered to establish a predicate offense by avalon crips members for purposes of the gang enhancements and benefit the gang. officer leyva briefly referred to the minute order as a basis for his testimony and mentioned that he believed the crimes were the ones charged in the present case. the prosecutor also referred to the minute order in his closing argument, but the jury was promptly admonished not to consider the minute order for improper purposes and was instructed as to the same. defendant contends admission of the minute order was an abuse of discretion because it was highly prejudicial and had minimal probative value under evidence code section 352. defendant argues admission of the minute order prejudiced him because it provided conclusive evidence the robberies were committed and were gang-related. he further asserts the jury found him guilty by association with lotten. alternately, defendant contends that, even if we conclude the claim was forfeited because he failed to raise it below, such failure constitutes ineffective assistance of counsel and must be reviewed in that context. we hold the issue was forfeited because counsel failed to object on the specific grounds now raised (see people v. jones (2012) 54 cal.4th 1, 61) but conclude that, criminal defendants[, and reviewing courts] presume that counsel rendered adequate assistance and exercised reasonable professional judgment in making significant trial people v. holt (1997) 15 cal.4th 619, 703, citing strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 690 (strickland); people v. freeman (1994) 8 cal.4th 450, 513.) under either the state or federal constitution, a defendant must establish (1) that defense cou 9 competent attorney, and (2) that there is a reasonable probability that defendant would have opeople v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 1003 (cunningham), citing strickland, supra, at pp. 687-694; see williams v. taylor (2000) 529 u.s. 362, 391-394; people v. kraft (2000) 23 cal.4th 978, 1068 (kraftstrickland, supra, at p. 694]; people v. riel cunningham, supra, at p. 1003.) ses the issue [of ineffective assistance of counsel] on appeal record on appeal fails to show why counsel acted or failed to act in the instance asserted to be ineffective, unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or unless there simply could be no satisfactory explanation, the claim must be rejected on cunningham, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 1003, citing kraft, supra, 23 cal.4th at pp. 1068-1069; people v. mendoza tello (1997) 15 cal.4th 264, 266-267.) the decision to object to the admission of evidence is tactical in nature, and a failure to object will seldom establish ineffective assistance. (people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 215.) given the presumption of reasonableness proper to direct appellate review, our supreme appropriately decided in a habeas corpus proceeding. [citations.] the defendant must people v. michaels (2002) 28 cal.4th 486, 526.) in general, evidence is admissible if its probative value is not substantially jury. (evid. code,  352.) (people v. samaniego (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 1148, 1167.) nevertheless, gang evidence he case other than character, is 10 ibid.) (people v. garceau (1993) 6 cal.4th 140, 177, overruled on another ground in people v. yeoman (2003) 31 cal.4th 93, 117-118.) evidence is not unduly prejudicial solely rove guilt is evidence which uniquely tends to evoke an emotional bias against the defendant as an individual and which has very little effect on the issues. in applying section 352, people v. karis (1988) is relevant, not unduly people v. albarran (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 214, 224-ruling for abuse of discretion and reverse only if (people v. leonard (1983) 34 cal.3d 183, 189 (leonard).) here, there is nothing in the four corners of the record to indicate defense enough to reject the issue on direct appeal. moreover, even if we were to conclude the issue was preserved for appeal, defendant fails to establish constitutionally deficient representation because the minute order was not more prejudicial than probative. in this case, there was little room for doubt the robberies occurred or that lotten was one of the perpetrators. four witnesses testified the robberies occurred, and one of the robberies was captured by a security video camera. three witnesses identified lotten as the robber with the gun. the minute order provided no link between defendant and lotten, nor did it connect defendant to the crime. absent these links, it only aided the avalon crips had a history of criminal activity, which was a permissible purpose, as we 11 established through officer through any information contained in the minute order. to the extent that admission of the minute order could have impacted defendant, it would have affected only issues that were otherwise well-established and, thus, would not have prejudiced defendant. committed and were gang-related could only be used for the purpose of supporting the purpose. it was also instructed under judicial council of california criminal jury instructions (2011-nce of gang activity only for the limited purpose of deciding whether: [] [the defendant acted with the intent, purpose, and knowledge that are required to prove the gang-related (crime[s]/[and] enhancement[s] . . . charged(;/.)] [] or [] [the defendant had a motive to commit the crime[s] charged[.]] [] . . . [] [[the jury was also permitted to] consider this evidence when [] evaluat[ing] the credibility or believability of a witness and when [] consider[ing] the facts and information relied on by an expert witness in reaching his or court. (people v. archer (1989) 215 cal.app.3d 197, 204.) absent some affirmative indication in the record to the contrary, we presume that it did so here. (people v. holt (1997) 15 cal.4th 619, 662.) for these reasons, we conclude, considering the record as a whole, it is not reasonably probable that without the error a result more favorable to defendant would have occurred. (see cunningham, supra, 25 cal.4th at pp. 1003-failure to object did not constitute ineffective assistance. defendant next contends his constitutional right to confront witnesses was violated 12 him of the opportunity to cross-examine lotten. he claims that use of the minute order as basis evidence for gang expert testimony implicated the confrontation clause because it was offered for the truth of the matter asserted. we find no merit in this contention. assuming the minute order was testimonial, ements for purposes crawford [v. washington (2004)] 541 u.s. [36,] 59 [(crawford)], citing tennessee v. street (1985) 471 u.s. 409, people v. thomas (2005) 130 cal.app.4th 1202, 1210.) as defendant concedes, current california precedent holds basis evidence is not offered for the truth of the matter asserted. (ibid.) regardless, even if offered for its truth, the minute order was properly admitted as a certified court record memorializout-of-court statements made by lotten.4 st., 6th amend.) testimonial statements may only be admitted where they are not offered for their truth, or where the witness is unavailable and the defendant has had an opportunity to cross-examine the witness. (crawford, supra, 541 u.s. at pp. 61-68.) in california, an expert may testify on the basis of otherwise inadmissible evidence as long as it meets threshold reliability requirements, and the expert may describe the evidence that is the basis for his opinion. (people v. gardeley (1996) 14 cal.4th 605, 618 (gardeley); evid. code  801, subd (b).) this is in accordance with 4 defendant alternately contends that if this court determines trial counsel failed to object on this basis below, thereby forfeiting the claim on appeal, such failure constituted ineffective assistance of counsel and must be reviewed. because the attorney general does not argue that the claim was forfeited, we consider the claim on the merits without analyzing the ineffective assistance claim. regardless, because we conclude the minute deficient. 13 rule 703 of the federal rules of evidence (28 u.s.c.).5 on testimony from a gang expert, subject to the limitations applicable to expert testimony generally, is proper. [citation.] such an expertlike other expertsmay give opinion people v. vy (2004) 122 cal.app.4th 1209, 1223, fn. 9.) california courts have traditionally held that basis not for its truth. (gardeley, supra, at pp. 618-619; people v. hill (2011) 191 cal.app.4th 1104, 1131; see also auto equity sales, inc. v. superior court (1962) 57 cal.2d 450, 455.) because the minute order was basis evidence not offered for its truth, the confrontation clause was not implicated. moreover, we agree with the prosecution that, to the extent the minute order could conviction and did not deprive defendant of his constitutional right to confrontation. a certified msection 452.5 and has been held admissible to prove a predicate offense within the meaning of section 186.22. (people v. duran (2002) 97 cal.app.4th 1448, 1459; evid. code,  452.5, subsubdivision (a) of section 1530 is admissible . . . to prove the commission, attempted commission, or solicitation of a criminal offense, prior conviction, service of a prison 5 federal rules of evidence, rule 703 an opinion on facts or data in the case that the expert has been made aware of or personally observed. if experts in the particular field would reasonably rely on those kinds of facts or data in forming an opinion on the subject, they need not be admissible for the opinion to be admitted. but if the facts or data would otherwise be inadmissible, the proponent of the opinion may disclose them to the jury only if their probative value in helping the jury evaluate 14 term, or upon which an expert may ordinarily rely. the only issue for cross-examination would be established. (evid. code,  452.) accordingly, we conclude that admission of the minute order as a basis for expert testimony was not an abuse of discretion. (see people v. taulton (2005) 129 cal.app.4th 1218, 1223-acts and events relating to convictions and imprisonments . . . are not prepared for the purpose of providing evidence in criminal trials or for determining whether criminal charges should issue . . . [and] are beyond the scope of crawford evidence of uncharged robberies before trial, defense counsel objected to evidence of uncharged robberies committed by avalon crips gang members as unnecessary to ththat would be used toward the proving of robbery counts in this case. so i am going to the prosecutor then inquired about evidence that the gang in general was robberies, similar type robberies, in other jurisdictions that are not before this court. but, again, they were all within l.a. county. but it was the same gang that was perpetuating 15 is showing they committed this [sic] robberies because they committed other robberies elsewhere, but you also want to show that these robberies were committed for the benefit the court did not allow the evidence for any other purpose. the prosecutor assured the trial court he would speak to his expert to be certain he did not reveal that he believed defendants also committed the uncharged robberies. a few days into trial, the prosecution sought to introduce a photo of defendant obtained in the investigation of the uncharged robberies to show identity, motive, and a common scheme or plan. defense counsel objected, and the trial court denied the request stating it had already ruled on the issue. the prosecution elicited testimony from officer keith soboleski that he personally investigated other similar robberies committed by the avalon crips and shared the information with officer leyva.6 defendant contends the trial court abused its discretion under evidence code section 352 by allowing the prosecution to elicit testimony regarding the facts of the other uncharged robberies. he asserts that in the event we conclude the claim was forfeited, we should review it regardless because trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance by failing to object below. we agree with the prosecution that the claim was forfeited because trial counsel limitations. we further conclude trial counsel did not render ineffective assistance because the the evidence of prior crimes committed by the avalon crips is more probative than prejudicial. the evidence was highly relevant to establish whether the crimes committed 6 the prosecution did not qualify officer soboleski as a gang expert. 16 were for the benefit of the gang, because it tended to show both that the avalon crips were involved in recent crime sprees and were involved in the specific types of crimes charged. from this evidence, the jury could infer that the present crimes, which were similar in nature, were committed to benefit the gang. defendant was not unfairly prejudiced because no evidence was offered that he was personally involved in the uncharged crimes. the fact of the uncharged crimes alone did not tend to prove defendant was a member of the avalon crips alleged to have been involved in the crimes at issue. independent evidence was offered to establish defendant was an active avalon crips member and was one of the members who participated in each of the specific crimes charged. additionally, officer include more detail than necessary to establish the crimes occurred and were committed assistance. aiding and abetting instruction defendant next contends the trial court erred in failing to give an aiding and did not directly perpetrate the robberies but instead aided and abetted by acting as a lookout. defendant asserts this error allowed the jury to convict him without proof beyond a reasonable doubt he committed all the elements of the charged offenses in violation of his rights to due process and a jury trial. of law that are commonly or closely and openly connected to the facts before the court more aiding and abetting theory of liability must be given when such derivative culpability 17 people v. delgado (2013) 56 cal.4th 480, 488.) n of a crime, . . . whether they directly commit the act constituting the offense, or aid and abet in its commission of a crime when he or she, (i) with knowledge of the unlawful purpose of the perpetrator, (ii) and with the intent or purpose of committing, facilitating or encouraging commission of the crime, (iii) by act or advice, aids, promotes, encourages or instigates people v. cooper (1991) 53 cal.3d 1158, 1164.) here, several witnesses described defendant as the lookout. this evidence could support the theory that defendant aided and abetted the robberies, rather than directly perpetrating the crimes, such that the trial court erred in not giving the aiding and abetting instruction. (see delgado, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 488.) the error did not lower the under both state and federal constitutional standards. people v. beeman (1984) 35 cal.3d 547, in which it held that giving an incomplete aiding and abetting instruction required reversal. in beeman, the supreme court concluded caljic no. 3.01 inadequately defined aiding and abetting because it stated an aider and abettor unlawful purpose but did not explain he must have shared the perpetraid. at p. 560.) here, however, as in delgado, supra, 56 cal.4th 480, omission of an aiding and abetting instruction was harmless error because the instructions given expressly included an intent element. calcrim no. 1600 (robbery), as given to the jury, specifically must have been formed before or during the time he used force or fear. if the defendant did not form this required intent until after using the force or fear, then he did not commit 18 in this case, as in delgado, there is overwhelming evidence in the record that defendant was liable as a perpetrator. even if the jury had been instructed on aiding and abetting, it would have merely provided another conviction of a lesser charge. (people v. campbell (1994) 25 cal.app.4th 402, 413 [aiding and abetting is not a separate crime, but an alternate theory of liability].) thus, the error was harmless under both the standard articulated in chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24, (requiring reversal unless it appears beyond a reasonable doubt people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 (reversal required if a reasonable probability exists that the error affected delgado, supra, 56 cal.4th at pp. 489-492.) cumulative error defendant argues the errors alleged, even if not individually prejudicial, are prejudicial when taken together. there was no cumulative error, as any error was inconsequential. (see people v. hines (1997) 15 cal.4th 997, 1075.) 19 disposition the judgment is affirmed. kriegler, j. we concur: turner, p. j. mosk, j. 