filed 1/27/14 p. v. basey ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. tyreese basey, defendant and appellant. b239723 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la064105) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, michael k. kellogg, judge. affirmed. john alan cohan, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, mary sanchez, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant, tyreese basey, appeals his conviction for attempted unlawful driving or taking of a vehicle, unlawful driving or taking of a vehicle, hit and run (property), carjacking and attempted carjacking, with a prior prison term enhancement (veh. code,  664, 10851, 20002; pen. code,  664, 215, 667.5).1 he was sentenced to state prison for a term of ten years and six months. the judgment is affirmed. background viewed in accordance with the usual rule of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established the following. 1. count 2: attempted unlawful driving of the cortez vehicle. around 5:30 a.m. on january 9, 2010, jose cortez was returning home from work. as he was getting out of his car, he ran into defendant basey who asked for resisted and ran to the front of his apartment building and yelled for help. basey pushed cortez to the ground and hit him in the forehead while unsuccessfully 2. count 3: carjacking of uribe. later that same morning, rudy uribe was in a donut shop in van nuys. he had just ordered food for himself and his daughter. he placed his car keys on the table and was reading a book while waiting for his order. basey walked by vehiclasked about the truck, this time more angrily. uribe did not answer and basey 1 all further references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 3 car, which was parked next to the truck. uribe again s silver toyota avalon. 3. count 4: hit and run. between 7:00 and 7:30 a.m. that same morning, jesse arispuro, a security guard at the skirball cultural center museum, heard a loud boom and saw a silver car hit the curb, fly into the air, hit a tree, and lodge itself between a fence and the the car and walk past him. when arispuro asked if he needed help, basey said radioed him not to lose sight of basey, so arispuro followed him to the second floor of the parking structure. basey tried to enter a toyota truck, but it was locked. basey then tried tors locked. while heading toward a stairwell, basey ran into arispuro and his supervisor, who told basey they had called the police to report a hit-and-run. basey immediately fled. 4. count shortly thereafter, at about 8:00 a.m., christopher leonard was at home in encino when he heard the motor of his ford expedition running. the ford was in his driveway and the keys had been left on his dining room table, which was visible from the side yard. the house was unlocked at the time. leonard came vehicle into gear. when he was succeeded, he quickly backed out, sped down over and started banging on the ford again, telling basey to get out. basey put the ford into gear again and drove off. 4 5. . on the following day, los angeles police sergeant james kim responded to a 911 call reporting a burglary suspect in a laundromat on lenox ave. he found basey standing in his boxer shorts inside the laundromat. kim handcuffed him and asked for identification. basey directed him to a plastic shopping bag on when kim hit the key alarm, a ford expedition activated. basey was arrested. contention the trial court erred by restricting the proposed testimony of a defense psychiatric expert. discussion 1. background. in april 2010, basey was found incompetent to stand trial on the basis of psychiatric reports from dr. kory j. knapke and dr. kaushal sharma, and he was admitted to metropolitan state hospital (msh). knapke later submitted a second t concluded basey was now competent. on april 21, 2011, the trial court found basey mentally competent to stand trial. before the jury was empanelled, defense counsel raised the issue of whether dr. knapke could testify. the trial court expressed concern about the rather than the defense of not guilty by reason of insanity. defense counsel took 2 2 both carjacking and the unlawful taking or driving of a vehicle are specific intent crimes. 5 . defect from the date of arrest, that . . . he was under some . . . paranoid, delusional decided to testify and put his mental health at issue. subsequently, the court held a mid-although knapke was not present for this hearing, defense counsel made a record based on a letter he had received from knapke. defense counsel represented that, after reviewing the msh records, the police reports, and the transcript of a police interview from when basey was arrested, knapke concluded basey had been schizophrenic at the time of his arrest. knapke did not believe basey was malingering. defense counsel said he planned . . believe truly h that delusion may behavior, the medications that my client required to regain competen [basey] is schizophrenic and delusional at times. that he was suffering at the time he observed him in department 6 defense counsel then said he specifically asked knapke if someone who and not intending to take property 3 (italics added.) the trial court replied: . . . up until that and just changing the worfor which the testimony is being offered. [] if the testimony is being offered to [sections] 28 and 29 of the penal code. . . evidence . . . in general terms about schor not mr. basey was delusional or psychotic at the time these incidents occurred? without going into specific intent to do these things, just was he . . . exhibiting delusional psychotic behavior at the same thing as using synonyms and make up another word that would be identical to specific intent. . . . [b]ecause if 3 symptoms in . . . extreme cases someone with delusional thoughts or schizophrenia, what the symptoms would be and whether or not hypothetically a person can be . . . in this type of scenario that vehicles were in front [sic], that 7 ific intent. the doctors are added.) ruling, knapke would not testify. 2. standard of review. a trial court has broad discretion in determining whether to admit expert testimony and its ruling will be reversed on appeal only where the record reveals an abuse of discretion. (people v. mcalpin (1991) 53 cal.3d 1289, 1299 turbed on people v. ramos (2004) 121 cal.app.4th 1194, 1205 [trial court did not abuse its discretion in refusing to admit expert testimony regarding police interrogation techniques and false confessions].) 3. discussion. of the charged offenses and whether . . . there was evidence from which the jury might infer that appellant lacked the mental state required to commit the charged we disagree. letting knapke testify basey was delusional when he committed the charged acts would, in effect, have allowed knapke to testify basey on whether a defendant had the capacity to form a mental state that is an element of a charged offense or actually did form such intent is not admissible at the guilt 8 phase of a trial. [citation.] sections 28 and 29[4] permit introduction of evidence of mental illness when relevant to whether a defendant actually formed a mental state that is an element of a charged offense, but do not permit an expert to offer an opinion on whether a defendant had the mental capacity to form a specific (people v. coddington (2000) 23 cal.4th 529, 582, fns. omitted, disapproved on other grounds by price v. superior court (2001) 25 cal.4th 1046, 1069, fn. 13.) in people v. nunn (1996) 50 cal.app.4th 1357, nunn had been charged with assault with a deadly weapon and attempted murder after he fired his gun at several people for no apparent reason. dr. lipson, a clinical psychologist, examined nunn and concluded that as a result of vietnam war trauma he overreacted to stress and apprehension. lipson also concluded the encounter giving rise to the criid. at p. 1365.) the trial 4 section 28 states, in relevant evidence of mental disease, mental defect, or mental disorder shall not be admitted to show or negate the capacity to form any mental state, including, but not limited to, purpose, intent, knowledge, premeditation, deliberation, or malice aforethought, with which the accused committed the act. evidence of mental disease, mental defect, or mental disorder is admissible solely on the issue of whether or not the accused actually formed a required specific intent, premeditated, deliberated, or harbored malice shall not testify as to whether the defendant had or did not have the required mental states, which include, but are not limited to, purpose, intent, knowledge, or malice aforethought, for the crimes charged. the question as to whether the defendant had or did not have the required mental states shall be decided by the 9 inadmissible because it amounted tthe shooting. the court of asection 29 allows an expert to express any opinion, however specific and determinative of the mental issues involved, as long as he does so without using (people v. nunn, supra, 29 does not simply forbid the use of certain words, it prohibits an expert from offering an opinion on the ultimate question of whether the defendant had or did not have a particular mental state at the time he acted. an expert may not evade the restrictions of section 29 by couching an opinion in words which are or would be taken as synonyms for the mental states involved. nor may an expert evade section 29 by offering the opinion that the defendant at the time he acted had a state of mind which is the opposite of, and necessarily negates, the existence of the required id. at p. 1364.) nunn . . sections 28 and 29. . . allow the presentation of detailed expert testimony relevant to whether a defendant harbored a required mental state or intent at the time he acted. thus, in the present case it was permissible for dr. lipson to opine that appellant, because of his history of psychological trauma, tended to overreact to stress and apprehension. it was permissible for him to testify such condition could result in appellant acting impulsively under certain particular circumstances. dr. lipson could have at the fence and could have offered an opinion concerning whether that encounter was the type that mental condition. what the doctor could not do, and what the defense proposed he do here, was to conclude that appellant had acted impulsively, that is, without the intent to kill, that is, without express malice aforethought. the court acted 10 properly in excluding dr. lipsons opinion that appellant fired his weapon impulsivelypeople v. nunn, supra, 50 cal.app.4th at p. 1365, fn. omitted, italics added.) in the case at bar, the trial court properly indicated dr. knapke would have been allowed to testify basey suffered from schizophrenia, and to explain the symptoms and effects of that disorder. knapke could discuss the details of ons he had been diagnosis would typically experience, and opine that one such delusion would be messenger. on the other hand, the trial court properly precluded knapke from offering his opinion basey was in fact delusional when he was taking or trying to take the vehicles. such testimony could have been understood by the jury as basey lacked the requisite specific intent because he had been acting out of a delusion. basey cites people v. aris (1989) 215 cal.app.3d 1178, disapproved on other grounds in people v. humphrey (1996) 13 cal.4th 1073, 1086, as a case aris killed her husband while he slept. at trial, she wanted to present expert testimony on battered woman syndrome to support her self-defense claim. basey relies on the following portion of arisdr. walker to testify . . woman affected her perceptions of danger, its imminence, and what actions were does not violate section 29 as long as the expert does not express an opinion on the ultimate issue that defendant did or did not have a mental state required for a charged offense. [citations.] dr. at defendant was 11 (people v. aris, supra, 215 cal.app.3d at p. 1198, fn. omitted) dr. defendant had or did not have . . . malice aforethought . . . [citation.] since having an actual perception that one is in imminent danger negates malice aforethought [citation], we hold that dr. walker was properly prohibited from stating an opinion that defendant actually perceived that she was in imminent danger and needed to kill in self-people v. aris, supra, 215 cal.app.3d at pp. 1197-1198.) if anything, the reasoning in aris ruling here. the charged offenses, appellant was gripped by certain delusions, so long as his clear from the recor5 incidents amounted to expert evidence basey did not have the specific intent required to commit either carjacking or the unlawful taking of a vehicle. such testimony violates penal code sections 28 and 29. 5 . . he states that during his interview with detectives . . royal republic and is a joint heir with god. all things belong to god and he, suspect basey, can take whatever he wants but it was actually god taking those 12 the trial court did not abuse its discretion by restricting the scope of knap disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: croskey, j. aldrich, j. 