filed 10/2/12 p. v. banks ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. ronald d. banks, defendant and appellant. b239886 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba389718) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, william n. sterling, judge. affirmed. james c. huber, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 ronald d. banks appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial which resulted in his conviction of possession of cocaine base for the purpose of sale (health & saf. code,  11351.5) 1 and his admissions that he had suffered four convictions for the possession of certain unlawful substances for the purpose of sale within the meaning of health and safety code section 11379.2, subdivision (a), and served two prison terms within the meaning of penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b). the trial court sentenced banks to eight years in local custody. we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. facts. los angeles police officer dennis jarrott was assigned to the southwest division narcotics enforcement detail. since working in the narcotics department for the possession for sales. [he is] also a court-qualified expert . . . for . . . possession for sales to jarrott, to make crack cocaine, powdered cocaine is mixed with other ingredients, then heated until -half gram, are broken off the rock or disk and sold for varying amounts. the dealer usually weighs the piece of cocaine on a small scale, then wraps it in a baggie or clear plastic. in order to hide it from police, the seller will put the cocaine in a pocket, in their mouth, in their socks or dealers of cocaine are very often also users. sometimes, in order to determine the scales, baggies, . . . currency, . . . how much [money the individual has and in what] how much cocaine the individual has in his or her possession. in 1 banks was tried with a codefendant, markiss robinson, who was also charged with possession for sale of cocaine base in violation of health and safety code section 11351.5. the jury found robinson not guilty. 3 addition, if a police officer sees a lot of activity around a particular residence, the officer might obtain a search warrant and search the house or apartment and the individual living there for large amounts of narcotics. in october 2011, jarrott had been watching a duplex at 2920 south normandie avenue in los angeles county. he had noticed that, both during the day and at night, second story of the building. on the afternoon of october 6, 2011, jarrott and eight or nine other officers ter announcing that they were police officers there to three or four people were inside the apartment, one of whom was banks. while other officers detained other individuals, jarrott and one other officer detained banks, who was alone in the back bedroom, sitting on a chair next to a table. on the table, -white rock-like substance[s] that resembled rock -like when jarrott searched other roomshape form of [an] off-white rock-next to it, a digital scale with white residue on the top. next to the scale was a box of the shape of a circle, but with pieces broken off.2 in the 2 it was stipulated that the rock-like items, after being booked into evidence and being qualified to perform such narcotics testing conducted an instrumental analysis on ed the presence of cocaine in the form of cocaine base. of the two items tested, one weighed 1.29 grams and the second weighed 16.19 grams. 4 evidence. as he searched through the apartment, in addition to the rock-like objects, the scale, the currency, the phone, the baggies and the razor, jarrott found mail, including a statement from the department of water and power, addressed to ronald banks. nicholas gallego is a los angeles police officer assigned to the southwest narcotics enforcement detail. he was present for the serving of the search warrant at the bedroom[s], alongsijarrott. when the phone, a flip-phone taken from the table banks had been sitting next when gallego sadoor to the apartment. los angeles police officer david acee also participated in the search ofind robinson standing outside. just inside the apartment, by the door, acee handcuffed robinson. he and another officer, detective reyes, then searched robinson. the officers found no weapons or narcotics. reyes did, however, remove a cell phone from phone to in the meantime, robinson was taken into the bathroom where a number of officers, including jarrott, intended to strip search him. although the officers were able 5 prevented completion of the search.3 los angeles police officer armando mendoza assisted with the october 6, 2011 search of 2920 south normandie. mendoza was assigned to the narcotics enforcement apartment, mendoza and other officers attempted to locate individuals there to detain after the unsuccessful strip search, robinson was detained and seated in a chair. him, he plastic that contained five individually packaged clear off-container to officer jarrott. 4 officer gallego, who was standing robincould get a 20. the second caller did not believe that gallego was robinson and hung up. 3 4 the substance 6 with regard to the use of rock cocaine, officer jarrott testified that an average user would probably smoke approximately a half of a gram. the individual could smoke it in e anywhere from one to seven grams in a day. in october 2011, a gram of crack cocaine would likely sell for between $20 and $30. in general, buyers approached sellers and . jarrott came to this recovery of the large amount of narcotics, the baggies on the table used to package the denominations [and] in no particular order; [and] the phone calls that came in asking for . . had bing bing. [] approximately ten minutes [later], mr. robinson came to the back door. he was then detained. officer gallego then called back the last number that [had been] . . [jarrott] further believe that he was coming there to either get rock cocaine or . . . deliver the amount [of cocaine] he had[,] . . . the tools he had, such as the scale, . . . [and] the baggies he had on touching the drugs on the table or personally wrapping the drugs. he did not have any baggies in his hand. 7 b. defense evidence. ronald banks testified that he arrived at the apartment at 2920 south normandie at approximately 4:00 p.m. on october 6, 2011.5 he did not live at the apartment. he was there to visit a friend. banks lived at 58th and 55th avenues. police officers arrived at approximately 5:00 p.m. banks was coming out of the restroom, which is in the hallway between the living room and the back bedroom, when came running down the hall from the bedroom toward the living room and went to the door to see what had happened. she looked down the stairway, then called out to the four their weapons at the people in the living room. officer jarrott then came down the instructions and was then placed in handcuffs. he was escorted to the living room and -d 20 minutes. he was then placed under arrest and transported to the police station. at no time while the police were in the apartment was banks in the back bedroom sitting in a chair next to a table. banks indicated that the cell phone which had been sitting on the table in the bedroom did not belong to him. it belonged to the young lady who stayed at the apartment. banks did not know why anyone would call the phone and ask to speak to after the prosecutor showed to banks the department of water and power bill addressed to him at 2920 south normandie avenue, banks nevertheless insisted that he 5 banks admitted having prior convictions which involved moral turpitude. the convictions occurred in 1997 and 2001. 8 did not live there. he had stayed at the apartment for awhile in 2006 and he believed the bill must have been from that period of time. when it was pointed out to banks that he was in a house where there was close to 20 grams of rock cocaine, banks acknowledged that that was what the officers had testified to. however, banks knew that the closet where the officers said the cocaine was found had been lockdoor. when he was shown a photograph of rock cocaine, banks stated that he did not know what it was. although he had seen rock cocaine before, he was not certain that that was what was depicted in the photograph. when he was shown a photograph of the banks mthey had been placed in the same holding tank at the jail. banks had never seen robinson before that day. banks had been taken from the apartment before robinson arrived and robinson had not come to the apartment to buy from or sell to banks crack cocaine. 2. procedural history. following a preliminary hearing, a two-count information was filed on november 8, 2011. in count 1 it was alleged that, on or about october 6, 2011, ronald banks committed the crime of possession for sale of cocaine base in violation of health and safety code section 11351.5. it was further alleged as to count 1 that, on december 12, 1979, and pursuant to health and safety code section 11370.2, subdivision (a), banks had been convicted of one count of health and safety code section 11378.5, possession for sale of designated substances including phencyclidine and, between october 22, 1991 and october 31, 2001, banks had been convicted of three counts of possession for sale of cocaine base in violation of health and safety code section 11351.5. finally, as to count 1, it was alleged that, pursuant to penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b), banks suffered the following convictions for which he served prison 9 terms: on february 10, 2009, he was convicted of the attempted possession of a designated controlled substance in violation of penal code section 664 and health and safety code section 11350, and on april 10, 2008, he suffered a conviction for possession of a designated controlled substance in violation of health and safety code section 11350.6 tions. [he] could also have a court trial on th[em]. at that trial, [he] would have a right to confront and cross-examine all witnesses against [him] and the right to use the subpoena power of the court at no cost to [him] and the right to present a defense and testify as a part of that - banks admitted his prior convictions and prison terms. he admitted that, in 1979, he had suffered a conviction for health and safety code section 11378.5, possession for sale of a designated substance, including phencyclidine, and in 1991, 1997, and 2001, he had suffered convictions for health and safety code section 11351.5, possession for sale of cocaine base. in addition, banks admitted that pursuant to penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b), in 2001 he had been convicted of and served a prison term for the attempted possession of a designated controlled substance in violation of penal code section 664 and health and safety code section 11350; and in 2008, he had suffered a conviction for possession of a designated controlled substance in violation of health and 6 count 2 and the related allegations pertain to markiss robinson, who is not a party to this appeal. 10 after the people had rested and moved their exhibits into evidence, bcounsel made a motion for acquittal pursuant to penal code section 1118.1. the trial court denied the motion. banks testified on his own behalf. before he did so, his counsel argued that his prior convictions for health and safety code sections 11351.5 and 11378.5, possession for sale, were too remote to be used to impeach him in the present case. she argued that the most recent of those convictions occurred in 2001, which was well over 10 years ago. although banks did have prior convictions from 2008 and 2009, they were not for possession for sale, but for mere attempted possession and possession of controlled substances. after hearing the prosecutor argue that the convictions should be allowed, the trial court noted that the 2008 and 2009 convictions did not involve moral turpitude. the court then indicated that it did not think that 10 years was so long ago, particularly if one, like banks, had been born in 1957. the court did, however, determine that it would only allow the prosecutor to refenot too remote, b after being instructed by the court and hearing the parties argue, the jury began its deliberations on january 18, 2012. on january 19, the jurors requested a read back of 11 their deliberations. that same day, the jury foreperson indicated that the jury had reached verdicts on both counts. with regard to banksthe crime of possession for sale of cocaine base, in violation of health and safety code banks was sentenced on january 25, 2012. before the court imposed sentence, for possession for sale were more than 10 years old. counsel asserted that the fact that his most recent convictions were for an attempt to posses and simple possession of cocaine base should be considered mitigating factors. counsel asked that the court strike the health and safety code section 11370.2, subdivision (a) priors and impose the mid-term of four years on the current offense, plus one year each for the section 667.5, subdivision (b) priors, for a total sentence of six years. [had been] . . . a couple of rocks or something, then it would be different. but [the court thou of] the custody. the court awarded banks presentence custody credit for 112 days actually served and 112 days good time/work time, for a total of 224 days. banks was then ordered to pay a $240 restitution fine (pen. code,  1202.4, subd. (b)), a $30 criminal conviction assessment (gov. code,  70373), a $40 court operations assessment (pen. code,  1465.8, subd. (a)(1)) and a $50 laboratory analysis fee (health & saf. code,  11372.5). all remaining priors and allegations were stricken pursuant to penal code section 1385 banks filed a notice of appeal on march 13, 2012. 12 contentions after examination of the record, counsel filed an opening brief which raised no issues and requested this court to conduct an independent review of the record. by notice filed july 11, 2012, the clerk of this court advised banks to submit within 30 days any contentions, grounds of appeal or arguments he wished this court to consider. on august 1, 2012, banks submitted a letter brief in which he asserted his trial counsel had been ineffective. ctive assistance of trial counsel, we consider whether prevailing professional norms and whether the defendant suffered prejudice to a reasonable probability, that is, a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the people v. carter (2003) 30 cal.4th 1166, 1211; see strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 694.) if the defendant makes an insufficient showing with regard to either component, the claim must fail. (people v. holt (1997) 15 cal.4th 619, 703.) here, banks asserts there were inconsistencies in the testimony which counsel failed to address. although a review of the record indicates that there were several discrepancies in the ding banks. banks indicates his counsel was remiss in waiting until immediately before trial to indicate that she wished to file a motion to suppress evidence. however, the record formed the trial 13 waive time. although it appears that defense counsel could have obtained the necessary records sooner,7 the fact that she did not caused banks no prejudice. counsel for both defendants acted when there was still sufficient time to bring a motion to suppress evidence. that banks refused to waive time so that his counsel could do so is not banks asserts his counsel failed to perform simple discovery when she did not determine that the bill from the department of water and power addressed to banks at the south normandie avenue address was dated sometime in 2006. the assertion is without merit. the bill was discovered by officer jarrott. jarrott never testified as to the date on the bill. it was only banks who stated that the bill must have been from sometime during 2006. in addition, although banks asserts his counsel failed to determine the actual date of the bill, that may not have been the case. counsel may have looked at the bill and determined that it was current. this is particularly so since, when jarrott testified that he found the bill, counsel chose to ask no questions with regard to the date which appeared on it. at trialcredibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts on which that determination on appeal, an appellate court deciding whether sufficient evidence supports a verdict must determine whether the record contains substantial evidencewhich we repeatedly have described as evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid 7 the trial court indicated that the unsealed portion of the record would have been in addition, the trial court indicated that on the transfer sheet from judge search warrant affidavits . . . for impeachment purposes. trial judge must conduct 402 a 14 valuefrom which a reasonable jury could find the accused guilty beyond a reasonable appeal is not whether we ar any . (people v. hovarter (2008) 44 cal.4th 983, 996-997.) here, it is clear the jury reasonably chose not to believe banks when he testified that the bill was from 2006. banks argues that his counsel was also ineffective for failing to determine that the cell phone found on the table did not belong to him. initially, as stated above with regard to the department of water and power bill, there is nothing in the record to indicate that counsel did not, in fact, determine that the phone belonged to banks. all of the evidence indicates that it did and that is what the jury reasonably chose to believe. (see people v. hovarter, supra, 44 cal.4th at pp. 996-997.) banks indicates that, due to his prior record, his counsel assumed he would take a plea and thus failed to prepare for trial. a reading of the record does not support this claim. although the evidence against banks was strong, counsel thoroughly cross-examined each witness, pointing out inconsistencies in their testimony when it was of reasonableness under prevailing prperformance, banks suffered any prejudice. (see people v. carter, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 1211.) finally, banks asserts his counsel should have made a motion for a mistrial when the judge got sick.8 bajury found banks guilty of the charged offense, it found his codefendant, markiss robinson, not guilty. 8 after jury selection, but before the giving of testimony by the witnesses, the trial judge became ill and trial was postponed for four days. 15 review on appeal we have examined the entire record and are satisfied counsel has complied fully smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 278-284; people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, 443.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports kitching, j. we concur: croskey, acting p. j. aldrich, j. 