filed 6/18/13 p. v. arguello ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jean c. arguello, defendant and appellant. b239996 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya076083) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, lauren weis bernstein, judge. affirmed. james koester, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and eric j. kohm, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 jean c. arguello appeals from his conviction of first degree robbery, which was found to have been committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang under penal code section 186.22 (statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated). all of his arguments on appeal concern the admission of gang evidence. he contends the trial court abused its discretion in denying his motion to bifurcate the trial on the enhancement and his motion for new trial based on the gang evidence. he also argues his we find no basis for reversal and affirm. factual and procedural summary on the early morning of september 13, 2009, chad chapman was returning to his home in inglewood after work. he stopped to purchase newport cigarettes and again to were still sealed. about 4:00 a.m. he parked his car on the street and crossed toward the gate to his building. a car rapidly pulled up in front of his building and two men jumped out and headed toward him at a fast rate of speed. he was aware there was a driver in the car, but could not see whether the driver was male or female. chapman walked quickly toward the gate of his building in an effort to get away from the men, and he was able to open the security gate with a code. he was accosted by the men inside the gate. one had a knife and the other, identified by chapman as appellant, had a pump shotgun. the men started going through his pockets, taking the cigarettes and $116 (two $50 bills and some other bills). he handed a $50 bill to appellant. one or both of the men told chapman to 3 stomach and arm. appellant also looked at chahesitated about complying with a demand to turn over his watch, appellant jerked the shotgun toward chapman and asked the man with the knife whether he should shoot chapman in the leg. he had his finger on the trigger of the shotgun. the man with the chapman thought he was going to be shot and was so frightened he urinated on himself. he feared for his life. he gave up the watch and asked the men to let him go because he had a son upstairs. he repeated that he did not gang bang. appellant walked cell phone. chapman said they were for work, and he was allowed to keep them. chapman described the knife as having a black handle and a blade about 11 inches long. the neighborhood piru gang. the man with the knife afour times, and said this loudly enough to be heard from 17 to 20 feet away. chapman say that phrase. the two men got back into the vehicle in which they had arrived, a white toyota solara or dodge stratus. it drove away. chapman called 911. an officer responded within five minutes. shortly after that, the officer took chapman to make a field identification. chapman identified appellant and the car which was involved in the robbery. exhibit 2, a knife, had a blade and handle similar to the knife used in the robbery, but chapman did not recognize a jagged edge (a hook) on the top part of exhibit 2. he described the shotgun as silver and black and about three feet long. it was not recovered. chapman identified a sealed newport menthol box of cigarettes later recovered from the he had purchased just before the robbery. it appeared to be the same pack taken from him in the robbery. chapman also identified appellant from a lineup. 4 appellant was charged with one count of first degree robbery ( 211) with allegations that a principal personally used a firearm in the commission of the robbery and that it was committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang ( 12022.53, subds. (b) and (e)(1), 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)). his motion to bifurcate the gang end, marisela ricalde, testified to an alibi for the time of the robbery. appellant testified in his own defense and corroborated about the inaccuracies of eyewitness identification under conditions like those presented here. the jury found appellant guilty as charged and found the special allegations true. prison for an aggregate term of 23 years. he filed this timely appeal. discussion and evidence concerning, the gang enhancement. a. procedural background prior to trial, counsel for appellant moved to bifurcate the trial of the gang enhancement from the robbery because of prejudice from the gang evidence. the trial court cited people v. hernandez (2004) 33 cal.4th 1040 (hernandez) for the proposition scretion to bifurcate trial of the gang enhancement. the words that are used create fear. in fact, the alleged victim in this case said that he peed on himself. he makes the crime any more prejudicial than it would be for the jurors to hear that he pointed a long barrel shotgun and that the other guy had a knife. i just think it is so 5 gang intelligence unit testified as the prosecution gang expert. he had known appellant for several years and knew that he was an active member of the inglewood 13 gang with the moniker 1 detective tripp identified photographs depicting appellant with inglewood 13 tattoos and throwing inglewood 13 gang signs. at the time of this robbery, the inglewood 13 gang had between 400 and 500 members. when asked what kinds of crimes members of the inglewood 13 had committed in cases he had personally invpolice officers. they have shot at police officers. they have shot one of our police officers. they possess narcotics. they sell narcotics. they possess weapons. they transport weapons. they fight with the police. they fight with rival gang members. [] they have murdered rival gang members. they have attempted to murder rival gang members. they have attempted to murder police officers. there was no objection to this testimony. detective tripp testified that the primary activities of the inglewood 13 gang are murder, robbery, rapes, shootings, shooting and murdering police officers, gang graffiti and trying to kill their own members suspected of snitching. the inglewood 13 and 1 when detective tripp said appellant was a member of inglewood 13, the court on its own motion reread the admonishment to the jury that evidence of gang activity could be considered only for the purpose of deciding whether intent, purpose, and knowledge that are required to prove the gang-related crime and enhancements charged or the defendant had a motive to commit the crime charged. [] you may also consider this evidence when you evaluate the credibility or believability of a witness and when you contract [sic] facts and information relied on by an expert witness in reaching his or her opinion. you may not consider this evidence [for] any other purpose. you may not conclude from this evidence that the defendant is a person 6 neighborhood piru gangs are rivals whose territories overlap. there had been shootings g for recognition, usually a violent act against a rival member. more recognition is gained from crimes committed against gang rivals or police officers. the reputation of a gang is important because if a gang is perceived as weak, it will be targeted by other gangs for acts of violence and taking over territory. detective tripp explained that gangs commit neighborhood will be afraid to call the police. crimes are committed openly to instill fear and intimidation in rivals and citizens at large. this is true for the inglewood 13 gang. or she is trying to find out whether that depending on how you answer that question can lead to a violent act of assault or even detective tripp was given a hypothetical question based on the facts of this case.2 based on those facts, detective tripp opined that the robbery of chapman was committed for the benefit of the inglewood 13 gang. in his opinion, the perpetrators were looking for an nhp rival gang member because chapman was asked where he was from, 2 he was asked to assume that an african american male was walking home at 4:00 a.m. on september 13, 2009 when a white car pulled up, stopped, and turned off its lights. two hispanic men exited the vehicle, armed with a shotgun and a knife. the man with the shotgun approached the victim and asked where he was from while pointing the the man with cigarettes from the victim. he gave the man with the shotgun a $50 bill. both men up his shirt. he about turning over his watch, the man with the shotgun asked the other man whether he should shoot the victim in the leg. the man with the knife said he should not. after entered the vehicle and left the location. 7 chapman to lift his shirt to be examined meant that appellant and the man with the knife were looking for gang tattoos. if chapman had been a member of neighorhood piru, assaulting him would have benefited inglewood 13 by creating notoriety. based on the behavior of the man with the knife, in detmember of the inglewood 13, acting in concert with appellant. this supported his opinion that the crime was committed for the benefit of the gang. detective tripp testified that inglewood 13 member josa jara was convicted of carrying a loaded firearm in 2009. member david felix was convicted of an attempted murder of a perceived rival gang member, committed in june 2006. inglewood 13 member javier lara was arrested for carrying a loaded firearm in april 2006 and convicted of that crime. after the jury reached its guilty verdict, appellant moved for a new trial. although a number of grounds were raised, his only contention on appeal is that the court erred in refusing to bifurcate trial of the section 186.22 gang enhancement, and that this led to the testimony, which should have been excluded under evidence code section 352. at the hearing on the motion, defense counsel argued the gang evidence was not relevant to motive or intent. as a result, appellant contends, the trial was fundamentally unfair in violation of the due process clause of the fourteenth amendment to the united states constitution. at the hearing on the motion, defense counsel argued that apart from the robbery. the trial court disagreed with defense counsel. the court stated that it had reread portions of the trial transcript and noted that the first words by appellant during the tripp testified was consistent with behavior by gang members who wanted to increase 8 considered the evidence found in the car when appellant was detained, including the knife, and newport cigarettes in a sealed pack. in addition, appellant had a $50 bill in his possession when arrested. the court concluded that this was a gang related crime and that the gang evidence provided the motive for the crime. the motion was denied. b. bifurcation the trial court had discretion to bifurcate the trial of the section 186.22 enhancement. (hernandez, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 1048.) the supreme court, however, ion generally exists ibid.) it contrasted bifurcation of a gang enhancement from bifurcation of trial of the truth of an alleged prior conviction. it observed that the legsection 1025, subdivision (e).3 (idindication of a similar concern regarding enhancements related to the charged offense, such as a street gang enhancement. nothing in section 186.22 suggests the street gang enhancement should receive special treatment of the kind given prior convictions. ibid.) the hernandez court acknowledged bifurcation may be appropriate because the predicate offenses offered to establish a pattern of criminal gang activity need not be related to the charged offense or the defendant, and that evidence of such offenses may be unduly prejudicial, warranting bifurcation. (33 cal.4th at p. 1049.) it also recognized prejudicial, and of so little relevance to guilt, that it threatens to sway the jury to convict 3 section 1025, subdanswers that he or she has suffered the prior conviction, the charge of the prior conviction shall neither be read to the jury nor alluded to during trial, except as otherwise provided by law. 9 ibid.the evidence supporting the gang enhancement would be admissible at a trial of guilt, any inference of prejudice would be dispelled, and bifurcation would not be necessary. id. at pp. 10491050.) in hernandez, the court held that even if some of the evidence to prove the gang enhancement would be inadmissible to prove the charged offense, e.g. if it was excluded under evidence code section 352, bifurcation may still be denied. (hernandez, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 1050.) it noted countervailing factors favoring a unitary trial, e.g. avoiding confusing the jury with collateral matters. (ibid.cretion to deny bifurcation of a charged gang enhancement is similarly broader (ibid.) in hernandez, the court found that much of the gang evidence was relevant to the charged offense. the defendant told one of the robbery victims that she did not know whom she was dealing with and identified himself as a gang member. (id. at p. 1083, 10501051.) the court concluded that the defendant had attempted to use his gang status in demanding money from the victim. although one of the defendants did not coordinated effort by two gang members who used gang membership as a means to accomplish id. at p. 1051.) under these circumstances, the court reasoned usibid.) so fearful he urinated on himself. the fact that appellant and his accomplice checked him for tattoos supports the inference that they suspected chapman was a member of a rival gang, particularly since he fit the profile of members of neighborhood piru. finally, the and repeated it several times himself. although appellant did not make this statement, he had already interjected 10 gang connotations into the incident by asking chapman, in gang parlance, for his gang affiliation. as in hernandezony helped the jury understand the significance of this conduct, which was relevant to the fear element of robbery. under these circumstances, the gang evidence was relevant both to the crime charged and the enhancement, which were intertwined. we find no abuse of discretion in denial of the motion to bifurcate on this ground. in light of this conclusion, we need not discuss c. ineffective assistance appellant argues his trial counsel was ineffective in several respects. first, he complains that his attorney failed to bring a pretrial motion in limine to exclude detective officers. appellant contends his counsel should have been aware that detective tripp would give this evidence because this was his testimony at the preliminary hearing. appellant argues there is no rational excuse or tactical reason for this omission. he also complains that counsel failed to object and did not move to have this testimony stricken a criminal defendant has the right to effective assistance of counsel under the sixth amendment to the federal constitution and article i, section 15 of the california constitution. (people v. dunn ineffective assistances requires representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness; and (2) that there is a favorable to defendant would have resulted. [citations.] if the defendant makes an insufficient showing on either one of these components, the ineffective assistance claim people v. homick (2012) 55 cal.4th 816, 893, fn. 44, quoting people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th proceeding would have been different. a reasonable probability is a probability 11 sufficient to undermine confidence in re harris (1993) 5 cal.4th 813, 832833; see also people v. ledesma [(1987)] 43 cal.3d [171,] 216217; accord, strickland v. washington people v. simmons (2012) 210 cal.app.4th 778, 796.) if a defenda(strickland, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 697; people v. lawley (people v. king (2010) 183 cal.app.4th 1281, 1298.) that is the situation presented here. chapman identified appellant as the man who held the shotgun during the robbery on four separate occasions: at the field identification, the line-up, the preliminary hearing and trial. when appellant was detained shortly after the robbery, he was in possession of a $50 bill, which chapman testified was given to appellant by the accomplice, and a sealed cigarette pack of the brand taken from chapman. a knife resembling the one used in thwas riding at the time of his detention. in light of this overwhelming evidence of . . id. at p. 1303.) d. denial of new trial motion appellant argues we must review denial of his motion for new trial de novo, citing people v. albarran (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 214, 224, fn. 7. but the supreme court applies the deferential abuse-of-discretion standard. (people v. lightsey (2012) 54 cretion that a reviewing court will not disturb the ruling absent a ibid, quoting people v. thompson (2010) 49 cal.4th 79, 140.) elevant to what robbers. he also argues that the gang evidence, especially testimony that inglewood 13 12 members had murdered police officers, was so inflammatory that it should have been excluded as more prejudicial than probative under evidence code section 352. he also undermined by the testimony of defense expert robert shomer, who testified about the factors which render an eyewitness identification inaccurate. we have concluded that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying explain the fear element of the robbery. although the evidence of the inglewood 13 was inflammatory, it was not so prejudicial as to warrant a conclusion the trial court abused its discretion in denying the new trial motion. as the trial court observed, this was a gang-related crime. disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports epstein, p. j. we concur: willhite, j. manella, j. 