filed 10/16/12 p. v. guerra ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. fernando guerra, defendant and appellant. b239020 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma050224) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. kathleen blanchard, judge. affirmed. sally patrone brajevich, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, mary sanchez and johathan m. krauss, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * * * 2 a jury convicted appellant fernando guerra with one count of shooting at an inhabited dwelling, one count of shooting at an unoccupied vehicle, and two counts of assault with a firearm. the jury also found gang allegations to be true. appellant contends (1) the trial court abused its discretion when it ordered him to wear a stealth belt tying him to his chair; and (2) there was insufficient evidence to convict him of count 1, shooting at an inhabited dwelling. we affirm. statement of facts on august 27, 2010, at 6:30 p.m., leticia gonzalez (leticia) was in her car with her brother, agustin gonzalez (agustin),1 and her boyfriend, antonio harris, at the drive-through dairy on avenue i near the friendly village trailer park in lancaster. three male front seat passenger of the tan car. she also believed appellant might have been in the driver of the tan car. leticia was stopped at the dairy gas pumps and asked harris for gas money. right --- disrespecting leticia. an argument between harris, agustin, and carvajal ensued, and leticia eventually tried to get harris to stop arguing with carvajal because she saw that around the gas pumps one time, stopped, and the around leticia noticed the barrel of the gun that carvajal had pulled from under his seat. leticia told agustin and harris to get back into her car, and apologized to the men in the tan car. the tan car left the dairy and headed toward the direction of friendly village. 1 we refer to agustin and leticia by their first names rather than their surnames to avoid confusion between the two. we do not intend this informality to reflect a lack of respect. 3 at approximately 6:45 p.m., arturo gonzalez (arturo), no relation to leticia and agustin,2 saw a gold and tan car approach friendly village and heard the driver of the car --- minded street gang, of which arturo is a member. arturo knew that members of the crazy minded gang lived in the friendly village trailer park and they were enemies with other gangs in the antelope valley, including m.t.c. arturo ran when he heard the driver of the tan car yell because he was afraid he was going to be shot. leticia and harris were drishe saw arturo and another man running away from the same tan car she had seen at the drive-through dairy earlier. leticia noticed the men in the car were the same ones that had argued with her, agr. he ried to get in the her family as they were running away and fired the gun approximately four times. carvajal then got back in the car, and it drove off. around 9:side of the house. as leticia and harris were walking up to the house, they saw carvajal and three other men walking toward the house. when the men were about 26 or 27 feet -- it, but the truck 2 reflect a lack of respect, but use it for the sake of clarity. 4 . . . [] . . . [] . . . they were shooting at our house. if our truck -- our truck is slanted and our house is like this (indicating). so the tip of the truck . . . [] . . . [] [he shot at] the house, not towards. they were shooting, aiming toward after carvajal fired the shotgun, he and the other three men jumped over a little wall separating let deputies jeremi edwards and eric licciardi arrived at the scene shortly after the edwards recovered two shotgun shell casings, one from the gutter in front of the house, and the other from the street a short distance away. at approximately 9:00 p.m. that same night, deputy robert heins and his partner received a call over their radio regarding a shooting at friendly village and a description of the individuals involved and the tan car they were driving. at approximately 11:00 p.m., deputy heins saw the vehicle described in the report pulling into a driveway and witnessed carvajal and angelo hernandez get out and run into a house. deputy heins identified appellant as the driver of the vehicle. appellant and the front seat passenger got out of the car after carvajal and hernandez, but the deputies stopped appellant and the passenger before they could run. after ordering carvajal and hernandez to come out of the house to no avail, the deputies entered the house and found them, a shotgun, a rifle, and shotgun ammunition. appellant, carvajal, and hernandez were later taken to a field showup where witnesses identified carvajal and appellant as the men involved in the shooting earlier in the night. 5 procedural history the information charged appellant with one count of shooting at an inhabited dwelling (pen. code,  246),3 one count of shooting at an unoccupied vehicle ( 247, subd. (b)), and two counts of assault with a firearm ( 245, subd. (a)(2)). it alleged that the offenses were committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang. codefendants hernandez and carvajal were also charged in all four counts. they are not parties to this appeal. early in the trial, after the jury was seated but before opening statements, hernandez reached a mistrial as to carvajal. after the jury convicted appellant on all counts and found the gang allegations true, the court sentenced him to a total determinate term of 10 years eight months in state prison, followed consecutively by an indeterminate term of 15 years to life in state prison. appellant timely appealed. discussion 1. appellant contends that the trial court committed prejudicial error when it ordered him to wear a stealth belt restraining him to his chair during trial. because the trial court did not follow the standard our supreme court has set out for stealth belt restraints (people v. cox (1991) 53 cal.3d 618, 651(cox)), we conclude the trial court erred. however, we find the error was harmless. we therefore decline to reverse his conviction on this basis. a. background right before the trial started, the trial court stated its intention to have appellant, carvajal, and hernandez stealth belted to their seats throughout the trial. the belt strapped appellant and his codefendants to their seats but was not a stun belt. the court explained the chair behind [the de 3 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 6 codefendantuncle had approached and intimidated a witness inside the courthouse. another witness was waiting for the bus outside the courthouse after testifying at an earlier hearing when she was attacked and called a snitch by three female hispanics. additionally, the court noted that hernandez had three disciplinary reports stemming from his time in county jail, and carvajal had a citation in the county jail for insubordination. the court also noted the allegations and the length of time each defendant was facing as factors in its decision. all three defendants objected to the stealth belting. after hernandez accepted a plea agreement, leaving just carvajal and appellant on u can still see -- . . to the extent you can see the belt from the front, it looks lisimply a black strip. [] . . . the restraint part of [the belt] is not in any way visible to the jurors in this case. it is a restraint that is welded to the bottom seat portion of the chair ing back in. their chairs -- b. analysis of discretion. (people v. duran cannot be subjected to physical restraints of any kind in s presence, (id. at pp. 290-291.) announced intention to which disrupts or would disrupt the judicial process if unrestrained . . . . . . must appear as a matter of record . . . cox, supra, 53 cal.3d 618, 651.) 7 that a defendant has been charged with a violent crime does not establish a sufficient threat of violence or disruption to justify physical restraints during trial, nor does a courthouse layout establish such. (people v. seaton (2001) 26 cal.4th 598, 652 (seaton) [trial court abused its discretion in shackling defendant when shackling was based on the nature of the charged crime (violent murder) and the fact that the courtroom door was less the defendant will engage in nonconforming conduct. (ibid.) thus, the mere fact that the defendant is a prison inmate, standing alone, does not justify the use of physical restraints. (people v. miller (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 1109, 1114.) in the case at bar, there was no showing of a manifest need for restraints with respect to appellant. there was no evidence that he had been unruly, announced an intention to cox, supra, 53 cal.3d at p. 651.) evidence of his nonconforming conduct while in jail did not establish an individualized suspicion as to appellant. (seaton, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 652.) moreover, there was no evidence that he had intimidated the witnesses or directed someone and the fact that the courtroom might have been small were insufficient to establish a manifest need. (ibid.; compare people v. stankewitz (1990) 51 cal.3d 72, 96-97 [manifest need for restraints when defendant had previously attempted to escape and continued to express plans to escape, had been violent with his attorney, had been violent with other inmates, and had threatened the trial judge and officers].) accordingly, the trial court abused its discretion in imposing the stealth belt on appellant. still, the error was harmless and does not require reversal. (seaton, supra, 26 cal.4th at pp. 652-653 [concluding that the defendant failed to show prejudice and reversal was not e have consistently held that courtroom shackling, even if error, was harmless if there is no evidence that the jury saw the restraints, or that the shackles impaired (people v. anderson (2001) 25 cal.4th 543, 596.) that the jury could see the restraint, the court disagreed, stating that the stealth belt looked 8 like a belt one would wear with pants, to the extent the jury could see it at all. there was no evidence that the jury understood the belt to be a restraint. furthermore, appellant offers no evidence that the belt impaired his ability to testify or participate in his defense. under any standard of prejudice, the use of the belt did not prejudice appellant. ting at an inhabited dwelling appellant argues that the evidence was insufficient to convict him of shooting at an inhabited dwelling because the evidence showed that the shooter targeted the chevy truck, not the house. we disagree. when a criminal defendant claims on appeal that his conviction was based on judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidence -- that is, evidence which is reasonable, credible, and of solid value -- such that a reasonable trier of fact could people v. johnson (1980) 26 cal.3d people v. maury (2003) 30 cal.4th 342, 396.) section 246 makes it a felony to maliciously and willfully discharge a firearm at an inhabited dwelling house. shooting at an inhabited dwelling house is a general intent crime. (people v. overman (2005) 126 cal.app.4th 1344, 1356.) as with all general intent crimes, the question is whether the defendant intended to do the proscribed act, not whether the specific intent to achieve a particular result (e.g., strike an inhabited or id. at p. 1357.) shooting directly at an inhabited or occupied target. rather, it proscribes shooting either directly at or in close proximity to an inhabited or occupied target under circumstances showing a conscious disregard for the probability that one or more bullets will strike the id. at pp. 1355-1356.) moreover, the statute does not require that the house actually be hit by gunshot. (id. at pp. 1353, 1362 [substantial evidence supported the  246 instruction even when no evidence that the building was hit].) 9 people v. chavira (1970) 3 cal.app.3d 988 (chavira) is instructive. in chavira, the defendant and his associatid. at p. 993.) the defendant argued that the evidence was insufficient to support his section 246 conviction because he did not fire directly at the dwelling, but only at the persons gathered outside of it. (chavira, at p. 992.) that [the defendants] were aware of the probability that some shots would hit the building and that satisfy section 246. (chavira, at p. 993, fn. omitted.) the echavira. holes. the evidence showed the truck was hit because it was parked right on the side of the house and blocked the shots to the house. leticia said several times that the shooter was aiming for the house. in other words, the evidence showed the shooter was shooting either directly at the house or in such close proximity to it that he exhibited a conscious disregard for the probability that a bullet would strike the house and its inhabitants. disposition the judgment is affirmed. flier, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. rubin, j. 