filed 11/5/12 p. v. eisenberg ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. steven david eisenberg, defendant and appellant. b239128 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la068778) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, joseph a. brandolino, judge. affirmed as modified. suzan e. hier, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, chung l. mar and viet h. nguyen, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________ 2 steven david eisenberg pleaded no contest to one count of possession of heroin (health & saf. code,  11350, subd. (a)) and one count of misdemeanor vandalism (pen. code,  594, subd. (a))1 the trial court suspended imposition of sentence and placed defendant on formal probation for three years. on appeal, eisenberg challenges only the 987.8 for his apphearing to determine his ability to pay those fees. we affirm the judgment as modified. factual and procedural background eisenberg was charged in an information filed september 28, 2011 with possession of heroin and misdemeanor vandalism. eisenberg pleaded not guilty to both counts. granted on december 8, 2011. following an in camera review, however, the court found eisenberg, represented by his appointed counsel, decided to enter an open plea to the trial court upon being given an indicated sentence of three years of formal probation. however, before eisenberg entered his plea, his counsel explained to the court that eisenberg feared his inability to pay all court ordered fines and fees would subsequently deter the court from reducing his felony conviction to a misdemeanor under penal code section 17, subdivithe court makes no promises, but the defendant, understanding that the court will take abilitprobation will evaluate the defendant, like every defendant, based on the ability to pay and come up with a figure, if any, that they [sic] expect him to pay every month, even if 1 statutory references are to the penal code, unless otherwise indicated. 3 is, the court later, eisenberagain asked the court if its ruling on a future motion to reduce the felony conviction to a misdemeanor would be contingent upon full payment of all fines and fees. the court answered its ruling on the motion would not be contingent on full payment of all fines probation asks for a financial evaluation, he needs to submit his financial evaluation. if if any, if he at least makes an effort based on what they [sic]determine is the ability to pay, if probation says he has the ability to pay, then so be eisenberg then entered an open plea to the trial court. at the time he entered his plea, eisenberg was advised of his constitutional rights and the nature and consequences of his plea, which defendant stated he understood. thereafter, eisenberg pleaded no constitutional rights. the police report formed the factual basis for the plea. the court s waivers and plea were voluntary, knowing and intelligent. and placed eisenberg on three years of formal probation, on condition he serve nine days in county jail, with credit for time served, and perform 30 days of community service. the court also ordered eisenberg to pay $864.10 in victim restitution to the city of los angeles. after imposing additional conditions of probation, the court ordered defendant to pay a $240 restitution fine, a $30 court security fee, a $40 criminal conviction 4 assessment fee, a $50 lab fee, a $200 probation revocation fine, which was suspended, 2 discussion eisenberg contends the trial court erred by ordering him to pay for his appointed agree. section 987.8 authorizes a trial court to order a defendant to contribute to the cost of being represented by appointed counsel. section 987.8, subdivision (b) provides that public defender or appointed counsel. at the hearing, the defendant is entitled to be heard, to present evidence, to cross-examine adverse witnesses, and to receive a written statement of the reasons for the findings of the trial court. (id. subd. (e); see people v. flores (2003) 30 cal.4th may be inferred from the content and conduct of the hearing (see people v. phillips (1994) 25 cal.app.4th 62, 71), whether express or implied the finding of ability to pay must be supported by substantial evidence. (see people v. pacheco (2010) 187 cal.app.4th 1392, 1398 (pacheco).) in pacheco, o pay them. the pacheco, supra, 187 cal.app.4th at pp. 1396-1399, 1401-1402.) although the trial court referred the matter to the county department of revenue for an assessment fees on the outcome of that determination. (id. at pp. 1396, 1398.) the referral, 2 eisenberg waived his rights to a probation revocation hearing and admitted he violated his probation in an earlier case based on this conviction. the trial court revoked and reinstated probation in that case. 5 to pay. (id. pay, it is the court that must make the ultimate determination; a mere referral does not satisfy this requirement. (id. at pp. 1398-1399.) pacheco is dispositive, in that eisenberg similarly was not given the notice or a hearing required by the statute. the trial court ordered eisenberg to pay $268 in eisenberg an opportunity to be heard on the matter. the court simply ordered eisenberg to pay the fees without explanation and without any reference to the reasonableness of the amount. apart from these serious procedural defects, there was insufficient evidence to e extent however, the only relevant information in the record, found in the probation report, indicates eisenberg was born on october 13, 1959 and was disabled by a back injury in a the $268 at issue here, however, does not warrant the inevitable expenditure of public funds required by remand to the trial court. in the interests of judicial economy, 6 disposition the judgment is modified to strike the $268 imposed as payment of appointed zelon, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. jackson, j. 