filed 2/22/13 p. v. jones ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. treston rayal jones, defendant and appellant. b239197 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma052258) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. lisa m. chung, judge. affirmed. alexander p. green, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., supervising deputy attorney general, william n. frank and seth p. mccutcheon, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 defendant treston rayal jones appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial in which he was convicted of first degree burglary and four counts of first degree robbery, with gang findings. defendant contends that the evidence was insufficient to support his conviction of robbing a young child and the trial court abused its discretion ion and due process rights by excluding evidence that the victims may have misidentified his accomplice. we affirm. background about 7:50 a.m. on february 17, 2011, defendant and another man entered the lancaster home of lashawn blaylock, her husband jesse blaylock, their children viviana -year-old daughter lashawnda scales. jesse had just left the home to drive viviana to school. the person with defendant was taller and had a gun. stay there, and closed the door. lashawn testified that vincent was five years old, while jesse testified that vincent was four years old. defendant returned to the bathroom numerous times, opened the door to check on them, and warned them not to escape. could not remember the context. scales apierced tongue, looked familiar. while they were confined in the bathroom, lashawn tried to comfort vincent and scales. scales wanted to either escape through the bathroom window herself or put vincent throshe feared the robbers would become violent if they noticed that one of the captives had and demanded to know where the money and safe were. defendant and his companion son, russell, who was in jail. 3 jesse arrived home about 8:05 a.m. he noticed that the front door was open and its a robbery, and asked him where the safe was. jesse told the man that they had no safe. bathroom. jesse recognized defendant from an encounter the night before in which but instead spoke to defendant through the adjacent kitchen window. defendant had turned to face that window and had asked jesse if jessica was there. jesse had gotten a ngue was pierced and he held jesse by the collar while defendant ransacked the house. defendant pulled lashawn from the bathroom and asked her where the safe was. defendant and his companion forced jesse and lashawn to disrobe and go into the master bathroom. eventually the robbers left, taking currency and coins, jewelry, two mobile phones, and the house and car keys. jesse testified the robbery lasted 15 to 25 minutes, scales testified it lasted 30 minutes, and lashawn testified it lasted more than 30 minutes. scales phoned 911 and reported the robbery. she told the operator that she had gotten a good look at the two men, whom she described as black males in their twenties. (defendant was 23 on the date of the charged crimes.) she stated that one of them had a mustache, beard, and a tongue ring, but she did not say anything about a tattoo. jesse also spoke to the operator and stated he also got a good look at the robbers and recognized one of them as the man who had come to his door the night before asking for jessica. scales 4 that sometime after the robbery she remembered that she had seen defendant in the company of her son russell on two occasions before the robbery: once at a market and once sitting embered that defendant had repeatedly asked her to be his friend on facebook and had also asked if she and found photographs of defendant. scales printed the photographs and also e-mailed them to a detective. three of these photographs were introduced in evidence at trial. one of them showed defendant with a stud-type of jewelry in his tongue and another piercing extending across his chin just below his lower lip. the stud was what scales was remembered seeing defendant with russell at the blaylock house and knew that defendant had sent her mother facebook friend requests. she also saw the other robber jesse testified he looked at the facebook photographs and immediately recognized for jessica and returned the next day to rob him. the tongue stud depicted in the jesse and lashawn testified that before russell went to jail, he had posted on facebook a photograph of himself in which he had a large stack of $1 bills topped with a couple of large denomination bills, so that it looked like he had a lot of money. about 10 days after the crimes, detective roger izzo individually interviewed jesse, lashawn, and scales and showed each a photographic array. each one selected robber because the photograph in the array was small and of poor quality. scales wrote 5 that he was the shorter robber. we have reviewed the arrays shown to the victims and lighting in his photograph is quite poor. jesse, lashawn, and scales identified defendant at the preliminary hearing and trial as the shorter robber, not the taller one with the gun. jesse was asked at trial whether although the robbers were not wearing gloves and various surfaces in the blaylock house were dusted for fingerprints, no fingerprints that were sufficiently complete for comparison were obtained. izzo did not try to trace the location of the stolen phones because by the time he got the case, the victims had already terminated service on those phones. that defendant had admitted his membership in the bloods on point gang to machanic on testified that bloods on point was a bloods gang in the antelope valley. its members -activitiecartmill opined that the burglary and robberies described in the question were committed for the benefit of the bloods on point gang because news of the brazen daytime residential takeover would spread through the community and cause intimidation, thus enabling the gang to commit more crimes because the public would not report crimes or resist the gang. in addition, the gang would be entitled to a share of the proceeds from the robbery. her in los angeles at the time of the charged crimes and she recalled that he was at the 6 n the house or in the backyard at the time of the charged crimes. witness, he would testify that defendant got the tattoo on his neck in january of 2011. dr. mitchell eisen testified for the defense as an expert on eyewitness identification. he testified that a variety of circumstances can affect the accuracy of a unique identifying features such as piercings or tattoos; the length of exposure; prior familiarity; confusing a stranger associated with the event with the perpetrator; accepting information from someone else after the event; and attributes of the identification testing, such as the presence or absence of an admonition, experimenter bias, and seeing the same person in multiple identification tests. he further testified that a witness becomes more confident of the accuracy of his or her identification over time, but a witnesdid not necessarily correlate with his or her accuracy. in-court identifications are too temporally removed to constitute an identification test; they are instead assertions of a the jury convicted defendant of first degree burglary and four counts of first degree robbery (pertaining to jesse, lashawn, scales, and vincent), and found that each crime was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in criminal conduct by gang members. the jury found not true the allegations that a principal personally used a gun in the commission of each offense. defendant admitted that he had defendant to 46 years in prison, consisting of second strike terms of 12 years for burglary, plus 10 years for the gang enhancement, and four consecutive terms of 6 years for each robbery with the gang enhancement. 7 discussion 1. sufficiency of evidence defendant contends the evidence was insufficient to support his conviction for robbing vincent becaus to resolve this issue, we review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment to decide whether substantial evidence supports the conviction, so that a reasonable jury could find guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. ceja (1993) 4 cal.4th 1134, 1138.) we presume the existence of every fact supporting the judgment that the jury could reasonably deduce from the evidence and make all reasonable inferences that support the judgment. (people v. barnes (1986) 42 cal.3d 284, 303; people v. catlin (2001) 26 cal.4th 81, 139.) robbery is defined as the taking of personal property of some value, however sligthe intent to permanently deprive the person of the property. (pen. code,  211; people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 34.) robbery is an offense against the person. (people v. weddles (2010) 184 cal.app.4th 1365, 1369 (weddles).) any person who owns or who exercises direct physical control over, or who has constructive possession of, any property taken may be a victim of a robbery if force or fear is applied to such person. (people v. scott (2009) 45 cal.4th 743, 749750 (scott).) purposes of robbery, it is enough that the person presently has some loose custody over the property, is currently exercising dominion over it, or at least may be said to represent people v. defrance (2008) 167 cal.app.4th (scott, supra, bbery have 8 possession of the property taken, the legislature has included as victims those persons who, because of their relationship to the property or its owner, have the right to resist the taking, and has excluded as victims those bystanders who have no greater interest in the id. at pp. 757758.) civil oneself, or of a wife, husband, child, parent, or family . . . claims convictions for robbing victims of property belonging to their family members. (people v. gordon (1982) 136 cal.app.3d 519 [parents robbed of marijuana belonging to their adult son]; defrance, 167 cal.app.4th 486 [mother robbed of car owned by her adult son]; weddles, supra ive possession of a single item of personal property, and multiple convictions of robbery are proper if force or fear is scott, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 750.) vincent was four or five years old at the time of the robbery. the jury was that vincent was too young to be in possession of any property taken from the home. under civil code section 50, viproperty, and thus had constructive possession of the money and other property that the robbers took. vincent was not too young to be either unaware of the robbery or unable (if not forced into the bathroom) to shouting, phoning, or running to the home of a neighbor for help; running away with the they were forced into the bathroom supports a reasonable inference that vincent was aware of the robbery. notably, scales wanted to put vincent through the bathroom window so that he could go and get help. had she done so, vincent could have run to a d a neighbor to phone 911. defendant and his accomplice 9 apparently considered it sufficiently necessary to overcome potential resistance by vincent that they forced him into the bathroom with his mother and scales. because multiple people may simultaneously possess a single item of personal two or more persons are in joint possession of a single item of personal property, the person attempting to unlawfully take such property must deal with all such individuals. all must be placed in fear or forced to unwillingly give up possession. to the extent that any threat may provoke resistance, and thus increase the possibility of actual physical more likely to provoke resistance. [] we view the central element of the crime of robbery as the force or fear applied to the individual victim in order to deprive him of his property. accordingly, if force or fear is applied to two victims in joint possession of people v. ramos (1982) 30 cal.3d 553, 589, reversed in part on other grounds in california v. ramos (1983) 463 u.s. 992 [103 s.ct. 3446].) both the law and substantial evidence. 2. exclusion of evidence devin lutcher was charged along with defendant in this case. on the day jury selection began, the prosecutor dismissed the case against lutcher. the prosecutor explained the circumstances that led him to charge lutcher, then to dismiss the case on this case, what they ended up doing after they were robbed, they got some photographs from facebook. some of those included [defendant]. some of those included mr. devin lutcher. based on that, they informed the police that these two individuals were the ones who ended up robbing them at the home. [] both of these individuals were picked up and arrested. six-packs are shown of mr. lutcher to the victims. the victims at some point identified mr. lutcher. and then at the preliminary 10 hearing, again, all the victims, there are three victims, identify mr. lutcher as being the individual who was in the house with the gun, along with [defendant]. [] what occurred thereafter was that information came down that there might be a person who looks extremely similar to mr. lutcher. my i.o. did some investigation and came across a photograph of another individual by the name of parvin tanner [phonetic], who does look remarkably like mr. lutcher. . . . [t]here was further information that mr. lutcher, roughly about an hour after this event occurred, was actually down in downtown being fired from his employer at the ritz-carlton. so we have verification of that. [] now, having all that information, it then became incumbent upon me as to whether i was going to go forward as to mr. lutcher or not. [] again, just based on personal knowledge of what i know the traffic pattern to be like going from here [lancaster] to downtown on a tuesday morning, it is difficult, but not impossible, to make it down there. [] on the other hand, i did have this information that parvin tanner looked extremely like mr. lutcher. my i.o. contacted parvin tanner, asked him some questions. parvin tanner tements like, well, my fingerprints might be in the house because i might have been there some time at a prior event, and then gave no further information. [] so, again, based on all that t rise to the level to 1385. i said, we were unable to proceed because we have insufficient evidence at this the prosecutor also told the court that his investigating officer had nothing to do stopped the prosecution as to mr. lutcher based on the standards that i, as a prosecutor, you went to los angeles a few days ago? you were there to speak to the employers of mr. 11 lutcher, who was the taller defendant in this case? and based on your investigation, you on december 7th of this year, you interviewed a man at the central jail named parvin tanner and he appeared to you to lookto resemble mr. lutcher? [] you spoke to him about his possible involvement in the case? [] you asked a ruse question to try to get a response? [] you told him that his fingerprints were found at the crime scene when they were really not? [] and then he looked down at his shoes and said something about, able to ask the witnesses: at the preliminary hearing, you identified that [sic] mr. lutcher as the gunman; correct? you pointed him out in court. you were very sure that the tall defendant that you saw in court was the gunman. [] would you change your mind if you knew that someone else is being investigated as being the tall intruder? and the person you id.ed [sic] is no longer vents and to recollect those events. this case is all about eyewitness identification. and if they have identified somebody who can be shown their ability to accurately identify my client. and it is something i really need to explore employer and tanner were hearsay. with respect to the victim witnesses, the prosecutor evidence that parvin tanner or some other individual committed this crime. the reason i dismissed this case is because i have my standard as a prosecutor to abide by in order to dismissed this case. however, it may be that all the blaylocks are absolutely correct the one who had the 12 gun. so there is no impeaching them at this point. there is nothing to impeach them defense counsel noted that the prosecutor had told him that he had instructed his investigator not to show the victim witnesses a photograph of tanner, and counsel would like to question the investigator about why he did not show them the photograph. he the trial court excluded all evidence regarding tanner pursuant to evidence code section 352. (undesignated section references are to the evidence code.) the court impeachment because at this time, it sounds like, if anything, there is ongoing investigation as to mr. lutcher. so at this point, that would entail a mini trial and probable undue speculation by the jurors in terms of impeachment value of these victims as to mr. lutcher. he is not in issue. their identification, however accurate it might be, should be focused on mr. jones, not mr. lutcher. [] the court, under [section] 352, finds that any probative value regarding this additional evidence would be substantially what i am going to allow questioning, and then i am going to cut it off after this point, is you will be allowed to ask anything regarding six-pack identifications regardless of whether it is [defendant] or mr. lutcher. but for [section] 352 reasons, we will not be going into the site [sic] investigations or site [sic] concerns as to mr. lutcher and this gentleman, mr. tanner. . . . [f]or similar reasons, that photo showing mr. tanner and mr. lutcher side by side will not be mentioned nor will it be shown to the witnesses. it has very little, if any, probative value as to their identification similarly, the additional facts elicited, separate and apart from the fact that it would be hearsay tofor the investigating officer to testify as to what mr. speculating as to the time to drive from [sic] the ritz-carlton. that, again, puts the focus 13 on mr. lutcher, not [defendant]. so under [section] 352, and i will note this is over defendant contends that the trial court abused its discretion and violated lashawn, and swould not have resulted in a mini-have been offering such statements for their truth, but to instead explain why the prosecustatements were a declaration against interest. defendant argues he also should have been able to ask eisen about the possible misidentification because hypothetical questions based upon the facts of a case are permissible. evidence is relevant if it has any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact of consequence to the determination of an action. ( 210.) section 352 provides that the court may, in its discretion, exclude relevant evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will either be unduly time consuming or create a substantial danger of undue prejudice, confusion of the issues, or misleading the jury. we review any ruling on the admissibility of evidence for abuse of discretion. (people v. guerra (2006) 37 cal.4th 1067, 1113, disapproved on another point in people v. rundle (2008) 43 cal.4th 76, 151.) this standard of review applies to both a trial cou 14 prejudicial effect. (people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 1124.) we first address tdismissal of the case against lutcher. defendant did not seek to introduce evidence of the dismissal. indeed, defense counsel expressly agreed with the trial court when the court stated that the and cause undue speculation under [section] preserved for appeal. as far as the record reveals, the robbery began about 7:50 a.m. and lasted approximately 30 minutes. accordingly, it would appear that more than one hour elapsed downtown los angeles. the prosecutor noted that it was difficult, but not impossible to tra he was the actual accomplice. defense counsel, who had seen a photograph of tanner, did not een victims misidentified lutcher had no tendency to show that they also misidentified anner and the failure of police to show the victims a photograph of tanner, any mistake by the they lacked the ability to accurately identify defendant as one of the robbers. accordingly, the inference defendant hoped to have jurors draw would have been based only upon speculation that (1) tanner was the actual accomplice, (2) the victims would not have selected tanner if given an opportunity to compare him to lutcher, and (3) the -looking men suggested they also misidentified defendant, who had a distinctive piercing that the 15 victims saw during the robbery but which was not shown in defendantsix-pack array, and whom each victim had seen on at least one prior occasion. the (people v. babbitt (1988) 45 cal.3d 660, 684 (babbitt).) in addition, as the trial court concluded, evidence that the victims might have misidentified lutcher would have necessitated a mini-trial regarding whether lutcher or tanner was the accomplice, the prosecutor, who did not concede the victims had misidentified lutcher, would probably have attempted to show that lutcher could have been the accomplice and, even if he was not, that any mistake by the victims was reasonable. because a possible mistake in identifying lutcher was irrelevant to undue consumption of time, even if, in absolute terms, it did not consume very much time. of equal importance, it would have diverted the jconfused the issues. . on the day of the robbery would have been hearsay. defendant wanted to use that statement to show that lutcher had an alibi for the time of the robbery, and was thus seeking to introduce such a statement for its truth. accordingly, we conclude the trial court did not abuse its discretion by excluding right to a fair trial and to the right to present all relevant evidence of significant probative people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 999), neither the right to present a defense nor the right to confront witnesses permits a defendant to introduce irrelevant or marginally relevant evidence. (babbitt, supra, 45 cal.3d at p. 684; 16 delaware v. van arsdall (1986) 475 u.s. 673, 679 [106 s.ct. 1431].) accordingly, the ntation. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. mallano, p. j. we concur: rothschild, j. chaney, j. 