filed 10/25/13 p. v. brummitt ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. shiloh raywolfgang brummitt, defendant and appellant. b239265 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma052447) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, charles chung, judge. affirmed. mary jo strnad, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, eric e. reynolds and allison h. chung, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 shiloh raywolfgang brummitt appeals his convictions, after a jury trial, of false imprisonment by violence, kidnapping, criminal threats, assault with a deadly weapon, disobeying a domestic relations order, and battery. we affirm. background the los angeles county district attorney filed an information charging brummitt with false imprisonment by violence (pen. code,  236; count 1),1 corporal injury to a spouse ( 273.5, subd. (a); count 2), kidnapping ( 207, subd. (a); count 3), criminal threats ( 422; count 4), assault with a deadly weapon ( 245, subd. (a)(1); count 5), disobeying a domestic relations court order ( 273.6, subd. (a); count 6), and battery ( 243, subd. (e)(1); count 7). as to count 4, it was further alleged that brummitt personally used a deadly and dangerous weapon (a bayonet) in the commission and attempted commission of the offense ( 12022.1, subd. (b)(1)). as to counts 1 through 5, it was alleged that brummitt suffered subds. (a)(d), 667, subds. (b)(i)). as to counts 3 through 5, it was further alleged that brummitt suffered one prior serious felony conviction ( 667, subd. (a)(1)). as to count 6, it was further alleged that the offense resulted in physical injury. brummitt pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. the jury found brummitt not guilty on count 2, found him guilty as charged on the remaining counts, and found true the personal use of a deadly weapon allegation appended to count 4. the trial court sentenced brummitt to a total term of 12 years and four months in state prison. at trial the evidence showed the following. a. april 8, 2011 arrest on april 8, 2011, nancy pinagel called 911 from outside her home and reported that her husband, brummitt, had assaulted her earlier that day. pinagel told the 911 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 operator that brummitt picked her up from work and pulled her hair while the car was in a parking lot. when pinagel tried to leave the car, brummitt beat her on the head and pulled her into the back seat. pinagel informed the 911 operator that brummitt threatened to kill her if she left him. los angeles county sheriff deputies teresa steen and donald chavez arrived on scene and spoke to pinagel. pinagel appeared distraught and shaken, and she was crying. drive- . . . because he believed she was cheating on him with . . . black men. [] [brummitt] . . . grabbed her by the back of her hair and slapped her about five times across . . . [the] face. [] [pinagel] opened . . . the passenger . . . door [to escape]. [brummitt] grabbed her and . . . they drove home where pinagel called 911. like a protective order, which pinagel accepted. deputies arrested brummitt. after they notified him of his miranda2 rights, talking about other than that was his normal state. pinagel bonded out brummitt on april 10, 2011 and took him home. b. april 13, 2011 arrest at around 6:00 a.m. on april 13, 2011, pinagel called a coworker, cindi geddes, at the palmdale mental health clinic, where pinagel worked as a psychiatrist. pinagel a normal tone and conversation. geddes knew brummitt was with pinagel because she could hear him in the background and he took the phone from pinagel to speak to geddes several times. 2 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 [86 s.ct. 1602, 16 l.ed.2d 694]. 4 geddes was concerned. on april 7 or 8, 2011, pinagel had told geddes that geddes was further concerned when brummitt told her pinagel would not be coming into building, which geddes knew to be illegal. pinagel also asked geddes for gas money. attempting to establish whether pinagel was in trouble, geddes asked if she should security officer at the hospital, deputy rodney bell. geddes notified deputy bell of her concerns. brummitt was arrested in a parking lot near the hospital. a video of deputies attempting to arrest brummitt showed him telling deputies that he worked for the fbi and a local law firm, saying he had recordings of three sexual assaults against pinagel, and asking for his medication. a red pillowcase pinagel was interviewed on camera in a patrol car at the scene of the arrest. pinagel told deputies that she bonded brummitt out of jail and told him to leave the house. the night of april 12, brummitt woke her up around 11:30 p.m. he had his hand mmitt stabbed the bed five times with a bayonet. brummitt made pinagel lie on the floor, grab the blade of the bayonet with both hands and place the tip in her nose. brummitt then e f i . . . her. the card was declined at at least two gas stations. at each stop, pinagel tried to communicate with the gas station attendants with no success. pinagel told deputies she work the next day, because she needed to go to the hospital. brummitt made pinagel call geddes at 6:00 a.m. pinagel said she requested the medical records hoping geddes 5 would understand something was wrong. pinagel understood what geddes meant when brummitt and pinagel went to the parking lot next to the hospital to wait for geddes and the money. deputies pulled into the parking lot behind brummitt and pinagel. pinagel said she was in fear at that time that brummitt would do something. at one point while they were waiting in the parking lot, brummitt told pinagel someone was going to die. recovered a mattress with five to six puncture marks. pinagel later identified the bayonet she said brummitt used to stab the mattress and made her place in her nose. c. pin pinagel recanted her claims against brummitt at the preliminary hearing and trial. pinagel said she had been diagnosed with posttraumatic stress disorder (ptsd) from sexual abuse as a child. pinagel testified that under stress she has from a movie . . . running . . . fast forward . . . episodes pinagel confuses the past with the present. pinagel testified that the stress triggering her symptoms resulted from two related events. pinagel and brummitt had been having problems with their former landlords, the threatened them. the faheys were demanding pinagel pay $1,400 for the return of nude photos pinagel left behind, and for not trumping up charges against brummitt. hospital. a man entered, pushed her against the wall, sexually assaulted her and said, doubt the rape was connected with the faheys. pinagel did not report the rape. pinagel testified the stress of these events and her ptsd symptoms caused her to make the false reports against brummitt on april 8, 2011. 6 pinagel testified that on april 8, 2012 brummitt did not assault her out of anger. brummitt and pinagel were arguing. brummitt pochin with his fingertips to free his finger. pinagel tried to exit the car as it was moving. brummitt pulled her back in to prevent her from getting hurt. pinagel testified that when she called 911, she was experiencing ptsd symptoms: pinagel testified that on april 12, 2011, brummitt woke her up at 9:30 p.m. pinagel told him to let her sleep for two hours. brummitt woke pinagel up 10 minutes before 11:30 p.m. pinagel was irritated. she asked brummitt if they could go for a ride to talk and have oral sex. as they were gathering things for the ride pinagel grabbed the told pinagel not to do something stupid. pinagel handed brummitt the bayonet. f getting into their mattress. after brummitt recovered the bayonet from pinagel he thought he saw the bed move. brummitt began stabbing through the mattress to get the rat. while he was doing this he to the faheys. pinagel did not fear brummitt would turn the bayonet on her. pinagel and brummitt took turns driving, talking and eating. pinagel testified she called geddes to request $20 for gas. pinagel said she made up the story of the kidnapping to prevent embarrassing information from getting out that might harm her career. discussion i. nt violated his failure to make exculpatory statements as evidence of his guilt. brummitt further argues 7 ineffective assistance of counsel. statements that pinagel needed rape kits and was sleeping with other men on april 8, and similar statements made april 13, as not the normal behavior of a falsely accused man, and elaborated on what he thought an innocent man would say. there was no defense objection. the statements of april 8 were made after brummitt was mirandized. the statements of april 13 were made before brummitt was in custody. brummitt failed to object at trial on the fifth amendment ground he now advances and has forfeited it for this appeal. (people v. avila (2009) 46 cal.4th 680, 710711.) in any event we disagree with brummitt that the statements were improperly commented upon, and therefore find there was no ineffective assistance of counsel. the united states supreme court in griffin v. california (1965) 380 u.s. 609 [85 s.ct. 1229, 14 l.ed.2d 106] held that for a prosecutor to comment on a id. at p. 614.) in doyle v. ohio (1976) 426 u.s. 610 (doyle) [96 s.ct. 2240, 49 l.ed.2d 91], the court held that the prosecution may not ask the jury to draw a direct inference from id. at p. 635.) a defendant has the right to remain silent in the face of police interrogation. (miranda v. arizona, supra, 384 u.s. at pp. 46746actions on the part of police (other than those normally attendant to arrest and custody) that the police should know are reasonably likely to elicit an incriminating response from rhode island v. innis (1980) 446 u.s. 291, 301, fn. omitted [100 s.ct. miranda, at p. 478.) deputy chavez testified that on april 8, after brummitt was arrested and given miranda warnings, brummitt began rambling that pinagel needed rape kits and was 8 on what he meant by rape. brummitt did not respond in a coherent manner. deputy chavez asked pinagel what brummitt was talking about. pinagel said nothing other than that was brummitt's normal state. on april 13, as deputies were attempting to arrest him, brummitt began (without and he had three recordings of sexual assaults on pinagel. brummitt also claimed that he was working for the fbi and a local law firm. throughout the arrest, deputies repeatedly tried to calm brummitt down, and told him to relax and shut up. the deputies did not interrogate brummitt or give him miranda warnings while he was making these comments. april 8 and 13 were voluntary. the were not made in response to custodial interrogation, but were spontaneously volunteered (and actively discouraged by the deputies), making them admissible. (people v. roldan (2005) 35 cal.4th 646, 735, overruled on other grounds in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22.) hurd v. terhune (2010) 619 f.3d 1080, to suppordoyle violation. police arrested hurd and gave him miranda warnings. hurd cooperated with police as they investigated the shooting of his wife. hurd claimed he accidently shot his wife while showing her how to load a gun. when police asked hurd to reenact the shooting thathurd, at p. 1089.) at trial the prosecution commented multiple times in its case in chief and closing invoked his right to silence when officers requesthurd 9 v. terhune, supradoyle violation. unlike the defendant in hurd v. terhune, supra, 619 f.3d 1080, in neither arrest did brummitt indicate that he did not want to speak to the deputies. while what he was saying was incoherent, it was nonetheless unprompted and voluntary, and not in response to interrogation by deputies. griffin v. california, suprastate of the evidence or on the failure of the defense to introduce material evidence or to people v. brady ring them to exculpatory statements he could have made. the prosecution never commented representation fell below objective standards of reasonableness; and . . . there is people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 1126.) as we conclude that there was no prosecutorial misconduct and there was defense counsel was ineffective in failing to object. ii. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying a mistrial. before jury selection, defense counsel and the prosecution agreed there would be a record. attention outside the presence of the jury. defense counsel moved for a mistrial. abundance of caution. it still has some probative value. there is a charge of criminal 10 ct is relevant as amendment rights were violated. the trial judge denied the motion, again saying the past crimes were relevant to the charge of criminal threats. whether a particular incident is incurably prejudicial is by its nature a speculative matter, and the people v. haskett (1982) 30 cal.3d 841, 854.) and there is nothing in the trial record to indicate anyone other than the prosecutor noticed. the line was redacted from the transcript given to the jury. the tape sent back mention it in closing. the trial judge asked defense counsel if she would like a curative instruction given to the jury. defense counsel said she would rather not have the issue readdressed. prejudicial thpeople v. valdez (2004) 32 to the jury. brummitt claims that admission of the statement was both irrelevant and unduly prejudicial under california evidence code section 352. only relevant evidence is tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the people v. homick (2012) 55 cal.4th 816, 859.) 11 section 422 commit a crime which will result in death or great bodily injury to another person, with the specific intent that the statement . . . is to be taken as a threat, even if there is no intent of actually carrying it out, which, on its face and under the circumstances in which it is made, is so unequivocal, unconditional, immediate, and specific as to convey to the person threatened a gravity of purpose and an immediate prospect of execution of the threat, and thereby causes that person reasonably to be in sustained fear for his or her own safety or for his or her immediate family's safety, shall be punished by imprisonment in the county jail not added.) the prosecution must establish (1) that the defendant had the specific intent that his statement would be taken as a threat (whether or not he actually intended to carry out additionally show threat would be immediately carried out. the fact that pinagel knew brummitt had a criminal record is relevant and probative to establishing these elements. it tends to show brummitt had specific intent to and later said someone was going to die. it also shwould be carried out immediately was reasonable. brummitt claims the trial court failed to weigh the undue risk of prejudice to him e people v. edelbacher (1989) 47 cal.3d 983, 1007.) weigh prejudice people v. crittenden (1994) 9 cal.4th 83, 135.) the 12 ind and how seriously she took those threats. constitutional standard of chapman v california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 [87 s.ct. 824, 17 l.ed.2d 705]ional error can be held harmless, the court must chapman record was a routine balancing between the elements of penal code section 422 and the state evidentiary law does not people v taylor (2010) 48 cal.4th 574, 650.) ked up past calls for service domestic violence calls. defense counsel did not object. the testimony was vague and unresponsive to the question asked. the detective was merely explaining a step in his investigation and never said whether or not there were prior calls. we see no abuse of iii. a fair trial. brummitt claims that the trial court erred in not enforcing its own order that the brummitt argues that this was a violation of his fourteenth amendment and california constitution, article i rights to a fair trial. the day before voir dire the trial court issued an order to the los angeles county same day. the next day defdepartment had not complied with the order. defense counsel requested that brummitt 13 be allowed to groom himself before being presented to the jury. the court denied the people v. sanchez (1969) 275 cal.app.2d 226, 232.) in united states v. anderson (9th cir. 1977) 561 f.2d -prison clothes. his hair was no longer than that of government counsel and defense counsel. and there was no request for a mistrial or a cautionary instruction on the anderson, at p. 1303.) under these circumstances the ninth circuit held ibid.) brummitt points to a juror who had to be removed during the voir dire process as evidence that his facial hair prejudiced him in front of the jury. at a sidebar the juror was crying and raised concerns about running into brummitt if he was released. the trial that caused her concern. at that point in the trial, brummitt had already been evidence that the failure to shave his facial hair violated his right to a fair trial. iv. the placement of two deputies in the courtroom did not deny brummitt the presumption of innocence. brummitt next claims that the positioning of two extra deputies in the courtroom denied him his presumption of innocence. wearin 14 the defendant. defense counsel objected to both and was overruled. brummitt chose to accept extra deputies. decisions regarding security measures in the courtroom are reviewed for abuse of discretion. (people v. stevens courtroom deputy next to a testifying defendant is not an inherently prejudicial practice id. at p. 629.) however, the decision may not be deferred to law enforcement. the trial court must exercise its own discretion and determine on a case-by-case basis whether such heightened security is appropriate. (id. at p. 642.) in this case, brummitt never testified. a deputy was placed behind him as he sat at the defense table. contrary to the defendant in people v. stevens, supra, 47 cal.4th 625, who did testify, brummitt did not testify with a deputy next to him on the witness stand. the presence of a deputy in close proximity to brummitt is therefore even less inherently prejudicial. the trial judge had his own concerns for the security of the courtroom as one point. the trial while staff members indicated concerns to the judge f v. records and bank statements. brummitt claims the trial cand bank statements was unreasonable and violated his sixth and fourteenth amendment right to present a complete defense. defense counsel sought to introduce medical billing records that showed pinagel 15 banking records with a withdrawal statement claiming they were to pay off the faheys. brummitt contends both were necessary to support his defense. the trial court did records. the court said the defense presented no evidence that ptsd is a continuing -2004 diagnosis until april 8 or 13, 2011, the dates of the events in issue at trial. the trial judge agreed that some of what happened with the faheys was relevant, but that whether pinagel paid extortion to the fand irrelevant. was made other than by a witness while testifying at the hearing and that is offered to prove the truth of tprovided by law, hearsay brummitt advanced the medical billing records to prove pinagel suffered from ptsd. her banking records were advanced to prove she paid the faheys extortion. the medical billing records and bank statements are not part of the record on appeal. thus the record does not establish a foundation for introduction of records under the business records exception to the hearsay rule. evidence code section 1271 provides of an act, condition, or event is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule when offered to prove the act, condition, or event if: [] (a) the writing was made in the regular course of a business; [] (b) the writing was made at or near the time of the act, condition, or event; [] (c) the custodian or other qualified witness testifies to its identity and the mode of its preparation; and [] (d) the sources of information and method and time of preparation were such as to indicate requirements when he attempted to introduce the banking and medical billing records. 16 an appellate court applies the abuse of discretion standard of review to any trial court ruling on evidence code section 352. (people v jablonski (2006) 37 cal.4th 774, 805.) - in this instance the trial court did not abuse its discretion. barring a substantial have no bearing on her behavior in 2011. have drawn from the [proffered evidence] is clearly speculative, and evidence which produces only speculative inferences is irrelevant people v. babbitt (1988) 45 cal.3d 660, 682.) wanted to use these records as corroboration that the faheys were extorting pinagel for $1,400. a generic statement of a cash withdrawal gives no indication what the money is used for. the amount of the withdrawal was $1,100 more than pinagel claimed the faheys were asking. to introduce the records would call on the jury to make a speculative inference, and the evidence was therefore irrelevant. 17 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. johnson, j. we concur: mallano, p. j. chaney, j. 