filed 1/7/13 p. v. steigleder ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. marc christian steigleder, defendant and appellant. b239656 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba244145) appeal from the denial of a petition for writ of error coram nobis by the superior court of los angeles county, henry j. hall, judge. affirmed. berc agopoglu for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii and steven d. matthews, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant, marc christian steigleder, appeals from the trial coram nobis. in 2003, steigleder was convicted for cultivating marijuana (health & saf. code,  11358) and sentenced to probation for three years. in 2011, steigleder filed a coram nobis petition seeking to vacate that judgment. coram nobis petition is affirmed. background in april 2003, steigleder was charged by information with cultivating marijuana in violation of health and safety code section 11358. he pled not guilty and moved to suppress evidence under penal code section 1538.5.1 at an evidentiary hearing on that motion, witnesses testified and various exhibits were admitted into evidence.2 the suppression motion was denied. steigleder thereafter waived his right to a jury trial and agreed to submit the matter to the trial court for decision based on the evidence presented at the suppression hearing. on september 19, 2003, the trial court found steigleder guilty and sentenced him to probation for three years. that probationary sentence has been served. n order vacating the marijuana conviction. in his attached declaration, steigleder stated the public m 1 all further references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 2 a complete transcript of the evidence code section 402 evidentiary hearing was not made part of the record on appeal. 3 on august 23, 2011, steigleder filed a petition for writ of error coram nobis, also seeking to vacate the marijuana conviction. in his attached declaration, steigleder again stated he had not been advised of the immigration consequences. he added an assertion that the public defender had rendered ineffective assistance by failing to properly defend him against the marijuana charge.3 on december 16, 2011, the trial court denied both the motion to vacate judgment and the coram nobis petition. steigleder thereupon filed a notice of appeal limited to the denial of his coram nobis petition. contention coram nobis petition. discussion 1. legal principles. of error coram nobis is people v. shipman (1965) 62 cal.2d 226 . . . . there we coram nobis is granted only when three requirements are met. (1) or negligence on his part, was not presented to the court at the trial on the merits, [citations.] (2) p . . [does not go] to the merits of issues tried; issues of fact, once adjudicated, even this second requirement applies even though the evidence in question is not discovered until after the time for moving for a new trial has elapsed or the motion has been denied. [citations.] (3) 3 the non-declaration portion of the coram nobis petition contains additional claims neither made in nor supported by 4 he relies were not known to him and could not in the exercise of due diligence have been discovered by him at any time substantially earlier than the time of his motion for the writ. . . shipman continue to outline the modern limits of the people v. kim (2009) 45 cal.4th 1078, 1092-1093.) coram nobis] is people v. kim, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 1095.) 2. procedural background. claims he told the public defender he was innocent, but she advised it would be in his best interests to take a plea bargain. he states nobody advised him of the immigration consequences of pleading guilty and, had he been properly informed, because i recently hired mr. berc agopoglu to investigate my file. mr. agopoglu advised me that none of the records reflect that i was properly warned or advised in the declaration attached to his coram nobis petition, steigleder again states he was never advised of the immigration consequences of waiving a jury trial, and . . never defended me in [the] judge trial with respect to the elements of the crime. [my public defender] made this very clear and with this representation i was immediately convicted. had i known about this professional error, i would have hired another attorney to prosecutor urged the trial court to deny relief, arguing an advisement regarding immigration consequences was unnecessary because steigleder had gone to trial: 5 received but rather there was a court trial and specifically a finding of guilty by the her issue concerns this claim that the medical use under 11362.5 of the health and safety code and the claim that the lawyer who represented the defendant at the time nevnoting the absence in the record of a complete transcript of the earlier proceedings, . . knows from the preliminary hearing transcript that there was testimony from an expert that . . . the marijuana in this case issues are valid issues. and the other issue i noted was the timeliness. this case was tried nine years ago, eight and a half years ago. [] and mr. steigleder later attempted several times over the course of the years through different procedural mechanisms to get this matter set aside. so why did we [sic] wait so long? agopoglu: your honor, as i explained in my motion, that my client were going to come after him; right? agopoglu: the case is not t affirmative defenses, your honor. . that he had anything that even vaguely resembled proof that would support a medical marijuana claim, . . . no allegation that he had a medical marijuana card. 6 agopoglu: i have the full transcript record. . . . [t]he record that you lodged with the court does not contain any of that. agopoglu: your honor, if the court wants the transcript, the medical marijuana card was introduced. and actually evidence was presented for medical use but it was never argued as an affirmative defense. the transcript is here. and if the court wants to review it, we can present it to the court. steigleder gave the medical marijuana card information to his counsel, how can he come back eight years later and say he was not aware of the fact that that was an affirmative defense? agopoglu: your honor, i mean give that information to his attorney? obviously . . . assuming he got a medical marijuana card. and, again, marijuana card. he got it in order to be able to possess marijuana for medicinal know it was a defense eight years later? sic] . . . reach the merits of this. mr. steigleder clearly knew that possession of a medical and even assuming he had one ence before the court. but taking you at your word that he had one, to have waited eight and a half years to bring this before the court renders it untimely. and the petition is denied as 7 3. discussion. we conclude, for the following reasons, that the trial court did not abuse its coram nobis. a. steigleder has not presented an adequate record on appeal. the attorney general argues steigleder failed to present an adequate record on appeal. we agree. steigleder waived a jury and submitted to a court trial based on the testimony and physical evidence produced at the hearing on his motion to suppress evidence. s suppression hearing was prepared, steigleder has included in the record before us only a small portion of that transcript.4 even if the post-trial judge saw fit to rule on the coram nobis petition without benefit of the entire transcript, steigleder should have provided this court with the complete transcript, particularly given the reference in the included portion to expert testimony showing the marijuana had been possessed for sale. it is axiomatic that it is the burden of the appellant to provide an adequate record to permit review of a claimed error, and failure to do so may be deemed a people v. akins (2005) 128 cal.app.4th 1376, 1385; see, e.g., people v. siegenthaler (1972) 7 cal.3d 465, 469 [on challenge to denof the record on appeal the transcript of the preliminary hearing, defendant is now people v. scott (194 reading the transcript of the preliminary examination, the court denied the motion. this transcript was not brought up on appeal, and error cannot be assumed in its 4 attached to the coram nobis petition are pages 91 through 98 of a longer 8 expert testimony that the marijuana was possessed for sale may have orders indicate steigleder testified at the suppression hearing and that the defense actly what went on because the record on appeal is incomplete. steigleder has failed to present an adequate record on appeal. b. steigleder contends the trial court erred by declaring his coram nobis petition untimely. this claim is meritless. claim that he had an available affirmative defense to the charge medical use pursuant to health and safety code section 11362.5 [the compassionate use act of 1996] and that he was not advised of the immigration consequences when he submitted on the transcript of the evidence code section 402 hearing. however, appellant filed his motion and petition in 2011, nearly eight years after he was found guilty upon the transcript, and yet he did not append a declaration affirming when he learned of this allegedly available defense, when he learned of the immigration consequences, and why he waited eight years before seeking relief. appellant was required to allege in his petition with specificity when he learned of coram nobis judgment, the time for appeal has passed, and petitioner has no other adequate remedy available except this petition for writ of coram nobisthe course of the years through different procedural mechanisms to get this matter ined is what 9 three months probation, and the filing of his coram nobis is well settled that a showing of diligence is prerequisite to the availability of relief by motion for coram nobispeople v. shorts (1948) 32 cal.2d 502, 512-513; see people v. kim, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 1098 [coram nobis petition procedurally barred because filed seven years after ins initiated deportation proceedingspeople v. trantow (1986) 178 cal.app.3d 842, 847 [filing coram nobis petition eight years after filing habeas petition, and 14 years after conviction, constitutes inexcusable delay].) under the circumstances of this case, we cannot say the trial court abused its coram nobis petition was untimely. c. the petition fails on the merits. finally, to quote from people v. kim, supra, coram nobis, we would conclude he has not demonstrated that facts existed at the time of his plea that satisfy the strict requirements for this extraordinary type of fact existed which, without any fault or negligence on his part, was not presented to the court at the trial on the merits, and which if presented would have prevented the id. at pp. 1101-1102.) minority, that the litigant had alleged new facts, in contrast, speak merely to the legal effect of his guilty plea and thus are not grounds for relief on coram nobisid. at p. 1102.) been informed of the immigration consequences of his situation, is not the proper basis for coram nobis relief. in kim our supreme court conassertions, that he would not have pled guilty had he known the convictions 10 legal effect of his guilty plea and thus are not grounds for relief on coram nobis(people v. kim, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 1102; accord, people v. ibanez (1999) 76 cal.app.4th 537, 544-545 [whether defendant must be advised of potential civil commitment under sexually violent predators act before pleading guilty was legal, not factual, issue and therefore inappropriate for coram nobis relief]; people v. trantow, supramight result in deportation did not support coram nobis relief because it would not have prevented the judgment].) s that the public defender rendered ineffective assistance at trial, for instance coram nobism of ineffective assistance of counsel, which relates more to a mistake of law than of fact, is an inappropriate ground for relief on coram nobis has long been the rule. people v. kim, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 1104.) finally, as to steiglestatutory advisement about immigration consequences, section 1016.5 does not apply in this case because steigleder did not plead guilty, he went to trial. (see people v. limones (1991) 233 cal.app.3d 338, 345 [statutory immigration 1016.5 expressly refers to those situations in which a defendant enters either a plea of guilty or a plea of nolo contendere. the section does not include language or refer to those situations in which the cause, as here, is submitted to the trial court under circumstances tantamount coram nobis petition. 11 disposition coram nobis petition is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: kitching, j. aldrich, j. 