filed 2/14/14 p. v. reeves ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. ronald c. reeves, defendant and appellant. b239403 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma048723) appeal from the judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. lisa m. chung, judge. affirmed. gloria c. cohen, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and jonathan m. krauss, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * * * * * 2 a jury found appellant and defendant ronald c. reeves guilty of making criminal threats, and also found true that the threat was a hate crime and defendant personally used a deadly weapon in making the threat. in a bifurcated proceeding, defendant admitted four prior strikes, as well as prior prison terms. defendant was sentenced as a third-strike offender. defendant contends there is insufficient evidence to support his conviction, the prosecution having failed to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that a punishable criminal threat was made. defendant further contends the trial court erred in denying his romero1 motion. we conclude there is substantial evidence in the record supporting the judgment, and no basis for disturbing e of discretion in ruling on motion. we therefore affirm. factual and procedural background at approximately 1:30 p.m. on march 29, 2010, george harris walked to the home of his friend, cameron thompson, to use phone because his own phone was not working. as soon as mr. harris arrived at use, he immediately heard defendant, who lived next door to mr. thompson, defendant, who is white, was standing at the front door of his house. he yelled ----r, mr. harris, who is black, was scared by , but did not immediately notice any upon opening his door, mr. thompson also heard defendant . mr. harris then saw defendant step out of (with a 9- to 10-inch blade) in his left hand. defendant ing to kill you n----in[to] thdefendant approached to within about 10 feet of mr. harris, at which point mr. harris turned and ran, because he feared defendant was going to try to kill him. 1 people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497. 3 mr. harris hid behind a car parked on the street and called 911.2 he told the 911 operator that defendant , ----r,---k mr. harris also told the operator defendant had mr. harris told the operator he was as to what defendant might do, as he had nothing with which to defend himself. after speaking with the 911 operator, mr. harris went back up to mr. house to wait for the deputies to arrive. from that vantage point, mr. harris saw defendant leave his home and walk toward his suv, with the knife in his belt and the axe still in his hand. mr. harris was not verbally threatened at this point, but remained scared because of defendant. mr. thompson came outside and waited with mr. harris for the deputies to arrive, keeping watch on defendant at the same time. they believed defendant put the weapons in his suv and then went back into his house. jason elizondo responded to the scene, along with several other deputy sheriffs, and interviewed defendant, mr. harris and mr. thompson. defendant told deputy elizondo he had been holding an axe and a knife during an argument with neighbors. he denied calling them ------hdefendant said he had gone to his car and then went back into his home, until he was called out by the deputies upon their defendantdeputy elizondo reported defendant was able to communicate with him clearly and did not appear to be confused, or incapable of understanding what he and the other deputies said to him. defendant was charged, by information, with three counts. in counts 1 and 3, defendant was charged with making criminal threats against mr. harris (pen. code, 2 the record reflects mr. harris had a cell phone with him that, at the time, was only capable of making emergency calls to 911 but otherwise did not have a functioning call plan. 4  422).3 in count 2, defendant was charged with assault with a deadly weapon ( 245, subd. (a)(1)). as to counts 1 and 3, it was specially alleged defendant personally used a deadly and dangerous weapon in making the criminal threats (a bayonet and an axe, respectively). ( 12022, subd. (b)(1).) it was also alleged as to all counts that the crimes in question were hate crimes, in violation of section 422.75, subdivision (a). it was further alleged defendant had suffered four prior felony convictions that qualified as serious and/or violent felonies within the meaning of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)), and which also qualified as five-year priors pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1). lastly, it was alleged defendant had suffered five prior prison terms ( 667.5, subd. (b)). defendant pled not guilty and denied the special allegations. following receipt of the report finding defendant competent, the case proceeded to a jury trial in september 2011. mr. harris testified to the facts set forth above. an audiotape of his call to 911 was played for the jury. mr. harris also testified to having seen defendant in the neighborhood before the incident, talking or yelling to himself, including using racial deputy elizondo and mr. thompson also testified to the facts set forth above regarding the incident of march 29, 2010. mr. thompson attested to the fact that he had previously witnessed defendant -----defendant normally ranged from around 5 minutes to 45 minutes in length. defendant did not put on any evidence in defense. on september 27, 2011, the jury found defendant guilty of making a criminal threat against mr. harris as alleged in count 3. the jury also found true that the offense was a hate crime, and that defendant 3 all further undesignated section references are to the penal code. 5 used a deadly and dangerous weapon in the commission of the offense. the jury acquitted defendant on counts 1 and 2. defendant waived his right to a jury trial on the bifurcated prior conviction allegations. defendant admitted the four prior strikes, as well as the prior prison terms under section 667.5, subdivision (b). a romero motion, and cassandra reeves. after entertaining argument from counsel, the court explained its ruling on the motion in some detail. at the outset, the trial court stated it had ordered all of the court files for the strike priors, including the probation reports, and had reviewed those records. the court also read the probation report prepared for the current offense. the court then explained that it was going to strike the 1992 burglary because the records revealed it was not a residential burglary, but a second degree burglary and therefore did not qualify as a strike. the court stated it was declining to strike any of the three remaining strikes h felonies and misdemeanors,extensive history of criminal activity, including when defendant was a juvenile, much of a variety of crimes committed, as well as an apparent inability of defendant to reform his conduct. the court obation performance on both his informal probation and times he was granted formal probation, and then repeated parole violations when he was sent to prison for residential burglary and then ultimately the trial court sentenced defendant to an aggregate state prison term of 44 years to life. specifically, the court sentenced defendant as a third-strike offender, imposing a term of 25 years to life on count 3, plus two consecutive one-year terms as to the use of a 6 weapon and hate crime enhancements. the court also sentenced defendant to three consecutive five-year terms for the three prior convictions found true pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1), and two consecutive terms of one year for the two prior prison terms found true pursuant to section 667.5, subdivision (b). the court awarded defendant a total of 1,020 days of presentence custody credits, and imposed various fines and fees. this appeal followed. discussion 1. substantial evidence supports the judgment on count 3 defendant contends there is insufficient evidence supporting his conviction for making a criminal threat against mr. harris. specifically, defendant argues testimony given at trial failed to establish that his words were taken as threats. defendant further asserts that any alleged verbal threat made by him was as ---- rather than personally directed at mr. harris. and, defendant argues mr. harris was threats as he had previously encountered defendants verbal outbursts and was not bothered by them and was not placed in fear of defendant. we are not persuaded. review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidence--that is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value--such that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a (people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 11.) ensure the evidence is reasonable, credible, and of solid value, nonetheless it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts on which that determination depends. [citation.] thus, if the verdict is supported by substantial evidence, we must accord due deference to the trier finder. (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206.) 7 the jury found defendant guilty of making a criminal threat to mr. harris. there is ample evidence in the record supporting the verdict. ( 4224; see also people v. toledo (2001) 26 cal.4th 221, 227-228.) expression of an intent to inflict evil, injury, or damage on another. [citation.]in re m.s. (1995) 10 cal.4th 698, 710.) [t]he determination whether a defendant intended his words to be taken as a threat, and whether the words were sufficiently unequivocal, unconditional, immediate and specific they conveyed to the victim an immediacy of purpose and immediate prospect of execution of the threat can be based on all the surrounding circumstances and not just on the words alone. [citations.] (people v. butler (2000) 85 cal.app.4th 745, 754 (butler)thus, it is the circumstances under which the threat is made that give meaning to the actual words used. even an ambiguous statement may be a basis for a violation of section 422.id. at p. 753.) the jury heard the testimony of the victim, mr. harris, who testified defendant said ------ you based on these words alone, mr. harris testified he . he further explained the that followed his initial verbal threat. he said defendant retrieved a and a from his house, came back outside with both weapons in hand and came directly at mr. harris and to within about 10 feet of him. defendant, at that close range, then repeated ----r. at that point, mr. harris ran away and called 911. he relayed the threats to the 911 operator, and expressed that he was still scared and 4 pethreatens to commit a crime which will result in death or great bodily injury to another person, with the specific intent that the statement, made verbally, in writing, or by means of an electronic communication device, is to be taken as a threat, even if there is no intent of actually carrying it out, which, on its face and under the circumstances in which it is made, is so unequivocal, unconditional, immediate, and specific as to convey to the person threatened, a gravity of purpose and an immediate prospect of execution of the threat, and thereby causes that person reasonably to be in sustained fear for his or her ished by imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed one year, or by imprisonment in the state 8 unsure whether defendant was going to come at him again. the 911 call was played to the jury. threats consisted of conduct and not words is untrue, as the actions of defendant immediately after making his verbal threat gave meaning and context to his words (not that any explanation is i). (butler, supra, 85 cal.app.4th at p. 753.) the jury unquestionably had sufficient evidence before it to find defendant made a specific verbal threat to mr. harris, given that the words relayed an explicit death threat and then defendant approached mr. harris with deadly weapons in hand exhibiting an apparent intent to act on the threat. the conduct that accompanied the words reasonably placed mr. harris in a position of believing the verbal threat was not an idle one. defendant mr. harris personally, but rather l of you [n----rs], is equally unavailing. the record s testimony unequivocally indicates defendant first stood at the front door of his home ---- you as mr. harris walked past, and he then approached mr. harris with two weapons and repeated that same threat. the argument that mr. harris by defendant is mr. harris based on previous interactions between the two men. mr. harris had seen defendant in the neighborhood on other occasions, talking to himself and making generalized racial slurs. however, mr. s testimony concerning his interaction with defendant on march 29, 2010, established that defendant behaved starkly differently on that date. defendant made an explicit death threat while he was carrying, and posturing with, two deadly weapons, and came directly at mr. harris. (people v. stanfield (1995) 32 cal.app.4th 1152, 1162 [rejecting substantial evidence challenge where fear of victim was reasonable because threatening communication from the defendant was differentcommunications and contained an explicit death threat].) 9 outbursts witnessed by mr. harris on previous occasions and the jury could find that mr. harris reasonably felt his life was in danger and was placed in sustained fear within the meaning of the statute. defendant has failed to show any basis for disturbing it. (people v. kwok (1998) 63 cal.app.4th 1236, 1245 [ de for insufficiency of the evidence to ].) 2. denial of the romero motion w defendant contends his romero motion was wrongfully denied. we review a uling on a romero motion under the deferential abuse of discretion standard. (people v. williams (1998) 17 cal.4th 148, 162 (williams); accord, people v. myers (1999) 69 cal.app.4th 305, 309-310 (myers) [a defendant must demonstrate s decision was irrational or arbitrary. . . . where the record demonstrates that the trial court balanced the relevant facts and reached an impartial decision in conformity with the spirit of the law, s ruling]ruling below.5 pursuant to section 1385, the trial court has the authority to dismiss a prior strike allegation in the interests of justice. (romero, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 504.) in determining whether a prior strike under the three strikes law is properly dismissed, the court lent felony convictions, and the particulars of his [or her] background, character, and prospects, the defendant may be 5 defendant requested we take judicial notice of the probation reports related to explaining its ruling. by separate order, we also ordered transmission to this court of the court files relied upon by the trial court in making its ruling. 10 though he [or she] had not previously been convicted of one or more serious and/or williams, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 161.) consideration of the pertinent facts and the basis for its decision to strike the one burglary, but to not strike any of the other three admitted priors. the court properly weighed factors related to the offense committed in the instant case, prior strikes for burglary and attempted burglary, and the balance of his criminal history, as well as the court explained the seriousness of defendants present conviction for making criminal threats coupled with the use of a deadly [d] [the] court concern in terms of public safety in addition, the court pointed out s, noting the prior convictions for residential burglary and attempted residential burglary, w the court also expressed noting the consistency of criminal activity dating from when defendant was a juvenile up history included charges for driving under the influence, weapons possession, hit and run, battery, domestic violence, exhibiting a weapon, and drug convictions. the court the court acknowledged but explained its duty to counterbalance public safety and other relevant issues. he court also has to balance these other factor the somehow improperly relied only on the probation reports to determine that defendant had 11 not shown any program for drug rehabilitation or to consistently seek mental health care, and that that finding was the sole reason for denying . the record does not support s contention the court misunderstood the applicable law, failed to balance all relevant factors or improperly relied on only one factor in making its ruling. (myers, supra, 69 cal.app.4th at p. 310 [trial court is irmative explanatory comfactors does not mean the court only considered those factors].) to the contrary, the court heard all of the testimony relevant to the present offense; the court listened to the testimony of defendant and his niece ; the court explained it had obtained the files of the prior strikes and reviewed the relevant records and the probations reports; and the court noted its review of the probation report for the present offense. the court thoroughly and properly balanced all relevant factors and was well within its discretion in finding placed him within the spirit of the three strikes law for sentencing purposes. defendant has not shown sion was arbitrary or irrational. disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed. grimes, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. rubin, j. 