filed 3/29/13 p. v. castillo ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jorge antonio castillo, defendant and appellant. b239859 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba372843) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. custis b. rappe, judge. affirmed. nancy l. tetreault, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and jonathan m. krauss, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________ 2 jorge antonio castillo appeals from a judgment which sentences him to an indeterminate term of 80 years to life plus a determinate term of 20 years in state prison for the sexual abuse of his stepdaughter. on appeal, castillo contends the court committed various instructional errors. we find no error and affirm the judgment. facts castillo married l.m. (mother) in 2000. mother had two young children at that time, a.c. and b.c. castillo and mother then had j. in 2008. castillo lived with mother and the children in a one bedroom apartment. a.c. and b.c. slept in a bunk bed in the laundry room. castillo was not regularly employed. mother often worked nights at the airport as a baggage supervisor and left the children either with a babysitter, maria d., or castillo. castillo also took care of the children when mother went to mexico. in january 2011, castillo was charged with molesting a.c. over a period of years. he was charged with two counts of aggravated sexual assault of a child (pen. code,  269, subd. (a)(1)),1 three counts of committing a forcible lewd act upon a child ( 288, subd. (b)(1)), one count of continuous sexual abuse ( 288.5, subd. (a))2 and two counts of sexual intercourse with a child under 10 ( 288.7, subd. (a)). he pled not guilty and a jury trial commenced in january 2012. i. a.c. a.c. testified at trial that castillo began sexually molesting her when she was six or seven and in first grade. castillo threatened to hurt her or her mother if she told anyone. the molestation occurred more often than once a month when she was in first and second grade and then occurred less often in third grade. when mother was working the night shift, castillo would call a.c. to the living room or the bedroom and take off her clothes. a.c. r legs, she did not 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 2 this charge was dismissed at trial. 3 her buttocks, there was no pain or discomfort, and he did not touch her anus. when he was done, castillo used toilet paper to clean a watery substance off her back and she would go back to sleep. castillo also made her w castillo and mother separated in february 2009 and castillo rented a room from a.c.her watch pornographic videos on his dvd player. a.c. a.c. told b.c. about the molestation but did not want him to tell anyone about it because she was afraid castillo would hurt her or mother. b.c., in turn, did not tell anyone for fear that castillo would hurt him. a.c. her mother about the abuse and jacquelmother to the abuse. mother approached a.c. about the abuse but a.c. was reluctant to admit it happened. when she finally did, mother reported it to the police. ii. other testimony a.c. was examined by a nurse at the santa monica ucla sexual assault center in april 2010. a.c. a.c. at there was penile vaginal contact with some associated discomfort. genital fondling. a.c. also confirmed to the nurse that castillo would turn her over and put a liqa.c. saw castillo use a lubricant 4 from a bottle. a.c. also told the nurse that she was shown videotapes on the vcr in the indicated that given the history of abuse reported by a.c., she did not expect to find any evidence of injury, particularly if castillo used a lubricant and the last incident of abuse was from 2009. a.c. repeated the details of the abuse to a los angeles police officer. b.c. also [a.c.] would start crying when [castillo] would come get her out of bed.b.c. testified that he sometimes got up during the night and noticed that a.c. was not in her bed. he noticed that the blanket on bedroom. he believed a.c. and castillo were in the bed because neither were anywhere else in the small apartment. he recalled that he witnessed this six times and saw a.c. while she was on her stomach. b.c. was afraid of castillo because he hit b.c. with his fists, belts or hangers. b.c. sometimes saw a.c. cry on the way to school and realized later that these episodes occurred after castillo had abused her. the babysitter testified she sometimes saw a.c. into her home. she once saw them watching tv on his bed and later found a pornographic dvd in the dvd player. she told him she did not want those movies in the house. mother allowed castillo to continue to see the children even after he moved stalked her in july 2009. 5 iii. castillo was interviewed by a los angeles police detective on june 23, 2010, after his arrest. castillo was informed of his miranda3 rights and waived them. when the detective indicated that he had a medical report showing vaginal trauma, castillo g. while castillo was watching pornography, a.c. her vagina but admitted to rubbing his penis on her vagina causithe detective testified at trial that it was obvious from the context that castillo meant a.c. castillo denied any oral copulation, sodomy or vaginal penetration occurred. castillo initially said the molestation occurred when a.c. was seven, but later stated it occurred three to four months before he moved out in february 2009. he said the told the detective that a.c. not allow it. he also told the detective that when he touched her vagina with his penis, the bathroom. he himself. iv. verdict and sentence the jury found castillo guilty of the charges detailed above. castillo was sentenced to an indeterminate term of 80 years to life in state prison with an additional determinate term of 20 years to be served consecutively. he timely appealed. 3 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 6 discussion castillo contends the trial court committed instructional error when it failed to give a modified instruction on unanimity and failed to adequately instruct the jury on lesser included crimes. we find no error. i. unanimity instruction the trial court instructed on unanimity in accordance with calcrim no. 3501. castillo now contends that calcrim no. 3501 was insufficient, and that the trial court was also required to instruct with calcrim no. 3500. we first note that castillo agreed to instruct the jury with calcrim no. 3501, and further, never requested that calcrim no. 3500 also be given. as a result, he has forfeited this claim. party may not complain on appeal that an instruction correct in law and responsive to the evidence was too general or incomplete unless the party has requested appropriate people v. hill (1992) 3 cal.4th 959, 997 overruled on other grounds by price v. superior court (2001) 25 cal.4th 1046, 1069, fn. 13.) unavailing. according to castillo, instruction on calcrim no. 3501 and calcrim separate act of misconduct occurring on a separate date and unanimously agreed upon by ld have formed the basis for a conviction on the two counts for forcible lewd acts upon a child under 14 because both counts addressed the same time period. he also contends that the same act or acts could have supported his convictions for counts 8 and 9 since both addressed the same time period and the act of having sexual intercourse with a child under 10 (count 9) could also be appellant could be convicted twice for a because calcrim no. 3501 properly directed the jury on the issue of unanimity. 7 of more than one act to prove that the defendant committed the crime charged in each count. you must not find the defendant guilty of the crime charged in any count unless, one, you all agree that the people have proved that the defendant committed at least one of these acts and you all agree on which acts he committed for each offense or, two, you all agree that the people have proved that the defendant committed all the acts alleged to have occurred during this period of time and have proved that the defendant committed at least the number of offenses c evidence of more than one act to prove that the defendant committed this offense. you must not find the defendant guilty unless you all agree that the people have proved that the defendant committed at least one of these acts and you all agree on which act (he/she) a careful reading of the two instructions reveals that the language in calcrim no. 3500 is incorporated into the language of calcrim no. 3501. indeed, the only two sentences in calcrim no. 3500 are repeated almost verbatim in calcrim no. 3501. to provide the jury with both instructions would be redundant. indeed, the bench notes following calcrim no. 3500 clearly indicate that they are alternative instructions and appropriate, do not give this instruction. give calcrim no. 3501, unanimity: when generic testimony of offense presentedch notes for calcrim no. give this instruction. if the court determines that the standard unanimity instruction is people v. jones (1990) 51 cal.3d 294, 321-322 (jones), is instructive on this issue. as in this case, the victims in jones were children provigive specific details on times and dates or other distinguishing characteristics as to 8 individual acts or assaults. (id. at p. 299.) the court analyzed the due process concerns raised when a victim is only able to provide such generic testimony about abuse. the court held that prosecutions based on this type of evidence satisfied due process where the testimony was sufficiently specific as to the kind of acts committed, the number of acts committed, and the general time period during which these acts occurred. (id. at p. 316.) the court then addressed what type of unanimity instruction is required in such that jury unanimity is necessarily unattainable where testimony regarding repeated identical offenses is presented in child molestation cases. in such cases, although the jury may not be able to readily distinguish between the various acts, it is certainly capable of unanimously unanimity requirement would be satisfied where the victim testified that oral copulation occurred once a month for three months and the people charged three counts of molestation. (jones, supra, of lewd conduct during a particular time period, the child victim testified that such conduct took place three times during that same period, and the jury believed that testimony in toto, its difficulty in differentiating between the various acts should not preclude a conviction of the two counts charged, so long as there is no possibility of jury (ibid, italics omitted.) as to the particular act defendant committed, the standard unanimity instruction should be given. [citation.] but when there is no reasonable likelihood of juror disagreement as to particular acts, and the only question is whether or not the defendant in fact committed all of them, the jury should be given a modified unanimity instruction which, in addition to allowing a conviction if the jurors unanimously agree on specific acts, also allows a conviction if the jury unanimously agrees the defendant committed all the acts described jones, supra, 51 cal.3d at pp. 312-322.) 9 the jones opiunanimity instruction, expressed in calcrim no. 3501, which provides for both options outlined by the court. under the unanimity instruction given, the jury was required to either unanimously agree castillo was guilty of committing the same specific act underlying each charge or agree that every act testified to by the victim was proven, thus satisfactorily proving of each count. this was wholly proper instruction. ii. lesser included crimes instructions castillo next contends the trial court erred when it failed to instruct the jury on attempted rape as a lesser included offense of aggravated sexual assault by rape and attempted sexual intercourse as a lesser included offense of sexual intercourse with a child. we also find no instructional error on these grounds. both aggravated sexual assault by rape ( 269, subd. (a)(1)) and sexual intercourse with a child ( 288.7) required the jury to find penetration. without penetration, castillo could only be found guilty of attempting those crimes. thus, attempted rape and attempted sexual intercourse are lesser included offenses. (people v. atkins (2001) 25 cal.4th 76, 88.) castillo contends instructions on the lesser included offenses were required because the evidence created a question of fact on the issue of penetration. according to castillo, a.c. presented conflicting testimony, stating during direct -examination, never went in. castillo himself repeatedly denied penetrating a.c. included offense which find substantial support in the evidence. on the other hand, the (people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 162 (breverman); people v. avila (2009) 46 cal.4th 680, 704-705.) evidence is sufficiently substantial to warrant a lesser included offense instruction if it would cause a reasonable jury to conclude that the 10 defendant committed the lesser but not the greater offense. (breverman, supra, 19 nse, ibid.) we included offense. (people v. licas (2007) 41 cal.4th 362, 366.) error in failing to give lesser included instructions where required is reviewed under the harmless error standard articulated by people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836. (breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 165.) we conclude the trial court was not required to instruct the jury on the lesser included offenses. there was not sufficient evidence for a reasonable jury to conclude that castillo committed the lesser offenses of attempted rape and attempted sexual intercourse but not the greater offenses. contwas not contradictory regarding whether penetration occurred. a.c. testified about enetrating a.c.constitute sexual penetration and to complete the crime of rape even if the rapist does not people v. quintana (2001) 89 cal.app.4th 1362, 1366, quoting people v. karsai (1982) 131 cal.app.3d 224, 232 [penetration of external genital organs such as labia majora and labia minora sufficient].) thus, penetration of no more than the lips of the vagina is sufficient to constitute rape. (people v. esposti (1947) 82 cal.app.2d 76, 78.) here, castillo admitted that he parted a.c.police that a.c. r because maybe - warranting instruction on the lesser included offenses. 11 even if the trial court did err in failing to give instructions on the lesser included offenses, however, it does not require reversal. the error was not prejudicial because it is not reasonably probable that castillo would have obtained a more favorable result. (breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 162; watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836.) castillo himself admitted to the police that he molested a.c. and separated her labia. though he denied penetrating her, he qualified it by stating that it did not go all the way in. moreover, a.c. the police and at trial were consistent, including that he put his private parts inside hers. as discussed above, the evidence that he achieved penetration under the law was strong. there was not sufficient evidence from which a reasonable jury could conclude that he was guilty merely of attempted rape and attempted sexual intercourse rather than the completed crimes. disposition the judgment is affirmed. bigelow, p. j. we concur: rubin, j. flier, j. 