filed 5/24/13 p. v. cabrera ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. hugo eliseo cabrera, defendant and appellant. b239552 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na066657) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. gary j. ferrari, judge. modified and affirmed with directions. edward h. schulman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, blythe j. leszkay, supervising deputy attorney general, and toni r. johns estaville, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 defendant hugo eliseo cabrera appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial in which he was convicted of two counts of aggravated sexual assault on a child under the age of 14 (pen. code,  269, subd. (a); undesignated statutory references are to the penal code), one of which was based upon rape in violation of section 261, subdivision (a)(2), and the other upon sexual penetration, in violation of section 289, subdivision (a); one count of committing a lewd act on a child ( 288, subd. (a)); and one count of sexual penetration of a child under the age of 14 ( 289, subd. (j)). defendant contends that the evidence was insufficient to support his convictions of aggravated sexual assault on a child under the age of 14 and that the trial court erred by failing to ence contention and reduce his convictions in the those counts and strike the resulting duplicative count 4, which the parties agree was based upon the same act of penetration as count 2. background count 1 charged defendant with committing an aggravated sexual assault on a child under the age of 14 by committing rape in violation of section 261, subdivision aggravated sexual assault on a child under the age of 14 by sexual penetration in violation with committing a lewd act on a child under the age of 14 in violation of section 288, 4 charged defendant with sexual penetration of a child under the age of 14 in violation of section set forth in the information were dismissed before trial as improperly filed because they the victim, maria c., was born in march of 1991. she was 20 at the time of trial prosec 3 maria testified that when she was in the fourth grade, defendant began touching her breasts with his hands and inserting his fingers and penis in her vagina. maria was 9 and 10 years old in 2000 and 2001 when she was in the fourth grade, but she was not specifically asked and did not testify how old she was when defendant commenced his sexual conduct against her. the conduct always occurred in their home, and it occurred embarrassed. later during her testimony, the prosecutor asked maria again why she los angelmother when it first began about the touching initially and her father, hugo, convinced ne when maria was in the fifth grade, defendant went away for two years. (although not disclosed to the jury, defendant was serving a prison term for spousal abuse.) the parties stipulated that from 2002 to early march 2004, defendant could not contact maria and had no access to her. in march of 2004, when maria was in the seventh grade and 13 years old, molestation pattern that he had dmaria became pregnant and, after nine months of pregnancy, she gave birth to her daughter m. on february 7, 2005. maria testified that defendant was m. father. maria told her mother that she had been raped in a van by a stranger. defendant gave her who began investigating it in january of 2005 and concluded it was false. when martin 4 confronted maria with his conclusion, she refused to speak with him for a time. martin subsequently told martin that one of her seventh grade classmates was responsible. martin asked her to point out the classmate in her school yearbook, and maria selected someone. martin interviewed the boy, who did not know maria, but voluntarily provided a dna sample. after m. was born, martin collected a dna sample from her also. before m. was born, maria told defendant that she did not want to continue lying. defendant left home and maria did not see him again until the preliminary hearing. after m.m.defendant had left soon after giving a dna sample. defendant was extradited from guatemala in 2011. prosecution dna expert catherine leisy testified that she analyzed all of the dna samples to determine m.m. all of the other males were excluded. defendant presented no affirmative evidence. the jury convicted defendant of aggravated sexual assault on a child under the age of 14 by rape, aggravated sexual assault on a child under the age of 14 by sexual penetration, commission of a lewd act on a child under the age of 14, and sexual penetration of a child under the age of 14. defendant admitted a prior prison term enhancement allegation ( 667.5, subd. (b)). the court sentenced defendant to consecutive terms of 15 years to life in prison for each of the two aggravated sexual assault convictions, a consecutive term of 8 years for the lewd act conviction, a subordinate consecutive term of 2 years for the sexual penetration conviction, and a 1-year consecutive term for the prior prison term enhancement, for a total term of 41 years to life. the trial court did not award defendant any presentence conduct credits, but 5 discussion 1. sufficiency of evidence counts 1 and 2 (aggravated sexual assault of a child under 14 based upon rape and fear of immediate and (a)(1), (a)(5);  289, former subd. (a)(1), now subd. (a)(1)(a).) in her arguments to the jury, the prosecutor relied solely upon duress, and defendant contends there was to resolve this issue, we review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment to decide whether substantial evidence supports the conviction, so that a reasonable jury could find guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. ceja (1993) 4 cal.4th 1134, 1138.) we presume the existence of every fact supporting the judgment that the jury could reasonably deduce from the evidence and make all reasonable inferences that support the judgment. (people v. barnes (1986) 42 cal.3d 284, 303; people v. catlin (2001) 26 cal.4th 81, 139.) a reasonable inference may not be based solely upon suspicion, imagination, speculation, supposition, surmise, conjecture, or guess work. (people v. raley (1992) 2 cal.4th 870, 891.) violence, danger, or retribution sufficient to coerce a reasonable person of ordinary susceptibilities to perform an act which otherwise would not have been performed, or acquiesce in an act to which one otherwise would not have submitted. the total circumstances, including the age of the victim, and his or her relationship to the ( 261, subd. (b).) for purposes of aggravated sexual assault based upon sexual penetration has hardship or retribution sufficient to coerce a reasonable person of ordinary susceptibilities 6 to (1) perform an act which otherwise would not have been performed or, (2) acquiesce in people v. leal (2004) 33 cal.4th 999, 1004, italics omitted.) duress is of no consequence in this case, and we can treat duress as if it were identically defined for both counts 1 and 2. [d]uress involves psychological coercion. duress can arise from various circumstances, including the relationship between the defendant and the victim and their relative ages and sizes. . . . young, . . . the position of dominance and authority of the defendant and his continuous people v. espinoza (2002) 95 cal.app.4th 1287, 13191320.) harm the victim, physically controlling the victim when the victim attempts to resist, and warnings to the victim that revealing the molestation would result in jeopardizing the fampeople v. veale espinoza, at p. 1321participation was impelled, at least partly, by an implied threat . . . ibid.) but duress ular people v. soto (2011) 51 cal.4th 229, 246.) the jury instructions given in this case defined duress in the context of count 1 implied threat of force, violence, danger, or retribution sufficient to coerce a reasonable person of ordinary susceptibilities to perform an act which she would not otherwise have performed, or acquiesce in an act to which she otherwise would not have submitted. the total circumstances, including but not limited to the age of the alleged victim, her relationship to the perpetrator defendant, threats to harm the victim, physically controlling the victim when the victim attempts to resist, and warnings to the victim that revealing the 7 10.00.) for purposes of count 2 (aggravated sexual assault based upon sexual penetration)violence, danger, hardship, or retribution sufficient to coerce a reasonable person of ordinary susceptibilities to perform an act which she would not otherwise have performed, or acquiesce in an act to which she otherwise would not have submitted. the total circumstances, including the age of the alleged victim, and her relationship to the defendant, are factors to consider in appraising the existence of the duresno. 10.51.) in her arguments to the jury regarding duress, making it the easiest for you. duress is such a low standard . . . caljic old and in fact he is20022001, nd she is in that stuck mode now and ] so, you look at the age of the victim and her relationship or threats or physically controlling or warnings to the victim about revealing the rape. she knows what it will do to the familythink that 10 year old positively cooperated with her dad? . . . and why did it happen? [[[] did she have as a defense counsel argued that there was no evidence of force, violence, duress, because you know that she was young, that she must have felt or there must have been 8 force or violence or duress or menace or fear of able to do it by duress and duress is acquiescingitduress. a 10-year-old child would not be expected nor able to stand up to her father or at because now everyone is going to know that her . . is having sex with viewing the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment, we conclude that there is not substantial evidence of duress to support the convictions in counts 1 and 2. these charges were based upon conduct occurring when maria was 13, not 10, as maria began when she was in the fourth grade, when she was 9 or 10, it stopped when she was in the fifth grade because defendant went away to prison for two years, and it did not may have been factors that, in addition to other circumstances, would have supported a perhaps even if the conduct had continued unabated since that time through the date of with maria were insufficient to show that defendant used duress to commit the charged offenses on may 12, 2004, when maria was 13 and defendant had been out of the house for two years. sory and conclusory. she was never asked and never testified that she feared defendant or that his conduct placed her in fear. she was never asked and never testified about the circumstances surrounding the sexual acts. there was no evidence defendant attempted 9 incident, or during any prior incident. there was no evidence that defendant ever made any express threats of any sort, neither threats that coerced maria to perform or acquiesce in the sexual activity, nor even threats of adverse consequences that would result if she that could be deemed to be an implied threat of force, violence, danger, retribution, or hardship. there was no evidence that defendant ignored a request to stop or complaint of pain (or that any such request or complaint was made), or overcame an attempt by maria to get away from him. nor was there any evidence that defendant ever used physical force to punish maria in other contexts or that she feared him because of force he had used on her or anyone else. in short, the prosecutor presented minimal and conclusory evidence, falling so far short of substantial evidence that we cannot conclude that a reasonable jury could have found guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. although defendant forfeited any claim of prosecutorial misconduct by failing to have misled the the charged offenses three or four years later. in addition, the prosecutor argued that acquiescin incorrectly argued that maria testified she bled and used this matter from outside the an rather than simauthority to modify the judgment to reflect conviction of a lesser, necessarily included offense. ( 1181, subd. 6, 1260; people v. jackson (2000) 77 cal.app.4th 574, 580.) an offense is necessarily included in another if either the statutory elements of the greater offense or the facts alleged in the accusatory pleading include all of the elements of the lesser offense, so that the greater offense cannot be committed without also committing the lesser. (people v. bailey (2012) 54 cal.4th 740, 748.) either the statutory elements 10 test or the accusatory pleading test may be applied in the context of modifying a judgment due to insufficiency of evidence. (ibid.) in response to our requesconvictions, defendant argued that counts 1 and 2 should be reduced to violations of section 289, subdivision (h), sexual penetration of a person under the age of 18. the attorney general argued that count 2 could be reduced to a violation of section 289, subdivisions (h) or (j) [sexual penetration of a person under the age of 14 by a defendant who is more than 10 years older than the victim], but argued that count 1 could not any foreign penis, when it is not known whether penetration was by a penis ( 289, subd. (k)(1)(3).) the attorney general argues that count 1 could be reduced to a violatiany person who engages in an act of unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor who is more than three years younger than the perpetrator is guilty of either a misdemeanor or a felony, and shall be punished by imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding one year, or by count 1 charged aggravated sexual assault of a child under the age of 14 by a defendant who is more than 10 years older than the victim by means of a violation of section 261, subdivision (a)(2). ( 269, subd. (a)(1).) section 261, subdivision (a) accomplished with a person not the spouse of the perpetrator, under any of the following circumstances: [] . . . [] (2) applying the accusatory pleadings test, we agree with the attorney general that a violation of section 261.5, subdivision (c) is necessarily included within a violation of 11 aggravated sexual assault of a child under the age of 14 by forcible rape. accordingly, we reduce count 1 to a violation of section 261.5, subdivision (c). count 2 charged aggravated sexual assault of a child under the age of 14 by a defendant who is more than 10 years older than the victim by means of a violation of section 289, former subdivision (a)(1) (now subd. (a)(1)(a)). ( 269, subd. (a)(5).) in any person who commits an act of force, violence, duress, menace, or fear of immediate and unlawful bodily injury on the victim or another person shall be punished by imprisonment in the state prison for three, six, or eight years.applying the accusatory pleadings test, we agree with the attorney general that a violation of either section 289, subdivision (h) or subdivision (j) is necessarily included within a violation of aggravated sexual assault of a child under the age of 14 by sexual penetration, but we conclude a violation of section 289, subdivision (j) is a more apt included offense because the age specifications mirror those in section 269, as it existed in 2004. participates in an act of sexual penetration with another person who is under 14 years of age and who is more than 10 years younger than he or she shall be punished by in an act of sexual penetration with another person who is under 18 years of age shall be punished by imprisonment in the state prison or in the county jail for a period of not more accordingly, we reduce count 1 to a violation of section 289, subdivision (j). 2. duplicative counts we asked the parties to address whether defendant was properly convicted and sentenced for two counts pertaining to sexual penetration (counts 2 and 4), given evidence and the time periods alleged in the information. in her letter brief, the attorney 12 although the parties disagreed as to whether defendant properly stood convicted of two counts based upon the same act, our modification of count 2 to a violation of section 289, subdivision (j) simplifies matters. with this modification, counts 2 and 4 are identical convictions for a single act and one must be stricken. accordingly, we strike count 4. 3. unanimity instruction defendant contends that the trial court erred by failing to give a unanimity instruction, and that this potentially affected counts 2 through 4. given our disposition of count 4, we address the absence of a unanimity instruction with respect to counts 2 and 3. a trial court must instruct jurors that they must unanimously agree that defendant may form the basideciding whether to give the instruction, the trial court must ask whether (1) there is a risk the jury may divide on two discrete crimes and not agree on any particular crime, or (2) the evidence merely presents the possibility the jury may divide, or be uncertain, as to the exact way the defendant is guilty of a single discrete crime. in the first situation, but not the second, it should give the unanimity instruction.people v. russo (2001) 25 cal.4th 1124, 1135.) where a unanimity instruction is required it must be given sua sponte. (people v. curry (2007) 158 cal.app.4th 766, 783.) which act a defendant committed and yet convict him of the crime charged. . . . [t]he possibility of disagreement exists where the defendant is accused of a number of unrelated incidents, such as alleged rapes at different times or places, leaving the jurors free to believe different parts of the testimony and yet convict the defendant. . . . disagreement may also exist where the defendant offers a defense which could be people v. gonzalez (1983) 141 cal.app.3d 786, 791792, disapproved on another ground in people v. kurtzman (1988) 46 cal.3d 322, 330.) 13 from which reasonable jurors could both accept and reject the occurrence of at least the people v. schultz (1987) 192 cal.app.3d 535, 540.) where the record provides no rational basis for the jury to distinguish between the various acts, by way of argument or evidence, and the jury must have believed beyond a reasonable doubt that defendant committed all of the acts if he committed any of them, the failure to give a unanimity instruction is harmless. (people v. thompson (1995) 36 cal.app.4th 843, 853 (thompson).) the evidence supported the commission of three distinct criminal acts against maria during the time periods specified in the charges: sexual intercourse, touching her all three thus, there was no rational basis for the jury to distinguish between the various acts, and the jury must have believed beyond a reasonable doubt that defendant committed all of the acts if he committed any of them. accordingly, even if the trial court should have given a unanimity instruction, its failure to do so was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. wolfe (2003) 114 cal.app.4th 177, 186188; thompson, supra, 36 cal.app.4th at p. 853.) 14 disposition the judgment is modified by (1) reducing count 1 to a conviction of violating penal code section 261.5, subdivision (c); (2) reducing count 2 to a conviction of violating penal code section 289, subdivision (j); and (3) striking count 4. the judgment is otherwise affirmed, and the cause is remanded for resentencing. not to be published. mallano, p. j. we concur: chaney, j. johnson, j. 