filed 11/26/12 p. v. rawls ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. sylvester gene rawls, defendant and appellant. b239936 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya079991) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, james r. brandlin, judge. affirmed. vanessa place, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant, sylvester gene rawls, appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial which resulted in his conviction of two counts of forcible oral copulation (pen. code,  288a, subd. (c)(2)),1 during the commission of each of which he used a deadly and dangerous weapon, a knife ( 12022.3, subd. (a), 667.61, subds. (b) & (e)). the trial court sentenced rawls to 18 years to life in prison. we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. facts. on august 28, 2003, 17-year-old r.w. (r.) was at cheerleading practice at her high school. classes had not yet begun; school started the following week. however, the cheerleaders had started to practice. morning, broke for lunch, then went back to practice in the afternoon. in all, they practiced approximately eight hours each day. that afternoon, the girls were practicing in the gymnasium. at approximately 2:15 p.m., r. asked if she could go to the restroom, which was down a long hallway, next stall on the right, locked the sliding lock and used the toilet. when she looked over, r. after she finished, r. flushed the toilet, slid open the lock and began to walk out of the stall. however, as she was it had . . . a sharp this hair, dark sunglasses, a dark polo shirt and leather gloves. r. looked at the man and and he held the knife up close to her body. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 penis] in [her buttocks] a couple of buttocks. the man told r. to turn around and, after she did so, she sat down on the toilet. forth in [her] mouth. [when] it fell out[,] he put it back in. . . . [he] kept putting it back the man told r. to count to 100 out loud. he then left the restroom. after she had counted to approximately 30, r., who was crying at the time, wiped off her mouth with toilet paper, threw the paper into the toilet, pulled up her shorts, ran over to the sink and washed out her mouth. she did not flush the toilet. in all, r. was in the bathroom for approximately 15 minutes. she was there with the man for between eight and 13 minutes. coaches, and jackie, a team captain. r. tolwho was in the e r. water, but she just spit it out. finally, she told her friend, shannon b., and her cheerleading coach, michelle b., what had happened. police officers arrived at the school approximately 15 minutes after r. had told shannon b. and michelle b. about the incident in the restroom. r. told the officers which toilet she had spit the semen into and described her attacker to them. she told the police that he was an african-american and that he was approximately five feet eight or five feet nine inches tal 4 later that day, r. was given a sample, then took swabs from r., including one from her mouth and one from the spot on her buttocks where the man had kissed her. led a similarman as her attacker, but indicated that the individual in the photograph looked like him. in january 2011, r. was shown another group of six photographs. r. indicated matter. she looked at rawls and stated that, although he looked like the man who had attacked her, . . . 92 percent sure [he was] the . . . 2 with regard to how this incident had affected her, r. stated that she had undergone shannon b. had been friends with r. since kindergarten. at approximately 2:15 p.m. on august 28, 2003, she, too, was at cheerleader practice. when r. went to the restroom, shannon b. had considered going with her, but at that time they were going over a new dance routine and shannon b. did not want to miss it. however, after r. had been gone for nearly 10 minutes, shannon b. began to worry. r. had been gone a long time. just as shannon b. was about to go see what was taking r. so long, r. came back time speakin 2 5 on august 28, 2003, michelle b. was working for the high school attended by r. she was a full-cheerleading squad practiced for eight hours each day. pandemonium broke loose.the one in charge of a lot of girls and their well-being. and all [she] knew [was] thatof the girls in one room, michelle b. went running through the restroom, the locker room and the area outside. she did not, however, see anyone who looked suspicious. jan hare is a licensed nurse specializing in forensics. at about 5:15 p.m. on august 28, 2003, she conducted a sexual assault examination on r. when she examined rupture[copulated. signed to patrol with a gymnasium and was directed to the second stall on the right hand side. using a turkey that time, but took a sample of the toilet water and put it into a glass vial. after she had collected two vials, brenner gave the samples to csi officer ron kawasaki, who sealed them and booked them into evidence. in addition to the liquid from the toilet, brenner 6 compared with prints and partial prints in the police department data base, none were found to match those of rawls. a couple of days later, a cup from jack in the box was not match those of rawls. on august 28, 2003, ron kawasaki, a redondo beach police officer, was was a crime scene that occurred while [he] was working on patrol, [he] would change officer. from the second toilet on the right hand side of the restroom in toilet, placed them in glass vials, sealed them and, after they were taken to the station, placed them in a refrigerated evidence locker. in addition to the vials of toilet water, samples from the water, the toilet tissue, recovered from the toilet, which r. had used to wipe her mouth, and paper towels from a trash can. 16 was a copy of a traffic ticket received by rawls on august 15, 2003. danielle wieland is a forensic scientist assigned to the dna section of the orange county crime lab. in 2003, wieland was assigned to a specific group within the dna assault backlog reduction group, where [they] primarily focused analyzed or e. 7 with regard to the dna extraction, after it was examined by wieland it was of their dna to their child, . . . individual sperm cells [and] embryo[s] . . . [contain only] half of the dna. [] the reason [one] can get [a] full dna profile from semen is [that] ugh the vast majority of . . from toilet water and she prepared a report describing her testing results. here, the dna ditional testing indicated that, when it was compared with her blood sample, there was also dna from the victim in the water from the toilet. that it was definitely saliva, but with regard to the dna, she was only able to obtain dna to the dna profile from the sperm found in the toilet, she concluded that the 8 3 after rence sample the swab taken from rawls was processed with a new dna identifier kit. the err with regard to rawls, wieland could not indicate what the probabilities were for the additional two markers tested in 2011. [markers] and then did not match at [the two additional markers attributed to rawls.] [] and based on that, [she] would be very surprised and would not expect to get different words, wieland still believed could be the source of [the] sperm from the toilet water [was] . . . one in 642 trillion . . . 3 denise aguilar is a civilian crime scene technician who works for the redondo beach police dedetective asked aguilar to go to a particular hospital and collect a dna oral swab from an individual named sylvester gene rawls, the defendant and appellant in this matter. aguilar went to the hospital and, using her dna kit, which consisted of sterile cotton saliva samples from the interior of his cheek wall. the samples were then individually packaged in boxes, placed in sealed envelopes, and delivered to the crime lab. 9 was much smaller, one in 80. that is because, in reaching that number, wieland took into account only two dna markers rather than the 13 used to analyze the semen recovered from the toilet water. e e forms that [were] included in the report to make sure . . . they were filled out completely, [that] the tests [had been] run completely as far as the paperwork [was] concerned, [that] everything [was] notated with the forensic report number [and] initials, [and that] the issues regarding his technical review of it. six additional forensic analysts from the crime lab worked on the dna samples in either 2003 or 2011 and had come to the conclusion that she had followed proper protocol and reached an appropriate conclusion. detective peterson was shown the traffic ticket which rawls received on august school where r. was attacked. 2. defense evidence. detective peterson, who was the investigating officer for this case, first reviewed the evidence in the matter in 2007.4 in the course of his investigation, peterson spoke with several officers who had worked on the case and two witnesses, michelle b. and the 4 the detective, who is now formally retired, works as a reserve officer 10 victim, r. in his interviews with the officers, he did not recall any of them stating that they had shown a composite drawing of rawls to any of the witnesses who had been at the scene. in his interview with r., she had told him that the shoes she had seen in the rawls was first considered a suspect in this matter in december 2010 or january mr. r from one item to anothetesting, and [that individual] were to wipe [his or her] face, and then touch items, that dna samples can be contaminated during the testing process. if an analyst expects that that is what happened, he or she would repeat the process, using various controls. the computer software detects the chemical reactions. the analyst then, using specific standards, interprets them. ain.5 5 asked her about errors which might occur within the lab. the prosecutor then asked if he and counsel could approach and, out of the presence of the jury, the prosecutor indicated, technically. [] my position on this, i think the forensic labs have a responsibility to the error rate is on11 2. procedural history. following a preliminary hearing, on october 19, 2011, an amended information was filed charging rawls with two counts of forcible oral copulation in violation of section 288a, subdivision (c)(2) (counts 1 and 2). it was further alleged that rawls used a deadly weapon, a knife, within the meaning of section 12022.3, subdivision (a), which caused the offenses to be considered serious felonies within the meaning of section 1192.7, subdivision (c)(23). in addition, the allegations rawls used a weapon caused counts 1 and 2 to be charged as violent felonies which, if found true, required him to register as a sex offender pursuant to section 290, subdivision (c) and serve any time imposed for the crimes in state prison pursuant to section 1170, subdivision (h)(3). was the source of the dna found at the crime scene,6 rawls made a marsden7 motion. ere who cleaned the restroom on . . made errors, that re are little average test tubes as control. if . . . one is lucky enough to have contamination fall into the e types of questions as to [what happens when,] . . . during the testing process[,] if the contamination falls within the sample as opposed to within one of the tubes. [] but as it relates to errors that are the objection under both [evidence code 6 the witness could only testify as to the statistical evidence that the dna found at the crime scene had come from rawls. 7 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118. 12 august 28, 2003. his counsel had told him that that fact was not relevant. in addition, and that counsel continued to simply tell rawls that, if rawls did not like counsel, rawls could fire him. according to rawls, counsel had informed him that, after studying the evidence, counsel did not believe rawls had much of a case. it was, as stated by rawls, counsel stated that, although rawls had indicated that he had not been included in discovery, just that day counsel had given rawls a copy of a motion counsel had filed. includerawls was guilty; that it made no difference whatsoever. counsel had told rawls that all that mattered was whether a jury believed he was guilty and that he was of the opinion this case. they initially approached trial, i was told that 20 might be acceptable, but we had to make an offer to them. [] the only offer remotely discussed as being offered by us was 6 years. after telling [rawls] it was a waste of time, but i would do it for him, i did it. and sure counsel indicated that he met with rawls on several occasions and had a number of lengthy conversations with him. however, counsel, after reviewing the evidence 13 the trial court informed rawls that the decision to attempt to negotiate a nor, i still feel the same way, that i need to have a motion for for substitution of attorney. [] because marsden probably the preeminent expert in dna cases in his office, and probably one of the finest information that you want to hear, either about the offer or about his view of the evidence after the marsden motion was denied, defense counsel made a section 995 motion to dismiss one of the counts of forcible oral copulation, asserting that there had been only one incident. since, however, rawls had twice placed his penis in court denied the motion. after the prosecution presented its case, defense counsel made a motion for an entry of a judgment of acquittal pursuant to section 1118.1. the trial court denied the the trial court then addressed defense to put on an affirmative defense, if it chooses to do so. [] as part of an affirmative defense, you have an absolute right to testify in your trial, if you wish to testify. on the other hand, you have a privilege against self-incrimination. you cannot 14 -incriminatihad decided not to testify and his counsel stated that, rather than calling additional witnesses as part of an affirmative defense, rawls would rely on the state of the evidence at this point in the trial. at proceedings held on february 8, 2012, the trial court instructed the jury with the law of the case and counsel presented their arguments. the jury then retired to the jury room to deliberate. that same afternoon, the jury indicated that it had reached verdicts. after the foreperson handed the forms to the bailiff and the court reviewed them, the clerk read the verdicts and findings. the jury had found rawls guilty of the crime of forcible oral copulation, a felony ( 288a, subd. (c)(2)), as alleged in counts 1 and 2. the jury further found that rawls personally used a dangerous and deadly weapon, a knife, during the commission of the crimes ( 12022.3, subd. (a), 667.61, subds. (b) & (e)). these were their verdicts, each of t sentencing proceedings were held on march 8, 2012. the trial court first indicated that it had received a request for media coverage. the court granted the t subject to any repocounsel, the trial court imposed with regard to count 1, a violation of section 288a, 15 a, court imposed the terms concurrently, finding that the factors in aggravation did not the same transaction or occurrence involving the same common plan or scheme, the same rawls was ordered to pay a $5,000 restitution fine ( 1202.4, subd. (b)), a stayed $5,000 parole revocation restitution fine ( 1202.45), a $40 court security fee ( 1465.8, subd. (a)(1)), a $30 criminal conviction assessment (gov. code,  70373) and a $400 3). the trial court awarded rawls presentence custody credit for 424 days actually served and 63 days of good time/work time, for a total of 487 days. on the same day on which he was sentenced, march 8, 2012, rawls filed a notice of appeal. contentions after examination of the record, counsel filed an opening brief which raised no issues and requested this court to conduct an independent review of the record. by notice filed june 25, 2012, the clerk of this court advised rawls to submit within 30 days any contentions, grounds of appeal or arguments he wished this court to consider. on august 20, 2012, rawls filed a motion in which he requested additional time within which to file a letter brief. the motion was granted, allowing rawls to file a brief on or before september 28, 2012. however, no response has been received to date. review on appeal we have examined the entire record and are satisfied counsel has complied fully smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 278-284; people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, 443.) 16 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports croskey, j. we concur: klein, p. j. aldrich, j. 