filed 1/25/13 p. v. woods ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. robert lee woods, defendant and appellant. b239866 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta118773) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, laura r. walton, judge. reversed. sally patrone brajevich, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and rama r. maline, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant robert lee woods appeals from the judgment entered following the jury verdict convicting him of second degree robbery, with the finding that he personally inflicted great bodily injury upon the victim. (pen. code,  211, 12022.7, subd. (a).)1 in a bifurcated proceeding, the jury also found that the robbery was committed for the purpose of promoting criminal conduct by gang members. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c).) after a separate bench trial, defendant was found to have suffered prior serious felony convictions within the meaning of sections 1170.12, subdivisions (a) through (d), 667, subdivisions (b) through (i), and 667, subdivision (a), and to have served a prior prison term within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). he was sentenced to 45 years to life in state prison. defendant contends there is insufficient evidence to sustain the robbery conviction and the true finding on the gang allegation, and the prosecutor committed batson/wheeler2 prosecutor provided a race-neutral reason for exercising a peremptory challenge is not supported by the record. accordingly, the judgment is reversed. statement of facts i. the robbery at approximately 4:00 p.m. on june 27, 2011, araceli sanchez was walking home with items she had purchased at the grocery store. she noticed two men with bicycles across the street. as she passed, one of the men, whom she identified as defendant, approached from behind and screamed at sanchez to give him her wallet. she turned to face defendant, who was standing two feet from her, pulled out her wallet, and gave it to him. he received the wallet in his left hand and struck sanchez in the face with his right. she fell to the ground and defendant cursed her. he joined the other male across the street and they rode away on their bicycles. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 2 batson v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 79; people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258. 3 sanchez went home and called 911. she gave the operator a description of the two males, during which she said the person who robbed her was wearing a white t-shirt. sanchez spoke to los angeles police officer mike leese and his partner. after searching the area where the robbery occurred, leese returned to the station to look at tapes from video cameras that monitored the imperial courts housing development, as the crime had occurred nearby. he found a tape of the robbery taking place. later, another officer who had viewed the same tape, was monitoring live video feed from the imperial courts camera when he saw someone who matched the description of the robber. he contacted leese and directed him to that location. as leese arrived, he saw defendant and another male walking between two buildings. as leese and his partner exited the patrol vehicle, the males ran. the officers pursued and captured both men. sanchez was brought to where defendant and his companion were held by police. she viewed each man separately, and identified defendant as the individual who had taken her wallet and punched her.3 a few days after the robbery, rafael mata, who was investigating the crime, showed sanchez a number of photographs and asked whether she recognized anyone depicted. she identified and initialed a picture of defendant and said he was the man who robbed her.4 ii. the gang allegation on april 19, 2011, officer ivan mcmillan and his partner had a conversation with defendant and filled out a field identification card. defendant admitted that he was a member of the pj watts crips gang, also known as the project crips, and said his gang 3 as a result of the blow, sanchez underwent surgery and had a plate inserted in her face. 4 sanchez also viewed a video that depicted the robbery as it occurred. although the video showed defendant was shirtless at the time of the robbery, sanchez insisted he was the person who took her purse. the video was played for the jury. 4 officer francis coughlin worked in a gang suppression unit and was familiar with the project crips gang, having been assigned to its area as a patrol officer for two years. the imperial courts housing project is in project crips gang territory. the primary activities of the gang include robberies, rapes, shootings, and narcotics sales.5 defendant ng to coughlin, this particular tattoo meant that defendant was willing to commit crimes for the gang to demonstrated that he had put in work for the gang and was a loyal and respected member. coughlin believed defendant was a member of the project crips gang. when asked a hypothetical question based on the facts of the robbery, coughlin opined that the crime was committed for the benefit of the gang. the bases for his opinion were: (1) committing the crime benefitted the individual member because it demonstrated his loyalty to the gang and his willingness to put in work for it; (2) violent crimes like intimidation in the willingness to commit violent acts against members of the community, which causes citizens to not cooperate with police; and (4) the gang benefitted from the proceeds of the robbery. martin flores is on the panel of gang experts appointed by the court. he regularly interacts with gang members, working to reduce gang violence. flores reviewed the police reports in the case and the field identification cards pertaining to defendant. he spoke with defendant on two occasions. flores is very familiar with the pj watts gang, as he has worked in imperial courts with ex-gang members and families in the area. defendant admitted to flores that he was a pj watts member, but said that he became less involved with the gang six years earlier after a stabbing incident. flores believed that defendant was no longer an active member of the gang. flores thought it was significant that defendant had moved out of pj watts territory. given a hypothetical 5 the officer testified to the predicate acts required by the gang statute. 5 based on the robbery, flores stated the crime was not committed for the benefit of a gang. ered; (3) no gang signs were thrown; (4) the communities are working hard to put an end to gang violence, demonstrating that the individual was working on his own; and (5) a gang member would be given no credit for committing a crime against a woman. defendant testified that in june of 2011, he and his wife were living on rodeo road, not in the imperial courts housing project. he acknowledged that in 2004, he was convicted of robbery, and in 2005, of residential burglary. he stated that he stopped being a pj watts crips gang member in 2002 or 2003. at that time, defendant was stabbed by individuals in the county jail and decided that he no longer wanted to participate in the gang lifestyle. after he was released from prison in 2009, defendant did not return to imperial courts until the day he was arrested. on the day of his arrest, he went there to visit relatives. he was arrested as he was walking to the bus. defendant denied using the when they testified to the contrary. discussion i. sufficiency of the evidence defendant contends there is insufficient evidence to sustain the robbery conviction and the finding that the crime was committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang. we disagree. record to determine whether any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime . . . beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the record must disclose substantial evidence to support the verdicti.e., evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant 6 guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] in applying this test, we review the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution and presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably have deduced from the ubject to justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends. [citation.] we resolve neither credibility hypothesis whatever is there sufficpeople v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357.) the substantial evidence standard also applies to gang enhancement findings. (people v. villalobos (2006) 145 cal.app.4th 310, 321-322.) defendant asserts it is clear that the victim was mistaken when she described the -shirt and the video established that he was shirtless. in addition, the victim did not mention that her face. defendant also claims the victim had only seconds to view the perpetrator and he rrested. thus, he suggests, the evidence establishing that he assaulted and robbed the victim is insufficient as a matter of law. he is incorrect. the victim had an adequate opportunity to view her attacker. defendant downplays this fact by arguing that the victim was struck in the face and her ability to see with the robber from a distance of two feet prior to handing over her wallet. she identified defendant in a field showup three hours after the incident, in a photographic lineup a few days later, at the preliminary hearing and at trial. moreover, she was certain of her identification. at trial, she was asked what it was about defendant that she 7 recognized. she events and the video of the crime, such as what the robber was wearing, it was for the jcountervailing evidence, the testimony of a single witness that satisfies the standard is people v. barnwell (2007) 41 cal.4th 1038, 1052.) with respect to the gang enhancement, defendant again emphasizes the contrary evidence he presented and invites us to reconsider the matter. he relies on the cases of in re daniel c. (2011) 195 cal.app.4th 1350 and in re frank s. (2006) 141 cal.app.4th 1192 and argues the lack of evidence that gang signs were thrown or that other gang members participated in the robbery establishes the crime could not have been committed with the intent to benefit the gang. we are not persuaded. in the present case, defendant was a pj watts gang member, the crime was committed in the heart of pj watts territory, and defendant and his companion fled to the safety of the imperial courts housing project, an area that both experts stated was a pj watts stronghold. in addition, daniel c. committed an estes6 robbery and frank s. possessed a weapon. here, defendant engaged he community and increasing fear in the neighborhood, thereby making it less likely that evidence. 6 people v. estes (1983) 147 cal.app.3d 23. the case established that the use of force to prevent a security guard from regaining possession of property elevated a petty theft to a robbery. 8 ii. the batson/wheeler motion defendant contends the trial court erred in denying his batson/wheeler motion. african-american juror was pretextual and the court failed to make a sincere and stification as required by batson/wheeler. we agree. the challenged juror was married and had three children. she was employed as a manager for a telecommunications company and her husband worked in construction. she had no previous jury experience and had been the victim of vandalism. no one was arrested for committing that offense. she had a nephew who had been arrested for driving under the influence. the juror had no opinion as to whether the nephew had been treated fairly by the system. she believed she could follow the jury instructions and thought she could give defendant a fair trial. after the prosecutor exercised a peremptory challenge to excuse the juror, defense counsel objected to the excusal pursuant to batson/wheeler. the court found the defense had made a prima facie showing that the challenge was the product of group bias.7 the he prosecutor said a -neutral, acknowledging that she had no se where the fact that her prosecutor reiterated that she was allowed to use her peremptory for whatever reason she chose as long as it was a race-neutral one. the court noted that there were four other african-american jurors in the jury box and, without further inquiry, denied the defense motion. 7 the attorney general argues that defendant failed to establish a prima facie case of group bias; however, given the (people v. lenix (2008) 44 cal.4th 602, 613, fn. 8.) 9 lanation that [the juror] could not be fair because she worked in construction appears to be simply a pretext, especially since it was ord. the prosecutor clearly stated that she as the trial court found a prima facie case of group bias, the burden shifted to the prosecutor to demonstrate that the challenge was exercised for a race-neutral reason. (people v. jones support a challenge for caused upon facial expressions, people v. lenix, suprathat the peremptory challenges in question were reasonably relevant to the particular case on trial or its parties or witnessesi.e., for people v. turner (1986) 42 must articulate a neutral explanation related to the particular case to be tried. [fn. omitted.] the trial court then will have the duty to (batson v. kentucky, supra-neutral explanations to be credible. credibility can how improbable, the explanations are; and by whether the proffered rationale has some miller-el v. cockrell (2003) 537 u.s. 322, 339.) [citation.] we presume that a prosecutor uses peremptory challenges in a constitutional reasons from sham excuses. [citation.] so long as the trial court makes a sincere and 10 reasoned effort to evaluate the nondiscriminatory justifications offered, its conclusions people v. burgener (2003) 29 cal.4th 833, 864.) the difficulty in the present case is that the trial court made no effort to evaluate -neutral explanation was credible; it simply accepted her on (or perhaps the -neutral reason for the exercise of a peremptory challenge, there must be a connection between the occupation and the case being tried that explains why the juror may be biased. for example, in people v. watson (2008) 43 cal.4th 652, 677-678, a juror was excused in part because of her employment challenge by stating he believed that the juror might be too sympathetic to the defendant, who would be presenting evidence of abuse and neglect during his childhood. the -neutral. similarly, in people v. landry (1996) 49 cal.app.4th 785, 790-791, the prosecutor excused a juror who worked in a youth services agency because he believed that she might be biased in heremployment in the construction field was of concern in this case. our review of the implausible. this was a generic strong-arm robbery trial. even if we engage in rank speculation, we cannot think of a reason why a juror who was married to a construction worker would be biased against the prosecution. perhaps if the prosecutor had been asked to provide a more complete explanation, she would have been able to provide a plausible race-neutral reason for excusing the juror. thus, we are left with the question -neutral reason sufficient to rebut the prima facie case of group bias. 11 the case of people v. turner, supra, 42 cal.3d 711, provides the answer. there, the prosecutor excused an african-american juror because he was a truck driver and had difficulty understanding the questions he was asked. in examining the reasons, the invocation would somehow make the discrimination disappear. on the contrary, the remark suggests yet another impermissible group bias behind this challenge, because trial by a jury from which working-class people are systematically excluded is also a violation of the representative cross-section rule. [citations.] the cited cases refute any implication that truck drivers as a class are not intelligent enough to be jurors. and the id. at pp. 722-723.) as to a second african-id. virtuaibid.) after the panel found the prosecutor did not demonstrate that his challenges were exercised for race-neutral reasons, it concluded that id. at p. 728.) so it is here. the prosecutor steadfastly insisted that a challenge based on a it cannot be the case that a prosecutor may excuse a juror from a protected class merely case of gfrom a representative cross-(people v. turner, supra, 42 cal.3d at p. 725.) thus, the trial court had an obligation to that the challenge was race-neutral, the judgment must be reversed. 12 disposition the judgment is reversed. not to be published in the official reports suzukawa, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. manella, j. 