filed 12/14/12 p. v. miller ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. darryl la juan miller, defendant and appellant. b239706 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka095126) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, robert m. martinez, judge. affirmed. alan e. spears, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, michael r. johnsen and idan ivri, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________________ 2 appellant darryl la juan miller appeals from a jury verdict finding him guilty of making a criminal threat in violation of penal code section 422.1 appellant contends the evidence was insufficient to satisfy four of the five elements of that offense. we conclude the record contains sufficient evidence for a jury to find each of the elements proven beyond a reasonable doubt. we affirm. factual and procedural summary on august 7, 2011motorcycle. after leaving temporarily, he returned to the house very upset because two screws needed for the motorcycle were missing. he accused family members of taking the screws while he was were at the home. he paced through the house, becoming increasingly loud. he three to four feet of his mother and told her that he would hit her in the head with an iron pipe and kill her. then, he added that he would hit everyone in the house with an iron pipe and be sure he got the person who took his screws. his sister began to get her children ready so that they could leave the situation. appellant handed his mother his the threats seriously because of previous incidents. in the past, he had threatened to tear the windows and knock holes in the walls. on another occasion, appellant entered the family home with a weapon and threatened to shoot anyone who moved. she also knew phone number to a girl. there also was an incident in which he punched his stepfather in just as he had been during the previous incidents. she also knew that he had been off of 1 all further statutory citations are to the penal code. 3 officers at the station told her they could only arrest appellant if he was at the house. she was not sure whether he was still there so she told police that she would call them later. she returned to the house with the rest of the family later that evening. appellant arrived walked into the garage. once there he proceeded to slice the seat of the motorcycle and remove and throw the motorcycle battery into the street in front of the house. at some point, his sister took the children and left. his stepfather walked down to a nearby gas station and telephoned police. police arrived and arrested appellant. charged with making a criminal threat, appellant was convicted by jury trial. he was sentenced to state prison for a term of seven years, eight months. this appeal followed. discussion appellant contends the evidence presented at trial was insufficient to prove the elements necessary for conviction of the criminal threat crime. not all threatening statements are criminal. in order to convict a defendant for the offense of making a criminal threat under section 422, the prosecution must prove five specific as to convey to the person threatened, a gravity of purpose and an immediate was reasonable under the circumstances. ( 422; in re george t. (2004) 33 cal.4th 620, 630.) people v. mendoza (2011) 52 cal.4th 4 1056, 1068.) we must affirm the judgment if there is substantial evidence from which a rational jury could find each of the elements was proven beyond a reasonable doubt. the fact that there is contrary evidence does not warrant reversal. (id. at pp. 1068-1069.) appellant concedes the first element his mother in the head with a lead pipe and kill her is a threat to commit a crime that would result in at least great bodily injury to another person. he contends the evidence fails to support the other four elements. same, so we discuss them together. a defendant need not intend to carry out the threat, but rather, must intend that his words be taken as a threat. regarding the gravity of purpose element, the four qualities listed by section 422 (unequivocal, unconditional, mstances convey the impression to the victim that there is a gravity of purpose in the threat and an immediate prospect of its execution. (in re george t., supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 635, quoting people v. stanfield (1995) 32 cal.app.4th 1152, 1158.) appellant contends the statements made before and after the threat as well as the overall context in which they were made, and the emotionally-charged state he was in, words were not to be taken as a threat and that a gravity of purpose was not conveyed. the evidence belies this claim. ignore him out of fear that engaging him would only further incite him. however, he continued to get louder and louder. he then told his mother that he would kill her with a was only conditional, and that this conditional nature, in light of his motive to get attention and his emotionally-charged state, leads has explicitly held that a prosecution under section 422 does not require an unconditional 5 threat. (people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 337-339; cf. tuberville v. savage (1669) 1 mod. rep. 3, 86 eng.rep. 684.) the second element of section 422 goes to whether the utterer intended his or her statement to be taken as a threat, not the ultimate motive for threatening the victim. (see people v. gudger (1994) 29 cal.app.4th 310, 322 was intended as a threat].) the fact that appellant was seeking the attention of his family, even were that the case, does not preclude a jury from finding that he intended his words to be taken as a threat by his mother. appellant also claims his threat to live elsewhere, the handing over of his keys after the threat was made, and the fiery state he was in, are dispositive on the question of whether he conveyed a gravity of purpose to his mother. we fail to see how this leads only to the conclusion that he lacked the requisite criminal purpose. in fact, a evidence that the defendant did indeed intend the words to be taken as true threats. (people v. gudger, supra, 29 cal.app.4th at p. 321.) we find substantial evidence to support a jury conclusion that appellant intended his words to be taken as a threat and that his threat, on its face and under the circumstances, conveyed a gravity of purpose to his mother. finally, appellant argues there is insufficient evidence to support a finding that his mother was in sustained fear which was reasonable under the circumstances, and hence that the fourth and fifth elements of the crime were not proven. in order to violate section 422, a threat must cause the victim to reasonably be in ( fleeting. (people v. fierro (2010) 180 cal.app.4th 1342, 1348-1349.) points to her failure to immediately leave after the threat, her decision to wait a few hours before going to the police to report the incident and then telling police to wait until she called them before trying to arrest him, and allowing him to reenter the house later that 6 day. he further claims a consideration of all the circumstances shows any fear she experienced was unreasonableviolence was irrelevant. testified that she took his threats to kill her and her family seriously. people experience and actually in fear is a question of fact, a credibility issue for the jury to decide. the fact rily inconsistent with her experiencing fear; a rational juror could conclude she wanted to make sure they all wait until she called because she was not sure whether appellant would be home, since evant in people v. wilson (2010) 186 cal.app.4th 789, 808, quoting people v. allen (1995) 33 cal.app.4th riously because she the house with a weapon in the past and threatened to shoot the entire family. he had hrough with the threat. he her to take appellant seriously when he made the threa we conclude the record provides substantial evidence that each of the five elements of section 422 were proven, supporting the guilty verdict. 7 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. epstein, p. j. we concur: willhite, j. suzukawa, j. 