filed 5/21/13 p. v. fajardo ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. alexei fajardo, defendant and appellant. b239036 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa065561) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, jesse i. rodriguez, judge. affirmed. leonard j. klaif, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and timothy m. weiner, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant alexei fajardo appeals from the judgment entered following the jury verdict finding him guilty of making a criminal threat.1 (pen. code,  422.)2 he was sentenced to 16 months in state prison. his sole contention is the conviction is not supported by the evidence. he urges that, at best, he is guilty of attempting to make a criminal threat and the judgment must be amended accordingly. we conclude the conviction is supported by substantial evidence and affirm the judgment. statement of facts i. the prosecution case3 hilda maciel and her 10-year-old son lived in an apartment in arleta and had resided there for eight years. defendant lived in the same complex. on two occasions, partment and asked if he could come inside and have a drink with her. both times, maciel told him to leave her alone and threatened to call his wife and the police. on september 11, 2009, maciel went to her car, which was parked directly in front of her apartment. she retrieved some items from the car, turned toward her apartment, and saw defendant standing in her path. defendant began yelling at maciel, saying he was tired of her being there because she was friendly with everyone and was a gossip. hdefendant to leave her alone and to let her by. defendant repeated several times that he was tired of her and advised her to listen to him. maciel said she was going to call the 1 defendant also was charged with assault with a deadly weapon; however, the jury was unable to reach a verdict. a second jury found defendant not guilty of that charge. 2 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 because defendant is challenging the sufficiency of the evidence with respect to the criminal threat conviction, it is unnecessary to set forth the testimony concerning the assault charge. 3 police, pushed her way into the apartment, got the telephone, and called 911.4 she said to gonna move from there until i and screaming for help. the operator said someone would be sent to the complex. as she waited, maciel tried to comfort her son. defendant continued to kick the door and hit the windows. after about an hour, she again called 911. defendant sat near some stairs and screamed that he would stay there until maciel came out of the apartment. maciel remained inside with the door closed. maciel received a call from edgar torres. torres had lived in the complex and had dated maciel previously. torres knew defendant. on this evening, torres called to ask maciel if she wanted to go to dinner. she told him that she could not talk and hung up the phone. maciel looked out the window to see if the police were coming. defendant was pacing outside and yelling at maciel. torres called again. maciel said she could not talk, explaining that she had an emergency and the police were coming. torres, who could hear yelling, asked if it was defendant. maciel ended the call. she did act her family because she did not want anyone to get hurt. maciel called 911 a third time and told the operator the police needed to come to the apartment. a period of time passed, and she saw torres in the complex. maciel screamed at him to leave because she heard defendant say that whoever came in would get what she was supposed to get. torres continued to approach and defendant walked toward him. defendant pulled something out of his pocket and the two men began to 4 this was one of two 911 calls maciel made that were recorded. the recordings were played for the jury. the last recorded call was made at 7:47 p.m. 4 fight. maciel immediately saw punch each other and then torres began to run away with defendant in pursuit. torres maciel opened her door and tried to pull torres inside. he was yelling that he could not take the pain in his chest. maciel began screaming for help. she got the phone and called 911. she told the operator that torres had been stabbed and was bleeding profusely. as she waited for help, maciel saw defedefendant was still holding the knife in his hand. maciel was very frightened by and believed she or her son was facing the same fate. r help, she heard sirens. defendant left. when paramedics arrived, she told them that the person who had stabbed torres was getting away. maciel moved from the apartment complex approximately a week or two after the incident. ii. the defense case on september 11, 2009, juan aguilar resided in the same apartment complex as maciel and defendant. he was home during the entire course of the incident that led to the police arriving at the complex. aguilar had his front door and windows open because of the heat. he did not hear an argument between defendant and maciel. he did not hear a door or gate being kicked or a window being struck. nor did he hear maciel scream at any point. aguilar saw torres run through the front gate of the property with something wrapped around his arm. torres approached defendant and began punching him. aguilar called 911. he did not see any one with a weapon during the altercation. aguilar did not hear defendant threaten maciel after the fight. 5 monica valtierra is dthe door and windows. she and defendant were going to have dinner with aguilar and a girlfriend. as valtierra was placing the children in the car, defendant was talking to a neighbor. valtierra walked over to defendant and the neighbor to tell defendant it was time to leave. she saw torres enter the complex with something in his hand. he rapidly approached defendant and kicked him. they fought until torres collapsed to the ground. she did not see defendant approach maciel after the fight and threaten her. discussion defendant contends the evidence is insufficient to sustain his conviction for making a (2) . . is to threatectronic made, . . . so unequivocal, unconditional, immediate, and specific as to convey to the person threatened, a gravity of purpose and an immediate prospect of execution of the people v. toledo (2001) 26 cal.4th 221, 227-228.) defendant concedes that a reasonable jury could find the evidence established elements (1), (2), (3), and (5). however, he asserts the evidence was insufficient for the jury to conclude that maciel suffered sustained fear for her safety or for the safety of her immediate family as a result of his threat. at best, he argues, he is guilty of attempting to convey a terrorist threat. for the reasons that follow, we disagree. 6 lenge to the sufficiency of the evidence to support a conviction, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] . . . we presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier of fact reasonably could infer from the evidence. [citationreversal of the judgment is not warranted simply because the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding. [citation.] a reviewing court neither reweigpeople v. lindberg (2008) 45 cal.4th 1, 27.) initially, we note that defendant assumes he issued but one threat, that being his statement to maciel after torres had been stabbed when he capable of doing? i told you, i told you that this was for you and i told you not to come this threat. his claim that he uttered a single threat is belied by the record. maciel testified that when defendant first confronted her outside of the apartment, he said that he was tired of her being there because she was friendly with everyone and wimmediately called 911. as noted above, she told the operator that defendant was violent and had threatened to kill her and her son. in accordance with the standard of review, we presume the jury determined that maciel told the operator the truth when she said defendant threatened to kill her and her son. moreover, defendant affirmed that he had threatened maciel with bodily harm earlier in the evening when he said to her after ere is ample evidence establishing that defendant uttered a terrorist threat when he first confronted maciel 7 outside of her apartment. accordingly, we reject his suggestion that he threatened her once at the end of the incident. we examine next whether dmaciel to be in sustained fear. that extends beyond whapeople v. fierro (2010) 180 cal.app.4th 1342, 1349, citing people v. allen (1995) 33 cal.app.4th 1149, 1156.) upon receiving the initial threat, maciel demonstrated she was in sustained fear by placing multiple 911 calls to the police. (see people v. melhado (1998) 60 cal.app.4th 1529, 1538 [call to police after receiving threat is indication victim feared for his safety].) indeed, she testified that she made the second 911 call because defendant was getting vthe entire ordeal she was very scared and nervous. she refused to come out of her apartment, choosing to wait for the police. she did not tell torres of the threat when he called or notify her family because she did not want anyone to get hurt. this is another clear indication that maciel was in fear because she believed defendant would make good on his threat to do her harm. finally, there was evidence from which the jury could infer incident, as she chose to move from the apartment in which she had lived for eight years. from this evidence, the jury reasonably could conclude thapeople v. allen, supra, 33 cal.app.4th at p. 1156.) 8 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports suzukawa, j. we concur: willhite, acting p. j. manella, j. 