filed 11/18/13 p. v. shaw ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. irvin randolph shaw, et al., defendant and appellant. b239817 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma054450) appeal from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, lisa m. chung, judge. affirmed. christine c. shaver, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant irvin r. shaw. laura schaefer, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant emanuel k. shaw. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and carl n. henry, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________________ 2 appellants in this case, brothers emanuel shaw (emanuel1) and irvin shaw (irvin), appeal from their respective judgments upon their convictions for a number crimes, including two counts of attempted premeditated murder. before this court, emanuel challenges the validity of his sentence. he claims that a conflict of interest arose with his lawyer as the verdict was being announced and the conflict required substitution of his counsel during the penalty phase of the trial. moreover, emanuel argues alternatively that even if the court did not find a conflict that required substitution of counsel, the trial court erred by failing to conduct a people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 hearing when emanuel voiced his dissatisfaction with his lawyer. emanuel argues that both alleged errors separately require remand to the trial court for resentencing. as we shall explain, these claims lack merit and did not result in prejudice. accordingly, we affirm the judgment with respect to emanuel shaw. irvin appeals his conviction and sentence. specifically he assails his conviction on counts 6 and 7, for violation of penal code section 136.1, subdivision (c)(1), dissuading a witness by force or threat arguing that there was insufficient evidence to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that force or threat of force irvin also appeals the validity of his sentences on the attempted murder counts, asserting that the trial court abused its discretion when it sentenced him to consecutive indeterminate life terms with seven-year minimum parole eligibility. in asserting abuse of discretion, irvin argues the shooting incident was a single crime or one continuous act that occurred in one place at the same time and same location. additionally, irvin asks the court to remand the case for resentencing based on his belief that the trial court erred in imposing the one-year enhancement. for the reasons set forth below, we disagree. accordingly, we affirm with 1 because appellants have the same last name they will be referred to in this opinion by first name to avoid confusion. 3 factual and procedural background emanuel and irvin shaw are brothers. the prosecution presented testimony through its witnesses that emanuel and irvin are both part of the inglewood family bloods gang. treven hicks (hicks) has been friends with emanuel and irvin since he was about 13 or 14 years old. hicks and emanuel were close friends, but they stopped punched him in the eye. (williams), also knew of emanuel and irvin. salima shutes (ms. shutes) had stayed with hicks and williams at their apartment in lancaster at one point. during the months of february and march 2010, hicks and williams witnessed arguments between irvin and ms. shutes on multiple occasions. in late february, both hicks and williams saw irvin arguing with ms. shutes about a cash tax refund. irvin had apparently referred ms. shutes to someone he knew that worked at h&r block, and irvin ms. shutes received a tax return payment. according to irvin, ms. shutes allegedly lied to him about not receiving the payment. around march 8, when ms. shutes was living with hicks and williams in their apartment, williams observed irvin arguing with ms. shutes again. on march 13, williams witnessed irvin slapping ms. ms. know who you are fucking on march 15, 2010, tiffanie taylor (taylor) drove ms. shutes and her cousin ervin ford (ford) r bernard lived. aapartment in lancaster, shutes and ford met with a few males who came in a black suv. among the males were irvin and emanuel. taylor recalled shutes yelling and ford and bernard fighting the males that exited the black suv. they were engaged in two fistfights before the males fled the scene in the black suv. taylor drove shutes and ford away. taylor, shutes, and ford drove to hickswilliams apartment, shutes and ford seemed excited, and ford bragged that he had just beat up irvin. after hearing 4 about the fistfight that had just occurred minutes prior, hicks asked them to leave the apartment. hicks and williams went outside on their driveway to see the visitors off. irvin was driving and emanuel was sitting in the front passenger seat. two unidentified males were sitting in the back. emanuel and irvin acknowledged hicks and williams with a head- the bullets went after emanuel shot at the car, irvin drove away from the scene. taylor drove ford and shutes to the hospital, and williams returned to his house after an hour because the police wanted to talk to him, but he felt safe knowing that the shaw brothers would not return while the police were at the apartment. hicks stayed with his neighbor until midnight, and he did not report the incident to the police. about two months after the shooting incident, around may 10, 2010, irvin visited hicks he entered their home unannounced and uninvited. irvin did not seem angry but did seem paranoid. shortly after irvin left their apartment, detective robert gillis (detective gillis) arrived at their apartment and knocked on the door. detective gillis stated that hicks looked very nervous and told the detective that irvin had just come by and the detective just missed him. the shaw brothers were arrested. they were both charged in counts 1-4 with four counts of attempted premeditated murder under penal code sections 664 and 187, subdivision (a) (counts 1-4); and shooting at an occupied motor vehicle in violation of penal code section 246 (count 5). it was further alleged that they committed these crimes for a gang purpose under penal code section 186.22. with respect to emanuel, it was further alleged that he personally discharged a firearm under penal code section 12022.53, and two counts of firearm possession by a felon under penal code section 12021, subdivision (a)(1) (counts 8 and 9). irvin was also charged in counts 6 and 7 with two acts of dissuading a witness by force or threat under penal code section 136.1, 5 subdivision (c)(1) and firearm possession by a felon in count 10. the information also alleged that both emanuel and irvin had served prior prison terms. after a jury trial, the shaw brothers were found guilty of counts 1-2 of attempted premeditated murder and shooting at an occupied vehicle in count 5, and that emanuel had personally fired a handgun in counts 1, 2 and 5. emanuel was found guilty of firearm possession in count 9, and irvin was found guilty of dissuading a witness in counts 6 and 7.2 on counts 1 and 2 both emanuel and irvin were sentenced to two consecutive terms of life in prison with a possibility of parole (with a 15-percent limit on custody credits and a seven year minimum parole). in addition, emanuel was also sentenced to 25 years to life (i.e., 50 years to life) on each of the two gun use enhancements, and concurrent three-year upper term on count 9; a 32-year term on count five was stayed under penal code section 654. emanuel was awarded custody credits and ordered to pay various fines. in addition to the sentences on counts 1 and 2, irvin was also sentenced to two consecutive three year terms on counts 6 and 7 (the court also imposed a one-year enhancement under 667.5, subdivision (b) for his prior prison term), and a seven-year term on count 5 was stayed under penal code section 654. irvin was given custody credits and various fines were imposed. appellants filed notices of appeal. discussion i. on appeal emanuel claims that the trial court erred in failing to find that a conflict had arisen with his counsel at the time the verdict was announced and that he was denied effective assistance of counsel during the penalty phase of the trial when the court failed to replace his lawyer for sentencing. he further claims that the court committed 2 the jury acquitted the shaw brothers on counts 3, 4, 8 and 10. they found none of the gang purpose allegations true, and none of the special allegations true as to irvin. 6 prejudicial error when it failed to conduct a marsden hearing when he expressed that he wanted new representation for sentencing. we address these claims in turn. a. background on thursday, february 16, 2012, emanuel assaulted his trial counsel, mr. morse, as the ver3 courtroom. on tuesday, march 6, 2012, the trial court commenced the penalty phase of the trial. the trial court then proceeded to ask if any of the parties or counsel wished to speak. emanuel wished to speak on his own behalf. the following discussion took place with the court: mr. morse: mr. shaw wants to speak on his own behalf. the court: go ahead, sir. defendant e. shaw: all right. i have been going to this court i have been doing this for almost two years now, and i am being not getting, like, a good defense from my attorney because he never really came to see me and talk to me. he told me not to even get on the stand when somebody got on the stand on me and try to put, like, i done a crime that i and he told me it is in my best interest i i think that i feel that i should have got on the stand. like when jump, i t even get a chance to defend myself. he told me not to. the whole time he never even came to see me. every time i get ready to talk to him about my he never had time for me. he had 3 inal complaint was later filed against emanuel, alleging assault with force likely to produce great bodily injury (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(4)) and elder abuse (pen. code,  368, subd. (b)(1)), naming mr. morse as the alleged victim in los angeles superior court case no. ma055759. emanuel was held to answer to these charges on may 24, 2012. 7 too many other cases. he didme. the last thing he ever, ever did when he never did give me a good defense. est interest having him. i remember the time that i am getting rid of him. can you do this. can you do that. it was, no. he never helped me with nothing. good defense in my case. people or anything. like he said about a fight, they said about a fight. i told him about a fight. the only thing i was guilty about a fight, i left. after the fight, i left and went home. the court: okay, sir. stop. this is here for sentencing. it is not an attempt to re-litigate the merits or the facts of the case. the jury has made decisions. we are facing sentencing, and you are only facing sentencing on counts that the jury has returned verdicts of guilty. is there anything else? defendant e. shaw: i just want you to know that my lawyer told me not to get up on the court: okay. anything else mr. morse? mr. morse: no. after this discussion, the court proceeded with the sentencing hearing. the prosecution argued its reasons for consecutive sentences as opposed to concurrent sentences. mr. concurrently rather than consecutively: mr. morse: i would ask that it be concurrent because, basically, it is one act. and if this were separate incidents, it might be a different story. i think there should be one punishment for one act. i think they should be run concurrently. the court: submitted? 8 mr. morse: submitted. the court exercised its discretion and imposed separate counts. b. the trial court did not err by refusing to substitute counsel. the sixth amendment to the united states constitution and article i, section 15 of the california constitution, (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 688 [104 s.ct. 2052, 80 l.ed.2d 674] (strickland); accord, people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 417 (doolinis constitutional right includes the correlative right to representation free [a] defendant is deprived of his or her constitutional right to the assistance of counsel in certain circumstances when, despite the physical presence of a defense attorney at trial, that attorney labored under a conflict of interest that compromised his or [citation.] ts lty to, or efforts on behalf of, a client are threatened by his responsibilities to another client or a third person or his own interests. [citation.] (doolin, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 417.) in mickens v. taylor (2002) 535 u.s. 162 (mickens), the united states supreme court confirmed that a sixth amendment violation based on conflicts of interest are a category of ineffective assistance of counsel that should be analyzed under the standard developed in strickland. moreover, in doolin, the california supreme court supreme court and adopt[ed] the standard set out in mickens (doolin, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 421.) under the strickland standard, a defendant must show (1) deficiencies, the result of the proceeding would have been different. (id. at p. 417.) deficient performance in the context of a conflict of interest claim is demonstrated counsel that 9 as opposed to a mere theoretical division of loyalt (mickens, supra, 535 u.s. at p. 171, 122 s.ct. 1237; rundle, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 169.) a determination federal standard pulled his punches, i.e., whether counsel failed to represent defendant as vigorously as he might have, had there been no conflict. (doolin, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 418.) second, a criminal defendant asserting a conflict must also show prejudice. (see id., at pp. 422, 428 [except in the context of multiple concurrent representation, strickland provides the appropriate analytic framework for assessing prejudice arising from attorney conflicts].) specifically, (mickens, supra, 535 u.s. at p. 166.) although emanuelhis counsel while the verdicts were being read likely demonstrates that emanuel was angry with his counsel, his conduct does not, as a matter of law, demonstrate a conflict of interest warranting the substitution of counsel. indeed the supreme court has recognized that a defendant cannot create or engineer a conflict requiring the substitution of counsel based on the defendant behavior towards counsel. (people v. smith (1992) 6 cal.4th 684, 696; people v. hardy (1992) 2 cal.4th 86, 138.) for example, in people v. roldan (2005) 35 cal.4th 646, 674-675,4 the supreme courwas entitled to new counsel after he threatened to kill his defense counsel. the roldan unquestionably was entitled to the effective assistance of a conflict-free attorney, defendants own behavior created the alleged conflict and threatened to undermine his lawyers effectiveness. we are reluctant to recognize a rule of law that would empower criminal defendants to inject reversible error into their trials by simply threatening their id. at p. 674.) 4 disapproved of on other grounds in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, footnote 22. 10 in reaching this conclusion the court analogized the case to people v. horton (1995) 11 cal.4th 1068, in which the court concluded the defendant was not entitled to relief for attempting to create a conflict by filing a lawsuit against his lawyer: court properly determined, in the exercise of its discretion, that the filing of the complaint did not create any actual conflict of interest necessitating the withdrawal of appointed counsel. although being named as a defendant s client may place an attorney in a situation in which his or her loyalties are divided [citation], a s decision to file such an action against appointed counsel does not require disqualification unless the circumstances demonstrate an actual conflict of interest. [citation.] a contrary holding would enable an indigent criminal defendant to challenge each successive appointment of counsel, delaying indefinitely the criminal (id. at p. 1106.) based on the foregoing, we conclude the trial court did not err in failing to find that emanuel had a conflict with his counsel that warranted substitution of counsel. in any event, emanuel has failed to prove that the any perceive conflict adversely performance. emanuel has not shown that mand failed to vigorously defend him at sentencing. on the contrary, the record before this court shows that mr. morse did engage in argument at sentencing in an attempt to tence to a concurrent sentence. because, basically, it is one act. and if this were separate incidents, it might be a different story. i think there should be one punishment for one act. in short, emanuel fails to show how any asserted conflict adversely affected performance regarding the representation of appellant in the penalty phase. 11 c. emanuel has not demonstrated error with respect to the his marsden claim. emanuel also contends on appeal that this court should remand the case for a new sentencing hearing marsden hearing. we disagree. when a defendant seeks substitution of counsel based on a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel, the trial court must permit the defendant to articulate the basis for his concerns in order for the court to determine if those concerns have merit. (marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d at pp. 123-124; accord, people v. smith (1993) 6 cal.4th 684, 691.) moreover, the right to a marsden hearing applies equally to a post trial claim. (people v. smith, supra, 6 cal.4th when a proper showing [pursuant to marsden] has been made at any stage [of the proceedings]. a defendant is entitled to competent representation at all times. . . ..) although, a proper formal legal motion is not required to invoke a marsden . . .. . . that [he] (people v. lee (2002) 95 cal.app.4th 772, 780 (lee).) a marsden inquiry sua sponte. [citation.] the to conduct the inquiry arises only when the defendant asserts performance has been so inadequate as to deny him his constitutional right to effective counsel. (people v. lara (2001) 86 cal.app.4th 139, 150-151.) there appears to be a difference of opinion between a defendant and his attorney over trial tactics does not place under a duty to hold a marsden (people v. lucky (1988) 45 cal.3d 259, 281.) to invoke a marsden hearing. (people v. lee (2002) 95 cal.app.4th 772, 780.) if a defendant makes an unequivocal indication that he wants substitute counsel, a trial court her attorney has not afforded adequate representation. (marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d at pp. 123-124.) for example, in people v. dickey (2005) 35 cal.4th 884, 945, the supreme court 12 did not warrant a marsden hearing. there, the defendant raised a disagreement he had there are witnesses that arethat were available that [were] not called that i feel [were] crucial to my defense, and issues that were not raised that i feel [were] crucial, and questions that [were] not asked of me while i was on the stand that should have been (id. at p. 919.) the california supreme court affirmed the decision of the appellate court ruling that the defendant did not clearly indicate he wanted substitute (id. at p. 921.) we agree that the present case offers a similar situation as in dickey. here, emanuel indicated in the same context that he did not feel satisfied with his defense counsel. he also told the court[morse] told me not to even get on the stand when nothing about. and he told me it emanuel and his counsel mr. morse disagreed because emanuel believed that he should have gotten on the stand. the key phrase at issue here is statement, feel it is in my best intere representation during the trial, this statement is not a clear indication that emanuel wanted substitute counsel for sentencing. this statement was made in the context of tactical disagreements with defense counsel. when asked whether he had anything else best interest. thus read in the full context, it is unclear whether emanuel wanted change counsel or whether he wanted an explanation of why defense counsel did or did not take certain actions or whether he simply wanted to express his dissatisfaction with his legal representation. in essence, his disagreement dickey; and as in dickey 13 agreements do not warrant a marsden hearing. on this record, emanuel has failed to demonstrate the trial court erred. ii. convictions for dissuading witnesses and his sentences. as we shall explain, none of his complaints warrants reversal. a. s convictions for dissuading witnesses. irvin contends the evidence presented during trial was insufficient to support the ct on counts 6 and 7. more specifically, irvin contends the prosecution failed to prove that he attempted to prevent or dissuade a witness by force or an express or implied threat of force from reporting the crime to law enforcement within the meaning of penal code section 136.1, subdivision (c)(1). we disagree. 1. standard of review in reviewing a claim of insufficiency of evidence to support a criminal conviction, below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence which is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the (people v. hillhouse (2002) 27 cal.4th 469, 496.) n appellate court must accept logical inferences that the jury (people v. streeter (2012) 54 cal.4th 205, 243, quoting people v. combs (2004) 34 cal.4th 821, 849.) evidence is reasonable, credible, and of solid value, nonetheless it is in the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts on which that determination depends. [citation.] thus, if the verdict is supported by substantial evidence, we must accord due deference to the trier of fact and not substitute our evaluation of a witn 14 [citations.] (people v. jones (1990) 51 cal.3d 34, 314.) therefore, reversal is (people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 331 (bolin), quoting people v. redmond (1969) 71 cal.2d 745, 755.) 2. analysis irvin argues that there was insufficient evidence to support his conviction of dissuading a witness by force or threat of force. irvin contends the words he uttered multiple times to hicks as talking to the did not qualify as force or threat of force or violence as those terms have been defined in the case law. he acknowledges, however, that he appeared at the residence of hicks and williams and entered into their apartment unannounced and uninvited. he also concedes that he made the statements at issue to hicks and williams and that the jury could find that he intimidated the men. thus, the issue in contention here is whether a jury could reasonably conclude that threat of force or violence under penal code 136.1, subdivision (c). as we shall explain, we believe that there was sufficient evidence of force or threat for a rational trier of fact to find irvin guilty beyond a reasonable doubt on these counts. under penal code 136.1, subdivision (c)(1), dissuading and intimidating a witness implied threat of force or violence, upon a witness or v (emphasis added.) there are no magic words or phrases that constitute force or threat of force. (people v. mendoza (1997) 59 cal.app.4th 1333, 1344.) in fact, the court in people v. thomas remarked: there is, of course, no talismanic requirement that a defendant must say offenses. as long as his words or actions support the inference that he (1) sought to prevent or dissuade a potential witness from attending upon a trial [citation] or (2) attempted by threat of force to induce a person to withhold testimony [citation], a defendant is properly held to answer. 15 (people v. thomas (1978) 83 cal.app.3d 511, 514; accord, mendoza, supra, 59 cal.app.4th at 1344.) to constitute a criminal threat, a communication need not be absolutely unequivocal, unconditional, immediate, and specific.5 (bolin, supra, 18 cal.4th at p. 340.) as long as the communication is sufficiently so and thereby conveys a gravity of purpose and immediate prospect of execution, the communication constitutes a threat, in light of surrounding circumstances. (people v. stanfield (1995) 32 cal.app.4th 1152, 1157; in re ryan d. (2002) 100 cal.app.4th 854, 861.) the four elements are ly factors to be considered in determining whether a threat, considered together with its surrounding circumstances, conveys those impressions to the victim. (people v. melhado (1998) 60 cal.app.4th 1529, 1538.) therefore, the alleged threat must be examined not only at face value but both on its face and under the context in which it was made. (people v. wilson (2010) 186 cal.app.4th 789, 807.) similarly, a threat is not insufficient simply because it fails to communicate a time or precise manner of execution. (wilson, supra, 186 cal.app.4th at p. 816; accord, people v. butler (2000) 85 cal.app.4th 745, 752; in re david l. (1991) nonetheless be found to be a criminal threat if the surrounding circumstances clarify the in re george t. (2004) 33 cal.4th 620, 635; butler, supra, 85 cal.app.4th at pp. 753-754.) relevant case law instructs that seemingly ambiguous statements may violate penal code section 136.1, subdivision (c)(1) when those statements are viewed in their full context. people v. mendoza offers such an example. in 5 cases involving violations of penal code section 422 discuss the element of threat of death or great bodily injury to a person, which is similar to the element of express or implied threat of force or violence in penal code section 136.1, subdivision (c)(1). in fact, the court in mendoza directly applied its analysis of threat under section 422 to its analysis of threat under 136.1(c)(1). (people v. mendoza, supra, 59 cal.app.4th at p. based on our discussion in part i, anteain section 136.1 element of threat of force. 16 mendoza, elva arambula had testified at the brother. (people v. mendoza, supra, 59 cal.app.4th at p. 1337.) two days after, ked town.id. at pp. 1337-1338.) although arambula said that defendant did not look angry or upset, she still felt threatened and scared; the officer who responded to her call also observed that arambula seemed very nervous and afraid. (ibid.) first, the court in mendoza utilized the surrounding circumstances test to code section 422. (mendoza, supra, 59 cal.app.4th at p. interpret the words spoken .) when reviewing the surrounding circumstances, the court stressed the importance of (id. at pp. 1340-1341.) the court took into account the fact that defendant and arambula knew each other for several years and that arambula was aware that defendant and his brother were members of the happy town gang. (id. at p. 1341.) from this, the court gathered that a rational juror could reasonably conclude that arambula was fearful ibid.) furthermore, the court could mean something as innocuous as, for example, arambula would no longer be ibid.) however, based on all surrounding . . .ibid.) the court determined that there was substantial penal code section 422. was a threat under penal code section 422, the court applied the same reasoning to determine if the evidence was sufficient to convict defendant under penal code section 136.1, subdivision (c)(1). (mendoza, supra, 59 cal.app.4th at p. 1343.) the court cited people v. ford (1983) 17 145 cal.app.3d 985, 989 [t]he words have more than a plain meaningalso carry with them an inherent baggage of connotation which plainly suggests to the auditor, you are in trouble for testifying so do not let it happen again or things will only get worse.(mendoza, supra, 59 cal.app.4th at p. 1344.) in reference to the statements in ford, the mendoza court stated that the jury could reasonably interpret those words as a warning or threat to the witnesses. (ibid.) in the same way, the court concluded sufficient evidence attempt to dissuade witness arambula by an express or implied threat of force or violence. may seem ambiguous and innocuous. like the mendoza court noted, these words alone do not carry much meaning beyond asking who, if any, gossiped or who, if any, talked to police officers. in fact, in a different setting, the words would have a completely different meaning. for example, if a child had asked more information regarding an upcoming case. however, this language viewed in all surrounding circumstances may have a different meaning. understanding the full context permits an accurate assessment of whether certain vague language could qualify as a threat of force or violence under penal code section 136.1, subdivision (c)(1). just as the mendoza court considered the history of the parties, here the witnesses, treven hicks and brandon williams, knew appellant irvin and his brother emanuel from before and were also aware of the brothewitness hicks testified that he is not a gang member but has been an associate of a gang and has friends who are part of gangs. he admitted that he knew people in inglewood family bloods; in particular, he knew that both emanuel shaw and irvin shaw were members of that gang and even knew their gang monikers. hicks was friends with the shaw brothers since he was 13 or 14. after an incident where emanuel hit him in the eye, hicks stopped 18 hanging out with emanuel, although he maintained a neutral relationship with irvin. williams maintained a neutral relationship with the shaw brothers, but he had been roommates with hicks for a while. if there were to be any retaliation against hicks, it would negatively affect williams as well because they lived together. the above facts are important because the witnesses are not complete strangers to the shaw brothers. the witnesses knew that either irvin or emanuel shaw could easily get in contact with them through mutual connections. because the witnesses were aware and backing of the inglewood family gang members. in addition, both hicks and williams witnessed emanuel and irvin involved in a dangerous shooting only a few months prior on march 15 in the driveway of hicks and both witnesses correctly identified irvin as the driver of the getaway car and emanuel as the shooter inside the car. having witnessed the crime, both williams and hicks knew that the shaw brothers were capable of violence and murder, even before irvin arrived at their apartment unannounced and uninvited and asked who ms. shutes and how it precipitated the shooting. in view of emanuel and reasonably infer that intended to convey a threat of force or violence for cooperating with law enforcement. furthermore, in the world of gangshave or to put on another individual. detective gillis, the prosecution expert witness, ous in the gang community, and the penalty for being viewed as a snitch is death. detective gillis testified that he considered the situation where irvin came over to hicks terrent to cooperation on the part of those witnesses. he further stated that martin flores, the defense expert witness, agreed that being a snitch in the gang 19 community is very dangerous, and the person could be killed for snitching. he expressed snitches to redeem themselves. more importantly, both hicks and williams testified to threats of force or violence associated with snitching. hicks acknowledged that what he was doing, which was t was hicks was extremely concerned about his own safety. hicks there might because of it; he similarly, williams admitted he was afrsafety. he testified that since the shooting, he has been especially concerned about his when the prosecutor asked what would make him think that his daughter was in danger, williams replied that somebody could come by his williams did not want anyone to know where he was at because he did not want anyone to come at him for testifying in court. are viewed in light of all sura trier of fact could reasonably find that a threat of force or violence existed. in view of all of the foregoing, we conclude sufficient evidence was presented for the jury to conclude that appellant irvin shaw violated penal code section 136.1, subdivision (c) in counts 6 and 7. b. trial court did not abuse its discretion when it imposed consecutive indeterminate life terms with seven-year minimum parole eligibility as to counts 1 and 2. irvin argues that the trial court erred when it imposed consecutive sentences for counts 1 and 2. specifically, he argues that the court failed to properly consider california rules of court, rule 4.425; and that had the court done so, it would not have 20 imposed the consecutive sentences because the crimes were one continuous act that was taking place at the same time and same location. 1. background the prosecutor asked the trial court to impose on irvin a life sentence with a minimum parole eligibility of seven years as to count 1 and a consecutive sentence of life with a minimum parole eligibility of seven years as to count 2. in response, the trial court imposed a sentence of an indeterminate life term with minimum parole eligibility of seven years for count 1, the attempted premeditated murder of ervin ford. similarly, the trial court imposed the same sentence for count 2, the attempted premeditated murder of salima shutes. the court stated it was exercising its discretion to run sentences consecutively and listed reasons for the discretion. specifically, the court found the aggravating factors outweighed any mitigating factors. as for aggravating factors, the court listed iprior record and noted that the crimes were of increasing seriousness. because the crimes constituted great threat and violence, the court found the consecutive sentences were justified. 2. analysis as the attorney general points out, appellant failed to object to the consecutive sentences in the trial court and therefore forfeited exercise of discretion in sentencing him on these counts. (people v. scott (1994) 9 cal.4th 331, 353.) anticipating this argument, appellant irvin asserts that his counsel was ineffective for failing to object to the imposition of the consecutive sentences for these counts. his claim is not well taken. as we shall explain any objection to the ts would have properly been overruled because the criteria in california rules of court, rule 4.425 support the imposition of consecutive convictions on counts 1 and 2. cretion to determine whether several (people v. bradford (1976) 17 cal.3d 8, 20, called into question on other grounds by price v. superior court (2001) 25 cal.4th 1046, 1065 as stated in people v. thomas (2012) 53 cal.4th 1276, 1288.) 21 appellate courts do not have the power to modify or reduce a sentence absent error and, unless a clear abuse of discretion is shown, error cannot be predicated on a trial courts determination that several sentences are to run consecutively. (people v. giminez (1975) 14 cal.3d 68, 71-72.) reason, all of the circumstances being considered. [citations.] however, in the absence of a clear showing that its sentencing decision was arbitrary or irrational, a trial court should be presumed to have acted to achieve legitimate sentencing objectives and, accordingly, its discretionary determination to impose consecutive sentences ought not be (ibid.) [citation.] [d]iscretion is abused whenever the court exceeds the bounds of reason, all of the circumstances being considered. [citation (people v. giminez, supra, 14 cal.3d at p. 72.) the burden is on the party attacking the sentence to clearly show the sentencing decision was irrational or arbitrary. (people v. superior court (1997) 14 cal.4th 968, 977978.) in the absence of such a showing, the trial court is presumed to have acted to achieve legitimate sentencing objectives, and therefore we will not set aside its discretionary determination to impose a particular sentence. (ibid.) to assist the trial court in the exercise of its discretion, rule 4.425 of the california predominantly indrather than being committed so closely in time and place as to indicate a single period of aberr (cal. rules of court, rule 4.425(a)(1)-(3).) the sentencing court . . in deciding whether to impose consecutive rather than concurrent sentences, except: [] (1) a fact used to impose the upper term; [] (2) a fact used to otherwise enhance the defendants prison sentence; and [] (3) a fact that is an element of the crime may not be used to impose 22 (cal. rules of court, rule 4.425(b); see also cal. rules of court, rule 4.406 [sentencing judge is required to state reasons for imposing consecutive sentences].) these criteria are not exclusive. (people v. caesar (2008) 167 cal.app.4th 1050, 1060, disapproved on another ground in people v. superior court (sparks) (2010) 48 cal.4th 1, 18.) rule 4.408(a) of the california rules of court states: enumeration in these rules of some criteria for the making of discretionary sentencing decisions does not prohibit the application of additional criteria reasonably related to the decision being made. any such additional criteria must be stated on the record by the (see also people v. caesar, supra, 167 cal.app.4th at p. 1060.) appellant irvin shaw contends the trial court abused its discretion because the attempted murders alleged in count 1 and 2 were committed on the same occasion and arose from the same set of operative facts. although those are relevant factors, the key supported by other proper (cal. rules of court, rule 4.425(a).) counts 1 and 2 involved crimes and objectives that were predominantly independent of one another. irvin was found guilty of count 1, the attempted premeditated murder of ervin ford, and count 2, the attempted premeditated murder of salima shutes which occurred at the same time and place; however, the court could reasonably infer from the evidence presented at trial that the underlying objectives of those two crimes are unrelated and based on the evidence presented at trial, it appears the shooting of ervin ford was largely the result of the fistfight and the shaw brothers 30 minutes prior to the shooting. the record does not reveal any personal, preexisting animosity between ford and the shaw brothers prior to the fight. although there is conflicting evidence about the exact details of the fight, the fact that an altercation occurred is undisputed. 23 detective gillis testified that retaliation is very important in gang culture. he what occurred to them. specifically, he irvinthe fistfight is consistent with detective irvin drove the suv to the apartment, and emanuel fired his handgun multiple times into the car where ford sat. by using a gun. from this eobjective in attempting to murder ford was to seek vengeance and retaliate. the evidence supports a separate objective for shooting at ms. shutes. unlike the shooting at ford, the shooting of ms. shutes was largely the result of a personal dispute arising over money. ms. shutes and irvin had negative history, stemming from the . irvin and ms. shutes argued on several occasions , including one incident where williams witnessed irvin slapping ms. shums. shutes replied she was going to get her cousin. this incident took place only two days before the shooting. as the evidence shows, distinguishable from his intent in attempting to murder ford. ms. shutes was not engaged in the same fistfight that provoked irvin to attempt to murder ford. ms. shutes and irvin did get into fights, but the underlying reasons for those fights involved their tax refund conflict, which is entirely unrelated to the physical confrontation between the shaw brothers and the ford brothers. these facts support the reasonable inference that ms. shutes was to end the conflict in his favor. as separate and predominantly independent from his objectives in attempting to murder salima shutes. under california rules of court, rule 4.425(a)(1), the court had authority to apply consecutive sentences to predominantly independent crimes and objectives underlying 24 count 1 and 2. also, tinto account a subsequent conviction of penal code section 32 because that is being assertion that the trial court failed to properly consider rule 4.425, the court did in fact circumstances in aggravation or mitigation may be considered in deciding whether to impose consecutive rather than concurrent sentences, except a fact used to otherwise enhance . second, his prior crimes had escalated from misdemeanors to attempted premeditated murder, and the trial court was permitted to take such escalation into consideration. furthermore, the trial court was not required to state other specific reasons for its decision to impose a consecutive term. even if the trial court articulated only one criterion, namely how the aggravating factors outweigh the mitigating factors, this would be sufficient. (people v. bravot (1986) 183 cal.app.3d 93, 98; see also people v. covino (1980) 100 cal.app.3d 660 670.) as a result, [i]t is not reasonably probable that a result more favorable to appellant would (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836; people v. wright (1982) 30 cal.3d 705, 714; see also people v. reynolds (1986) 178 cal.app.3d 407, 420.) thus, trial court did not abuse its discretion in sentencing irvin shaw to consecutive indeterminate life terms on counts 1 and 2. b. the trial court did not err when it imposed a one-year enhancement under penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b). irvin also argues that the trial court erred in imposing the sentences on the penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b) enhancement because the court failed to exercise its discretion in making that sentencing choice. the trial court found true the allegation that appellant irvin shaw served a prior conviction of a felony under penal code section 32, accessory after the fact. when imposing the additional one-year enhancement under section 667.5, subdivision (b), the 25 id not understand it had discretion to strike the additional term. as a result, irvin argues this court should remand his case for sentencing. we disagree. not offer addd the people v. martinez (1998) 65 cal.app.4th 1511, 1517; people v. mosley (1997) 53 cal.app.4th 489, 496-497; howard v. thrifty drug & discount stores de(corenevsky v. superior court (1984) 36 cal.3d 307, 321) code,  664.) these general rules that require presumption of the discretion also apply to sentencing issues like the one before us today. (people v. moran (1970) 1 cal.3d 755, 762.) where sentencing involves imposing a mandatory additional people v. johnson (1980) 104 cal.app.3d 598, 611-612.) second, tthat it believed it lacked discretion when imposing the one-year enhancement. the word has multiple meanings. to mandatemake [something] ordercollegiate dict. (10th ed. 1995) p. 706, col. 2; italics added.) according to this definition, the trial court did not necessarily use the word to imply the one-year enhancement was absolutely mandatory but to state that the enhancement was being made mandatory in its view under the circumstances of the case. here, the trial court merely meant to communicate that it had authority to make the decision, made the decision, and the decision applied to appellant. 26 the trial court did not erroneously believe that the one-year enhancement was mandatory without any further consideration. moreover, the trial several times during sentencing. when deciding on imposing a consecutive term for counts 6 and 7, the court stated, mandated based on separate occasions, true on [. . .] a separate victim, great threat of violence, separate occasion, the court finds the mid term consecutive three years is mandated (italics added.) in those instances, the court clearly considered the separateness of the occasions or the increasing degrees of violence before mandating, or ordering, a consecutive mid term. and in each of those thus, it cannot be presumed that the trial court he third, there is evidence the trial court did in fact exercise its discretion when it imposed the one-year enhancement. although the language of the statute is mandatory, subdivision (b) prior prison term enhancements pursuant to section 1385, subdivision (a) (people v. garcia (2008) 167 cal.app.4th 1550, 1561.) the prosecutor presented the certified document showing that irvin was convicted of violating penal code section 32 and that he served prison time. the prosecutor urged the court to impose the additional term, but the prosecutor did not argue or state that the additional one-year term was mandatory (ask for additional one year for the state prison ; italics added). after receiving and reviewing the exhibit, the court found that irvin served a prior conviction of a felony; the court also reviewed the probation report. then the court specifically excluded to run his sentence consecutive. the court also did not consider the prior conviction when assessing the additional one-year term. conviction of penal code section 32 because that is being separately considered as an 27 in view of the foregoing, it appears the court exercised its discretion to consider all circumstances before imposing sentences. finally, the fact that the statute contains mandatory language is undisputed. in the garcia case[penal code] [s]ection 667.5, subdivisions (a) and (b) contain mandatory language, which requires the additional terms be imposed on every count. the enhancement language in section 667.5 is mandatory unless the additional (people v. garcia, supra, 167 cal.app.4th at p.1561 (recognizing that even though the term is mandatory, it may be stricken under 1385); italics added and fn. omitted.) however, i even if the trial court mistakenly believed it lacked discretion to impose or strike the one-year enhancement, the error was harmless. (see people v. mack (1986) 178 cal.app.3d 1026, 1033.) during sentencing, the trial court stated a prior record, and it appears that the crimes are of increasing . . . the court s probation report as an adult and noticed the various convictions from 2001 onward. the imposition of the one-year term was not a mechanical application but a result of careful consideration under the circumstances. such consideration implies exercise of discretion. disposition the judgments are affirmed. woods, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. segal, j.* *judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 