filed 4/29/13 p. v. gutierrez ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose gutierrez, defendant and appellant. b240910 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la066422) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, martin l. herscovitz, judge. affirmed. linda acaldo, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. 2 jose gutierrez appeals from the judgment entered following his plea of guilty to two counts of carjacking (pen. code,  215, subd. (a)),1 and one count of second degree robbery ( 211), during each of which he personally used a firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (b)), and his admissions that, with regard to the robbery, he committed the offense for the benefit of, at the direction of and in association with a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)) and previously had been convicted of and served prison terms for possession of cocaine for the purpose of sale (health & saf. code,  11351) and the unlawful driving or taking of a vehicle (veh. code,  10851, subd. (a)) within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). the trial court sentenced gutierrez to 33 years 8 months in prison. we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. facts.2 at approximately 1:30 p.m. on october 27, 2010, jerry delgado was working on his car, a 1985 monte carlo super sport, in the driveway in front of his house located in whom delgado knew and both of whom were wearing baseball caps, approached him and when police officers arrived approximately a half-an-hour later, delgado told them that one of the individuals who had approached him, the man with the gun, had had tattoos on his hands. later that day, police officers asked delgado to view an individual they had in custody. delgado could not remember if he told a police officer that he recognized the 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 the facts have been taken from the transcript of the preliminary hearing. 3 man as the person who had approached him with a gun. however, when delgado was been damaged. rhuan partida lives in the 7000 block of hinds avenue in los angeles. at approximately 3:30 p.m. on october 27, 2010, he was just arriving home from the gym. street onto hinds, he saw gutierrez and his codefendant, erick lepe, walking down dark sweater. when partida turned the corner onto hinds street, gutierrez and lepe also turned the corner. after partida stopped the car, the men approached him and each man asked him for a cigarette. partida was about to give them cigarettes when gutierrez at the door to the car, pulled a chrome revolver out of his jacket or pants and pointed it in aske later that day, partida spoke with police officers who asked him if he could identify individuals they had in custody. partida identified gutierrez and lepe as the men who had taken his car. in addition, he looked at a chrome revolver and indicated that it appeared to be the same one gutierrez had pointed at him. the mustang was later returned to partida. the car had not been damaged. los angeles police department detective richard acevedo assisted another officer in the investigation of the carjacking which had occurred on dron field on october 27, 2010. at some point in the afternoon, acevedo wenpicked him up and transported him to the intersection of san fernando road and 4 luddington street in sun valley for a field show-up. after informing delgado that the shown gutierrez and lepe. when delgado was shown the first individual, who was not delgado then indicated that the man he had been shown was the one who had acted as a when gutierrez, who was wearing a blue dodger jacket, was then brought out, ted that gutierrez was the one who had pointed a silver handgun at him and to whom he had given his gold necklace. cesar con1:30 p.m. on october 27, 2010, contreras had responded to a call regarding a carjacking at the 11000 block of dron field avenue in los angeles. as he and his partner were headed of glen oaks and pierce. delgado described the carjacking suspects as male hispanics who were about 5 feet 9 at approximately 3:40 that same afternoon, contreras and his partner were in the vicinity of san fernando road and penrose, approximately five miles from dron field avenue and approximately five minutes from hinds avenue. there, the officer observed had been broadcast[] as [having been] taken in a[n] armed vehicle [which had been] 5 over and stop it. the occupants of the car were gutierrez and lepe. at that point, lepe partner later searched the car, he found a loaded silver .22 caliber revolver tucked the car which had been taken from him. in 2010, los angeles police department officer jesus martinez was assigned to the foothill gang enforcement detail. the officer is familiar with the vineland boys gang and their territory. the 11000 block of dron field is approximately two blocks avenue is within vineland letters v-b- martinez was familiar with both gutierrez and lepe. with regard to gutierrez, the -numerous gang tattoos. in addition, martinez had had numerous contacts with gutierrez in that he had monitored his activities and conducted his paropinion that crimes such as the carjackings and robbery allegedly committed by gutierrez and lepe were committed for the benefit of the vineland boys street gang. commission reputation within the community. 2. procedural history. in an information filed march 16, 2011, gutierrez was charged with two counts of carjacking ( 215, subd. (a)), during each of which he personally used a firearm, a handgun ( 12022.53, subd. (b)) (counts 1 and 3), and one count of second degree robbery ( 211), during which he personally used a firearm, a handgun ( 12022.53, subd. (b)) (count 2). it was further alleged with regard to the carjackings that the offenses 6 had been committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, and in association with a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(4)) and, with regard to all three counts, that the offenses were committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, and in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further and assist in criminal conduct by gang members (id., subd. (b)(1)(c)). it was also alleged with regard to all three counts that the offenses were serious and violent felonies pursuant to section 1192.7, subdivision (c)(8) and section 667.5, subdivision (c)(8). finally, it was alleged that gutierrez had suffered prior convictions for possession of cocaine for the purpose of sale (health & saf. code,  11351) and the unlawful driving or taking of a vehicle (veh. code,  10851, subd. (a)) for which he served prison terms within the meaning of section 667.5 and that he had previously been convicted of three felonies, including possession of narcotics (health & saf. code,  11377, subd. (a)) within the meaning of section 1203, subdivision (e)(4). at proceedings held on april 14, 2011, counsel for gutierrez indicated that there court then enco at the same proceedings, gutierrez indicated he was having problems with his counsel. the trial court decided to hold a marsden3 hearing and, after the prosecutor left the courtroom, gutierrez complained that his counsel was not providing him with including a pitchess4 motion, but she had not done so. counsel responded, indicating that in cases where there are gang allegations, her policy is to not provide the defendant with copies of documents. she explained that the 3 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118. 4 pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531. 7 , [they would] end up in the hands of somebody else in county jail, who [would] then most likely try and snitch him out. [] the second reason [was] that[,] if for some reason, and especially in a gang-related [case], if something were to happen to one obeen presented up to that point. counsel then indicated that gutierrez had not asked her to file a pitchess motion and, in any event, she did not think such a motion was appropriate in this case. the matter involved two civilians who were allegedly carjacked and they had both testified at the preliminary hearing. there had been no indication of officer misconduct. errez, about your marsden motion. on april 25, 2011, the trial court indicated that it was its understanding gutierrez and the prosecutor had reached a plea agreement. after indicating gutierrez faced a sentence of 45 years and four months to life, the trial court stated that the agreement was for 33 years 8 months in state prison. gutierrez indicated he understood and was waiving his right to a jury trial, his right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses against him, his privilege against self-incrimination, the right to remain silent and his right to present a defense during which he could testify and subpoena witnesses to testify on his behalf. he then pled guilty to two counts of carjacking, as alleged in counts 1 and 3 of the information, and admitted that, during the commission of the crimes, he used a firearm. gutierrez also pled guilty to second degree robbery as alleged in count 2 of the information and admitted that, during the offense, he personally used a firearm. finally, gutierrez admitted that, with regard to 8 the robbery alleged in count 2, he had committed the offense for the benefit of, at the direction of and in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further and assist criminal conduct by gang members. after taking the pleas and admissions, the trial court had gutierrez swear he would ed gutierrez if he had with regard to his prior convictions and prison terms, the trial court asked a term in state prison for each of those . . . felonies and that [he] did commit another offense resulting in a state prison conviction within five years subsequent to the beand found him guilty of the crimes to which he had pled and the allegations he had admitted. at proceedings held on march 16, 2012, gutierrez made a motion to withdraw his plea. after being sworn as a witness, gutierrez testified he had entered the plea and 9 codefendant, lepe, had had the gang allegations dismissed before he entered a plea. after gutierrez waived the attorney-client privilege, his trial counsel testified that [he facts of the case, as well as the preliminary hearing and everything [she] had evaluated with [regard to] the case, [gutierrez should] accept the offer to avoid a lif believed that, based upon the arrest report and the evidence produced at the preliminary 186.22[, subdivision] (b) allegation, as well as the 186.22[, subdivision] (c) allegation, on cross- the trial court indicated it had reviewed the preliminary hearing transcript which 10 expert witness testimony given on behalf of the people. in addition, the trial court had reviewed the transcript of the plea proceedings, during which the court had, after a fairly court had then explained to when the court asked -thought-he was denied his motion to withdraw his plea. after indicating it had read the probation report, the trial court sentenced gutierrez to the high term of nine years in prison for his conviction of carjacking as alleged in count 1. for his personal use of a firearm during the offense, the court imposed a term of 10 years, for a total of 19 years. for the robbery, the trial court sentenced gutierrez to one-third the mid-term, or one year, and three years four months for his use of a firearm during the offense. for the gang enhancement, the court sentenced gutierrez to an additional three years four months, for a total of seven years eight months as to count 2. with regard to the carjacking alleged in count 3, the court imposed a term of one-third the mid-term, or one year eight months, and for his use of a firearm during the offense, a tion 667.5, subdivision (b), the court imposed a consecutive term of two years. in total, gutierrez was sentenced to the agreed-upon term of 33 years 8 months in prison. 11 the trial court ordered gutierrez to pay delgado $800 in actual restitution ( 1202.4, subd. (f)), a $3,000 restitution fine ( 1202.4, subd. (b)), a stayed $3,000 parole revocation restitution fine ( 1202.45), a $40 court security fee for each of the three counts ( 1465.8, subd. (a)(1)) and a $30 criminal conviction assessment for each of the three counts (gov. code,  70373). the court then awarded gutierrez presentence custody credit for 507 days actually served and 76 days of good time/work time, for a total of 583 days. counts and allegations. gutierrez filed a timely notice of appeal on april 23, 2012. he also filed a request for a certificate of probable cause, which the trial court granted on april 30, 2012. contentions after examination of the record, appointed appellate counsel filed an opening brief which raised no issues and requested this court to conduct an independent review of the record. by notice filed november 28, 2012, the clerk of this court advised gutierrez to submit within 30 days any contentions, grounds of appeal or arguments he wished this within which to file his supplemental brief was granted to january 28, 2013. in his letter brief filed that day, gutierrez asserted that the allegation he had committed the robbery in count 2 for the benefit of, at the direction of, and in association with a criminal street gang was not true. he claimed to have admitted the allegation only because the district attorney had threatened him by telling him that if he did not admit it, the people would ensure that he was sentenced to prison for life. in addition, gutierrez contended that his own counsel had failed to adequately represent him. he indicated that she left him to his own had been committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang, after he entered his pleas the 12 trial court placed him under oath and specifically asked him if he had committed the n that gutierrez admitted the gang allegation. moreover, counsel had indicated that, not only had gutierrez agreed with her that he should enter a plea, which included the ssion was untrue or made involuntarily without the assistance of counsel. (see people v. carter (2003) 30 cal.4th 1166, 1211 [under the circumstances presented, it cannot be said that trial sonableness under strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 694.) review on appeal we have examined the entire record and are satisfied counsel has complied fully smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 278-284; people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, 443.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: croskey, j. kitching, j. 