filed 2/5/13 p. v. wade ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. raymond japaul wade, defendant and appellant. b240588 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba389493) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, barbara johnson, judge. affirmed and remanded with directions. a. william bartz, jr., under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, michael r. johnsen, supervising deputy attorney general, and jonthan m. krauss, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________________ 2 defendant and appellant raymond japaul wade was convicted by jury of possession of cocaine in violation of health & safety code section 11350, subdivision (a), a lesser but necessarily included offense of possession of cocaine base for the purpose of sale. the trial court sentenced defendant to state prison for the low term of 16 months, to be served in the county jail, after finding defendant unsuitable for proposition 36 probation. in his timely appeal from the judgment, defendant contends he was statutorily eligible for proposition 36 probation, which is mandatory in the absence of a disqualifying factor. the attorney general concedes that defendant is correct, but the trial court misunderstood its discretion to determine that defendant was ineligible because verdict. we agree with unsuitable for proposition 36 probation. however, the record supports the attorney factual finding by a preponderance of the evidence that defendant was ineligible for proposition 36 probation because he possessed cocaine for the purpose of sale, accordingly, we affirm the judgment but remand to allow the trial court to determine whether the current offense disqualified defendant from proposition 36 probation on the ground that his offense involved the possession of cocaine for the purpose of sale. facts on october 1, 2011, defendant was observed talking to several people in front of san julian park. at the direction of los angeles police department officer dion joseph, defendant was taken into custody by two other officers. defendant was transported to the police station, where a body cavity search of his rectum lead to the discovery of rocks of cocaine base weighing 6.17 grams. officer joseph opined that defendant possessed the 3 cocaine for the purpose of sale, based upon its street value, the number of doses contained, an discussion a trial court must grant proposition 36 probation to an eligible defendant who commits a nonviolent drug possession offense. defendant argues he was statutorily eligible for proposition 36 probation, and the court erred in finding him unsuitable and committing him to state prison. we agree the trial court lacked the power to deny defendant proposition 36 probation on the ground he was unsuitable. however, there is an unresolved issue that requires a remand to the trial court to determine whether defendant committed a nonviolent drug possession offense, and if so, proposition 36 probation must be granted. preinto a drug treatment program, and may not be sentenced to incarceration as an additional people v. canty (2004) 32 cal.4th 1266, 1272-for those convicted of certain narcotics offenses. in effect, it acts as an exception to the in re varnell (2003) 30 cal.4th 1132, 1136.) possession for personal use, or transportation for personal use of any controlled substance identified in section 11054, 11055, 11056, 11057 or 11058 of the health and safety code, or the offense of being under the influence of a controlled substance in violation of section 11550 of the health and safe 4 controlled substance and does not include violations of [penal code s]ection 4573.6 or (a).) there are five classes of defendants who statutorily unsuitable for proposition 36 probation eligibility following conviction of a nonviolent drug possession offense. (pen. code,  1210.1, subd. (b).) defendant contends, and the attorney general correctly agrees, that defendant does not fall into any of the five categories that would render him automatically ineligible for proposition 36 probation. matter should be remanded to allow the trial court to determine if defendant committed a nonviolent drug possession offense. the attorney general reasons that defendant was charged with possession of cocaine base for the purpose of sale, the record contains substantial evidence of possession for the purpose of sale, and although the jury acquitted him of that offense and found him guilty of the lesser offense of possession of cocaine, the court retained the power to determine, by a preponderance of the evidence, that defend allegation generally does not bind the trial court from redetermining the personal use issue for proposition 36 purposes based on the preponderance of the evidence standard because an acquittal or not true finding merely means that the jury was not convinced beyond a reasonable doubt on such issue. ([u.s. v.] watts [(1997)] 519 u.s. [148,] 157; [people v.] dove [(2004)] 124 cal.app.4th [1,] 11 (dove).) further such determination may be implied from the fact a prison sentence is imposed. (dove[, supra,] at pp. 10-11; [people v.] barasa [(2002)] 103 cal.app.4th [287,] 291people v. harris (2009) 171 cal.app.4th 1488, 1498 (harris).) thus, the law permits the trial court to find by a preponderance of the evidence that a controlled substance was not possessed for personal use, even where the jury returns a verdict to that effect. in order look to proceedings at sentencing to determine if the trial court understood and exercised 5 its authority to make the necessary finding that defendant committed a nonviolent drug possession offense as defined in proposition 36. as noted, defendant was acquitted of possession of cocaine base for the purpose of sale but convicted of possession of cocaine. at the probation and sentence hearing, the trial court found defendant in violation of probation in two prior casesconvictions of child endangering (pen. code,  273a) and possession of cocaine. defense counsel told the court defendant was eligible for proposition 36 probation. the prosecutor noted 1 the prosecutor requested a prison sentence to be served in county jail. the person waswhether or not mr. wade possessed the drugs for sale, but the matter of ense counsel told the court defendant would benefit from proposition 36 probation, but the court was unmoved. defendant was sentenced to state prison for the low term of 16 months, to be served in the county jail. hether defendant possessed the cocaine for saleis ambiguous and is certainly susceptible to the interpretation that the court believed defendant did not possess th 1 nt that the prosecution waived the issue of remanding the cause to the trial court. 6 determine the purpose of possession of a controlled substance, even where the jury rejects a possession for sale charge in favor of a conviction of simple possession. (harris, supra, 171 cal.app.4th at pp. 1497-1498; dove, supra, 124 cal.app.4th at p. 11.) given the disapproving tone nonviolent drug possession offense, the proper remedy is to remand to the trial court to determine whether defendant possessed cocaine for personal use or for the purpose of sale. disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed. the cause is remanded to the trial court for its determination of the purpose for which defendant possessed the cocaine. if the trial court concludes the cocaine was possessed for personal use, it shall place defendant on proposition 36 probation. if the trial court finds by a preponderance of the evidence that the cocaine was possessed for purpose of sale, the previously imposed state prison sentence shall stand. kriegler, j. we concur: turner, p. j. armstrong, j. 