filed 4/22/13 p. v. holquin ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. paul joseph holquin, defendant and appellant. b240389 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va117485) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. patrick t. meyers, judge. affirmed. vanessa place, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, linda c. johnson and toni r. johns estaville, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______________________________________ 2 summary appellant paul joseph holquin was charged with one count of possession of child pornography. (pen. code,  311.11, subd. (a).)1 a jury convicted appellant after trial and he was placed on three years probation, the conditions of which included a prohibition against residing near, visiting or being within 100 yards of places where minors frequent or congregate. on appeal, appellant challenges the imposition of this condition arguing that the registered sexual offenders residency restriction requirement in section 3003.5, subdivision (b) applies only to parolees, and does not apply to probationers such as appellant, and that the trial court was under the mistaken belief that secargues that the residency requirements of section 3003.5, subdivision (b), constitute cruel and unusual punishment. respondent agrees that the residency requirements of section 3003.5, subdivision (b), apply only to parolees, argues that the trial court recognized and properly exercised its discretion, and contends that appellant lacks standing to challenge the alleged unconstitutionality of the residency requirement. we affirm. procedural background contentions on appeal. appellant was convicted by a jury of one count of possession of matter depicting a minor engaging in sexual conduct in violation of section 311.11, subdivision (a). at sentencing, the trial court granted formal probation to appellant for a period of three years, on condition, among others, that he serve 365 days in county jail, register as a 00 yards away from and have no contact with all minor congregate, including, but not limited to, school yards, amusement parks, concerts, 1 all subsequent statutory references are to the penal code. 3 theaters, playgrounds, beaches, swimming pools and arcades unless approved by the any of these conditions at sentencing.2 discussion on appeal, appellant contends that in imposing the 100-yard residency restriction, feet residency restriction and also argues that the senteprobationers like appellant, the trial court fatitutes cruel and unusual punishment in each and based on his failure to raise the issue to the trial court. we disagree and affirm. sume the sentencing court properly exercised people v. montano (1992) 6 cal.app.4th 118, 121; people v. mosley (1997) 53 cal.app.4th 489, 496-497 the trial court is aware of the applicable law, including statutory discretion at sentencing, [the reviewing court] cannot presume error where the record does not establish on its face people v. gutierrez (2009) 174 cal.app.4th 515, 527; in re consiglio 2 appellant did object, unsuccessfully, at sentencing to a probation condition prohibiting him from participating on any sharing site on a computer, including facebook. 4 the absence of any evidence to the contrary, we must presume the judge was aware of his that the trial court was unaware of its discretion or failed to exercise it. while appellant contends that the trial court mistakenly believed that appellant residency any other provision of law, when a person is released on parole after having served a term of imprisonment in state prison for any offense for which registration is required pursuant to section 290, that person may not, during the period of parole, reside in any single family dwelling with any other person also required to register pursuant to section 290, unless those persons are legally related by blood, marriage, or adoption. . . . [] (b) notwithstanding any other provision of law, it is unlawful for any person for whom registration is required pursuant to section 290 to reside within 2000 feet of any public or  3003.5, subds. (a) & (b).) without exception from residing within 2,000 feet of a school or park; in contrast, the trial court here imposed a condition of probation or 300 feet accordingly, the record does not establish on its face that the trial court misunderstood the scope of its discretion by mistakenly believing it was bound by section only incorrectly concluded that section 3003.5 applied to appellant, despite appellant being on probation and not parole, but then incorrectly imposed conditions that were upport such an argument. indeed, it is clear that the trial court fashioned a condition of probation that was at odds with section 5 section 3003.5, we do not reach his challenge to the constitutionality of that section. finally, in his reply brief, appellant argues that the attorney general has failed to children) and a condition of probation that would prohibit him from residing or otherwise people v. lent (1975) 15 cal.3d 481, 486. to the extent appellant is contending that the trial court abused its discretion in setting the probation conditions, we do not consider arguments raised for the first time in a reply brief.3 (reichardt v. hoffman (1997) 52 cal.app.4th 754, 764.) disposition the judgment of the trial court is affirmed. not to be published. chaney, j. we concur: mallano, p. j. johnson, j. 3 discretion to set the terms of probation under people v. lent, supra, 15 cal.3d 481, forfeits the claim on appeal. (people v. welch (1993) 5 cal.4th 228.) 