filed 9/23/13 p. v. tyler ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. andrew michael tyler defendant and appellant. b240760 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta117830) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, eleanor j. hunter, judge. affirmed. edward h. schulman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, and stephanie a. miyoshi and rama r. maline, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ 2 appellant andrew michael tyler appeals his judgment of conviction of one count of continuous sexual abuse of a child (pen. code,1  288.5, subd. (a)), one count of aggravated sexual assault of a child by rape ( 269, subd. (a)(1)) and one count of aggravated sexual assault of a child by oral copulation ( 269, subd. (a)(4)). contention on appeal is that his conviction for aggravated sexual assault by rape must be reversed because the evidence was insufficient to prove that an act of sexual penetration occurred. because substantial evidence supported conviction, we affirm. factual background and procedural history i. prosecution evidence a.b. . she lived in a three-bedroom house with tyler, her mother, her twin sister j.b., her younger sister t.b.adult daughter, andria. in 2010, after a.b. turned 11 years old, tyler began to look at her in a manner that made her uncomfortable. on a.b.buttocks and touched her breasts over her clothing with his hands. at other times, tyler a.b.in the bedroom that he shared with her mother. on another occasion, tyler unzipped his pants and forced a.b. to rub his penis with her hand, telling her tyler warned a.b. that if she told anyone about the touching, he would her hurt her or kill her family. because a.b. had seen tyler physically assault her mother in the past, she believed his threats and did not report his conduct to anyone. on april 27, 2011, when she was 12 years old, a.b. was at home. her mother was at work, and her two sisters and stepsister were in their room using the computer. tyler repeatedly called a.b. into his bedroom. after a.b. went into the bedroom, tyler closed the door and turned up the volume on a radio that was playing in the room. he grabbed a.b. by the straps of her tank top, threw her onto the bed, and pinned her down with his arms and legs. as a.b. struggled to get up, tyler lifted her shirt, pulled down 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 her pants, and shaved her vagina with a razor. tyler then picked her up and pushed her into the closet. he closed the closet door, pinned a.b. to the floor, and lifted her bra. he a.b.as she screamed for help. tyler then put his penis a.b. [] vagina, he moved his body back and forth against her. a.b. come out of his penis. tyler wiped the substance with a piece of cloth and threw the cloth into a hamper in the closet. at that point, tyler let a.b. get up and leave the room. he told a.b. to wash his clothes, which she did. shortly thereafter, a.b. spoke to her mother on the telephone and was crying hysterically. when her mother asked her what was wrong, a.b. hung up the phone. a.b.led back and could hear tyler in the background asking a.b. when the line was disconnected a second time, a.b.decided to leave work and go home. after the call , tyler began hitting a.b. with a leather belt, and asked her a.b. was screaming and crying as she ran into her bedroom where her sisters and stepsister were using the computer. a.b., asked her what had happened, and a.b. repeatedly said that she was tired of tyler touching her. when a.b.e, she saw that a.b. was visibly shaken. a.b. was crying as she told her mother that tyler had touched her, given her oral sex, and put her in the closet. a.b.ler who denied touching a.b. and stormed out of the house. tyler got into his car and drove away as she called the police. when tyler returned a few minutes later, a.b. and her family left the house and went to the corner to wait for the police. tyler drove away a second time, but was stopped by the police at the corner and taken into custody. later that day, a.b. was transported to a local hospital for a sexual assault examination which was conducted by a forensic nurse, susan barie.2 in describing the 2 nurse barie also conducted a suspect sexual examination on tyler. 4 specific acts that were committed during the assault, a.b. told nurse barie that tyler she reported that tyler had shaved her pubic area, had licked her genitals and her breasts, and may have penetrated her vagina with his penis. she was uncertain, however, whether tyler had penetrated her vagina or her anus. a.b. denied that she had any pain or bleeding in her genital area. in conducting the physical exam, nurse barie observed multiple scratches saw been shaved. with a florescent lamp, nurse barie detected the possible presence of saliva or seminal fluid on a.b. inner thighs, but not on her genitals or anus. nurse barie did not find any disruption to s vagina during the exam. she was unable to insert a speculum into vagina, however, and could only partially insert cotton swabs because a.b. stated that it was painful. nurse barie made no findings of injury or trauma , but indicated that it was common to have no evidence of injury even in forced vaginal or anal intercourse. the swabs collected from a.b. and tyler during their respective sexual assault examinations were analyzed for biological and dna evidence by senior criminalists in the los angeles and vulva showed the possible presence of saliva. tyler was excluded as a possible enough dna information to identify or exclude the possible contributors. no male dna contributor of dna in the samp to a warrant, the police seized a portion of the carpet in the master bedroom closet, which was also analyzed by biological and dna evidence. the carpet sample tested positive for the presence of semen. tyler and a.b. were determined to be the two major contributors to the dna found on the carpet, 5 which was consistent with tyler sexual assaulting a.b. on the carpet and then ejaculating. ii. defense evidence ified on his behalf. evelyn recounted a conversation she s mother about sexual abuse allegations that a.b. had made against tyler. according to evelyn, a.b. said that a.b. had accused tyler of molesting her, but a.b. later admitted that she had lied and that she had been encouraged by an aunt to make up the allegations. iii. jury verdict and sentencing at the conclusion of the trial, the jury found tyler guilty as charged of one count of continuous sexual abuse of a child, one count of aggravated sexual assault of a child by rape, and one count of aggravated sexual assault of a child by oral copulation. tyler was sentenced to a total state prison term of 50 years to life. he thereafter filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion on appeal, tyler challenges the sufficiency of evidence supporting his conviction for aggravated sexual assault of a child by rape in violation of section 269, subdivision (a)(1). he specifically contends that the evidence was insufficient as a matter of law to establish the element of sexual penetration because a.b. testified that tyler placed his penis on top of, but not inside, her vagina. however, based on the entirety of the record before us, we conclude that there was substantial ev in assessing a claim of insufficient evidencedetermine whether any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime or special circumstances beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the record must disclose substantial evideni.e., evidence that is reasonable, such that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] in applying this test, we review the 6 evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution and presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably have deduced from the evidence. [citation.] le suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends. [citation.] we resolve neither credibility issues nor evidentiary conflicts; we look for substantial evidence. hat upon no hypothesis whatever is there sufficient substantial evidence to support tverdict. [citation.] (people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357.) the following acts upon a child who is under 14 years of age and seven or more years younger than the person is guilty of aggravated sexual assault of a child: [] (1) rape, in an act of sexual intercourse accomplished with a person not the spouse of the perpetrator, under any of the following circumstances: [] . . . [] (2) where it is will by means of force, violence, duress, menace, or fear of immediate and unlawful bodily injury on the person any sexual penetration, however slight, is sufficient to complete the crime of rape. ( 263; people v. wallace (2008) 44 cal.4th 1032, 1079.) although sexual penetration is an essential element of rape, vaginal penetration is not required. (people v. quintana (2001) 89 cal.app.4th 1362, 1371; people v. karsai (1982) 131 cal.app.3d 224, 232 disapproved on other grounds in people v. jones (1988) 46 cal.3d 585, 600, fn. 8.) enetration of the external genital organs is sufficient to constitute sexual penetration and to complete the crime of rape even if the rapist does not thereafter succeed (people v. karsai, supra, at p. 232 s testimony that defendant pushed his penis between the lips of her vagina was sufficient to support rape conviction]; see also people v. quintana, supra, at p. 1371 [evidence that 7 defendant penetrated within meaning of section 289]; people v. dunn (2012) 205 cal.app.4th 1086, 1097 [sexual intercourse the ed by circumstantial evidence. (people v. holt (1997) 15 cal.4th 619, 669.) during her direct examination, a.b. initially testified that, after tyler committed asked a.b. to describe what tyler did with his penis, a.b. again answered: he put it on the prosecutor continued with this line of questioning as follows: q: you say he put it on your vagina? a: like by the -- by my -- on my skin, the inside of my vagina. q: did he put it in or on? a: on. q: okay. what exactly did he do with his penis to your body? a: he put it -- out of the vagina and did like -- the two things that looked like lips, he put it -- not the -- probably the top of the lip -- the top of the lips of the vagina, it looked like. q: did you feel any pain when he did this? a: no. testimony on the subject of penetration with her testimony from the preliminary hearing. after directing a.b. to read a portion of her preliminary hearing testimony to herself, the prosecutor asked her the following series of questions: q: so at the preliminary hearing, what you said was that you actually could feel his penis between the lips of your vagina -- a: yes. q: -- is that right? 8 a: yes. q: and is that -- is that what happened? is that where you could feel his penis? a: yes. q: a: no. q: when did you black out? a: q: but you blacked out in the closet? a: yes. q: and you remember him putting his penis between the lips of your vagina? a: yes. q: and then the next thing that you remember is him wiping white snot out of his penis? a: yes. on redirect examination, a.b. was asked to further elaborate about the movement s question about where tyler had his penis when his body was moving back and forth against here prosecutor then asked: a.b. answered: trial testimony is read as a whole, it is sufficient to support a finding that some penetration, however slight, of her external genital organs occurred. as the court of appeal noted in people v. quintana, supravagina is only one part of the female genitalia, which also include . . . the labia majora, majora, or outer lips of the vagina, is sufficient to constitute sexual penetration. (id. at p. 1371; people v. karsai, supra, 131 cal.app.3d at pp. 232-233; people v. dunn, supra, 205 cal.app.4th at pp. 1097-1098.) although a.b. initially testified tha 9 asked whether a.b. also answered in the affirmative when asked whether as he was moving his body back and forth against her. accordingly, while there were some n the subject of penetration, it is well-established that conflicts and inconsistencies in testimony, even those within the testimony of the same witness, are to be resolved by the trier of fact. (people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181 esolution of conflicts and inconsistencies in the testimony is the exclusive province of the trier of fact]; people v. koontz (1959) 171 cal.app.2d 633, 634 [where sexual assault victim gave conflicting testimony about whether penetration occurred, trier of fact the testimony of the [victim] on direct examination rather than the conflicting testimony .) moreover, ony is physically impossible or inherently improbable, testimony of a single witness is sufficient to support a (people v. young, supra, at p. 1181; see also people v. richardson (2008) 43 cal.4th 959, 1030-testimony of a single witness is sufficient for the proof of vagina, the jury reasonably could have found that tyler committed an act of sexual penetration within the meaning of section 269, subdivision (a)(1). assertion on appeal, the forensic evidence presented at trial did not establish the absence of any sexual penetration. although the nurse who ult examination did not find evidence of injury or trauma to genitals or seminal fluid on her genitals, she specifically testified that the absence of such findings was not uncommon even in the case of forced vaginal intercourse. additionally, while no forensic evidence was found that connected them to one another, the dna evidence found on the carpet in the closet showed that a.b. and tyler were the two major contributors to that dna, and that the carpet contained seminal fluid. at a minimum, such evidence could corroborate testimony that tyler had ejaculated in the closet as he was sexually assaulting her. 10 therefore, when the totality of the record is consideredtestimony about actions, along with the dna evidence recovered from the carpet, was sufficient to support a finding that tyler sexually penetrated a.b. for the purpose avated sexual assault of a child by rape was supported by substantial evidence. disposition the judgment is affirmed. zelon, j. we concur: woods, acting p. j. segal, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 