filed 5/13/13 p. v. benson ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. roberta benson, defendant and appellant. b240319 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba384041) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. stephen a. marcus, judge. affirmed. pamela j. voich, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, kenneth c. byrne and william n. frank, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________________ 2 a jury convicted roberta benson of assault with a deadly weapon. (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(1).) on appeal, benson contends the evidence is insufficient to support her conviction and that the trial court erred in excluding relevant character evidence of the victim, denying her due process. we affirm the judgment. facts benson and oliver ramillate lived in the same condominium complex for many ciation board together. since 2007, performance to the board. one day in may 2011, at around 3:00 a.m., ramillate awoke to sounds from the lobby. he got up to investigate, and found cut roses and spilled coffee by his door. when he walked into the lobby of the third level where his unit was, the chairs had been turned over and magazines strewn over the floor. ramillate continued his investigation onto the first floor where he found benson, alone in the courtyard area, cutting roses with an eight-inch kitchen knife. ramillate told benson to stop cutting the roses he had planted. he was about six d boy. after the exchange because he felt worried. he grabbed a chair to create a buffer between himself and benson. benson stood up and moved toward the buildinmaking a jabbing motion with the knife towards ramillate. with only a foot between benson and the chair ramillate was holding to defend himself, she continued to jab at him. benson then began to push the chair with her left hand, while jabbing at ramillate with her right. the altercation ended when benson walked into the building. ramillate immediately returned to his unit and called the police. ten minutes e identified an eight-inch kitchen knife that smelled like cut roses as the weapon she jabbed at him. 3 ped statement testify. during trial, the court held an evidence code section 402 hearing. gordon testified she lived at the complex with benson and ramillate for 14 years, but did not know ramillate personally. gordon said that ramillate once accepted money from gordon for keys but never delivered the keys. gordon similarly testified that ramillate mistreated a particular employee of the building. as consolation, gordon gave the gordon testified that when ramillate found out, he accused her of diverting funds. gordon also testified that ramillate asked her to make requests at board meetings but then told a previous manager that the requests were unnecessary. excluded under evidence code section 352. the court found her testimony largely value. the jury convicted benson of assault with a deadly weapon. benson filed appeal. discussion i. sufficiency of the evidence benson contends the evidence was insufficient to support her conviction for assault with a deadly weapon. we disagree. our role in determining the sufficiency of the evidence is limited. we review e light most favorable to the prosecution to determine whether it contains evidence that is reasonable, credible, and or solid value, from which a rational (people v. tafoya (2007) 42 cal.4th 147, 170.) we do not reweigh the evidence or redetermine the credibility of the witnesses (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, people v. 4 wader (1993) 5 reasonably reconciled with a contrary finding. [citations.] the test on appeal is whether there is substantial evidence to support the conclusion of the trier of fact; it is not whether people v. redmond (1969) 71 cal.2d 745, 755.) assault with a deadly weapon is an unlawful attempt, coupled with a present ability, to commit a violent injury on the person of another with a deadly weapon. (pen. t by its nature will probably and people v. williams (2001) 26 cal.4th 779, 782.) it is a general intent crime without a requisite specific intent to injure the victim. (id. at t be even a direct attempt at violence; but any indirect preparation towards it, under the circumstances mentioned, such as drawing a sword or (people v. chance (2008) 44 cal.4th 1164, 1172.) any resulting force being applied attention to the knife when he first approached her in the courtyard. next, she made repeated jabs with the knife in his direction while trying to push the chair he used to defend himself out of the way. this evidence was sufficient to establish the offense of assault with a deadly weapon. benson further contends that the distance between ramillate and herself during the incident defeats the was only three feet away from benson as she jabbed an eight-inch kitchen knife in his direction. benson certainly had the present ability to commit a violent injury on 5 ramillate. three person, especially with a weapon such as a long kitchen knife. benson argues unpersuasively that the testimony submitted at trial should be given less weight because ramillate was the only witness and he had a contentious relationship with benson. however, the testimony of a single witness is sufficient to support a conviction unless it is physically impossible or inherently improbable. (people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181.) thercategory. further, long-standing precedent dictates that a reviewing court resolves neither credibility nor evidentiary conflicts, as these issues are for the trier of fact. (ibid.) ii. exclusion of character evidence ramillate, resulting in a denial of due process. we find no error and no due process violation. we first note that benson waived any federal due process claim because she did argue that exclusion would deny her constitutional rights. (people v. raley (1992) 2 cal.4th 870, 892; people v. benson (1990) 52 cal.3d 754, 786, fn. 7.) moreover, as a general rule, evidentiary rulings do not create constitutional issues. (people v. lawley (2002) 27 cal.4th 102, 155.) we do not find any error in excluding the evidence pursuant to evidence code value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of weighing the probative value of particular evidence with the concerns of undue prejudice, confusion or consumption of time. (people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 1125.) less probative than confusing and time consuming. the trial court noted: whether or not she was properly raising the opinions of [ramillate]. . . . 6 -- and i should look at 352 -- but basically it would extend the trial, and it would confuse the jury. it would require the other side to have a chance to counteract this, and it would bring up all of these minor disagreements and tiffs and whatever you want to call them in this little housing complex to the floor, and it has nothing to do in a minitrial on issues that were tangential at best. further, that the prosecution would have to investigate the issues and find rebuttal witnesses in the midst of trial if the testimony were admitted. these reasons demonstrate the trial court did not abuse its discretion. finally, any error in excluding the evidence was harmless. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) benson was allowed to bring in evidence that she made she used this evidence to attempt to persuade the jury that ramillate had a motive to falsely accuse her of the assault. we find no reasonable probability that the evidence of disposition the judgment is affirmed. bigelow, p. j. we concur: rubin, j. flier, j. 