filed 7/22/13 p. v. cortez ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. balnore cortez, defendant and appellant. b240670 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya082661) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, steven r. van sicklen, judge. affirmed. david w. scopp, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii and stephanie c. santoro, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant, balnore cortez, appeals his conviction for second degree burglary (pen. code,  459, 460, subd. (a)).1 he was sentenced to state prison for a term of three years. the judgment is affirmed. background viewed in accordance with the usual rule of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established the following. 1. charged incident at the torrance home depot. on october 12, 2011, anthony guerrera was working as a loss prevention agent at home depot. guerrera usually worked at the home depot in hawthorne, but that day he was working at the home depot in torrance. guerrera saw a man in the gardening department. after putting a bag of soil into his shopping cart, the man pushed the cart over to the electrical department. there he met another man and the two of them put 10 to 12 rolls of romex wire into the cart. each roll of wire cost $70. the bag of soil was placed on top of the wire. the two men then separated and the first man, pushing the shopping cart, walked past the cash registers without paying and left the store. guerrera followed him outside into the parking lot. the man turned around, saw guerrera and started walking faster. guerrera approached and identified himself. when guerrera tried to detain him, the man punched guerrera in the shoulder causing him to fall backward. the man abandoned his shopping cart and started running toward the main street. guerrera ran after him, while calling 911, but he failed to catch the suspect. when torrance police officer nicholas rea responded to the call, guerrera said he had recognized the suspect from a previous encounter with him. guerrera told rea the sus 1 all further references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 3 six days later, guerrera met with torrance police detective jeff livingston. guerrera described the suspect and said he would have no problem identifying him again. shown a six-picture. 2. prior incident at the hawthorne home depot. guerrera testified the reason he recognized cortez that day at the torrance home depot store was because of an incident which had occurred on may 17, 2011, at the hawthorne home depot store. on that occasion, cortez entered the store and went to the plumbing department. he hid plumbing merchandise in his pockets and left the store without paying. identifying himself, guerrera approached cortez and tried to detain him. but cortez punched him in the shoulder and ran to a waiting car, which drove off. guerrera testified he was positive the suspect in this may incident was the same person he had tried to detain in the october incident. on july 6, 2011, guerrera saw cortez come into the hawthorne home depot to return some paint. recognizing him from the may incident, guerrera stood close to him at the returns counter and, as the return was procdepartment to say the suspect in the may incident was in the store again. police officers arrived, detained cortez, and guerrera made a positive in-field identification. at trial, guerrera identified cortez as the person he had struggled with in the parking lot during the october incident at the torrance home depot store. cortez did not present any evidence. the jury acquitted cortez of a robbery charge and convicted him of commercial burglary. contention the trial court erred by admitting evidence about the may 2011 incident at the hawthorne home depot store. 4 discussion cortez contends the trial court erred by admitting evidence of the prior shoplifting incident at the hawthorne home depot because it was irrelevant to any disputed issue at trial. this claim is meritless. 1. background. the prosecution made a motion to allow evidence of the hawthorne home depot incident under evidence code, section 1101. at the hearing on this motion, the trial that are part of this case. they included a request by the people to utilize an incident involvinalleged that mr. cortez took some other copper items and exited the door of another home depot, used some force against the same loss prevention officer. and because of that, mr. cortez was recognized by this officer, who will testify in this case. and the sic] of mistake, as well the trial court granted the motion and later instructed the jury it could consider the prior shoplifting incident for the following issues: this case; [] or t acted with the intent to deprive the owner of the property or commit theft in this case; [] or case; [] or of mistake or accident; [] or presence: 5 onor, if i may just very briefly. i know we had an informal 402 [evidentiary hearing] on the issue of the hawthorne incident coming in. i want the record to be clear that [the] defense was opposing and objecting to any inclusion of the hawthorne incidents. i overruled the objection because i felt it was sufficiently close in time, similar m.o., and it went primarily to identity, as well as the other factors, maybe not so strongly as to 2. legal principles. (a) of [evidence coe] section 1101 prohibits admission of evidence character, including evidence of character in the form of specific instances of uncharged misconduct, to prove the conduct of that person on a specified occasion. subdivision (b) of section 1101 clarifies, however, that this rule does not prohibit admission of evidence of uncharged misconduct when such evidence is relevant to people v. ewoldt (1994) 7 cal.4th 380, 393, fn. omitted.) subdivision (b) allows admission of evidence of a opportunity, intent, preparation, plan, knowledge, identity, absence of mistake or accident . . by pleading not guilty, cortez placed at issue all elements of the charged offenses: the accusatory pleading, except those allegations regarding previous convictions of the defenda 1019.) this is true even if cortez did not actively dispute one of the requisite elements. (see people v. jones at . . . even if this is so, it is not ntial element of the people v. steele (2002) 6 conceded issue of intent to kill], the prosecution is still entitled to prove its case and especially to prove a fact so central to the basic question of crimes: the probative value of the uncharged offense evidence must be substantial and must not be largely outweighed by the probability that its admission would create a serious danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury. people v. kipp (1998) 18 cal.4th 349, 371.) evidence], being essentially a determination of relevance, is reviewed for abuse of people v. whisenhunt judgment rests on admissible evidence it will not be reversed because the trial court admitted that evidence upon a different theory, a mistaken theory, or one not raised below. [citations.] as we said in people v. zapien (1993) 4 cal.4th 929 . . . of decision is better or more firmly established by authority, nor one resting upon a sounder basis of reason and propriety, than that a ruling or decision, itself correct in law, will not be disturbed on appeal merely because given for the wrong reason. if right upon any theory of the law applicable to the case, it must be sustained regardless of the (people v. brown (2004) 33 cal.4th 892, 901.) 3. discussion. cortez argues the trial court erred because the only possible valid use of the prior shoplifting incident would have been to show identity, which was the only actively contested issue at trial, but the two incidents were insufficiently similar to establish a distinctive modus operandi. we disagree because there were other valid uses of the disputed evidence. 7 cortez is probably correct the prior shoplifting incident was not admissible to prove either a common plan or identity by means of a distinctive modus operandi.2 the 3 however, the prior prior conduct and the charged offense need only be sufficiently similar to support the inference that defendant probably harbored the same intent in each people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1194.) cortez was being prosecuted for shoplifting and robbery, which means the prosecution had to prove he intentionally, rather than mistakenly, left the store without paying, and that when he took the property by force or fear he intended to keep it. the prior incident tended to prove these elements. but more importantly, the disputed evidence was admissible to corroborate ident at the torrance home depot because of their previous encounter in may at the hawthorne home depot. that is, the prior misconduct evidence was admissible on an identity issue, although not on a modus operandi theory. 2 (see, e.g., people v. prince (2007) 40 issue of identity must share distinctive common marks with the charged crime, marks that are sufficient to support an inference that the same person was involved in both people v. kipp, supra, identity, the uncharged crimes must be highly similar to the charged offensespeople v. ewoldt, supra, indicate the existence of a plan rather than a series of similar spontaneous acts, . . . the vidence of a common design or plan . . rather to prove that the defendant engaged in the conduct alleged to constitute the charged 3 es involved the theft of copper merchandise; from home depot stores located near each other; took place in daylight hours; and occurred in the same manner with appellant leaving the stores through the main exit without stopping to pay for the merchandise. in both crimes, when loss prevention agent guerrera contacted appellant outside the store, appellant struck guerrera 8 as the attorney general points out, the case of people v. beamon (1973) 8 cal.3d . . , parked his contained, after the delivery, merchandise worth about $2,500. when ashcraft returned to the cab of the truck but before he started the motor defendant entered from the passenger side with a gun in his hand. ashcraft was ordered to lie face down on the floor of the cab. defendanaway. [] after the truck had been driven a few blocks ashcraft looked up at the driver. eighteen months earlier he had suffered a similar highjacking and he now recognized defendant as the person who had been tried for and acquitted of criminal charges filed in id. at p. 630.) ashcraft managed to escape from the defendant rid. at p. 631.) beamon rejected a challenge to admission of the prior highjacking evidence: on a particular occasion, there is no properson committed a crime, civil wrong, or other act when relevant to prove some fact (such as motive . . . , plan, knowledge, identity . . .) other than his disposition to commit  1101, subd. (b).) in particular issue here is the accuracy and able to recognize defendant because of observations made at a time prior to the kidnapping and robbery. evidence of the circumstances which made it possible for the victim to identify defendant, although it disclosed a prior highjacking, was thus relevant to establish the credibility of the identificationpeople v. beamon, supra, 8 cal.3d at p. 632, italics added.) e fact that guerrera had previously seen appellant since the details of the encounter are entirely irrelevant to 9 identification stems from the dramatic and memorable nature of his previous encounter with cortez, a highly-charged event during which guerrera chased cortez and was nce home depot incident. mistaken identity. during closing argument, defense counsel urged the jury to discount estimonial inconsistencies. guerrera told the 911 operator there were two hispanic men who had hit him and he was trying to apprehend them, whereas he only chased one suspect into the parking lot; camera footage that partially captured the parking lot events; guerrera claimed to have ood close to him at the returns counter but, at trial, cortez did not have any tattoos on his neck or any scarring to identification demonstrates the importance of the prior misconduct evidence. we also conclude the evidence was not more prejudicial than probative under evidence code section exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger . . section 352 applies to evidence which uniquely tends to people v. karis (1988) 46 cal.3d 612, 638.) here, the hawthorne home depot incident was extremely incident were no more inflammatory than the torrance home depot facts, and this served people v. ewoldt, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 405) 10 we conclude the trial court did not abuse its discretion by admitting the evidence disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: kitching, j. aldrich, j. 