filed 4/26/13 p. v. garrett ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. russell garrett, defendant and appellant. b240559 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba355963) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of the county of los angeles, monica bachner, judge. affirmed. matthew alger, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., supervising deputy attorney general, daniel c. chang, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction defendant and appellant russell garrett (defendant) was convicted of murder. (pen. code,  187, subd. (a) and 1891). on appeal, defendant contends that he received ineffto a question posed by the jury. we affirm the judgment. procedural background following a trial, the jury found defendant guilty of the willful, deliberate and premeditated murder in violation of sections 187, subdivision (a) and 189. the jury found true that in committing the offense defendant personally and intentionally subdivisions (c) and (d), and that the offense was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, and in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote further and assist in criminal conduct by gang members in violation of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c). the trial court sentenced defendant to state prison for a term of 50 years to life, consisting of a term of 25 years to life for first degree murder, plus a consecutive term of 25 years for the personal and intentional discharge of a firearm enhancement in violation of section 12022.53, subdivision (d). discussion a. background facts defendant, a member of a gang, exited a car, fired at rival gang members, and a bullet struck and killed a bystander. the driver of the vehicle testified that she complied five to ten gunshots. 1 all statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 3 the weapon was found. an expert witness testified that the casings and fragments of the bullet jackets recovered from the crime scene and the bullet recovered from the benefit of a criminal street gang. the person in whose house the weapon was found said at rival gang members, but missed. the trial court instructed the jury with calcrim no. 521, stating, inter alia, -degree murder if the people have proved that he acted willfully, deliberately, and with premeditation. [] the defendant acted willfully if he intended to kill. [] the defendant acted deliberately if he carefully weighed the considerations for and against his choice and, knowing the consequences, decided to kill. [] the defendant acted with premeditation if he decided to kill before completing the act that caus the phrase mean that the defendant knows the consequences of his actions for others, i.e., that others may be killed, or that the defendant knows the consequences of his actions for the trial court stated outside the presence of the jury that it consulted with counsel ctually is a very specific case that addresses the question of what happens when the jury asks almost the identical question that this jury asked. [] the case is people vs. cordero, 216 cal.app.3d 275, and in that case it explained that no particular type of consequence is required, but there must be reflection that the court has discussed with counsel, and i was going to use the language right out of the case, except 4 the the trial court proposed further modifications to the response, and read the ain asked counsel if they had objections, and they responded that they did not. the trial court had the bailiff provide the jury with the following answer to its chooses killing over another course of action, the results occasioned by that course of action can be innumerable. the defendant need not have in mind all or any particular type of consequence, he may reflect on several consequences, but it is not a requirement that there be reflection about more than one consequence. a finding of deliberation may be based upon any one t were italicized in people v. cordero (1989) 216 cal.app.3d 275. b. analysis that the conduct of his trial counsel about which he complains fell below the standard of reasonableness and that he was prejudiced by that conduct. [citations.] also, despite a challenged actions or omissions, the conviction must be affirmed unless there could be no people v. espiritu (2011) 199 cal.app.4th 718, 725-726.) the trial court based its response on people v. cordero, supra, 216 cal.app.3d 275, 280. in that case, the jury was instructed with caljic no. 8.20, stating at or determined upon as a result of careful thought and weighing of considerations for 5 and against the proposed course of action. . . . [] to constitute a deliberate and premeditated killing, the slayer must weigh and consider the question of killing and the reasons for and against such a choice and, having in mind the consequences, [he] [she] 2 (id. at p. 280.) during deliberations, the jury asked the definition includes . . having in mind the consequences . . consequences mean? i.e., consequences: of the act relating to victim, resulting in death or consequences: relating to defendant personally (i.e., he would face punishment by law if he killed victsicibid.) on appeal, the defendant in people v. cordero, supra, 216 cal.app.3d 275 argued that the trial court erred in denying his request for an instruction clarifying the nature of the deliberation required for first degree murder. (id. at pp. 279-280.) the court concluded that the jury should have been told to consider whether the defendant contemplated the consequences of his acteither to himself or to the victim. (id. at p. the attorney general agrees, include those that affect the perpetrator. a first degree murder conviction is proper although the defendant weighed and considered the consequences only to himself or herself. for example, a felon in a stolen car who kills a police officer during a routine traffic stop does so to avoid apprehension. [citations.] conversely, convictions have been upheld where the defendant gave no thought to personal consequences. [citations.] [] categorized so easily. homicides occur in diverse factual settings and the thought processes invoked by assailants are varied; in many instances an assailant will contemplate consequences to both the victim and to his or her own future. in other cases, the deliberation will simply involve consequences to a third party or even an idea or strongly held principle (e.g., politically or religiously motivated assassinations). [] . . . 2 this instruction is consistent with its counterpart, calcrim no. 521. 6 [] when a slayer chooses killing over another course of action, the results occasioned by that course of action can be innumerable. the slayer need not have in mind all or any particular type of consequence; he or she may reflect on several consequences, but it is not a requirement that there be reflection about more than one consequence. a finding of deliberation may be based on any one id. at pp. 280-281, fn. omitted.) the trial court here instructed the jury using similar language concerning knowing, in people v. cordero, supra, 216 cal.app.3d 275 was instructed. and, the trial court here based its response to t paraforethought set forth in calcrim 5203 implied malice aforethought defined in part as defendant deliberately act[ing] with 3 the trial court instructed the jury with calcrim no. 520, stating, inter alia, ode section 187. to prove that the defendant is guilty of this crime, the people must prove that: [] 1. the defendant committed an act that caused the death of another person; [] and [] 2. when the defendant acted, he had a state of mind called malice aforethought. there are two kinds of malice aforethought, express malice and implied malice. proof of either is sufficient to establish the state of mind required for murder. [] the defendant acted with express malice if he unlawfully intended to kill. [] the defendant acted with implied malice if: [] 1. he intentionally committed an act; [] 2. the natural and probable consequences of the act were dangerous to human life; [] 3. at the time he acted, he knew his act was dangerous to human life; [] and 4. he deliberately acted with conscious disregard for human life. [] . . . [] [malice aforethought] is a mental state that must be formed before the act that causes death is committed. it does not require deliberation . . . .[] . . . [] if you decide that the defendant committed murder, you must then decide whether it is murder of the first or 7 aforethought required for murder and the deliberation required for a murder that is of the one consequence would have led the jury to believe that malice aforethought would that malice aforethought is sufficient to establish the deliberation required for murder of the first degree. the jury had been instructed with calcrim 520, regarding murder alcrim 521, not any other jury its question, that malice aforethought is sufficient to establish the deliberation required for murder of the first degree because thin calcrim 521 defining first degree murder. that phrase is contained in calcrim 520 that defines murder generally and requires that if the jury decides that defendant hether it is murder in the first or second conpeople v. cordero, supra, 216 cal.app.3d from the act of killing . . . ction [required for first degree murder] specifically to concern the consequences to the killer, the victim, or any other particular thing. the killer need only reflect on some id. at p. 282.) 8 in addition, as noted above, for there to be ineffective assistance of counsel, the counsel, unless there could be no satisfactory explanation. (people v. espiritu, supra, 199 cal.app.4th at pp. 725-726.) the record does not show that there is no satisfactory question. there was no reasonable basis upon which to object. the was proper and the jury reasonably would not have been misled. declaration of his counsel contained in his petition for writ of habeas corpus, case number b245488, filed on december 6, 2012, that purportedly states why she did not object to st to consolidate that petition with this appeal, and the petition will be that an ap . . . error is never presumed. . . . (bianco v. california highway patrol (1994) 24 cal.app.4th 1113, 1125-1126.) we rejecpeople v. cordero, supra, 216 cal.app.3d 275, its answer would not have led the jury reasonably to believe that malice aforethought is sufficient to establish the deliberation required for murder of failed to there is additional material outside the record in this case related to ineffective assistance of counsel, it will be considered in connection with the habeas corpus petition. even assuming defendant received ineffective assistance of counsel when his 9 jury was lead to believe that malice aforethought was sufficient for deliberation, defendant did not show that he was prejudiced. to establish a claim for ineffective . . . performance or lack thereof. [citations.] prejudice is shown when probability that, but for counsel's unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would have been different. a reasonable probability is a probability sufficient to in re thomas (2006) 37 cal.4th 1249, 1256.) question, the jury could reasonably infer that defendant deliberated by weighing the considerations for and against his choice, including the consequences of his actions on others or himself, and knowing the consequences, decided to kill. the driver of the vehicle testified that while driving defendant requested that she stop her car. the driver complied, at which point defendant exited the car and the driver then heard five to ten gunshots. the person in whose house the weapon was found said that on the day of the defendant told him that defendant had shot at rival gang members, but missed. 10 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. mosk, j. we concur: armstrong, acting p. j. * * judge of the ventura superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 