filed 4/1/14 p. v. torres ca22/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. andre a. torres, defendant and appellant. b240978 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba371673) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. edmund willcox clarke, judge. affirmed. lynette gladd moore, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and roberta l. davis, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________________ 2 andre torres1 appeals from a judgment entered after a jury found him guilty of willful, deliberate and premeditated attempted murder, and found true the special allegations that he used a deadly and dangerous weapon and inflicted great bodily injury in the commission of the attempted murder. the trial court sentenced torres to a term of life plus four years. torres contends the trial court erred in not holding a marsden2 hearing based on comments torres made to the court while the jury was deliberating. torres did not expressly request a marsden hearing or ask to substitute counsel at that time, as he had done during prior proceedings which are not at issue on appeal. torres also contends the trial court erred in declining his request to represent himself (faretta motion),3 which he made after the jury reached its verdict. the court found torres was not mentally competent to represent himself. we affirm. background prosecution case on may 20, 2010, torres stabbed victim joseph rippinger in the back with a butcher knife at the junipero serra state building (state building) in a courtroom used rippinger, an attorney with the law firm graves and bourassa, was at the state building that day to participate in a large event held in the first floor auditorium to settle liens in workers compensation 1 before this case went to trial, torres requested that the trial court and the attorneys use a female pronoun and form of address when referring to him because he is a transgender person who identifies as a woman. the court granted the request. the probation report identifies torres as a man. the prosecution witnesses who testified at trial stated they believed torres was a man and was presenting himself as a man when they saw him on the date of the offensgeneral use male pronouns when referring to him. in this opinion we also will use male pronouns when referring to torres. we do this for consistency and not out of disrespect for torres. 2 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118. 3 faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806 (faretta). 3 cases. torres arrived at the state building in the early afternoon on may 20, 2010. he appeals board offices and courtrooms were located, to get some paperwork for his case. at some point after arriving on the ninth floor, torres went inside the courtroom of judge george reny and sat down. the courtroom was dark that day because judge reny was spending the day in the auditorium on the first floor, assisting parties in settling liens. torres had been trying to set aside an october 2008 settlement in a workers compensation case he filed against his employer. in september 2009, torres represented himself at a hearing before judge reny, held in ninth floor courtroom in the state building. the law firm graves, roberson and bourassa4 represented the insurance company that was adverse to torres in the workers compensation case. judge reny ruled against torres, finding torres had not demonstrated good cause to set aside the settlement. in november 2009, torres filed an unsuccessful petition for reconsideration s decision. torres also wrote a letter to the presiding judge of the in the afternoon on may 20, 2010, rippinger negotiated a settlement in one of his cases and needed to get client approval. he looked for a more private location where he could call his client on the ninth floor where he had been using a waiting room for his settlement meeting. he peerrtroom and saw torres sitting inside. torres was wearing khaki shorts, a windbreaker jacket over a shirt, and running shoes. rippinger had never seen torres before and did not believe he was an attorney or a lien claimant, so rippinger went inside the courtroom to make his telephone call. rippinger placed his files on the empty table in the courtroom, sat down at the opposite end of the table from torres, opened a file, and made his call. rippinger ippinger with graves and 4 this law firm later changed its name to graves and bourassa. rippinger was not compensation case. 4 as the person on the other end was transferring rippingerfelt what he believed was a punch in the middle of his back. rippinger turned around and rippinger picked up a chair, lifted it over his head and struck torres with it. torres dropped the knife. rippinger then used the chair to push torres into another chair, holding torres in place. rippinger screamed for help. daniel perugini, another attorney who was participating in the large settlement event, hea rippinger told perugini that torres had stabbed him. perugini suggested rippinger sit down. perugini took the chair from rippinger and continued to hold torres in place. perugini noticed the knife on the floor. officer aaron mark braaksma, from the california highway patrol, responded to he saw that rippinger was bleeding from his back and appeared to be in pain. rippinger told braaksma that torres had stabbed him, he did not know torres, and he did not know why torres had stabbed him. braaksma observed large steel- braaksma handcuffed and searched torres. p it was after being transported to the hospital, rippinger received six to eight staples in his back to close the stab wound. heart, so doctors performed a sternotomy during which they opened his chest and pericardial sack. though doctors determined there was no actual heart, there was a small amount of fluid around his heart which was abnormal, so the doctors placed a drain to remove the fluid and then closed his chest. of the five days rippinger spent in the hospital, three were in the intensive care unit. following his release from the hospital, rippinger developed an infection and returned to the hospital 5 for 10 days. another sternotomy was necessary to drain more fluid from his chest. rippinger was out of work for about two months after the stabbing.5 defense case torres is the only witness who testified at trial for the defense. he stated he is a transgender person who identifies as a woman, and he was presenting himself as a woman on may 20, 2010, as he had been for many years.6 on that day, he was wearing torres went to the state building on may 20, 2010 to obtain a transcript of the proceedings held before judge reny. he denied that he brought a knife into the building. according to torres, the cardboard item officer braaksma recovered was not a sheath, but a package for a bracelet he was going to get repaired that day. the package was in his shortsnot his jacket as officer braaksma had claimedand the bracelet was inside the package. telephone to contact judge frank or a member of her staff. he had been told that judge frank would have to approve his request for the transcript before he could obtain it. torres stated that when he entered the courtroom he noticed that the table was covered with two pizza boxes, a pitcher of punch, and a tray containing bread crumbs and the knife that was shown to the jury.7 torres used the telephone, but was unable to reach judge frank or a member of her staff. rippinger entered the courtroom while torres was making his telephone call. torres did not hear rippinger say the name of his law firm. rippinger sat down next to 5 officer braaksma, daniel perugini, joseph rippinger, judge reny, a security guard who was working at the state building on may 20, 2010, and a doctor who treated rippinger during his first stay at the hospital testified for the prosecution. 6 judge reny testified that torres presented himself as a male during the workers compensation case. 7 the prosecution witnesses who were in the courtroom that day denied seeing any of these items on the table. 6 torres, who was standing, and ra according to torres, . torres described rippinger as having had a sic] his facecohol emanating from him. torres torres testified that rippinger then stood up, facing torres, and grabbed torres around the waist. rippinger rubbed himself torres understood rippinger to mean he had nice breasts. rippinger then asked torres in spanish if torres spoke english. torres told rippinger to get away from him. torres struggled against rippinger, but torres stated that he moved his hand around the table and grabbed the knife with his fingertips, but did not have a good grip on the knife and rippinger in the back. rippinger released torres and torres dropped the knife. then rippinger threw a chair at torres and blocked torres from exiting the courtroom. torres screamed for help. perugini entered the courtroom and helped rippinger restrain torres. according to torres, after he was placed in the custody of the california highway patrol, judge frank and another woman approached him with a video camera and told him to say he went to the state building that day to kill someone because he was angry about his workers compensation case. torres declined. workers compensation case, because it is not necessary for our resolution of the issues on appeal. verdict and sentence the jury found torres guilty of willful, deliberate and premeditated attempted murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a) & 664), and found true the special allegations that he used a deadly and dangerous weapon (pen. code,  12022, subd. (b)(1)), and inflicted great bodily injury in the commission of the attempted murder (pen. code,  12022.7, subd. (a)). the trial court sentenced torres to a life term for the attempted murder, plus 7 one year for the weapon enhancement and three years for the great bodily injury enhancement, for a total sentence of life plus four years in prison. discussion on appeal, torres contends he was entitled to a marsden hearing, outside the presence of the prosecutor, based on comments he made to the trial court on february 10 and 14, 2012, while the jury was deliberating. these comments are set forth below. he also contends the trial court erred in denying his requests to represent himself at sentencing and for purposes of filing a new trial motion. the court sentenced torres on march 2, 2012. we discuss below proceedings in this matter dating all the way back to august 2010, because these proceedings are related to the faretta and marsden issues torres raises on appeal. proceedings related to faretta and marsden issues on august 10, 2010, about one and one-half years prior to trial, torres moved to represent himself, and his counsel declared a doubt as to his competence. the trial court suspended case proceedings and set a hearing under penal code section 1368. two medical doctors evaluated torres. dr. jack rothberg found torres incompetent to stand trial, stating in his august 25, 2010 proceeded that mr. torres is clearly suffering from a major mental illness, most likely paranoid schizophrenia. he is highly delusional about the proceedings and, more importantly, it would be impossible for him to cooperate with counsel in a rational manner. he simply cannot exercise any type of judgment or reasoning. his thinking is colored by paranoid thinking, and he makes statements that are so illogical yet expects them to be accepted by a judge or jury in court. i do not believe he is competent to stand trial. he requires aggressive treatment with anti-psychotic medication which he is unlikely to accept on a voluntary basis. he should be remanded to patton state hospital for aggressive treatment. in addition, he is even less capable of representing himself pro per which is a somewhat higher standard than even being competent to be represented by 8 however, is september competent to be in pro per. however, his understanding of the present charges and his seemingly rational cooperation with me leads me to believe that he would be competent the trial court reviewed the two reports, and on september 13, 2010, appointed a third doctor to evaluate torres. dr. kory knapke stated in his october 19, 2010 report, eve that the defendant is marginally incompetent to stand trial at this time. the defendant does understand the charge against him and appears to have a rudimentary understanding of courtroom proceedings. however, he still remains suspicious of his public defender and still believes that she may have been plotting against him with the district attorney in his case. he continues to harbor similar continues to harbor paranoia concerning others. [] . . . [] at the time of this clinical interview when i attempted to question him about some of the circumstances regarding this instant offense, he had very bizarre and inappropriate affect, frequently smiling when discussing the instant offense and his explanation was very unusual. because of his mild to moderate difficulty rationally cooperating with me during this interview, i do not believe he can rationally cooperate with his attorney or his court proceedings at this time. however, i believe his lack of competency is marginal at this time, and i believe he will per at th[at] on november 15, 2010, after reviewing and considering the three reports, the trial court adjourned the criminal proceedings, finding torres was not mentally competent to stand trial, and ordered the state department of mental health to place torres in a mental hospital. torres was placed in patton state hospital. on february 18, 2011, the trial 9 court reinstated the criminal proceedings based on the state department of mental on march 3, 2011, about 11 months before trial, torres moved to represent himself, and the trial court appointed dr. kaushal sharma to evaluate whether torres was competent to do so. in his report, dated april 4, 2011, dr. sharma concluded torres was defendant makes unreasonable interpretation of the facts, makes irrational demand for presenting peculiar defenses which are very unlikely to be allowed and believes that by asking to be his own attorney he will be able to succeed in the case without any doubt. i present a defense without an attorney. thus, i believe the defendant even though on may 2, 2011, while his motion to represent himself was pending, torres made a marsden motion, which the trial court continued to the next day. on may 3, 2011, the court heard oral faretta motion to represent himself. the court 10 represent himself because he had been found competent to stand trial.8 torresurged the court to find torres incompetent to represent himself based on a report from the court tentatively granted torrecounsel (faretta at the next hearing on may 23, 2011, torres completed the faretta waiver form. as the trial court reviewed the form with torres, the court asked torres to stop smiling the court asked torres if he wanted to ask his counsel any questions before the court ruled on his motion to represent hmarsden motion. the court explained to torres indicated he understood. defense counsel and the court made torres aware that his access to the law torres said he 8 in indiana v. edwards (2008) 554 u.s. 164, 174, 178, the united states supreme court concluded a so--under dusky v. u.s. (1960) 362 u.s. 402, but may be incompetent to conduct trial the court held that states may, but need not, limi-representation and insist the defendant be (554 u.s. at p. 174.) at the time of the standard of mental competence for self-representation than for competency to stand was under review in the california supreme court in people v. johnson (2012) 53 cal.4th 519, 523. on january 30, 2012, more than eight months after the hearing on l, the california supreme court concluded their discretion to deny self-representation should apply is simply whether the defendant suffers from a severe mental illness to the point where he or she cannot carry out the (id. at p. 530.) 11 understood. the court to-advised . per. status and relieved his counsel. at a hearing on july 18, 2011, the trial court appointed a different attorney, john rodriguez, to act as standby counsel as torres represented himself. on november 15, 2011, torres filed a motion to dismiss his case in the interest of justice under penal code department was violating his rights to equal protection and due process. on december 2, 2011, the trial court heard oral argument on the motion. torres explained to the court that his motion was based on the denial of access to the law library and telephone. the court informed torres it had documentation from the jail stating torres had gone to the law library at least 10 times between october 2 and november 28, 2011, and there were occasions prior to that time when torres himself the court also stated that phone reco 9 motion to dismiss. at a hearing on january 4, 2012, the trial court decided to appoint advisory counsel for torres; thus, the court changed mr. advisory counsel. at a hearing on january 10, 2012, the court made a finding that the parties were ready for trial. on january 19, 2012, the court issued a minute order indicating the parties had announced they were ready for trial during a hearing held that day. 9 intentionally placing or throwing, or causing to be placed or thrown, upon the person of another, any human excrement or other bodily fluids or bodily substances or any mixture containing human excrement or other bodily fluids or bodily substances that results in actual contact with the persons skin or membranesduring the pendency of this case, torres was charged in a separate case with two felony counts of gassing. 12 on january 30, 2012, the matter was assigned to a courtroom for trial (judge edmund willcox clarke). torres informed the trial court he was not ready for trial. he i was k-10 [custody status] the same day that i was -- that i became pro per, i was given torres told the court he things he needed to prepare his case. he requested the court appoint a female attorney to represent him, stating when he was represented by a female attorney at trial than when he was represented by a male attorney at trial. he informed the court he did not want the female attorney who had represented him at the beginning of this case reappointed rodriguez (former advisory counsel in this case) to represent torres at trial and explained to torres that he did not have the right to choose the particular attorney or the gender of the attorney the court would appoint. at the same hearing, chaexplained that use of the device, coupled with the presence of two bailiffs in the behavior in custody, including gassing attempts and spitting. on february 2, 2012, during a hearing outside the presence of the prospective i want to ask for a marsden torres made this statement after he corrected defense counsel a few times for using male pronouns when referring to him. the court told torres it did not believe defense counsel had meant to offend him, but rather had made a mistake in using male pronouns after the parties and the court had agreed to use female pronouns when referring to torres. torres stated in open court that he believed defense counsel was not ready for trial. he also complained that defense 13 coun the court told torres it would address his complaints the following day. on february 3, 2012, marsden after asking the prosecutor to leave the courtroom, the trial court held a marsden hearing and denied the motion. throughout the trial, there were several when defense counsel rodriguez used male pronouns when referring to torres. torres believed defense counsel was purposely doing it. in front of the jury, torres addressed witnesses directly even though he was represented by counsel. when daniel perugini was testifying on direct examination about what he said to torres while restraining hims counsel told him after joseph rippinger a bitch stabbed me in the back(referring to torres), the trial court immediately took a recess and admonished torres about his torres interrupted the court, the court further admonished torres about interrupting the court. the previous court day, the court had warned torres that if he continued to interrupt the court, he could be excluded from the proceedings. after the prosecution rested and it was time for torres to testify in his case, torres told the trial court he had the flu sick. the court made an inquiry to the jail and determined torres had not complained about his health during the past few days. torres took the stand. during his direct see how he can be asking me questions. i mean, direct examination continued. 14 when court resumed the following day, torres told the triatake the stand until i talk to my attorney. i have a constitutional right to confer with my my case for a very little time. and i said it be court was waiting for torres to confer with his counselan issue. there are people sitting in the audience that were laughing at my testimony defense counsel told the court he recognized the woman as someone from the district nse counsel and the court stated they had not seen the woman do anything inappropriate. the court told torres it would monitor the situation. torres stand, becaus . . . [] that happened at the last trial. 10 during a conference on jury instructions on february 9, 2012, the day after luded, torres made a motion to represent himself. while defense counsel was arguing in favor of instructions on attempted voluntary manslaughter, torres under faretta versus california, because i do not agree with any of this. and this is just ridiculous that, you know, this man -- i asked him to get [sic] try to get experts before he f the cut that he had on his back, was never ierfect medical background, but i do have some. he could have just been put in observation. there were the trial court respondedthe jury instruction right now. you do not have a right to switch back and forth between 10 it is not clear from the record what case torres was referring to when he 15 representing yourself and a lawyer at any time that you choose. at this point your case is about to go to the s within my discretion, when a case is in trial, to avoid the defense counsel immediately requested a recess to speak with torres. after includfrom his cell the day before, the trial court reluctantly granted the recess. when the proceedings resumed, defense counsel told the court he was ready to proceed. torres to represent myself under faretta versus california. the reason i did, my case was -- is not being done according to my wishes. there were no experts and many of the other things that i wish would have been done. all the evidence belonging to the prosecution has been made up against me, especially calling this attempted murder. when i have seen cases -- unduly disruptive of the trial. and also under the case of indiana versus edwards, having -existent in this file, and an opinion recently adopted, at least the principles of that, by our supreme court in california [people v. johnson, suprao find -- because of the possible issues of your mental health and ability to manage and understand the processes of the court, that you not be allowed to represent yourself. so for those two reasons you during the defense closing, while counsel was arguing that the wound on mr. did not evidence an intent to killone inch. it was not possible based on the evidence presented at trial to determine exactly how deep the knife as 16 in front of the jury, tto be taken out of the room, of course, so please remain quietly and respectful after the case had been submitted to the jury and the trial court was about to adjourn the proceedings for the day on february 9, 2012, torres told the court he did not the court reiterated faretta motionthe timing of the and cited its reliance on the information in the psychiatric reports. tage of those at the outset of the proceedings on february 10, 2012, while the parties and the court were discussing a potential error in an instruction read to the jury, torres asked four times if he could address the court. the court allowed him to speak even though the jury was waiting to be brought in. torres stated the prosecutor had humiliated him by referring to him as mr. torres instead of ms. torres, and the court had allowed it to happen. torres also stated he wanted jury instructions because he was the california highway patrol at the insistence of one of the workers compensation judges. the trial court told torres it would allow him additional time to speak after the jury was instructed, but stated it did not believe the prosecutor had disparaged him and the jury had been instructed properly to ignore issues of bias based on race. after the trial court read the corrected jury instructions, and addressed other matters with the parties, the court gave torres additional time to address his concerns. torres told the court he needed the california highway patrol to return the jacket he was wearing at the time of the incident so he could show it did not have an inside pocket. he repeated the arguments he made earlier that race was a factor in his arrest and prosecution. he accused the prosecutor of misrepresenting the depth of the wound on the trial court responded to the issues as torres raised them. 17 of this. this case is not in accordance with my wishes. the defense was not in accordance with my wishes. i did not want this attorney. this court has disrespected my constitutional rights, especially my sixth amendment right. you denied it to me by claiming i was just asking for an extension. i never asked for additional time. i asked for it so that i might -- you know, in an effort to try to at least save something, to do the closing myself. and i was not allowed to do that. [] you invoke some reports from a psychiatrist, but those are over a year ago. and i do not agree with those. i never said, you know, yes, i agree with those reports. i never agree with that. and those reports were -- those consultations were off the trial through these topics that are not pertinent to your trial is further evidence you would not be competent to represent yourself. since an attorney would know that these are not appropriate topics. but your attorney can stated: rres no when the proceedings resumed in the afternoon on february 10, 2012, the trial court explained to the prosecutor and defense counsel that torres was refusing to leave his cell. defense counsel told the court torres had instructed counsel not to speak to him. lockup with you [defense counsel] and [the prosecutor], and the reporter, to make a record that the defendant is, in fact, refusing to be present. . . . the parties agreed with this procedure. while in lockup on february 10, 2012, the trial court asked torres whether he -- without my authorization and without my talk about. you will see what we might show or discuss visually [sic]. if you feel the 18 the trial court continued to urge torres to go to s my choice to stay here and not go into the courtroom where i have been humiliated. where my rights have been violated. my constitutional rights. [] . . . the proceedings resumed in the courtroom, with the parties and the trial court discussing how to respond to inquiries from the jury. after the court responded to the inquiries in open court, the court excused the jury for the weekend. before adjourning, the court told the parties it would issue an extraction order for torres if he refused to leave his cell on the next court day, when a read back of testimony was scheduled. on february 14, 2012, the next court day, a deputy informed the trial court that torres refused to leave his jail cell. the court issued an extraction order. when torres arrived at the courthouse, the court decided to go back to lockup with the parties and the reporter. the court told torres-- i have something in writing, respect it. i do have my own attorney. i do not want -- i never the court asked torres if he wanted to be present for the read back of trial testimony. torre[sic] the -- how am i gonna torres told the court he wanted copies of all transcripts. the court asked if he wanted to talk privately with his attorney. torres the court explained that it would tell the jury not to speculate about why torres was not present during the read back of t when 19 when the court asked torres the court asked torres if he wanted to say anything else, and torres said he did, but he would rather write it down. ba-the-record hearing, in the absence of the prosecution, to illuminate her dissatisfaction with counsel. or having problems. after the readback is concluded, you can consult with her and see if she wants whether some of her complaints rise to the level of a marsden hearing. and as might be clear to you, i feel that she is a manipulative person who will do anything and everything that she can to avoid what she might perceive as the just consequences of her conduct. sden hearing now. and if you in the morning on february 15, 2012, the court decided to go back to lockup with defense counsel, the prosecutor and the reporter. udge clarke, as i already said i do not want his representation. how many times do -- i have a right to represent myself. i invoke my -- complete mess, and now you want me to just participate? i mean, this is a decision that is going to change my life. the most -- probably the -- probably the most important the court asked torres if he wanted to go to the courtroom to make a statement and/or to hear the remainder of the read back of testimony. torres said he would go to the courtroom to make a torres complained that prejudicial photographswere 20 11 s could read a written statement in the courtroom after he finished writing it. by the time torres appeared in the courtroom, the trial court had been advised that the jury had reached a verdict. the court asked torres if he wanted to read his statement before the jury came in and the verdict was read. torres stated he would submit his statement for the record, but did not want to read it.12 the court asked torres if he wanted to be present when the verdict was read and torres said he did not. because torres already was present and restrained to the chair, and the court believed it was important for him to be present, the court ordered him to remain in the courtroom. the court noted that there were five deputies in the courtroom. the verdict was read and the on two separate occasions when the clerk asked a juror if this was his or her verdict. after the trial court excused the jury, and the parties began discussing the date for sentencing, torres stated he wantagain my sixth amendment right to represent myself under faretta versus california. i will not accept any type of -- i will not have any communication with mr. rodriguez. he mishandled my case. based on what he did, and what he allowed the prosecutor to do, 11 torres declined to wear the clothes initially provided to him because they were clothing for torres. torres wore a shirt, but then later complained that it was too small. torres apparently declined to wear other clothing purchased by the investigator, so he went to court in his jail uniform. 12 stated for the record that torres had submitted a three and one-half page, handwritten statement. 21 myself. i was allowed to represent myself before. whatever mental issue -- i never agreed with the claims of the psychiatrist. i used to have a job. i used to support myself. i used to pay my rent, my bills and i did every single month for me. so all of these things the trial court ruled in this faretta motionundertake the challenging tasks ahead of you, which would include evaluating the factors to be argued at a sentencing hearing. to evaluate and perhaps present a motion for new trial, or any other post conviction motion that an attorney would present. [] i continue behavior in this court and in the lockup, and has been reported to me by the sheriffs, that you lack the competence, that you lack the emotional control to engage in the complex activities that you would need to represent yourself in this case in the stages that lie ahead of you. [] so under the authority of indiana versus edwards, which is a national t this torres requested a new psychiatric evaluation. the trial court denied his request, your rights of self-e court explained that if defense attorney . . . . the court denied the request, finding 13 the court ordered torres to return for the sentencing hearing. 13 on appeal, torres does not contend the trial court erred in denying this request for a new attorney. 22 on march 2, 2012, the trial court held the sentencing hearing in this matter. at the same time, the court held a hearing in the case against torres for gassing. torres was representing himself in the gassing case. in the instant case, mr. rodriguez appeared to represent torres for sentencing; torres requested permission to represent himself. torres renewed his request for a new psychiatric evaluation, asserting the other evaluations were too old to be relevant, and the most recent one was invalid because he could not understand the doctor due to his accent. and i should be almotion that he was, you know, not a good attorney in my case in order for me to get a new trial, or that false evidence was presented against me, you know, or anything like the trial court explained that became known the d physical inter that you complained of library access problems, despite the fact that you voluntarily kept yourself in your cell and created disruptive circumstances which prevented you from going to the library. that you created hurdles for yourself in order to then claim you had the same hurdles in your case, which is consistent with your self-defeating, passive-aggressive, short-sided [sic] terms of courtroom access, you refused to come out of your cell and had to be extracted by my the court also stated that torres towards two of [the] prosecution witnesses from the table at an inappropriate time and in my mental problems. you have only brought up my mental problems to aggravate me. torres repeatedly interrupted the court as it went document from counsel table, referring to a paramedics report and findings in that report 23 which were not in evidence. again, inappropriate conduct for a defendant or an attorney. [] you intentionally chose to display your restraint, the belt -- the stealth belt -- in the presence of the jury despite the fact that you were dressed by the bailiffs in a way so that the jury would not see that you were restrained, you chose to display. [] . . . [] and issues of judgment. you focused much of your time on sheriffs providing you undergarments that suited your taste to the detriment of the legal issues and your cooperation with your attorney.14 new counsel on various occasions. seeking to fire your public defender. seeking to fire your appointed counsel. mentioning, alternatively, marsden and faretta at various times, as if they are light switches you could turn off and on as would suit you, to disrupt proceedings. [] you showed poor judgment in delivering your defense in writing to the court and prosecutor under the guise of a 995 [motion]. not that [the prosecutor] needed a road map to your defense, but you hand wrote one for her so she knew exactly what you were saying. most competent defense attorneys would not choose that strategy. [] you testified on the witness stand in an argumentative and evasive fashion before the jury, and ument, that you were an obsessed and [un]reasonable litigant in your workers compensation case, and that you various times, your cooperation with your lawyer, as if trying to manipulate him and finally, the court noted that torres had referred to the court as both . 14 dissatisfaction with the clothing provided to him by the jail and by the defense investigator. torres did not want to wear the underpants provided for him at the jail. the 24 the trial court proceeded with the sentencing in this matter. mr. rodriguez represented torres. case against torres for gassing. analysis on marsden issues torres contends he was entitled to a marsden hearing, outside the presence of the prosecutor, based on the comments he made on february 10 and 14, 2012, when defense counsel, the prosecutor and the court went to lockup to encourage him to return to the courtroom. these comments, set forth above, are discussed further below. if a defendant requests substitute counsel, the trial court is obligated, pursuant to our holding in marsden, to give the defendant an opportunity to state any grounds for people v. sanchez (2011) 53 cal.4th 80, 90, italics added; see also people v. vines (2011) 51 cal.4th 830, 878.) during these conferences in lockup on february 10 and 14, 2012, torres did not specifically request a marsden hearing, as he had done before. nor did he request new appointed counsel or ask to substitute retained counsel. instead, he informed the trial court he would not work or speak with mr. rodriguez, and he did not consider mr. rodriguez to be his attorney. it is clear from the record that torres was seeking self-representation at this stage of the proceedings. in fact, the reason the parties and the court were having this discussion with torres in lockup is because torres refused to return to the courtroom after the trial court denied his request to represent himself. torres asserts he did inform the trial court he wanted to substitute retained counsel. he refers to the following comments he made on february 14, 2012, while in lockup: [mr. rodriguez] -- i have something in writing, respect it. i do have my own attorney. i do not want -- i (italics added.) torres did not say he wanted privately retained counsel to represent him in this matter. no other attorney attempted to appear on 25 in this matter. torres continued to request permission to represent himself. thus, he was not entitled to a marsden hearing based on these comments. in people v. sanchez, supra, 53 cal.4th 80, the california supreme court people v. eastman marsden motion can be triggered with something less than a clear indication by a defendant, either personally or through current counsel, that (53 cal.4th at p. 90, fn. 3.) torres relies on people v. eastman in support of his arguments on appeal. here, as discussed above, torres did not inform the trial court he wanted a substitute attorney. and while his counsel questioned whether the court should hold a marsden hearing based torres had requested substitute counsel. torres cites case law indicating an express request for replacement of counsel is not necessary to trigger a marsden hearing where the defendant sets forth specific in a written motion for new trial and the court fails to address those complaints. (see people v. kelley (1997) 52 cal.app.4th 568, 579-580.) that case is not applicable to the facts before us. during the conferences in lockup on february 10 and 14, 2012, referenced on appeal in support of this marsden performance. on numerous prior occasions, he had made the trial court aware of his specific complaints, which the court addressed. torres does not argue the court erred on those prior occasions when the court addressed his complaints performance. during the conferences in lockup on february 10 and 14, 2012, torres did not inform the court he had any particular , 2012, were made during the points out, defendant never requested different counsel [at that time]. instead, he sought self-representation. his expressions of dissatisfaction with his attorney as a reason for 26 this decision are insufficient to require the court to inquire whether he wanted substitute counsel during a marsden hearing. (people v. frierson (1991) 53 cal.3d 730, 741.) the trial court did not err in declining to hold a marsden hearing. even assuming the trial court did errmarsden does not establish a rule of per se people v. washington (1994) 27 cal.app.4th 940, 944 [denial of marsden motion was not prejudicial where the defendant made no showing . . . either that his marsden motion would have been granted had it been heard, or that a more favorable result would have been achieved had the motion in fact been granted.) torres has not explained why the trial court might have granted a marsden motion or what would have been different if it had. based on our review of the record, we cannot make a finding of prejudice based on marsden hearing. analysis on faretta issues torres contends the trial court e15 without faretta, supra, 422 u.s. 806, 807; people v. johnson (2012) 53 cal.4th 519, 531 (johnsona trial court must grant a defendants request for self-representation if three conditions are met. first, the defendant must be mentally competent, and must make his request knowingly and intelligently, having been apprised of the dangers of self-representation. [citations.] second, he must make his request unequivocally. [citations.] third, he must make his request within a reasonable time before trial. people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 729.) pro se is timely interposed, a trial court must permit a defendant to represent himself upon ascertaining that he has voluntarily and intelligently elected to do so, irrespective of 15 mr. rodriguez did not file a motion matter. 27 (people v. windham (1977) 19 cal.3d 121, 128 (windham).) a request for self-representation made during trial is not timely, and the trial court has discretion to deny it, even if the defendant is mentally competent and makes a voluntary, intelligent and unequivocal request. (windham, supra, 19 cal.3d at p. 124.) as the attorney general acknowledges, there is california case law holding a request for self-representation is timely when it is made after the verdict is returned and a reasonable time before the sentencing hearing commences. (see people v. miller (2007) 153 cal.app.4th 1015, 1024.) the trial court does not have discretion to deny a timely request for self-representation if the defendant is mentally competent and makes a voluntary, intelligent and unequivocal request. (windham, supra, 19 cal.3d at p. 124.) as the attorney general concedes, -representationthe one at issue on appealwas timely. -representation was unequivocal. thus, we turn to the remaining condition required for a successful faretta motionthe self-representation by defendants who wish it and validly waive counsel remains the norm and may not be denied lightly. a court may not deny self-representation merely because it believes the matter could be tried more efficiently, or even more fairly, with attorneys on both sides.johnson, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 531.) our supreme court has concluded, considering exercising their discretion to deny self-representation should apply is simply whether the defendant suffers from a severe mental illness to the point where he or she cannot carry out the basic tasks needed to present the defense without the help of counsel (id. at p. 530.) in indiana v. edwards, supra, 554 u.s. at thinking, deficits in sustaining attention and concentration, impaired expressive abilities, [and] anxiety the trial court may but need not appoint a mental health expert to evaluate the johnson, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 530, 28 532.) about making an incompetence finding without benefit of an expert evaluation, though the judges own observations of the defendants in-court behavior will also provide key support for an incompetence finding and should be expressly placed on the recordid. at pp. 530-531.) a trial judge who dant on numerous occasions more fine-tuned mental capacity decisions, tailored to the individualized circumstances of (id. at pp. 531-532, quoting indiana v. edwards, supra, 554 u.s. at p. 177.) -representation on mental we must defer largely to the trial courts discretion. [citations.] the trial courts determination regarding a defendants competence must be upheld if supported by substantial evidence.johnson, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 531.) the record includes three expert reports, dated august 25, 2010, september 9, 2010, and april 4, 2011, all stating torres was not mentally competent to represent himself. the fourth report in the record, dated october 19, 2010, states torres was not mentally competent to stand trial and did not expressly address his competence to represent himself. o represent himself at trial was issued less than 11 months before torres made the self-representation request at issue here. the trial court was not required to obtain a more recent expert -representation request on mental incompetence grounds. the trial court s behavior on 13 court days and stated its observations for the record. the court also deputies at the jail and discussed these reports on the record. the record procedures. he routinely interrupted the court. he also interrupted counsel during closing arguments and witnesses during trial testimony. he engaged in inappropriate name- moreover, based on his behavior at 29 the jail (gassing, spitting), he was required to wear a stealth belt restraint device and have five deputies present when the verdict was read. -defeating behavior is demonstrated in the record. he complained about lack of access to the law library even after he refused to go to the library on occasion and engaged in other behavior which prevented him from going. when it was time for him to testify in his defense, he said he was sick and had complained to jail staff about being sick, but there was no record of such a complaint. when court rulings did not go in his favor, he refused to leave his cell and return to court. irrational thinking is a key factor cited in the april 4, 2011 expert report to support the conclusion that torres was not mentally competent to represent himself. during trial, torres sought to defend against the attempted murder charge by minimizing by focusing on the race of the officers who arrested him. when speaking to the court, torres jumped from topic to topic, often refusing to discuss the matter at hand. torres attributed bad motives to practically everyone associated with this case. as stated in the october 19, 2010 expert report, torres believed the attorney from the public proceedings plotting against him with the district attorney in his case.repeatedly his belief that mr. rodriguez and the prosecutor were purposely trying to humiliate him. he complained that a woman from the distrlaughing at him during his testimony just as someone had been laughing at him during a represent himself, torres asserted that the court wa as a factor supporting the conclusion that torres was not competent to stand trial and/or represent himself. torres argues the behaviors the trial court referenced in support of its finding of mental incompetence are not relevant to a determination of whether torres was mentally competent to represent himself in post-trial proceedings (motion for new trial and 30 to follow courtroom procedures, his obstructionist and self-defeating behavior, and his irrational thinking all affect his ability to represent himself in post-trial proceedings. himself based on a finding that he was mentally incompetent. substantial evidence supports the finding suffers from a severe mental illness to the point where he . . . cannot carry out the basic tasks needed to present the defense without the help of counseljohnson, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 530.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. chaney, j. we concur: rothschild, acting p. j. miller, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 