filed 10/25/13 p. v. perez ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. ryan perez and melissa escobar, defendants and appellants. b240406 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma052889) appeals from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county. bernie c. laforteza, judge. affirmed as to perez; reversed and remanded with directions as to escobar. matthew alger, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant perez. janyce keiko imata blair, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant escobar. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle, supervising deputy attorney general, and stacy s. schwartz, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 defendants ryan perez and melissa escobar appeal from the judgments entered following a jury trial in which they were convicted of first degree murder, with a finding perez personally used a deadly and dangerous weapon. escobar contends the trial court inquiry as to whether the jury was divided only as to the degree of the murder, and its deadlocked jury instruction. perez contends the trial court erred by denying his posttrial petition to disclose juror contact information. we affirm as to perez, but we agree that the trial court coerced the verdict against escobar, and thus reverse her conviction and remand the matter for a new trial. background because the errors on appeal pertain only to matters that occurred during jury deliberations+, we summarize only the most significant evidence presented at the lengthy trial. on the evening of april 19, 2011 (undesignated date references pertain to 2011), drag marks led from the body to the end of tire tracks, and two sets of footprintsone larger and the other smalleraccompanied the tire tracks and drag marks. villa had suffered multiple blunt force injuries to the head, which caused his death. there were injuries to the forehead, left eye, cheek, and top of the head that could have been inflicted with either a fist or a blunt weapon, but an eight-inch area of lacerations and numerous intersecting fractures extending from the left ear to the back of the head would have required the use of a weapon, not just a bare hand. the deputy medical examiner identified at least nine or ten blows in the latter area and testified he would have expected a defensive wound. 3 was partially paralyzed on his left side from an old gunshot wound to his neck. he limped and could not move his left arm. perez, with whom escobar commenced a tumultuous romantic relationship on december in highland, in problem. perez did not say anything or get out of the car. villa told perez to get out, then asked why they had come to his house if perez was not going to do anything. on the night of april 18, escobar phoned jose medina, the father of her son isaac, and asked him to pick up isaac after he got off work. medina agreed. when he arrived at and escobar were there and seemed as if they were in a hurry to leave. entering the house at the same time villa was leaving. villa was speaking on a mobile phone in a relaxed manner, as if he were talking to someone he knew. villa did not sound angry. the house door closed, then a car door closed, and a car drove away. detectives obtained call data records for the mobile phones of escobar, perez, and villa, which revealed that two calls with blocked caller identification were made to ended near vil beneath its protective case was consistent with perez, but not escobar or villa. 4 investigators found silver-rass knuckles in the center console of her car. one set was black and the other was the one in evidence. investigators never found the black brass knuckles. escobar testified that she and perez had argued april 17 and 18 and had temporarily broken off their relationship. they sent one another numerous angry text messages that were introduced in evidence at trial. escobar had lunch with villa on april 18 and they planned to go out that night if escobar could find a baby-sitter. medina agreed to pick up isaac and arrived at the escobar family home after midnight. escobar denied that perez was present and suggested medina confused that night with other occasions when perez was present. escobar picked up villa at his house and they drove to a nearby park so villa could finish his beer. then escobar drove them to forest falls, where she parked at an isolated location she had visited many times with perez and occasionally with villa. escobar testified that she and villa sat on the hood of her car, listening to the car stereo and talking. she was surprised to see perez approaching them. she had not told perez she was going out with villa and had not seen perez following her. villa got off the hood, laughed, and began saying things to perez. perez and villa argued. villa took out and opened a folding knife, which he held by his side as he walked toward perez. perez stepped backward, but the two men continued to argue. perez then hit villa repeatedly with a metal baseball bat. villa continued to move toward perez with the knife, but dropped the knife at some point. escobar picked up the knife and threw it in fell to the ground. perez dropped the bat and stepperez put it in the trunk of her car before walking back to his own car. 5 escobar and perez drove away separately, but both pulled over part way down the again. escobar followed perez to his home, where they attempted to wash the blood off escobar began driving. she her car. perez did not testify or call any witnesses. one of the investigating detectives testified in rebuttal that during their interviews neither perez nor escobar said that villa had a knife or attacked perez. escobar and perez were tried together with a single jury, which convicted each of first degree murder. the jury also found that perez had personally used a deadly or dangerous weapon in the commission of the offense. the court sentenced each defendant to a term of 25 years to life in prison for murder and added a one-year weapon-use enhanceme discussion 1. on the first day of jury deliberations, the jury appears to have deliberated for just an hour and three minutes. on the second day of jury deliberations, the jury sent the court the following note: moral dilema [sic] assigning the label of 1st degree? the juror agrees with the law that requires the conaddress the question that day. the jury appears to have deliberated for a total of 3 hours 48 minutes that day. on the third day of deliberations, the trial judge was apparently unavailable, so judge hayden zacky conferred with counsel and, with their approval, sent the jury the the court is in receipt of your question, which is attached. 6 [] as jurors, you have taken an oath to follow the law even if you personally disagree with it. if the prosecution has proved each element of the offense beyond a reasonable doubt, the jury must return a guilty verdict on that particular count and find the appropriate degree. conversely, if the prosecution has not met its burden, the jury must return a not guilty verdict. [] additionally, the jury is obligated to reach its verdict without regard to sympathy, prejudice or public opinion, and without regard to penalty or punishment. [] see jury instructions for further information regarding the above. [] please advise the court if further clarification or assistance is required.minutes that day. on the fourth day of deliberations, the jury asked for a reading of a specified thursday [the second day of deliberations] afternoon we had a concern about personal beliefs & morals driving the decision rather than evidence. tappear to be based on any evidence. helping. we have a decision for one defendant. of first degree murder with personal use of a weapon against perez. the verdict form stated it was signed by the foreperson, juror no. 7, on february 16, 2012, which was the second day of deliberations. the court polled the jury, and each juror agreed it was his or her verdict. the court then asked the forepersonoutside the presence of the other jurorswhether any jurors were not deliberating. the foreperson replied, of the jurors, their personal feelings are getting in the way and is not allowing them to look at the evidence or make a decision based onasked the foreperson whether it would be helpful to give an instruction similar to the one given by judge zacky. the foreperson said she believed it would be helpful. with the 7 consent of counsel for escobar, the couduties of the judge and the jury. we have a juror who will not follow the law because they do not agree with it. can this juror be switched out? can a juror inquire again of the foreperson to determine whether a juror was not deliberating. escobar objected, arguing there appeared to be a mere disagreement among jurors and the foreperson was trying to oust a juror who disagreed with her. the court stated it was obliged to inquire and brought the foreperson into the courtroom. the foreperson told the at minimum, second somebody to go back and tell somebody what to do with this situation. i think it really content or nature of her discussion with the court to the other jurors. it appears that the jury deliberated for a total of at least 4 hours 42 minutes on the deliberating after the court reporter read back certain testimony. the next day, the court stated that after reviewing people v. williams (1988) 45 cal.3d 1268; people v. cleveland (2001) 25 cal.4th 466 (cleveland); people v. engelman (2002) 28 cal.4th 436; and people v. leonard (2007) 40 cal.4th 1370 (leonard), it felt it was required to determine whether any juror was not complying with his or her duties or was engaging in misconduct. escobar objected to any further inquiry of any juror ility to 8 reach a verdict as to perez. escobar asked the court to declare a mistrial on the grounds that the jury was hung and the foreperson and remaining jurors were committing misconduct by misapplying the reasonable doubt standard, that is, asking the holdout jurors to convince them that escobar was not guilty. the court concluded it was required to inquire. the court interviewed the jurors one at a time, outside the presence of the other jurors, starting with the foreperson. the foreperson revealed that her note pertained to subsequently determined that the male juror to whom the foreperson referred was juror no. 10 and the female juror was juror no. 9. the court then individually questioned jurors no. 1 through 6, followed by jurors no. 8, 11 and 12, finishing with jurors no. 9 and 10. in response to narrowly focused questioning by the court, each of these jurors identified jurors no. 9 and 10 as the source of dissatisfaction. jurors variously stated that jurors no. 9 and 10 were not following the law; seemed to be unable or unwilling to follow the law; were incapable of understanding to change their opinions or votes; had spoken of a moral problem, dilemma, or obligation; had said were allowing their emotions and their own past experiences to enter into their decisions. juror no. 4 candidly told the court that neither juror no. 9 nor juror no. 10 had expressed see any other reason why they would not just fol 9 actually deliberating with the other jurors with regards to this case? [] in other words, are you looking at the read the law as given by the court and was following it, but she disagreed with her fellow the law as i give it to you and do not let sympathy, prejudice, or public opinion influence you in any way . . . medo you have any problem morally with the court then inquired of juror no. 10: any regard to any bias, sympathy, prejudice, or any discussion of punishment with the and have you tried to keep an open mind and deliberate with the morally opposed to the law in this case? [] is that something that is inaccurate? 10 i was you to specifically talk about came . [] just tell me whether or not you feel you are able toif you have a moral problem [ the fact of punishment or sympathy towards any juror no. sympathy for either side come into yourin your mind as to how you deliberate in this deliberating jurors and talking about this case and talking about the law and talking about other jurors in terms of your 11 the problem is they have the mindset for a guilty deliberating with the other jurors? [] are you, in a way, being forced not to talk? [] or is your opinion being drowned out in any way because you t and juror no. i ask you to go in to deliberate with the other jurors, jur after the hearing, the prosecutor stated that he would not seek discharge of either juror no. 9 or juror no. 10 because no misconduct had been shown. escobar renewed 12 her motion for a mistrial, which the trial court denied. the court returned the entire jury -up. i your answer was it was as to degree, either first or second. is that currently the issrecessed for lunch. after the recess, the court stated its intent to further instruct the jury using the instruction given in people v. whaley (2007) 152 cal.app.4th 968, 975977 (whaley), and people v. moore (2002) 96 cal.app.4th 1105, 11181120 (moore). escobar did not object to the proposed instruction, but requested a modification, which ection. more than one occasion that a jury which initially reported that it was unable to reach a verdict was ultimately able to arrive at verdicts on one or more of the counts before it. [] [] your goal as jurors should be to reach a fair and impartial verdict, if you are able to do so, based solely on the evidence presented and without regard to the consequences of your verdict, regardless of how long it takes to do so. [] it is your duty, as jurors, to carefully consider, weigh, and evaluate all of the evidence presented at the trial, to discuss your views regarding the evidence, and to listen to and consider the views of your fellow jurors. [] in the course of your further deliberations, you should not hesitate to reexamine your own views or to request your fellow jurors to reexamine theirs. [] you should not hesitate to wrong or to suggest to other jurors to change their views if you are convinced they are wrong. [] fair and effective deliberations require a frank and forthright exchange of views. [] as i previously instructed each of you[] strike that. [] i urge you to follow your individual judgment in that regard. [] as i previously instructed you, each of you must decide the case for yourself, and you should do so only after a full and complete consideration of all the evidence with your fellow jurors. [] it is your duty, as 13 jurors, to deliberate with a goal of arriving at a verdict on the charge if you can do so without violence to your individual judgment. [] both the people and defendant are entitled to the individual judgment of each juror. i urge you to follow your individual judgment in that regard. [] if there is anything that this court can do to assist you in performing your duties, please do not hesitate to let me know. [] at your request, you can be provided with read-back of testimony, further explanation of the legal concepts, further instructions, or even further argument by the attorneys on any point, on any topic absolute discretion to conduct your deliberations in any way you deem appropriate. [] may i suggest that since you have not been able to arrive at a verdict using the methods following at least temporarily and try new methods. [] for example, you may wish to consider having different jurors lead the discussions for a period of time, or you may wish to experiment with reverse role playing by having those on one side of an issue present of deliberations, i want to stress i am not dictating or instructing you as to how to conduct your deliberations. i merely find you may find it productive to do whatever is necessary to ensure each juror has a full and fair opportunity to express his or her views and consider and understand the views of the other jurors. [] i also suggest you reread calcrim instruction 200 and instruction 3550. these instructions pertain to your duties as jurors to make recommendations in how you should deliberate. [] the integrity of the trial requires that jurors at all times during their deliberations conduct themselves as required by the instructions. [] the decision the jury renders must be based on the facts and on the law. you must determine what facts have been proved from the evidence received in the trial, not from any other source. [] a fact is something proved by the evidence or by stipulation. [] . . . [] second, you must apply the law as i state it to you 14 to the facts as you determine them and, in this way, arrive at your verdict. [] you must accept and follow the law as i state it to you regardless of whether you agree with the law. [] if anything concerning the law said by the attorneys in their arguments or any other time during the trial conflicts with my instructions on the law, you must follow my you make in this case must be based on the evidence received in the trial and the instructions given by the court. these are the matters this instruction requires you to discuss for the purpose of reaching a verdict. [] you should keep in mind the recommendations this instruction suggests when considering the additional instructions, comments, and suggestions that i have made and the instructions now presented to you. [] i hope my comments and suggestions may have some assistance to you. [] you are ordered to continue your deliberations at this time. [] if you have other questions, concerns, or requests or other communications you desire to report to me, please put them in writing on the form the bailiff has provided you with. have them signed and dated by the jury resumed deliberating and three minutes later sent the court a note requesting a cd player or computer to play a cd. thirty minutes later, without receiving a cd player or computer, the jury returned its first degree murder verdict against escobar.1 the jury was polled and every juror, including jurors no. 9 and 10, stated it was his or her verdict. conducting individual interviews of the jurors when the evidence before it showed only, as trial counsel argued, 1 15 process and a jury trial by pressuring jurors no. 9 and 10 into voting with the majority. ing brief includes a conclusory joinder in this issue, but he has not attempted to explain how he was prejudiced by actions undertaken by the court the day after the jury had rendered its verdict as to perez. we conclude the issue is inapplicable to perez. we asked the parties to file letter briefs addressing the issue of jury coercion based ions and statements and instructions to the jury after learning that the jury was divided over the degree of the offense. escobar argued in her letter brief that the tall of the jurors, its inquiries whether the jury was divided over the degree of the offense, and its deadlocked jury instruction coerced the verdict against her. the attorney general argued in her letter brief that neither the cexamination of the jurors was coercive. a. propriety of conducting an inquiry the decision whether to investigate the possibility of juror bias, incompetence, or . (cleveland, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 478.) but when a trial court is on notice that good cause to discharge a juror may exist, people v. martinez (2010) 47 cal.4th 911, 941.) failure to conduct an adequate inquiry constitutes error. (people v. farnam (2002) 28 cal.4th 107, 141.) should be as limited in scope as possible, to avoid intruding unnecessarily upon the about a cd player or comput 16 jurors, rather than upon the content of the deliberations. additionally, the inquiry should cease once the court is satisfied that the juror at issue is participating in deliberations and (cleveland, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 485.) although it is clear in hindsight that the stumbling block during deliberations was a difference of opinion between the majority and the holdout jurors, we cannot conclude court on notice that good cause to discharge a juror for misconduct may have existed, in that the court had been told that a juror seemed to be ignoring the evidence and deciding will not follow the law because they do not degree of the crime, all of whinstructions to the jury. accordingly, we can conclude neither that the trial court abused its discretion by inquiduration. although it probably would have been more prudent for the court to either interview jurors in random order or adhere to strict numerical order instead of interviewing jurors no. 9 and 10 last, it was clear from the statements jurors no. 9 and 10 . holdout jurors into submitting to the majority is purely speculative. 17 b. jury coercion where a jury has been unable to reach agreement, in order to discharge its stof the jury as to its numerical division without seeking to discover how many jurors are people v. carter (1968) 68 cal.2d 810, 815 (carter), abrogated on another ground in people v. gainer (1977) 19 cal.3d 835, he division of the jury in terms of votes for conviction and acquittal has no bearing upon the question of reasonable probability of agreement and therefore is of no carteralways a potential for coercion once the trial judge has learned that a unanimous people v. sheldon (1989) 48 cal.3d 935, 959 (sheldon).) once a court learns how the jury stands, it has a duty to exercise greater caution in its remarks to the jury to prevent jurors from concluding that the court is urging, or even suggesting, a verdict one way or the other. (people v. walker (1949) 93 cal.app.2d 818, 825 (walkercircumstances of the particular case, the remarks of the judge, who knew how the jury stood, were such as to bring to bear in some serious degree, although not measurable, an improper influence upon the jury, or to indicate to the jury that a particular result should be reached, such remarks constituibid.) the existence of coercion necessarily depends upon the facts of each case (people v. sandoval the court have been held coercive are those in which the court, either through its own questioning or through volunteered statements of jurors, has become informed not only as to the numerical division of the jury but also as to how many stand on each side of the ultimate issue of guilt. . . . the urging of agreement in such circumstances of course creates in the jury the impression that the court, which has also heard the testimony in the case, agrees with the majority of jurors. coercion of the jurors in the minority clearly 18 carter, supra, 68 . . is whether the remarks of the court, viewed in the totality of applicable circumstances, operate to displace the independent judgment of the jury in favor of considerations of compromise and expediency. such a displacement may be the result of statements by the court constituting undue pressure upon the jury to reach a verdict, whatever its nature, rather id. at p. 817.) of necessity, this assessment considers whether jurors voting as exerting pressure upon them to conform their opinion to that of the majority (id. at p. 819; walker, supra, 93 cal.app.2d at p. 825; people v. baumgartner (1958) 166 cal.app.2d 103, 108 (baumgartner), disapproved on another ground in people v. gainer, supra, 19 cal.3d at p. 852, fn. 17), or as expressing a view that the jury should convict the defendant (people v. blackwell (1927) 81 cal.app. 417, 421 (blackwell)). in walker, supra, 93 cal.app.2d 818, the court inadvertently learned that the jury id. inquiry, ten jurors opined that there was no chance jurors would reach a verdict, while two jurors opined that there was such a chance. the court then told the jury that although the taxpayers, and to the public of the county, and a trial like this is an expensive thing, and a hung jury means it all has to be gone over again before another jury, and that means double expense to the county,to the taxpayers. if there is not any chance of your it would be foolish for me to keep you id. at p. 821.) the court then violence to his own judgment, but at the same time there are twelve of you,and ten one way and two the otherthat is coming pretty close to an agreement.ibid.) the appellate court rks in our case that the two jurors voting for acquittal (and who apparently had consistently so voted from the 19 beginning), well could have believed that the judge felt they should agree with the majority. undoubtedly, the judge did not intend to influence the jury as to the type of verdict to be rendered, but we must realistically consider the effect of the language used. there was no impropriety in his asking how the jury stood numerically, but the moment he gained the information concerning which way they stood, it was his duty to be more than careful in his remarks thereafter, so that the jury would clearly understand that he are twelve of you, and ten one way and two the other,that is coming pretty close to only if the two for acquittal would change their view and join the majority. as said in people v. kindleberger [(1893)] (100 cal. 367, 369) [court told hung jurthe judge in this case could not fail to create the impression that he thought the jury ought to convict walker, supra, 93 cal.app.2d at p. 825.) in baumgartner, supra, 166 cal.app.2d 103, the foreperson responded to the conviction. the court then gave the jury an allen-type instruction (see allen v. united states (1896) 164 u.s. 492 [17 s.ct. 154]), which included the following language: listhand, if much the larger number of your panel are for a conviction, a dissenting juror should consider whether a doubt in his or her own mind is a reasonable one, which makes no impression upon the minds of so many men or women, equally honest, equally intelligent with himself or herself, and who have heard the same evidence with the same attention with an equal desire to arrive at the truth, and under the sanction of the same baumgartner, at p. 106.) the appellate court concluded that, given the admonitions must have appeared to the holdout juror, and to the others for that matter, to 20 have been leveled at him. there was an implication that in achieving that holdout status the recalcitrant juror had not paid proper respect to the opinions of the others, had not listened to their arguments with a disposition to be convinced, and that he ought to have done so. under the circumstances, the 11 might well have returned to the jury room, not id. at p. 108.) in people v. talkington (1935) 8 cal.app.2d 75, disapproved on another ground in people v. friend identical to that of the trial court in the present case. after learning that the jury was over the degree of crime, talkington, at p. 79.) fifteen minutes later, the jury returned to the courtroom and the foreperson informed the id. at pp. 7980.) the court responded by informing the jury that it believed and agreed with the evidence, can raise a very strong argument, or make an argument in defense, that is, to the extent that t the next two hourswell, as far as that is concerned you are not going to get away from here for some 21 as far as talking to me about getting away, forget it; just id. at p. 80.) the (id. at pp. 88, 90.) in blackwell, supra, 81 cal.app. 417, the foreperson volunteered the information that the jury was divided nine to three for conviction. the trial court asked what the for one side, and the rest give credit to the witnesses for the other side, and there seems to seem to be any question as to the evidence, although some members of the jury refuse to and you all understand all of the evidence. i think the jury ought to agree on a verdict. i id. at pp. 420421.) the appellate court intimation that the court thought the evidence in the case warranted a verdict of guilty and three for conviction and that the defendant was the only witness for the defense who gave testimony in denial of his participation in the alleged offense. three witnesses for the prosecution testified to the three jurors voting for acquittal refused to believe the witnesses for the prosecution rather than people v. kindleberger, [supraleast may have understood, from these unguarded remarks that in the opinion of the judge people v. conboy [(1910)] 15 cal. app. 97, 98, 22 (blackwell, at p. 421.) carter, supra, 68 cal.2d 810, concerned remarks by a judge who had not presided over the trial and had learned only that the jury was divided 11 to 1. (id. at p. 813 & fn. 1.) the supreme court nonetheless concluded that the conduct and remarks of the judge were coercive. (id. like an interpretation or elaboration of these instructions. the judge reread to the jury instructions regarding the presumption of innocence and requirement of proof to a moral the juror who is in doubt here, maybe he could ask you let me ask the juror if he understands the two instructions now?was no chance the jury would reach a verdict to raise their hands. the foreperson asked here two or three id. at pp. 813814, fn. 1.) the jury returned a guilty verdict 10 minutes later. (id. at p. 814.) in concluding the judge coerced the verdict, the supreme court cited the judgsingling out the dissenting juror and questioning him regarding his understanding of at the case was not 23 t, that the jurors would be id. at pp. 819extreme pressure upon the lone dissenting juror to conform his opinion to that of his id. at p. 819.) in contrast, the supreme court has held in several capital cases that the trial court did not coerce a penalty verdict of death after inadvertently learning that the jury was divided 11 to 1 for death. (people v. pride (1992) 3 cal.4th 195, 264266 [trial court merely asked jury to continue deliberating, but did not further instruct]; sheldon, supra, 48 cal.3d at pp. 958960 [trial court reread previously given instructions, including one deliberating]; people v. keenan (1988) 46 cal.3d 478, 528533 [after initial note trial any of you that you surrender your honest convictions as to what the evidence in this case about monday and asked each juror over weekend to examine conscience and recall oath and duty to follow law; problem resolved over weekend].) similarly, in people v. bell (2007) 40 cal.4th 582, the supreme court found no coercion where the trial court had learned inadvertently that the jury was divided 11 to 1 in favor of a true finding on a robbery-murder special circumstance, but declined to declare a mistrial and instead asked the jury to continue deliberating, saying the jury had not deliberated long enough to discuss the case fully and unid. at pp. 613, 617.) in moore, supra, 96 cal.app.4th 1105, and whaley, supra, 152 cal.app.4th 968, from which the trial court in this case derived its deadlocked jury instruction, the trial courts did not know how the jury was voting, merely that it was deadlocked as to one 24 count (moore, at p. 1118) or divided 11 to 1 (whaley, at pp. 973974). in these cases, the trial courts simply gave the additional instruction and asked the jury to continue deliberating. (moore, at pp. 11181120; whaley, at pp. 974978.) in each case, the appellate court rejected a claim that the trial court had coerced the verdict by giving the instruction and asking the jury to continue to deliberate. (moore, pp. 11201121; whaley, at p. 983.) viewed from the perspective of juror no. 10, the conduct and statements of the trial court in this case present several of the coercive factors found in the cases summarized herein. the court created a significant potential for coercion by twice inquiring whether the disagreement among jurors that was preventing them from reaching a verdict was the degree of the offense. (sheldon, supra, 48 cal.3d at p. 959; carter, supra, 68 cal.2d at p. 816; walker, supra, 93 cal.app.2d at p. 825.) the first time the court made this inquiry the only juror present was the foreperson, but the court did not warn the foreperson not to inform the other jurors of what she had discussed with the court. the court later repeated the same inquiry in the presence of the entire jury after it had completed its inquiry of juror no. 10. in conducting its inquiry of juror no. 10, the court repeatedly asked him the same deliberate or to follow the law and was not allowing sympathy, potential punishment, or other improper factors to influence his opinion. the court asked juror no. 10 whether he was morally opposed to the law or not following the law four times, including its query, opposed to the law set forth in the jury instructions. indeed, the court asked juror no. 10 that question three times in a row, and each time juror no. 10 replied that he was not. the court asked juror no. 10 whether he was deliberating with other jurors three times, even though juror no. 10 responded each time by saying that he was deliberating with other jurors. the court asked juror no. 10 five timesincluding twice in direct successionif he was reaching his opinion without bias or prejudice and without 25 considering sympathy, potential punishment, or other improper factors, and each time juror no. 10 told the court he was not considering such factors. although we cannot ascertain from during this questioning, we conclude juror no. 10 would reasonably have understood repeatedly answered that the court did not believe his responses and instead believed that juror no. 10 was not following the law because he morally opposed it, was not deliberating, and was biased or prejudiced or considering sympathy or potential punishment in violation perspective likely would have been that, based upon statements by the foreperson and other jurors, the court believed he had engaged in misconduct during deliberations and his own denials of such misconduct had failed to persuade the court. because it was juror juror no. 10 and he as exerting tremendous pressure upon him to abandon his views of the case and conform to the views of the majority. after the court questioned juror no. 10 and made the entire jury awareif it had not previously been awarethat the court knew the jury was divided over the degree of the murder, the court gave the moore-whaley deadlocked jury instruction. although the instruction is not inherently objectionable in general, it did nothing to alleviate the aspect of the instruction advised jurors that they should not surrender their opinions to acquiesce in the opinions of other jurors, reach a verdict, or avoid being accused of must have appeared to the hold-out juror, and to the others for that matter, to have been baumgartner, supra, 166 cal.app.2d at p. 108.) juror no. 10 would 26 have reasonably concluded that the court believed he was morally opposed to, and not following, the law given the jury by the court. repeatedly told jurors they must follow and apply the law given by the court in the jury the law as i state it to you regardless of whether you arguments or any other time during the trial conflicts with my instructions on the law, you must follow my instructiojury was, of course, required to apply the law it received in the jury instructions, the whether juror no. 10 was opposed to the law or not following it would have appeared to juror no. 10 to have been directed at him. in addition, the deadlocked jury instruction may well have increased the coercive to other jurors to change their views if you are convidifferent deliberation strategies to attempt to convince jurors with opposing views. while these provisions could be viewed as relatively evenhanded and unobjectionable in the usual case, they could well be viewed by a holdout juror who had been singled out and placed under pressure by the trial court as being directed at him and implying he should reexamine his views and that jurors in the majority should feel free to tell him he was wrong and adopt different methods to convince him. we do not believe the several coercive potential of other portions of the instruction in the circumstances of this case. we consider it significant that the jury returned its verdict of first degree murder 33 minutes after the court delivered its deadlocked jury instruction, which directly 27 followed the coercive inquiry of jurowhether the jury was still divided regarding the degree of the crime. the jury had deliberated for at least 14 hours 13 minutes over the course of four days before the three coercive events occurred on the fifth day of deliberations, but the holdouts, jurors no. 9 and 10, quickly changed their views and joined the majority after those events. given all of the circumstances of this case, we conclude that juror no. 10 would reasonably have viewed the cohim to conform his opinion to that of the majority (carter, supra, 68 cal.2d at p. 819), juror no. 10 walker, supra, 93 cal.app.2d at p. that the court, which has also heard the testimony in the case, agrees with the majority of carter, at p. jury in faid. at p. 817). in other words, the trial court coerced the verdict as to escobar. this constitutes reversible error. (id. at pp. 820821; walker, supra, 93 cal.app.2d at pp. 825826; baumgartner, supra, 166 cal.app.2d at pp. 108109.) 2. perez and escobar: denial of petition to reveal juror contact information and ten (10) spoke with me in the parking lot of the court house. . . . [t]he jurors appeared to want to speak with me (i had already left the courthouse and was about thirty parking lot who wanted to talk with me). [] juror number 9 informed me that: [] a) would rather be hit by a car then [sic 28 siccontinue[d] to s) s a witness to the instruction to continue deliberating on the fifth day of deliberations. [] 5. jurors nine (9) and ten (10) informed me that they wanted to talk to me in the future (i had to leave but the jurors appeared to want to continue to talk in the parking lot). i gave the jurors my card and asked if they would write declarations based on our conversation. they from either of the jurors but i believe that they would be willing to write the declarations and/or sign affidavits to the same (juror number nine (9) said she does not want to come at the hearing on the petition perez joined in the request for disclosure. counsel for escobar explained that jurors no. 9 and 10 waited more than an hour for him in the parking lotdemonstrated juror misconduct, in that other jurors deliberated without juror no. 9 and juror no. 9 later stopped deliberating. counsel for escobar stated that he included in his declaration the statements of jurors no. 9 and 10 regarding what other jurors said to them the trial court denied the petition, citing four reasons: (1) the declaration by 29 and not on personal revealed a disagreement, not jury misconduct; (3) the court provided additional understood and followewere being honest in saying it was their verdict. perez contends that the trial court erred by denying the petition to disclose juror deliberate or the deliberation of other jurors without juror no. 9. perez also asserts in applicable to her. ruling on the petition for disclosure for abuse of discretion. (people v. jones (1998) 17 cal.4th 279, 317.) pursuant to code of civil procedure section 237, subdivision (b), defendants were required to show good cause for ifying information. good cause requires showing both facts sufficient to support a reasonable belief that jury misconduct occurred and diligent efforts to contact jurors through other means. (jones, at p. 317; people v. carrasco (2008) 163 cal.app.4th 978, 990.) support a reasonable belief that jury misconduct occurred. the strongest bases for the statement that the remaining jurors deliberated without her and she stopped deliberating after the verdict on perez. the latter statement was expressly contradicted by juror no. 30 declaration, in which he related that jurors no. 9 and 10 the jury was polled. thus, as perez argues in his reply brief, it appears that juror no. 9 deliberating for a period of time before refusal to deliberate would be misconduct, it cannot be assumed to have been prejudicial where the juror later resumed deliberathearing arises only where a defendant produces evidence demonstrating a strong possibility of prejudicial misconduct. (people v. hedgecock (1990) 51 cal.3d 395, 419.) faced with a more egregious instance leonard, supra, 40 cal.4th at pages 14101412, the california supreme court concluded that a juror who expressed a fixed conclusion at the beginning of deliberations, then sat in a corner of the jury room reading a book, committed harmless misconduct. the court noted that nothing indicated that the juror who refused to deliberate was biased or that he presented at trial, that the evidid. at p. 1412.) the court explained that because the juror unanimously reached the same conclusion (that defendant was guilty), the inference is inescapable that they would have reached the same conclusion if they had discussed the case together. thus, the failure of the two [groups] to discuss the case with each other (id. at p. 1411.) similarly, if juror no. 9 temporarily stopped deliberating, but later resumed deliberating and reached a verdict, her temporary refusal to deliberate appears to have been harmless. appeared to reflect, at most, temporary misconduct that has not been shown to have been 31 statement to the court during its inquiry that she was actually deliberating with the other the views juror no. 9 expressed during deliberations. notably, no other juror, including juror no. 10, stated that the jury deliberated without juror no. 9. neither misconduct (people v. bradford (1997) 15 cal.4th 1229, 13511352 [emphatic expression of opinion by several jurors early in deliberations not misconduct]) nor ated that juror no. 11 was biased or had arrived at the opinion he colorfully expressed upon any basis other than the evidence and law. nor did the declaration indicate that juror no. 11 refused to discuss the case or that of the juror in leonard, supra, 40 cal.4th at pages 14101412, who, after expressing jurors and refused to view of the case resulted from bias or prejudging the case, it was necessarily harmless misconduct. descrmisconduct. heated disagreements between jurors, expressions of frustration at the pace of deliberations or with other jurors, and rude persuasion tactics are inherent in human group dynamics, and do not constitute misconduct or permit an inquiry into the validity of a verdict. (people v. cox (1991) 53 cal.3d 618, 693695 [not misconduct where jurors violated nonsmoking order, bothering nonsmoking jurors], disapproved on another ground in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22; people v. keenan (1988) 46 cal.3d 478, 540541 [not misconduct where majority juror threatened to kill holdout 32 juror]; people v. orchard (1971) 17 cal.app.3d 568, 572574 [not misconduct where foreperson angrily chastised minority juror for 10 to 15 minutes].) accordingly, defendants failed to make a prima facie showing sufficient to support a reasonable belief that jury misconduct occurred, and the trial court properly denied the petition failing to hold a posttrial misconduct hearing fails for the same reason. disposition the judgment against perez is affirmed. the judgment against escobar is reversed and the matter is remanded for a new trial. not to be published. mallano, p. j. we concur: rothschild, j. chaney, j. 