filed 10/29/13 p. v. martin ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. richard martin, defendant and appellant. b240542 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa067561) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, fay arfa for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and connie h. kan, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________________ 2 introduction richard martin appeals from a judgment following his conviction for first degree residential burglary. he contends the trial court abused its discretion (1) when it denied his pretrial request to discharge his retained attorney and hire new counsel, (2) when it admitted evidence of a prior uncharged residential burglary, and (3) when it denied his request under people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497 (romeroconviction for robbery. finding no reversible error, we affirm. procedural background appellant was charged with one count of first degree residential burglary (pen. code,  459)1 and one count of receiving stolen property ( 496). it was further alleged that appellant had suffered five prior convictions ( 1203, subd. (e)(4)), including a strike for purposes of the three strikes law ( 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d), 667, subds. (b)-(i)), and had served five prior prison terms ( 667.5, subd. (b)). before a bifurcated jury trial commenced, appellant made an oral motion to discharge his privately retained counsel and hire new counsel. the trial court denied the motion. the jury found appellant guilty of first degree residential burglary, and split 10 to 2 for conviction on the count of receiving stolen property. the court declared a mistrial on that count.2 in a subsequent bench trial, appellant admitted the allegations on the priors. appellant moved for a new trial ( 1181), which was denied. the trial court also 1 all further statutory citations are to the penal code, unless otherwise indicated. 2 because appellant was not convicted for receiving stolen property, we omit further facts related to that charge. 3 deromero motion, declining to strike the prior strike. however, the court exercised its discretion to strike the prior prison terms. the court sentenced appellant to state prison for a total of 13 years, and assessed various fines and fees. he was awarded 1080 days of custody credit. appellant timely appealed. factual background the prosecution presented the following case. on september 13, 2010, at approximately 2:00 p.m., the victim, amanda lozano, went with her four-year-old son to pick up her six-year-old son at a nearby school. afterward, they walked house, her sons ran ahead, stopped at the front door, and turned to look at her in surprise. when lozano arrived at her house, she noticed her front door was open and the door frame was on the ground. while standing in the entryway, she observed two men coming down the stairs. one man wore red clothing, the other dark clothing. the men turned and looked at her. lozano saw their faces. she street to the house of detective adam dorman, a los angeles county deputy been kicked in. detective dorman ran into the house, looked around, and went into the backyard. looking over one of the walls in the backyard, he saw a man in a red shirt and dark shorts about 50 yards away. the suspect, who had tattooed legs and was carrying a backpack, was climbing over a fence. detective dorman lost sight of the suspect after he cleared the fence, so the detective ran back through the house to his patrol vehicle. because he was familiar with the 4 neighborhood, he drove to a location that he thought would allow him to catch the suspect. seeing appellant walking down the sout, identified himself as a deputy sheriff, drew his firearm and ordered appellant to the ground. appellant failed to comply and kept walking toward the detective. dorman arrested appellant and removed several items from the backpack, including a tire iron and a jewelry box. lozano was driven to the location where appellant was being held in custody. from inside the patrol vehicle, lozano turned around in her seat to look and began to sob. the items inside the backpack were shown to lozano. lozano identified the jewelry recovered. he found it days later on the other side of their backyard wall. at trial, she identified appellant as one of the two men she had seen in her house, the one wearing red clothing. the prosecution also introduced evidence of prior uncharged misconduct. on december 18, 2006, detective brandon painter went to catherine hewhome in response to a call. when he arrived, he observed that the front door ransacked. later that night, detective painter conducted a traffic stop of appellant and searched hewitt and her deceased husband, and some coins. the passports were in 5 appellant presented an alibi defense. veronica maximo and her daughter, maria elena rodrithe day of the burglary, they were at his house from 11:30 a.m. until around 2:30 p.m. appellant and his wife left to walk their dog around 1:30 p.m. while appellant was away, two men and him. the men wore dark clothing, and one of them carried a backpack. when they learned that appellant was not present, they left. appellant returned home at some point and around 2:20 p.m., helped maximo pack her cleaning supplies into her car. heard screaming, and seconds later, saw two men jump over a wall and land on a dark hill. the men wore dark clothing and at least one of them was carrying a backpack. palmer chased after the two men in his truck. he was able to detain one of the men, but the other man jumped a fence and ran away. he could not identify discussion appellant contends (1) that the trial court erred in denying his motion to discharge his privately retained counsel and retain new counsel; (2) that the court residential burglary; and (3) that the court erred in denying his romero motion. a. motion to substitute attorney 1. relevant background back prepare for future trials. the prosecutor noted that the case was over a year old 6 and was not complicated, but did not object to continuing the trial until the followinsides are going t the prosecutor informed the court that appellant had previously rejected an offer which had since expired, but offered to explore the possibility of re-extending the -- presumably a suspended state prison sentence -- which the court characterized as ee the prosecutor time to seek approval to re-extend the offer. the parties reconvened at 11:30 a.m. the court informed them that a jury panel had been ordered. the court asked if a plea agreement had been reached. the prosecutor stated that appellant was seeking less time or suspended time, which was not a possibility. the court then informed appellant that he had three -year offer, (2) accept an open plea, or (3) recorded music. i have wonderful people in my background . . . that are going to bat for me . . . . i just found out that me and my beautiful wife are going to have a 7 you have some going to go to trial then. we are going to bring in the panel at 1:30. you are been ordered. 2. analysis appellant contends he was denied his constitutional right to the assistance of counsel when the trial court refused to allow him to discharge his retained attorney and retain another private attorney. we disagree. under the sixth amendment of the federal constitution, a criminal defendant has the right to be represented by counsel at all critical stages of the prosecution. (faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806, 818-819.) the right to effective assistance of counsel includes choice. (people v. gzikowski (1982) 32 cal.3d 580, 586 (gzikowski).) that right is necessarily limited by the countervailing state interest in proceeding with prosecutions on an orderly and expeditious basis, taking into account the practical people v. keshishian (2008) 162 cal.app.4th 425, 428 (keshishian), quoting people v. ortiz (1990) 51 cal.3d 975, 983-984.) accordingly, a court may deny a motion for a continuance to obtain new counsel if the motion is untimely, was made for the purpose of delaying trial, or would impair efficient judicial administration. (gzikowski, supra, 32 cal.3d at p. 586.) 8 before jury selection, and would necessarily have delayed the trial and disrupted the orderly administration of justice. the case was over a year old and had already been continued numerous times. the judge, the prosecutor, and the witnesses were ready. appellant did not claim to have retained new counsel -- much less counsel ready to begin trial. the court was not obliged to grant his request, made at the eleventh hour, when to do so would necessarily have required a continuance and interfered with the orderly administration of justice. (see people v. lau (1986) 177 cal.app.3d 473, 479 [trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying ttorney made just before jury selection]; keshishian, supra, 162 cal.app.4th at p. 429 [no error in denying last-minute attempt to discharge counsel where request made on day of trial after case had been pending for over two years, appellant had neither identified nor retained new counsel, and witnesses had been scheduled]; see also people v. courts (1985) 37 cal.3d 784, 792, fn. 4 [citing cases where the lateness of continuance requests -of-trial, day-of-trial, and second-day-of- a significant factor justifying denial of motion].) became clear that the prosecution would not be offering appellant a plea counsel. as the record before the court amply demonstrated, appellant was unhappy with the plea offer because the time in prison would take him away from his family, including an expected child. while his concern was understandable, it 9 purpose in seeking to discharge his retained counsel was not to seek better representation but to postpone his trial. people v. frye (1998) 18 cal.4th 894 (frye), overruled in part by people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, is misplaced. there, after noting that a trial court had broad discretion to deny a motion for a frye, at p. 1013.) the court determined court could reasonably infer that a postponement for treatment was not continuance would not have been useful, the trial court acted within its discretion to deny the motion. (ibid.) similarly here, appellant informed the trial court of facts relevant primarily to mitigation during sentencing. when appellant sought a continuance, he did not articulate how new counsel would represent him better during the guilt phase. thus, it was reasonable for the trial court to infer that day of reckoning. (see keshishian, supra, 162 cal.app.4th at p. 429 [defendant not entitled to discharge retained counshe had neither identified nor retained new counsel, and witnesses whose appearances had been scheduled would have been inconvenienced by further delay].) people v. munoz (2006) 138 cal.app.4th 860 (munoz), on which appellant also relies, is unavailing. there, the appellate court held that a motion to relieve privately retained counsel to retain new counsel to file a postconviction motion for a new trial was not untimely. the court found no disruption in the orderly process of justice, as newly appointed counsel could promptly determine whether to file the 10 motion and the trial court had delayed proceedings for five weeks after denying the substitution motion. (id. at pp. 869-870.) munoz is distinguishable because it occurred postconviction, after the jury had been discharged, when there was less urgency in the court proceedings. in contrast, here, a jury panel had been ordered and witnesses were ready to testify. moreover, the munoz court found the record id. at p. 870.) that is not the case here. in short, the trial court acted within its discretion in b. admission of uncharged prior offense 1. relevant background appellant contends the trial court abused its discretion in admitting person hours later. the prosecution had sought to admit the evidence to show motive and a common design or plan. defense counsel objected, arguing that a co-defendant had pled to the burglary, and that the features of the burglary were not unusual or distinctive. the prosecutor disagreed, arguing that taking passports was the door and leaving the door frame on the ground during a residential burglary people conceal it, put the door back, use a window not in the after conducting an analysis under evidence code sections 352 and 1101, subdivision (b), the court admitted the evidence. it found the evidence was admissible to show motive or a common design or plan, as the kicking of the door and the theft of the passports were sufficiently similar and were common features 11 of the charged and uncharged offenses. the court also noted that the 2006 offense testimony that appellant had been convicted of receiving stolen property or would entertain a limiting instruction. such an instruction was provided to the jury during trial and before deliberations. 2. analysis under evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b), a prior offense may be people v. edwards (2013) 57 offense and people v. daniels (1991) 52 cal.3d 815, 857.) in addition, the charged and uncharged offenses must be sufficiently similar. the nature and degree of similarity depends upon the purpose of the admitted evidence. (people v. ewoldt (1994) 7 cal.4th 380, 402-403 (ewoldtewoldt, supra, 7 cal.4th at equired in order to prove the existence ibiddesign or plan, the common features must indicate the existence of a plan rather than a series of similar spontaneous acts, but the plan thus revealed need not be ewoldt, at p. ence of uncharged misconduct to be relevant to prove identity. for identity to be established, the uncharged misconduct and the charged offense must share common features that 12 are sufficiently distinctive so as to support the inference that the same person ibidoffense evidence must be substantial and must not be largely outweighed by the probability that its admission would create a serious danger of undue prejudice, of confusing people v. kipp (1998) 18 cal.4th ibid.) as the supreme court explained, with respect to a common design or plan, similar to the charged offense may be relevant if these acts demonstrate circumstantially that the defendant committed the charged offense pursuant to the same dewoldt, suprathe existence of a common design or plan will be admissible in all (or even most) idcrimes such as burglary and robbery, it is beyond dispute that the charged offense was committed by someone; the primary issue to be determined is whether the defendant was the perpetrator of that crime. thus, in such circumstances, evidence that the defendant committed uncharged offenses that were sufficiently similar to the charged offense to demonstrate a common design or plan (but not sufficiently id. at p. 406.) burglary to show motive or a common plan. the court twice counseled the jury that it could consider the evidence solely for the limited purpose of deciding whether appellant had a motive to commit the charged offenses or a plan or 13 scheme for doing so. neither consideration, however, was relevant to the case. home, and the existence of a common plan was irrelevant to any material fact other than identity. yet the prosecution did not ask the court to find the evidence from 2006 sufficiently distinctive to be admissible to show identity, and the court did not make such a finding. as our supreme court observed in ewoldt, where the primary issue is identity and the evidence of prior acts is insufficiently distinctive to establish identity, evidence sufficient to show a common plan is ordinarily inadmissible. (ewoldt, supra, 7 cal.4th. at p. 406.) nevertheless, we conclude that any error in admitting evidence of the 2006 conduct was harmless under people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818 (watson). (see people v malone (1988) 47 cal.3d 1, 22 [erroneous admission of prior misconduct harmless under watsonestablished by both direct and circumstantial evidence from multiple independent sources, including appellant himself. two percipient witnesses -- lozano and detective dorman -- identified appellant from the scene of the crime. lozano saw while her memory was still fresh, she identified him unequivocally as one of the intruders. finally, she identified him at trial as the one wearing red clothing. similarly, detective dorman identified appellant as the suspect he had seen fleeing backyard wall. the detective was close enough to observe that the man was wearing a red shirt and dark shorts, was carrying a backpack, and had tattooed legs. he was able to quickly locate appellant and detain him. in addition, when detective dorman told appellant to 14 backpack containing a jewelry box belonging to lozano. on this record, it is not reasonably probable that a more favorable outcome would have resulted absent the admission of the evidence of the 2006 conduct. accordingly, there was no reversible error.3,4 c. romero motion 1. relevant background during sentencing, the prosecution read . . . our family, friends and neighbor. since this was witnessed firsthand, our small children have this ingrained in their mind that even though the door is locked, we are not safe. we romero motion. they were personally familiar with appellant through his participation in various prison rehabilitation programs after he was arrested in this counsel asked the court to grant appellant 3 for the same reasons, any error in admitting evidence of the prior uncharged residential burglary to show motive was harmless. 4 appellant also summarily contends that the admission of the prior uncharged offenses violated his federal constitutional rights to due process and a fair trial. as appellant provides no further argument or explanation, he has forfeited this argument. (people v. stanley (1995) 10 cal.4th 764, 794.) 15 the prosecutor opposed the motion and recommended a 17-year sentence. she noted that appellant was on formal probation for three felony convictions when he committed the instant crime. she further noted that he had been given numerous opportunities for rehabilitation following the prior convictions, including you want to change for a little baby. i remember the victim who sat here and testified that her little babies were at the door when you ran out of their house and convictions in 2006, for stealing a car and receiving stolen property, and two felony convictions in 2008, for robbery and receiving stolen property. it further noted that appellant had received probation and drug treatment, but that he accepdenied the romero motion, but exercised its discretion to strike the five prior prison terms. it sentenced appellant to 13 years in custody. 2. analysis appellant contends the trial court abused its discretion in denying his romero -- his 2008 robbery conviction. in ruling romero the nature and circumstances of his present felonies and prior serious and/or violent felony convictions, and the particulars of his background, character, and prospects, the defendant may be deemed outside the . . . spirit [of the three strikes law], in whole or in part, and hence should be treated as though he had not people v. williams (1998) 17 cal.4th 148, 161.) because the three strikes law 16 power to depart from this norm [by] requir[ing] the court to explicitly justify its people v. carmony will only abuse its discretion in failing to strike a prior felony conviction allegation ibidl court balanced the relevant facts and reached an impartial decision in conformity ibid., quoting people v. myers (1999) 69 cal.app.4th 305, 310.) here, the record demonstrates that the trial court balanced the relevant facts and reached an impartial decision in conformity with the three strikes law. mother and two young children resided. the crime traumatized the victim and her children. the use of a knife and a threat of violence to the victim. significantly, defendant had been given numerous opportunities to rehabilitate himself. yet he committed the robbery constituting his strike less than a year after sustaining three felony convictions, and despite receiving a suspended prison sentence and probation. he commiaddiction contributed to his criminal behavior, he failed to avail himself of programs to help him overcome it. as the trial court observed, the courts had 17 romero motion.5 disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. manella, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. suzukawa, j. 5 appellant summarily contends that the denial of the romero motion violated his federal constitutional rights to due process and to a reliable sentence under the fifth, sixth, eighth and 14th amendments of the united states constitution. as appellant provides no further argument or explanation, he has forfeited this argument. (people v. stanley, supra, 10 cal.4th at p. 794.) 