filed 6/17/13 p. v. illingworth ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. john illingworth, defendant and appellant. b240464 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka095815) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. mike camacho, judge. affirmed. kelly c. martin, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, michael r. johnsen and jonathan m. krauss, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________ 2 introduction at trial, the jury found john illingworth guilty as charged on one count of court found true a prior conviction allegation. illingworth was then sentenced to state prison for a term of four years. he appeals, claiming the trial court committed misconduct in questioning witnesses and abused its discretion in admitting evidence of 9-1-1 calls. we affirm. factual and procedural summary viviana doe (a fictitious last name to protect her privacy) and john illingworth argument and separation. ia letter for the police about what had happened. she said she had been walking past he head-and it was f on another occasion, in april 2009, when doe was seven months pregnant with go home. she wrote a letter for the police (dated april 24, 2009) that time as well. as recounted in the letter, he took the bicycle she had ridden to his house that day and threw several times until he broke it, and his about a month and a half or so after illingworth got out of jail, doe and on september 25, 2011, at 10:29 p.m., an unidentified female called 9-1-1, stating . . . 3 she said the man anapproximate age for the woman; she said she was going to get the license plate of the a second unidentified female called 9-1- a third call regarding the same location came into the 9-1-1 operator at 10:31 p.m. he had gone. at 10:34 p.m., doe called 9-1-she provided illingwohim. . . . you should see how he left me. . . . doe called 9-1-1 again at 10:3the dispatcher asked where illingworth went, she did not know but said he had probably at about 10:30 p.m. that night, el monte police department officer aaron doe. name was john illingworth. 4 doe told officer armstrong she had been dating illingworth for about three years. she said they had been walking together toward her residence when they became to the ground and standing over her and punching her five to seven times in the face with . . . ingworth stopped punching her, doe said, he . . . mom had let him in because she did not know what had happened; he got some of his things and left. after that, she said, she went up to her apartment and called 9-1-1. she told officer armstrong there had been another incident the year before. she described plate relayed by one of the 9-1-prosecuted. officer armstrong then tried without success to locate illingworth, checking the residence where he lived with his father (but finding the truck he had been driving was gone) and calling him on his cell phone (but he did not answer). detective david rios was assigned to conduct the follow-up investigation and contacted doe on october 6 by telephone. doe confirmed the information she had provided officer armstrong, reiterating illingworth had punched her in the face following an argument and then ran to her apartment, grabbed his backpack and left detective rios left a message for doethat she call him, and she did. alvarez told the detective she had been home when illingworth was there, visiting his child.1 doe and illingworth stepped out to take out the 1 detective rios is fluent in spanish (his first language), and he had no difficulty communicating with alvarez. 5 trash, but it became evident to her they had gone someplace as they did not return right screaming. she had blood on her face and said that [illingworth] had hit her . . . illingworth was charged with one count of inflicparent in violation of penal code section 273.5, subdivision (a).2 pursuant to subdivision (e)(2) of section 273.5, it was further alleged illingworth had a prior conviction for violating section 243, subdivision (e)(1).3 at trial, the people presented evidence of the facts summarized above. recordings of the 9-1- by then, doe was pregnant with a second child with illingworth. she testified that on september 25, 2011, she and illingworth had been together from noon until 6:00 or 7:00 p.m. after dinner, they ng [their] own about 8:00 p.m., doe testified, illingworth went home because he had to work the next day; doe went across the street to the park. while sitting on a park bench, doe testified, she saw a black nissan sentra drive by. she had seen the man driving the sentra before and he had tried to talk to her before, 2 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 a second count for disobeying a domestic relations court order ( 273.6, subd. (a)) was dismissed before trial. ( 1385.) 6 to his r4 she started to walk away, but the man pushed her. then she knew there were two females. she testified she saw one girl standing nearby because his car was parked. doe was trying to swing but she was on the blood comthe man went in the same direction, separately. ran across the street to her apartment and told her mother to call 9-1-1 because she just day, she said, she named illingattackers were nearby so she did not want anything to happen to her mother or her when police arrived, she again said illingworth had beaten her up but said she at illingworth had gotten to the ground; that he punched her five to seven times in the face; and that he had been drinking that night. 4 . . . 7 after the incident, before illingworth was arrested, doe and illingworth continued apartment. doe was unemployed and illingworth supported her. gworth would be arrested because she had said he had been the one to attack her. by september 26, 2011 en she took out the trash. first, she said illingworth had not been to the apartment that day but then said he had been there for a few hours. when doe came in beaten up, alvarez said she asked doe what had happened but doe did not say who had attacked her. she said she did not speak with the police when they came because she was praying. she initially testified she had not spoken with police about what had happened, but then admitted telling detective rios doe and illingworth had left to take out the trash and were gone longer than expected. she denied saying illingworth later burst into the apartment, grabbed his backpack and left again. alvarez said doe was unemployed and she (alvarez) was supporting doe and her the only thing i want is for him to be out. for me, he brother and his father testified he had been home at the time of the incident; they remembered the date because illingworth was going to start a new job the next day. the jury found illingworth guilty as charged of inflicting injury on a fellow parent resulting in a traumatic condition in violation of section 273.5, subdivision (a). in a bifurcated proceeding, the trial court then found true the prior conviction allegation. 8 the trial court sentenced illingworth to the upper term of four years in state prison. he appeals. discussion illingworth has failed to demonstrate prejudicial judicial misconduct. with the prosecution when it asked repeated and sometimes hostile questions of not take anything i say or do during the trial as an indication of what i think about the l you what your verdict should be. do not take anything i said or did during the trial as an indication e truth in the first letter she had written to police (when she said illingworth had struck her in 2008). that was prior towell, they had already went to his house. they had stopped me because the cops came and everything. they were circling. i guess somebody had called the cops. you need to focus on the questions asked, simply answer the question without elaborating was it a truthful statement? 9 24 times and interrupted ony as follows (and ultimately struck this portion of testimony): . . . court may control the mode of questioning of a witness and comment on the evidence and credibility of witnesses as necessary for the proper determination of the case. [citations.] within reasonable limits, the court has a duty to see that justice is done and to bring out . [citation.] a court commits misconduct if it persistently makes discourteous and disparaging remarks so as to discredit the defense or create the impression it is allying itself with the prosecution. [citatipeople v. santana (2000) 80 cal.app.4th 1194, 1206-1207, original italics.) people v. sturm (2006) 37 cal.4th 1218, 1237, citations omitted; see also people v. raviart (2001) 93 cal.app.4th people v. sturm, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 1237, citations of the witnesses. consequently, he has forfeited this claim of error. (people v. sturm, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 1237; people v. raviart, supra, 93 cal.app.4th at p. 269.) although he cites people v. sturm, supra, 37 cal.4th 1218, for the proposition that a party need not object where such an objection would have been futile, he identifies no support in the record for his assertion an objection would have been futile in this case or 10 other indication a simple objection and admonition would not have cured any claim of ubstantiated assertion of such futility. it follows that this claim of error was forfeited. in any event (and noting his ineffective assistance of counsel claim), we find no nduct. measure. (people v. sturm, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 1244 [declining to decide whether chapman or watson standard applies to judicial misconduct for disparaging defense counsel and questioning witnesses in a manner indicating the court favored the prosecution].) doe conceded that she had lied on a number of occasions. indeed, she acknowledged she had lied in stating that the woman in court with her daughter was not her mother but her aunt (celina mendoza) and she did not know where her mother livedtestimony immediately proven false. she was shown to have lied to the police and to the court. defense counsel specifically acknowledged in closing that she was neither honest nor trustworthy. furthermore, all of the contemporaneous evidence surrounding the attack established illingworth had been the one who attacked doe. she confirmed in her calls to the 9-1-1 operator that he had been the one to beat her, and the other calls were all consistent, with no mention of any other man with a nissan sentra or two girls who went off on their own. indeed, the same license plate provided by one of the callers matched the truck illingworth drove. in addition to her own 9-1-1 call, doe confirmed what had happened to police later that night and again 11 days later. alvarez identified illingworth multiple times as well. at trial, it was clear that doe was expecting another baby and was unemployed, her mother was under financial hardship doing the best she could to ng and the witnesses for the defense proved themselves to be unbelievable, illingworth has failed to demonstrate prejudicial error as required for reversal. (people v. sturm, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 1244.) it follows 11 neffective assistance for failure to object to the trial in a related argument, illingworth says he was deprived of a fair trial because the trial court impermissibly commented on the evidence and failed to instruct the jury with calcrim no. 3530 or its equivalent. as the attorney general notes and illingworth concedes in his reply, the trial court instructed the jury twice with the same language he says was missing from his trialfirst, with calcrim no. 101, given before the presentation of any evidence, and later, with calcrim no. 3550, prior to deliberations. concession, we have rejected it in finding illingworth was not prejudiced by judicial misconduct. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the 9-1-1 calls pursuant to evidence code section 1240. citing people v. gutierrez (2000) 78 cal.app.4th 170, 45 cal.4th 789, 811, ucial element in determining whether an out-of-court statement is no substantial evidence the callers were under the stress or excitement of the events they had witnessed. therefore, the statements were inadmissible under evidence code section 1240, and he was prejudiced as a result. made inadmissible by the hearsay rule if the statement: purports to narrate, describe, or explain an act, condition, or event perceived by the declarant; and was made spontaneously while the declarant was under the stress of idence under evidence code section 1240 is reviewed for abuse of discretion. (people v. phillips (2000) 22 cal.4th 226, 236 [92 cal. rptr. 2d are satisfied in any given case is, in general, largely a question of fact. [citation.] the 12 determination of the question is vested in the court, not the jury. [citation.] in . . . [citation.]people v. saracoglu (2007) 152 cal.app.4th 1584, 1588-1589.) as our supreme court explained in people v. gutierrez, supra, 45 cal.4th 789, undertaken without deliberation or reflection. . . . [t]he basis for the circumstantial trustworthiness of spontaneous utterances is that in the stress of nervous excitement, the reflective faculties may be stilled and the utterance may become the instinctive and uninhibited expression id. at p. 811, citation omitted.) in this case, having reviewed the statements in their entirety, the record supports the conclusion the statements were made contemporaneously, spontaneously, and without time for deliberation. (ibid. conclude the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting these statements as spontaneous statements within the meaning of evidence code section 1240. (people v. saracoglu, supra, 152 cal.app.4th at p. 1588.) moreover, doe herself called 9-1-1 within minutes of the other callers, relaying the same information which she also confirmed with police that night and again weeks later (as did alvarez). even if illingworth had established error in the admission of the other 9-1-1 statements, he has failed to demonstrate how he was prejudiced as a result on this record. because we have rejected eclaim of cumulative error fails as well. disposition the judgment is affirmed. woods, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. zelon, j. 