filed 1/22/13 p. v. gomez-estrada ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. carlos a. gomez-estrada, defendant and appellant. b240537 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba378668) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. william c. ryan, judge. affirmed. carlos a. gomez-estrada, in pro. per.; and joy a. maulitz, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________________ 2 an information charged carlos gomez-estrada with one count of corporal injury to a spouse in violation of penal code section 273.5, subdivision (a). maria soto testified at trial. she and gomez-estrada married in 2008. on october 28, 2010, during an argument with gomez-estrada about money, gomez-estrada hit her on both cheeks with his fists and hit her on the forehead with his forehead. this occurred in the kitchen of their apartment. after hitting soto, gomez-estrada left the -estrada was yelling that soto had hit herself with a plate. gomez-estrada returned to the kitchen and lifted his hands as if he was going to grab soto. soto punched him on the mouth. gomez-bit his arm. gomez-estrada threw soto to the ground. soto stated she sustained bruising and swelling on her cheeks and forehead as a result of gomez-estrada hitting her on october 28, 2010. the bruising and swelling rior relationship) took photographs of prosecutor showed the photographs to the jury. two days after gomez-estrada hit soto on the face and squeezed her neck, soto reported the incident to the police. soto testified gomez-estrada had harmed her physically on occasions prior to october 28, 2010, but she had not reported the prior incidents to the police. gomez-estrada testified on his own behalf at trial. he stated, during his argument with soto on october 28, 2010, she inflicted injuries on herself after he indicated he was going to write her a letter telling her he would divorce her. according to gomez-estrada, soto punched her cheeks with her fists three or four times. she tried to take a phone out of gomez--estrada left the kitchen -estrada returned to the kitchen, soto took a plate and hit herself on the forehead. gomez-estrada asked soto -estrada, soto was referring to a man named detective vargas. gomez-estrada testified, during arguments, 3 soto would tell gomez-estrada she was going to call detective vargas and detective -detective vargas was the investigating officer on this case. he did not testify at trial.1 on cross-examination, gomez-estrada denied he followed his wife in a car after the incident in an attempt to intimidate her before trial. on rebuttal soto testified, three days before trial, she was driving to pick up her daughter from school when she saw gomez-estrada swerve his truck into her lane so that his truck ended up behind her car when she stopped at a red light. soto looked in her rearview mirror. gomez-estrada was laughing and making faces like he wanted to talk to her. soto picked up her cell phone and pretended she was talking to someone. according to soto, gomez--estrada turned left.2 soto also testified on rebuttal about a prior occasion (after the incident) when she saw gomez-estrada while she was driving with her daughter. she was exiting an alley and she stopped at a stop sign behind two other cars. gomez-estrada stopped and allowed the two cars in front of soto to exit the alley. then he motioned for soto to the right-of- over gomez-secutor to ask gomez-estrada if he had a 1996 conviction and a 1998 conviction for corporal injury to a spouse. the trial court ruled the prosecutor could impeach gomez- 1 during cross-examination of soto, defense counsel asked soto if she saw detective vargas in the courtroom. soto identified detective vargas, who was sitting at counsel table with the prosecutor. defense counsel asked soto if she knew detective vargas before the october 28, 2010 incident and she said she did. soto denied she talked to when defense counsel asked her if she trusted detective vargas, soto responded affirmatively. soto denied telling gomez- 2 gomez-estrada testified he was working three days before trial at the time soto claimed he drove his truck behind her car. he stated he was at a pre-scheduled appointment with other people present. 4 with these crimes of moral turpitude. gomez-estrada testified he had sustained these two prior convictions. the jury found gomez-estrada guilty of corporal injury to a spouse. the trial court sentenced him to the middle term of three years in prison. gomez-estrada appealed. we appointed counsel to represent him on appeal. after examination of the record, counsel filed an opening brief raising no issues and asking this court to review the record independently pursuant to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436. on september 21, 2012, we advised gomez-estrada that he personally had 30 days to submit any contentions or issues he wished us to consider. we also directed his appointed counsel to send the record and opening brief to gomez-estrada immediately. on october 1, 2012, gomez-estrada filed a handwritten letter brief. gomez-was deficient in falling below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing result would have been more favorable to the [defendant]. [citatiin re jones (1996) 13 cal.4th 552, 566.) gomez-rele-relationship with detective vargas, the investigating officer on the case. gomez-estrada testify at trial. the prosecutor did not present any evidence regardi-incident to the police. any relationship between soto and detective vargas was not 5 press soto about her relationship with detective vargas does not constitute deficient representation. second, gomez-estrada faults his counseregarding her testimony about the two occasions after the incident when gomez-estrada drove behind her (discussed above). gomez-estrada does not explain what he would have liked his counsel to ask soto on cross-examination. based on our review of the third, gomez-se. the record demonstrates defense counsel objected to the admission of these prior convictions, was not deficient. gomez-estrada does not argue the trial court abused its discretion in admitting these prior convictions, and we find no error here. gomez-have found nothing in the record supporting this assertion. gomez-stance of counsel claim fails. he has not shown outcome for him. we have examined the entire record and are satisfied that gomez-counsel has fully complied with her responsibilities and that no arguable issues exist. (people v. kelly (2006) 40 cal.4th 106, 109-110; people v. wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at p. 441.) 6 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. chaney, j. we concur: mallano, p. j. johnson, j. 