filed 10/25/13 p. v. canada ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. dejon xavier canada, defendant and appellant. b240133 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sa078467) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, kathryn a. solorzano, judge. affirmed. lisa m. bassis, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, linda c. johnson, supervising deputy attorney general, michael katz, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________ 2 a jury convicted dejon xavier canada of possession of a firearm by a felon. canada argues that the discharge of a juror violated his sixth amendment rights, affirm. background a second amended information alleged that canada committed assault with a semiautomatic firearm on roberto villanueva in violation of penal code1 section 245, subdivision (b) (count 1) with a personal use enhancement. the information further alleged that canada was a felon in possession of a firearm, in violation of section 12021, subdivision (a)(1) (count 2). as to both counts, the information alleged that canada had seven prior felony convictions under section 1203, subdivision (e)(4), for which he served prison terms pursuant to section 667.5, subdivision (b). at trial, paola padilla testified that on the evening of august 16, 2011, she was at h8:00 p.m. padilla left the apartment to buy milk and walked to her car in the carport area. she noticed that another car was blocking the rear of her car, with four black men sitting inside. as padilla opened her car door, she saw canada standing next to the passenger side, urinating. padilla thought canada was connected to the four men in the car, and she he appeared to be grabbing for something under the bottom of his shirt. padilla said, er car door and ran inside. the other car moved away. padilla told villanueva what had happened, and he went to the apartment window overlooking the parking lot. villanueva opened the blinds, and padilla saw a shadow 1 all statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 padilla spoke to the 911 operator, and the tape was played at trial. she told the was wearing dark clothing. she also told the operator that the man had a bandanna on his head. and heard gunshots. five minutes later, they took padilla in a police car to identify the not, shthe two men she was shown. the other man was a neighbor. padilla told the police that indithat he had made an identification at the field showup when he was asked to look at canada. the next day, padilla picked canada out of a six-pack photographic lineup. at the time she did not know whom villanueva had identified earlier. although it was they made her dizzy. she was not wearing any during her testimony, and she was not wearing glasses the night of the incident and the field showup.2 she was about five feet away when she saw canada by her car, and during the minute that she interacted with him padilla noticed that he had a white spot in his beard on his chin, and was wearing dark clothes and a bandanna covering his hair. she never saw him holding a gun. 2 no testimony addressed whether padilla was wearing glasses when she viewed the photo lineup. 4 villanueva testified that on august 16, 2011 he was at home with padilla and her mother, and padilla left at 8:00 p.m. to get some milk. a few minutes later padilla came . . . told her bad opened the window. at first he saw no one, but then suddenly canada popped up right outside the window, bearded and wearing a black shirt and a do-rag. canada said, recovered from the scene. villanueva backed away from the window as canada ran away. he told the others that canada had a gun, and they ran upstairs; he heard padilla talking while she called 911. the police arrived, and while villanueva was talking to them outside, he heard police took villanueva (separate from padilla) in a squad car to a field showup. canada was brought to the location, where the police asked vand villanueva said yes. villanueva also identified canada in court a few weeks later. hawthorne police officer derrick cabrera testified that he responded to the scene, where he saw canada, dressed all in black, in the carport crouched in front of a parked car. when canada saw officer cabrera, he crouched down behind the car, and as he and another officer approached, canada fled and the officers pursued him. a gun was later found in front of the car where canada was crouched down. hawthorne police officer virginia iler testified that she drove to the scene with her partner officer cabrera. officer iler saw canada alternately running and crouching down in the carport area near the driveway. the officers ran after canada, and officer iler heard a gunshot, which she later learned was from another officer firing a rubber bullet from a shotgun. canada was taken into custody. officer iler returned to the carport with officer cabrera and another officer with a police dog, which alerted to a gun near a bumper of one of the cars near the entry of the carport. the gun was a loaded black and silver semiautomatic pistol, the same gun 5 dna tests produced inconclusive results. hawthorne police officer wilbert pereira met with villanueva after canada was taken into custody. officer pereira took villanueva to a field showup, and from the rear seat of the squad car villanueva identified canada (standing 1520 feet away from the car, whose lights were on) as the man who had pointed the gun at him. the officers transported canada to the hospital for treatment of his abrasion from the rubber bullet. officer pereira noticed that canada had a patch of white hair in his beard. hawthorne police detective ryan driessen testified that the day after the incident, -pack photographic lineup. padilla circled a photograph of canada, and signed the lineup. detective driessen did not know that padilla had identified canada in the field showup the night before. the defense presented mitchell eisen, ph.d., an expert witness who testified that traumatic stress could prevent an individual from recalling the details of the event as well to accurately make identifications. postevent information that the person did not actually perceive could begin to merge with the actual memory of the event. it was also harder for a person to identify an individual from another racial group. further, false identifications were more common in field showups with only one suspect. once a field identification had been made, a carryover effect could make it more likely that the person would identify the same individual in a photo lineup the next day. the general trend is that a person making an identification would become more certain over time. the jury was unable to reach a verdict on count 1 (assault with a semiautomatic firearm on villanueva), and the trial court declared a mistrial and later granted the canada on count 2, possession of a firearm by a felon. canada admitted that he had five prior felony convictions for each of which he served a separate prison term. the trial 6 court sentenced canada to eight years in state prison. canada filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion i. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in dismissing a juror for concealing his bias against the hawthorne police department. with an alternate juror, giving as the reason that the juror committed misconduct by failing to disclose his bias against the hawthorne police department. canada argues that the discharge of the juror was without good cause, and violated his rights under the sixth and fourteenth amendments. a. voir dire at the beginning of jury selection, the trial court emphasized to the prospective you are well-suited to serve on this particular case based on your past the jurors stood to take the oath that they would truthfully answer all the questions during i . . . really do need you to be very honest with us and to give us full disclosure with regard to any of the questions that we an objective rational decision based on facts, not a the court told the prospective jurors that the clerk would give them a questionnaire for them to hold until the selection process was complete, and asked the 7 3 among the questions were the following: an unusually good experiewould automatically weigh the testimony of a police officer differently, in comparison to any other witness? in other words, would you automatically find the testimony credible or less credible simply because the witness is a police officer or would you evaluate the (question 9). the court read to the prospective jurors the names of the witnesses, identifying the to ask you in advance if you have any particular attitude toward anybody with this case. [] you will likely hear from a law enforcement officer in the case. [] . . . sometimes based on what a person does people will generalize about that person . . . . [] . . . people based on what they a prospective juror (again, not the juror at issue) told the court that the hawthorne police came to his home looking for his nephew, and although he told the police that his w 3 was proper pursuant to california rules of court, rules 8.320(e) and 8.204(d), which allow a party filing a brief to attach copies of exhibits in the appellate record. we . . . 8 police officers testified in this case, and that he could set aside his life experience and not bring it into the jury room. prospective juror 18, the juror at issue, stated that he wanted to discuss questions 6 and 8 (as well as three other questions not related to opinions of law enforcement). as to with law enforcement or a a relative or close friend ever had a bad experience with a police officer or an unusually good experink you would automatically weigh the testimony of a police officer differently, in when the court completed its review of the questionnaire with the prospective hat you are able to serve as a after the attorneys for both sides questioned individual jurors (not including the juror at issue here), the prosecutor challenged for cause the juror who had stated that hawthorne police had gone through his home with guns drawn, looking for his nephew. the court responded that the juror had also stated he would set his experience aside and could be impartial even if one of the officers involved in the search of his home were to testify. the court denied the challenge. the prosecutor later used a peremptory challenge to request that the court excuse the juror, and the court thanked the juror and excused him. the court subsequently stated that the jurors should be open to four w enforcement officer testifies and he testifies honestly, a law 9 testifies prospective juror 18 was seated as juror 1 (we call him juror 1 hereafter). b. deliberations deliberations began on march 1, 2012. the next day, march 2, the jury sent the the jury was apparently hung, and that the court would give the jurors additional instructions. the court brought in the jury. the foreperson stated that the jury had voted four times. asked whether anyone had been talking about anything outside the evidence, split, and additional instructions would not be helpful. the court excused the jury and asked it to return the following monday to resume deliberations. that monday, march 5, 2012, the court received a question from the jury stating: -lled in the foreperson and juror 1. with the -in-law tell us how crooked the hawthorne police department was, the black officers and white ago she know how people talk. [] she used to say how crooked they were, some of the things that they did, and ii had no idea this was hawthorne police department when weyou 10 know heard the court describe witnesses as from the hawthorne police department, and juror 1 it with hawthorne police department, and that would have been the courts [sic] to either accept . . . eliberating now, are you testimony of the hawthorne police officers was burdened in any way that your sister-in- -in-l-in-law never -in-mony. nevertheless, juror 1 had requested the sidebar that the questionnaire had asked a broad question about any bad experience with law the prosecutor and the court asked juror 1 if he had told the foreman and the other in response to a question by the court, the foreperson stated that juror 1 had made a statement based on some experience that came from outside the record, something like: 11 i believe he said his sister, who worked for a police department. i believe he said hawthorne police department. [] t [juror 1] had expressed to [him] a concern about his ability to be the court gave the jury a 20-minute break. defense counsel urged the court not to re to disclose the information was significant because during voir dire, the court had specifically identified the hawthorne police department, and juror 1 should be replaced. the court expressed rest of the 12 and to determine what, if anything, juror no. 1 has said during this process that might shed some light upon whether or not he does, in fact, have a bias against m not interested in knowing where he stands with regard to the evidence . . . . [] and then i can make a call as to what i think the situation is vis--vis decision bathat will bemeet the legal standard as a demonstrable reality of misconduct unless i the court interviewed each of the jurors individually in chronological order, asking whether during deliberations any statements had been made by anyone about offered an opinion based on an experience with hawthorne police depar . . . who had worked for hawthorne police 12 e that he knows aboutthat would make his opinionsight -in-law or sister was a dispatcher in hawthorne nside the police st very specific about that there was a correlation between his sister-in-law in hawthorne and his past history, and report any statements by juror 1 about any matters outside the evidence. the court called juror 1 back into the courtroom. juror 1 stated that he began to be concerned about his sister-in-realized that the testimony was from the hawthorne police department. he felt the need to say something during deliberations. juror 1 denied that he ever said he could not be police departments. iquestions by the defense, juror 1 said he was evaluating the case only on the evidence, and had not prejudged the case before deliberations began. with the jurors out of the room, the prosecutor argued that juror 1 should be removed and replaced. juror 1 13 during voir dire and two days of testimony by hawthorne police officers, and also revealed that he failed to disclose problems with other police departments, constituting ose information which likely would have prohibited him from influencing his opinion. the defense rejoined that juror 1 had said that he was able to listen to the evidence and put his experiences aside. there is a demonstrable reality with regard to his conduct in this case. [] . . . [] in this instance we have a failure to disclose information, which does suggest a bias against that that is not the case. [] additionally, the juror did reveal through questioning at this juncture that he has prinformation acquired from his sister-in-law which caused him to concludeand he has indicated this, thathat officer iler was employed by the department at the time that his sister-in-law worked (count 2). juror 1 had also revealed his frustration related to the treatment of his friend who was arrested when they went to the hawthorne police on a traffic ticket issue. the eight also focused on law enforcement generally. disclosure with regard to these experiences with hawthorne p.d. [] i think that the subject was covered over and over during voir dire, and he made a choice, and the choice was not to disclose. [] had he disclosed, he would have definitely demonstrated a bias 14 toward hawthorthis point that he believes that he can be fair. one of the other jurors indicated that at one [] . . . [] . . . i do believe that this bias will and has beenhad any impact on this juror in the course of his deliberation and in the course of his deliberation process. for that reason i intend to discharge the juror. i believe that the entire record will provide a demonstrable reality, [that] the juror is not an unbiased juror in this case. [] . . . this is hawthorne p.d., and the testimony of hawthorne police officers is material . . . in this case. particularly on count 2 in this matter. [] so i think that the failure to disclose has resulted in juror misconduct, juror 1 and replaced him with an alternate juror. c. the record shows a demonstrable reality that juror 1 committed misconduct. s . . . possible people v. fuiava (2012) 53 cal.4th 622, 710 (fuiava)), no such error occurred in this case. submission of the case to the jury, a juror . . . becomes ill, or upon other good cause shown to the court is found to be unable to perform his or her duty . . . , the court may fuiava, supra, comprehensive and less deferential review [than the substantial evidence test]. it requires a showing that the court as trier of fact did rely on evidence that, in light of the entire record, supports its conclusion that bias was established. it is important to make clear that a reviewing court does not reweigh the evidence under either test. under the 15 demonstrable reality standard, however, the reviewing court must be confident that the ported by evidence on which the court actually relied. [] in reaching that conclusion, the reviewing panel will consider not just the id. at pp. 711712.) fuiava, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 713.) during voir dire, the trial court emphasized the need for prospective jurors to disclose everything that might affect their ability to be impartial and fair to both the prosecution and the defense. the court distributed a questionnaire to each juror that asked whether any relative or close friends had a past connection with law enforcement, whether a relative or close friend had any bad experience with a police officer, and whether the juror would automatically find the testimony of a police officer less credible because the witness was a police officer. the court identified the witnesses as hawthorne police department officers, and emphasized that the jurors should not generalize about police officers. despite these specific and repeated inquiries, juror 1 did not tell the court about his experience when his friend was handcuffed by hawthorne police, or that his sister-in-law had worked with hawthorne police (while officer iler was lized it was the hawthorne police department, he should have told the court about the two contacts with hawthorne police. nevertheless, juror 1 said he thought he could be fair, although he also conceded rs that he thought the hawthorne police were crooked. this concession corroborated the statement of the foreperson that juror 1 had stated that his sister-in-law had told him about all kinds of things that the hawthorne police did, and that the foreperson impartial. juror 4 told the court that juror 1 had said he was uncomfortable with the and juror 5 said juror 1 had conceded that his previous history with the hawthorne police 16 would change his opinion. juror 8 told the court that juror 1 said he had a specific opinion about the hawthorne police that would impact his ability to be fair. support its exercise of discretion to discharge juror 1 for misconduct in failing to reveal during voir dire that he had a negative experience with, and a negative impression of, the hawthorne police department. the record also supports the discharge of juror 1 for bias against the hawthorne police. although juror 1 said he would evaluate the case on the people v. lomax circumstances, the trial court must weigh the credibility of those testifying and draw upon its own observations of the jurors throughout the proceedings. we defer to factual ibid.) the court properly relied on evidence that in light of the entire record supports its conclusion that bias existed, and did not abuse its discretion in discharging juror 1. (fuiava, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 713.) the onstitutional rights. ii. the photo lineup shown to padilla was not unduly suggestive. testimony was tainted by the photo lineup shown to padilla by the police (and in which she identified canada), which canada characterizes as unduly suggestive. we conclude that the photo lineup was not unduly suggestive. standing next to her car in the carport when she went outside to buy milk. padilla did not testify that she saw canada again; she clarified that she had not seen canada holding a gun (although she also testified that she had seen him reach for something under the bottom of his shirt). although she told the 911 operator that she had seen the gun, she had seen only a shadow reflected inside the apartment when villanueva said he saw a man with a gun. 17 respondent argues that because padilla never testified that she saw canada with a gun, her identification of him to police as the man she saw in the carport was relevant only to count 1, assault with a firearm, as to which the jury did not reach a verdict, and [possewas outside the apartment, threatened her, and grabbed for something under his shirt, just before villanueva said he saw canada with a gun outside the apartment window. carport where the officers later found the semiautomatic pistol. the jury could infer the the issue whether canada was guilty of possession of a firearm by a felon. canada argues (as he did at trial) that the photo lineup shown to padilla was unduly suggestive because it showed canada wearing a black shirt, the same shirt he wore the night before when padilla was unable to identify him at the field showup, and no one else in the photo lineup was similarly attired. canada argues that showing padilla a photo of canada in the same clothing created a suggestive element that in effect stated: this foster v. california (1969) 394 u.s. 440, 443 [89 s.ct. 1127, 22 l.ed.2d 402].) to the contrary, when defense counsel challenged the photo lineup at trial, the court examined the lineup and stated that canada was wearing a black t-shirt without any pattern; another subject was wearing a black t-shirt with a slightly different color; only individual wearing a black or dark t-4 the court concluded that the photo lineup was not suggestive, and we agree. 4 -and-white photograph taken of canada shortly after his arrest and shown to padilla at trial to refresh her memory regarding what canada was wearing on his head the night of the 18 er to determine whether the admission of identification evidence violates a procedure was unduly suggestive and unnecessary, and, if so, (2) whether the identification itself was nevertheless reliable under the totality of the circumstances . . . . the challenged procedure was not unduly suggestive, our inquiry into the due process people v. virgil (2011) 51 cal.4th 1210, 1256.) the trial court in this case examined the photographic lineup and observed that canada was not the only subject wearing a black or dark t-shirt. further, to the extent that canada argues that it photograph after padilla did not conclusively identify canada the night before, we wup on the night of the 911 call that she was not sure canada was the perpetrator, and he might have been one of the other men in the car blocking her car. that she identified him the next day in the photographic lineup does not demonstrate that the photographic lineup was unduly suggestive. the discrepancies in her identification of canada (including her statement to the 911 operator that he was wearing a white shirt) went to the reliability of her testimony that he was the person who threatened her in the carport. the defense argued to the jury her descriptions . . . are matters affecting the weight of her ibid.) canada has not shown that the identification procedures were unduly suggestive. confrontation in the carport. the photograph shows canada wearing a black or dark t- 19 iii. no instructional error occurred. canada argues that the trial court erred in giving three instructions. we find no error. canada objected to calcrim no. 3585 at trial, and the trial court overruled the objection. canada argues that the instruction implied that he had made an admission of guilt and was therefore inappropriate, citing people v. zichko (2004) 118 cal.app.4th 1055, which held that the giving of a with the reasonable doubt standard oid. at pp. 10591060.) here, however, statement which the prosecution argued helped explain why he committed assault with a semiautomatic firearm against villanueva, the count on which the jury could not reach a verdict. under such circumstances, trial courts are required to instruct jurors sua sponte -of-court statements with caution and that the jury cannot base a conviction on such statements alone. (people v. mckinnon (2011) 52 cal.4th 610, people v. carpenter (1997) 15 cal.4th 312, 393, superseded by statute on other grounds as recognized in verdin v. superior court (2008) 47 cal.4th 1096, 11061107.) no prejudice to canada resulted from the giving of . . . is to assist the jury in determining if the statement was ibid.) 5 defendant made oral statements before the trial. you must decide whether the defendant made any of these statements, in whole or in part. if you decide that the defendant made such statements, consider the statements, along with all the other evidence, in reaching your verdict. it is up to you to decide how much importance to give to the statements. [] consider with caution any statement made by the defendant tending to show his guilt 20 canada also objects to the giving of calcrim no. 359,6 which the court gave as a matter of course with calcrim no. 358. defense counsel did not make a separate objection to calcrim no. 359.7 instructional error forfeits the question is whether the error resulted in a miscarriage of justice under people v. watson people v. anderson (2007) 152 cal.app.4th 919, 927.) calcrim no. 359 expresses the corpus delicti rule, instructing the jury not to -of-must prove the corpus delicti, or the body of the crime itselfi.e., the fact of injury, loss, or harm, and the existence of a criminal agency as its cause. in california, it has traditionally been held, the prosecution cannot satisfy this burden by relying exclusively upon the extrajudiciapeople v. alvarez (2002) 27 cal.4th 1161, 11681169; see people v. reyes (2007) 151 circumstantial and need not be statements may then be considered . . . alvarez, at p. 1171.) the sixth district recently identified a risk of confusion in calcrim no. 359: 6 any crime based on his out-of-court statements alone. you may only rely on the -of-court statements to convict him if you conclude that the other evidence shows that the charged crime was committed. [] that other evidence may be slight and need only be enough to support a reasonable inference that a crime was committed. [] the identity of the person who committed the crime may be proved by 7 o 21 not suffice to allow the jury to convict the defendant of a charged crimeand yet those onlpeople v. rivas (2013) 214 cal.app.4th 1410, 1429, fn. omitted (rivasdecision, but canada makes the related argument that calcrim no. 359 invited the jury to convict him on his statement and other evidence not amounting to proof beyond a reasonable doubt. we need not decide whether to join the sixth district in its criticism of calcrim no. 359, as even if error occurred in the giving of the instruction, it was harmless in this case. as rivas not convict a defendant unless the people have proved [his] guilt beyond a reasonable rivas, supra, 214 cal.app.4th at p. 1428, fn. 5.) the court in this case, as in rivas, also gave the jury calcrim no. 220, defining reasonable doubt. (id. at pp. 14291430.) further, the jury in this case did not convict canada of the offense closely connected with his statements to padilla, assault with a semiautomatic firearm on villanueva (count 1). nor do we see a reasonable probability that absent the arguably contradictory language in the instruction, the conviction on count 2 would not have occurred. (id. at p. 1430; people v. watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836.) there was strong evidence supporting count 2, felon in possession, the only count of conviction, t likely that the jury relied rivas, at p. 1430.)8 8 this determine whether the instruction, even if erroneous, prejudiced canada under chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 [87 s.ct. 824, 17 l.ed.2d 705]. (rivas, supra, 214 cal.app.4th at p. 1430, fn. 10). this jury declined to convict canada on count 1, to which his extrajudicial statement was directly related. 22 given our conclusion that any error in giving the standard instruction did not prejudice canada, we reject his claim that his counsel was ineffective for failing to object to the giving of calcrim no. 359. cumulative error requires reversal of his conviction. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. johnson, j. we concur: mallano, p. j. rothschild, j. 