 filed 11/14/12 p. v. hoyos ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. debbie hoyos, defendant and appellant. b241602 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma052834) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, charles a. chung, judge. affirmed. richard l. fitzer, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for respondent. 2introduction defendant and appellant debbie hoyos appeals from a judgment following her no contest plea to vandalism over $400graffiti. the trial court suspended imposition of sentence and placed defendant on formal probation for three years. we affirm. procedural background the district attorney of los angeles county filed an information that charged defendant with 10 counts of vandalism over $400graffiti. (pen. code,  594, subd. (a)1.) the information alleged that defendant committed the offenses for the benefit of, at the direction of, and in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further and assist in criminal conduct by gang members. (186.22, subd. (b)(1)(a).) defendant pleaded not guilty to all counts and denied the gang allegations. defendant filed a motion to quash and traverse the october 22, 2010, search warrant authorizing the search of herman locs myspace user profile; a motion to quash and traverse the may 5, 2011, search warrant authorizing the search of the home she shared with her brotherthe subject of the search warrant; a section 1538.5 motion to suppress evidence seized during the may 17, 2011, search of her home; and a motion to quash and traverse the search warrant authorizing a search of her facebook profile.2 each of the motions to quash and traverse the search warrants also sought to suppress the seized evidence. at the preliminary hearing, the trial court denied each of defendants suppression motions. after the preliminary hearing, defendant filed a section 1538.5 motion to suppress evidence in the superior court. the motion challenged the search of defendants 1 all statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 2 the record on appeal is somewhat unclear as to the motions defendant filed. the trial court observed that defendant filed three section 1538.5 motions. it appears that the trial court referred to the motions to quash and traverse the search warrants as section 1538.5 motions. we have reviewed the superior court file and determined that it comports with our description of defendants motions. 3backpacks, computer, and ipod, and sought to traverse the search warrant for her facebook account. the trial court denied the motion. defendant then waived her constitutional rights, withdrew her not guilty plea as to the first count of vandalism, and pleaded no contest to that count. the trial court placed defendant on formal probation for a period of three years pursuant to various terms and conditions. the trial court dismissed the remaining counts. defendant appeals from the trial courts april 24, 2012, order denying her motion to suppress. in connection with her notice of appeal, defendant requested a certificate of probable cause with respect to the motions to suppress evidence and to quash the search warrants that were heard at the preliminary hearing and renewed in the superior court. the trial court did not rule on the request. we appointed counsel to represent defendant in this appeal. after examining the record, counsel filed an opening brief in accordance with people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 requesting this court to conduct an independent review of the record to determine if there are any arguable issues. on august 27, 2012, we gave notice to defendant that counsel had failed to find any arguable issues and that defendant had 30 days within which to submit by brief or letter any grounds of appeal, contentions, or arguments she wished this court to consider. defendant did not submit a brief or letter. factual background on may 17, 2011, los angeles county deputy sheriffs searched defendants home in palmdale pursuant to a search warrant. deputy thomas inocente searched defendants bedroom. when deputy inocente entered defendants bedroom, he observed graffiti style writing on the walls. during the search, the deputy found a laptop computer. stored on the computer were photographs apparently depicting graffiti style writing, including the names debs, annoy, and the initials fdk. prior to the search, deputy inocente had been briefed that tagging monikers of interest for that location included annoy and fdk. 4 deputy inocente found a backpack in defendants closet that contained paperwork and notebooks with graffiti style writing and spray paint cans and stencils. in the deputys experience, spray paint cans and stencils are commonly used for graffiti and vandalism associated with tagging. the deputy found a second backpack on defendants bed that bore the name debs. inside the backpack was a small pouch that also bore the name debs and held a plastic pill bottle that contained a substance that resembled marijuana. deputy inocente also found an ipod in defendants bedroom. the ipod stored additional pictures of what appeared to be graffiti style writing. deputy lauren brown was the affiant for the search warrant. deputy brown had previously seen the moniker debs, but was unable to identify the person associated with that moniker prior to service of the search warrant. the deputy identified defendant as debs because graffiti found in the bedroom and on social media posts matched graffiti found on the graffiti tracker. according to deputy brown, fdk was a gang. deputy brown opined that defendant was a member of the fdk gang and testified that he was able to connect defendant to the fdk gang through, among other things, photographs from defendants computer and ipod. after the deputy advised defendant of her miranda rights, defendant denied that she was a member of fdk. defendant also denied that she had a moniker, but said that her family called her debs. deputy brown stated that defendants brother was known as annoy. deputy brown opined that defendant committed the vandalism alleged in this case in association with, at the direction of, and for the benefit of a criminal street gang. discussion we appointed counsel to represent defendant in this appeal. after examining the record, counsel filed an opening brief asking this court to independently review the record in accordance with people v. wende, supra, 25 cal.3d 436. on august 27, 2012, we gave notice to defendant that counsel had failed to find any arguable issues and that defendant had 30 days within which to submit by brief or letter any grounds of appeal, contentions, or arguments she wished this court to consider. defendant did not submit a 5brief or letter. we have examined the entire record and are satisfied that defendants counsel has fully complied with his responsibilities and that no arguable issues exist. (people v. wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at p. 441.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. mosk, j. we concur: armstrong, acting p. j. kriegler, j. 