filed 1/21/14 p. v. ortiz ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose a. ortiz, defendant and appellant. b241320 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba386275) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, monica bachner, judge. affirmed as modified. danalynn pritz, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, stephanie a. miyoshi and robert c. schneider, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ 2 jose ortiz was convicted of multiple sexual offenses for sexually abusing two children. on appeal, he contends that he received ineffective assistance of counsel because his trial attorney did not object to alleged prosecutorial misconduct and because presentence custody credits but otherwise affirm. factual and procedural background a full recitation of the facts of this case is unnecessary in light of the issues raised on appeal, which pertain to closing argument and sentencing. ortiz was charged with five sexual offenses involving two children. at trial, both victims testified in detail to the sexual abuse. three additional witnesses testified pursuant to evidence code section 1108 that as children they had been victims of sexual abuse by ortiz. finally, the jury was informed that ortiz had been convicted of lewd and lascivious conduct upon a child under the age of 14 years with respect to still another victim. ortiz testified in his own defense and denied all allegations of sexual abuse. ortiz was convicted of all charges and was sentenced to a sentence of 255 years to life in state prison. he appeals. discussion i. ineffective assistance of counsel claim: failure to object to alleged prosecutorial misconduct ortiz claims that the prosecutor committed two types of misconduct in closing argument: first, making an exhortation to convict him to prevent future victims; and second, improperly shifting the burden of proof to him. ortiz did not object to this argument and therefore has waived any error in the closing argument (see, e.g., people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 989). we address the merits of however, because he argues that his trial counsels failure to object constituted ineffective assistance of counsel within the meaning of strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 3 668 because there could be no valid tactical reason for failing to object. (see people v. nation (1980) 26 cal.3d 169, 179.) a. call to convict ortiz wo who were the subject of the instant charges and the four others concerning whom evidence was received at trial) in chronological order and noting that ortiz had been committing sexual offenses from the early 1980s through the 2000s. the prosecutor sastop him. he has to stop abusing children, and you have to stop him. he has to stop destroying lives. and he needs to be held accountable for what he did to [the two victims of the charged he right thing and convict this need to stop the defendant before he is allowed to get to the next generation of victims. you need to hold him accountable for what he did to [the two victims of the charged offenses] hold the defendant accountable for what he did to [the two victims of the charged offenses]. sfive out of six victims in this case, and you need to hold him accountable so he may not ortiz argues that the prosecutor committed misconduct with these statements prosecutor repeatedly urged the jury to punish appellant to protect potential future victims. this argument impermissibly placed upon the jury the responsibility to prevent we find no misconduct here. the prosecutor argued that holding ortiz accountable on the charged offenses would have the effect of stopping him from committing still more sexual offenses against children. there was abundant evidence in the record to support the argument that ortiz was a serial sexual abuser, 4 committing sexual crimes against six children over multiple decades, and this evidence s course of conduct led to the reasonable belief that he would continue to commit sexual offenses against new victims. inappropriate comment when there is sufficient evidence in the record to support the people v. hughey (1987) 194 cal.app.3d 1383, 1396.) the prosecutor was not offering unsworn testimony that those who commit one sexual crime would likely people v. whitehead (1957) 148 cal.app.2d 701, 705, or placing upon the jurors the responsibilit, as in people v. pitts (1990) 223 cal.app.3d 606, 702, as ortiz suggests. instead, the prosecutor repeatedly asked that the jury hold ortiz accountable for what he had done to the victims in this case and, by doing so, to prevent him from reaching another generation of victims. we find no improper attempt to appeal to sympathy, passion, or emotion here. b. alleged burden-shifting after defense counsel made his closing argument, the prosecutor began her final closing argument by telling the jury that this was her opportunity to respond to the really hard job today because he has to try to explain to you the unexplainable, how this defendant could havehe has to explain how the evidence fails to meet that really high standard. and the fact is the evidence is overwhelming that the defendant committed these words, the prosecutor was arguing that the defendant was required to explain how the evidence failed to prove him guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, thus impermissibly shifting the burden of proof. he argues that this case is similar to people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, at pages 831 through 832, in that burden of proving every element of the charged offenses beyond a reasonable doubt or claiming that there must be some affirmative evidence demonstrating a reasonable doubt. 5 of the evidence and upon the failure, if any, of the people to prove beyond a reasonable doubt every essential element of the charge, in this case, ortiz did not choose to do that. he took the witness stand and denied all wrongdoing. once a defendant presents evidence, it is subject to critical examination and comment. (people v. chatman (2006) 38 cal.4th 344, 403-407.) when the prosecutor made the challenged comments, defense counsel had just finished his closing argument, in which he argued that while there might be a preponderance of evidence of guilt, the people had fallen short of proving that ortiz committed the charged crimes beyond a reasonable doubt. the prosecutor, in her final summation, responded critically to this contention. rather than simply arguing that the evidence was sufficient to convict, she framed her argument in terms of sympathy for in closing argument, defense counsel was placed by the [ed] to meet that overwhelming in nature. with her comment on rebuttal, the prosecutor did not instruct the jury on the law or allocate any burden of proof to the defense, but merely observed that it was a significant challenge for defense counsel to make his argument of insufficient evidence in light of the overwhelming nature of the evidence. nor did the prosecutor lessen her own burden of proof, for she emphasized that the prosec standard of proof is , and her observation was not reasonably likely to have been construed as shifting the burden of proof to the defense. as we do not find any effective for failing to object. ii. ineffective assistance of counsel claim: at closing argument, defense counsel attempted to distinguish between the charged and uncharged offenses and to convince the jury that no matter what it thought about ortiz or the uncharged offenses, the prosecution had not offered enough evidence 6 the entire weekend is [that] the prosecutor was going to get up and give a really powerful put together a powerful case that mr. ortiz committed crimes against these uncharged victims. the problem is that she failed to put together a case that contains proof beyond a ffective assistance of counsel. he argues that there was no valid tactical reason for making this concession; notes that because ortiz had denied not only the charged sexual offenses but the uncharged ones as well, counsel was conceding crimes that ortiz himself had denied; and asserts that the argument undermined him and led the jury to convict him. people v. freeman (1994) 8 cal.4th 450, 498.) concession of some measure of culpability is not ineffective assistance of counsel when the evidence is strong and the concession is made strategically in an attempt to gain some other advantage. (see, e.g., people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 334-335 [concession of some criminal conduct a reasonable trial tactic in light of strong evidence where concession permitted counsel to urge a guilty verdict on lesser included offenses and to preserve credibility in case of a penalty phase].) it is clear from the closing argument that counsel conceded the uncharged acts in an effort to establish a contrast between those offenseswhich could not be the basis for criminal liability in the present actionand the charged offenses, which, if proven, exposed ortiz to hundreds of years in prison. after the opening set forth above, counsel discussed the difference between proof beyond a reasonable doubt and proof by a preponderance of the evidence. he conceded that with respect to the uncharged acts, the prosecutor had met the burden of proof by a preponderance of the evidence, but argued that the same could not be said for the elements of the charged crimes, which had to be proven beyond a reasonable doubt. he t these [uncharged crimes] 7 were committed. those crimes were committed. but with the crimes charged against the two girls . . . response team] nurses came in and said that there was an examination of the vaginal [and] anal area of these children, and they children were coached to make these allegations; reiterated the absence of medical evidence of abuse; that the victims had a motive to fabricate their accounts; and, finally, returned to his central theme, that there may have been but cal decision to cede some ground that was not critical in order to establish some credibility on the part of the defense through candor (see, e.g., people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 219-220), to highlight the operation of the different burdens of proof at play in the proceeding, and to attempt to create a perception of a distinction between the strength of the evidence of the charged and uncharged offenses. under the circumstances, conceding some measure of culpability was a valid tactical choice. iii. presentence custody credits credits were incorrectly calculated. first, ortiz was awarded 270 days of actual credit, although the records indicate that he served 316 days prior to sentencing. also, he received 20 days of conduct credits, but under penal code section 2933.1 he was entitled to 47 days of conduct credits. we modify the judgment accordingly. 8 disposition the judgment is modified to reflect 316 days of actual custody credits in addition to presentence credits in the amount of 47 days, for a total of 363 days of presentence custody credits. the clerk of the superior court is ordered to prepare an amended abstract of judgment as set forth in this opinion and to forward a copy to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. zelon, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. segal, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 