filed 3/29/13 p. v. buckner ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. angelnette t. buckner, defendant and appellant. b241473 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba379659) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. ronald h. rose, judge. reversed with directions. thomas k. macomber, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and john yang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________ 2 suppress marijuana and other items seized during a warrantless search of her apartment. we reverse the direct the court to grant her motion to suppress, and remand for further proceedings. facts and proceedings one evening in january 2011, los angeles police officer alfred gonzales was on patrol with his partner shortly before 6:00 p.m. when a radio call directed them to a second floor apartment of a multi-unit building on south occidental street. when they arrived at the location, they took the elevator to the second floor. as they got out of the building hallway. they walked approximately 75 feet from the elevator to the apartment. as they approached the apartment, the marijuana smell strengthened, but officer officers drew close to the apartment, officer gonzales saw its door was ajar about six- to eight-inches and an electrical extension cord ran from a hallway outlet into the dark apartment. the officers paused to listen for any sound. about 30 to 45 seconds later, officer gonzales heard an unintelligible male voice in the apartment. without believing the occupants might be destroying evidence, the officers pushed the door open and entered the apartment without a warrant. illuminating the apartment with his flashlight, officer gonzales saw appellant, two men, and what appeared to be marijuana on a coffee table. officer gonzales testified that he entered the apartment based on the h the smell of the marijuana coming from the room, also based on the comments of the call, i believed this was possibly a narcotics location and that there was potential they could be destroying 3 officer gonzales asked appellant and the two men to step out into the hallway. the officers then searched the apartment, recovering cash and marijuana.1 the people charged appellant with possession of marijuana for sale. appellant pleaded not guilty and filed a motion to suppress the evidence seized from her apartment. (pen. code,  juana gave the officers probable cause to seek a search warrant, but argued that the circumstances known to the officers when they stood outside her apartment did not create exigent circumstances, such were destroying evidence, to justify their warrantless entry into her apartment. rimmediate response. the issue is whether or not that is sufficient for them just to walk in to make contact with the individuals, and the odor of marijuana is overwhelming if they a small quantity. clearly, there must be a much larger quantity or it was recently smoked if somebody is able to smell it from that distance. [] so at this point, i will deny the plea and pleaded no contest. the court suspended the proceedings and imposition of 1 after officer gonzales directed appellant and her companions to the hallway, he consent to was not voluntary following her removal from the apartment. as the court explained in boils down to whether or not the officers could walk into the apartment because once they removed the defendant from the apartment, they get consent to search. so the issue is the initial entry (italics added.) moreover, the attorney genera-the- 4 al probation and time served. this appeal followed. discussion appellant argues, and the attorney general accepts, that a warrantless entry and unreasonable under the united states and california constitutions. (people v. torres (2012) 205 cal.app.4th 989, 993 (torres).) the attorney general acknowledges that the people bear the burden of showing exigent circumstance to rebut the presumption of unreasonableness. (people v. rios (1976) 16 cal.3d 351, 355-56.) the attorney general asserts exigent circumstances existed here because officer gonzales believed the people v. ramey (1976) 16 cal.3d 263, 276 exigent circumto prevent imminent danger to life or serious damage to property, or to forestall the circumstances known to officer gonzales did not permit him to conclude appellant and her companions were destroying evidence of a sufficiently serious crime to permit a warrantless entry into her apartment.2 we agree. evidence. we independently review the constitutional reasonableness of a warrantless entry and search. (in re raymond c. (2008) 45 cal.4th 303, 306; people v. glaser (1995) 11 cal.4th 354, 362; torres, supra, 205 cal.app.4th at p. 993.) we measure the exigency arising from suspected destruction of evidence by the facts known by the officers at the time of the search. (people v. panah (2005) 35 cal.4th 395, 465; people v. ramey, supra, 16 cal.3d at p. people v. gentry (1992) 7 destruction of evidence is imminent. (torres at p. 994; people v. thompson (2006) 2 appellant concedes the circumstances, on the other hand, gave the officers probable cause to seek a search warrant, but they did not do so here. 5 38 cal.4th 811, 817-818.) fear or apprehension alone that evidence will be destroyed gentry at p. 1262.) when establishing exigent circumstances, it is not sufficient to merely state that the evidence is on the premises. [citation.] there must be some proof that shows the removal or united states v. driver (1985) 776 f.2d 807, 811.) finally, the officers must reasonably believe the evidence about to be destroyed is of a crime for which incarceration is a possible punishment. (people v. hua (2008) 158 cal.app.4th 1027, 1034 (hua approached the apartment. standing outside the apartment, he saw an electrical cord running from a hallway outlet into the apartment through a slightly open door. but a reason for entering the apartment. and the mere smell of marijuana does not, by itself, justify a warrantless entry into a residence.3 (hua, supra, 158 cal.app.4th at pp. 1035-1036.) possession of less than one ounce of marijuana is an infraction for which the maximum penalty is a fine of no more than $100. (health & saf. code,  11357, subd. (b).) the nonjailable consequence of simple possession of a small amount of marijuana creates an important demarcation in what police may, and may not do, when they smell marijuana.4 3 indeed, simple possession for personal use of marijuana might not even be illegal under state law if the use is medicinal. although not known to officer gonzales when he entered marijuana which she may continue to use under the terms of her probation. 4 because simple possession of less than one ounce of marijuana is no longer a jailable offense, the atguidi v. superior court (1973) 10 cal.3d 1 and vaillancourt v. superior court (1969) 273 cal.app.2d 791 from decades ago when possession of any amount of marijuana was a jailable offense is misplaced. (torres, supra, 205 cal.app.4th at p. 997.) 6 two decisions illustrate that the balancing in hua, supra, id. at p. 1030.) as they approached the noisy apartment, th evidence of a possible crime was thus literally going up in smoke. they knocked on the apartment door and, officers saw several people inside, one of whom inhaled from what appeared to be a underway. the defendant then opened the door. the officers told the defendant they were apartment. he refused, but the officers went inside anyway. (id. at p. 1031.) on review, the hua seeing someone smoke marijuana even though the act of smoking was destroying evidence. the hua a finding of exigent circumstances is categorically precluded when the only crime the police are aware of when they enter a residence to arrest the occupant and/or seize contraband is possession of no more than 28.5 grams of hua, supra, 158 cal.app.4th at p. 1030.) the attorney general argued the officers had reason to believe the defendant possessed more than one ounce of marijuana, which is a jailable offense that would permit a warrantless entry to preserve evidence from imminent destruction. but the hua argument as conjecture. the court stated, while we accept the reasonable possibility that there was more marijuana in the apartment than the two blunts observed by the officers, it is mere conjecture to conclude that there was enough to constitute a jailable id. at p. 1036.) the hua homes. the court explained: california has chosen to treat the offense of possession of less than 28.5 grams of marijuana as a minor offense that is nonjailable even for repeat 7 offenders. . . . [o]ne consequence of that decision is to preclude officers who see this offense being committed from entering a home without a warrant or consent to seize the offender or the contraband, in order to prevent the imminent destruction of evidence of id. at p. 1037.) our decision in torres, supra, 205 cal.app.4th 989 embraced hua. in torres, two or three feet from a hotel room door. (torres at p. occupants were smoking marijuana, the officers entered the room without a warrant. the motion to suppress the marijuana, finding police officers could lawfully enter the hotel room to prevent marijuana from being destroyed or id. at p. 993) we reversed the trial court because the officers had no specific and articulable facts supporting probable cause to believe destruction of evidence of a jailable offense was imminent. we explained, police only smelled the odor of burning marijuana. they had no other information about marijuana possession or any other marijuana-related crime occurring in the hotel room. no evidence indicated the officers had reason to fear the imminent destruction of evidence of a jailable offense. . . . [a] belief that evidence of a nonjailable offense will be imminently destroyed is not sufficient to justify a warrantless entry based on exigent id. at p. 995.) the attorney general distinguishes hua and torres circumstances, but the distinctions are unavailing. the attorney general notes, for example, that hua and torres did not involve marijuana smelled 75 feet away. according to the attorney general, an odor wafting such a distance suggests a large amount of marijuana. moreover, according to the attorney general, the electrical extension cord suggested appellant might have been drawing extra electricity for grow-lights to cultivate marijuana inside the apartment, again suggesting a large amount of 8 of marijuana inside the apartment was just that. he conceded he could not tell whether pungency and the amount of marijuana. also, officer gonzales and his partner did not e the apartment meant the occupants were trying to keep evidence from the police by destroying it was speculation because the occupants did not know it was police who had knocked. (people v. gentry, supra, 7 cal.app.4th at p. objectively reasonable basis for contrast people v. ortiz (1995) 32 cal.app.4th 286, 290, 293 [officers in line of sight of defendant inside hotel room, thus reasonable for officers to believe defendant might try to destroy evidence before officers could seize it].) as for the extension cord, officer gonzales did not testify he thought appellant was stealing electricity as his reason for entering the apartment without a won appeal (but not urged by the people in the trial court) that an extension cord running into a dark apartment suggested marijuana cultivation, instead of, say, electrical problems inside the apartment, finds no support in the record. the attorney general asserts appellant failed to preserve her argument that officer gonzales and his partner had no grounds to believe appellant possessed more than one ounce of marijuana. thus, according to the attorney general, appellant has had the burden of producing evidence that the amount of marijuana was less than one o suppress argued the smell of marijuana did not give officer gonzales and his partner enough facts to justify a people bore the burden of showing the officers had probable cause to believe an exigent circumstance existed, such as the destruction of more than one ounce of marijuana. (people v. rios (1976) 16 cal.3d 351, 355-9 need to create a road map of each element the prosecution must prove for the trial court efendants must specify the precise grounds for suppression of the evidence in question, and, where a warrantless search or seizure is the basis for the motion, this burden includes specifying the inadequacy of any justifications for the search or seizure. in the interest of efficiency, however, defendants need not guess what justifications the prosecution will argue. instead, they can wait for the prosecution to present a justification. moreovejustifications, defendants do not have to help the prosecution step-by-step to make its case. the degree of specificity that is appropriate will depend on the legal issue the defendant is raising and the surrounding circumstances. defendants need only be specific enough to give the prosecution and the court reasonable notice. defendants cannot, however, lay a trap for the prosecution by remaining completely silent until the appeal about issues the prospeople v. williams (1999) 20 cal.4th 119, 127, 130-131 [motion to suppress that focused on lack of probable cause contents, preserved appellate challenge to inventory search].) in torresattempted distinction between hua and torres duty to prove the defendant possessed less than one ounce of marijuana. in hua, the officers saw through open window blinds only one person smoking marijuana, which tended to suggest the defendant possessed a small amount of marijuana. but in torres, the officers did not make any observation through a closed hotel door that might have suggested only a small amount of marijuana was inside the hotel room. we said in torres, this is not a meaningful distinction. in both cases, police officers smelled marijuana burning from outside the residence. in this case, the smell was the only indication police had that marijuana was being consumed. in both cases, police officers had no basis other than speculation to believe that more than 28.5 grams of marijuana was being possessed in the residence. as explained in welsh, burden when attempting to demonstrate an urgent need that might justify warrantless 10 possessing more than 28.5 grams of marijuana based on nothing more than the smell of burning marijuana emanating from the residence, with no other details, does not meet that torres, supra, 205 cal.app.4th at p. 996.) likewise here. officer gonzales smelled marijuana, but he could not tell whether it was burnt or fresh. thus, the amount of marijuana inside the apartment was conjecture. speculation that the amount may have been more than one ounce did not support the warrantless entry. (ibid.) the attorney general asserts hua and torres were wrongly decided. the attorney general acknowledges advancing the assertion in order to preserve the attorney but stand by our decision in torres, and its reliance on hua, as correctly decided. disposition motion to suppress evidence seized from her apartment. the matter is remanded for further proceedings. rubin, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. grimes, j. 