filed 8/6/13 p. v. vigeant ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. anthony vigeant, defendant and appellant. b241378 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na075960) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. mark c. kim, judge. affirmed. leslie conrad, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, eric e. reynolds and william h. shin, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________________________ 2 requesting a new trial, the striking of the special circumstance, and the appointment of an expert. in july 2009, vigeant was convicted of the first degree murder of david pettigrew with special circumstances (pen. code,  187, subd. (a), 190.2, subd. (a)(17))1 (count 1), attempted robbery ( 664/211) (count 2), and first degree burglary ( 459) (count 3). the jury found that a principal was armed with a firearm during the commission of all counts. ( 12022, subd. (a)(1).) after denial of the new trial motion and other motions, the trial court sentenced vigeant to life in prison without the possibility of parole (lwop) in count 1, a consecutive term of four years six months in count 2, and an additional year for the principal-armed enhancement. the court stayed the sentence in count 3 under section 654. vigeant appeals on the grounds that: (1) the trial court prejudicially erred in denying his motion for new trial, requiring reversal; (2) the trial court abused its discretion by refusing to hold an evidentiary hearing and to appoint a clinical neuropsychologist, and the errors prejudicially denied vigeant his constitutional rights; sentence in count 2 must be stayed under section 654. factual history2 efendant in the shooting death of pettigrew. he had pleaded guilty to one count of murder and had admitted the special circumstances that the murder was committed during the course of a residential burglary and during the course of an attempted robbery. he had admitted to 1 all further references to statutes are to the penal code unless stated otherwise. 2 prior opinion in people v. landers, et al. (jun. 28, 2011, b218366) (nonpub. opn.). this people v. landers, et al., the case in which vigeant and his codefendant, landers, appealed from their convictions. this court also granted respondentpetition for writ of habeas corpus, in re vigeant (jun. 28, 2011, b231443). 3 the personal use of a firearm and pleaded guilty to the attempted residential robbery and residential burglary counts. he had not yet been sentenced. hernandez had not been offered any deal or plea bargain and had not asked for one. he pleaded guilty to accept responsibility for his actions. he was not offered any ce to the hernandez was a marine who had done two tours in iraq. he was injured when a suicide vehicle exploded near him and shrapnel entered his head. he lost his left eye, his sense of smell, his left frontal lobe, and part of his right frontal lobe. he suffered nerve damage in his right arm and hand. his brain injury affected his thinking and caused him to be more emotional than before, but his ability to feel empathy with others was not have done, and he sometimes processed information more slowly. hernandez met fellow marine vigeant at camp pendleton marine corps base. e point, hernandez talked to them about iraq and his injuries. hernandez acknowledged that he did not discuss the emotional or psychological issues related to his injuries with landers and vigeant. hernandez heard landers complain about his problems with pettigrew, whom hernandez did not know. landers said that pettigrew owed him some cocaine, and vigeant had left his laptop computer with pettigrew as collateral for the cocaine. landers believed that pettigrew was dodging him. although pettigrew had told landers he could turning off his cell phone whenever landers called him. hernandez heard landers and vigeant threatening pettigrew over the telephone. during a period of two and one-half hours, landers and vigeant left four threatening and the early morning of september 8, 2007. 4 on the evening of september 9, 2007, hernandez was drinking with vigeant and telephoned vigeant there and asked vigeant to pick him up. vigeant eventually agreed, and hernandez went with vigeant so as not to be stranded. when landers joined them, landers began complaining again about pettigrew dodging him. landers said pettigrew ass . . . hernandez told landers that he had a handgun, whereupon landers became wanted to get the gun to shoot pettigrew. vigeant also said he wanted hernandez to get his gun, and he said he wanted pettigrew to be killed. the only reason that hernandez vigeant were looking for someone with a gun. -minute drive south, and hernandez retrieved the gun from his car. they then began driving northward to long beach. landers drove, vigeant was in the front passenger seat, and hernandez was in the rear seat. at some point during the two-hour drive, hernandez asked the other men what they wanted him to do, and they said they wanted pettigrew to be shot. hernandez told them that there was a difference between being shot and being vigeant did not say anythihad the lead role, but vigeant joined in the response that he wanted the man killed. as they drove northward, hernandez fired the gun out the window of the car in the camp pendleton area. he asked landers and vigeant more than once what they wanted, did not like the fact that pettigrew was messing with fellow marines. when they arrived at their destination, they all got out of the car and headed to 5 what he wanted, then hernandez was going anned to have all three of them hop the fence past her window by means of a walkway that was closed off to tenants and the public. when potter challenged the man, he said he was locked out and was trying to get in his window. potter believed she heard a gunshot approximately 20 minutes after she saw the man. hernandez asked to see a floor same: go in, get this guy to give us the coke, and, if not, that he was supposed to get the three men entered that he could push it open, which he did. landers entered first, then vigeant, then hernandez. once they had quietly entered the dark apartment, either landers or vigeant turned on a lamp. hernandez then saw pettigrew, but landers and vigeant had already gone through another doorway inside the apartment. although the two men were being quiet, hernandez could hear them moving things around. hernandez saw that pettigrew was passed out. pettigrew awoke and saw hernandez, whom he did not know. he just looked at hernandez and said nothing. they were, like, the coke. ders asked pettigrew if he was on oxycontin, and pettigrew said he was. pettigrew said he would call his 6 connection and get the coke. pettigrew pushed some buttons on his cell phone and he fuck? . . . that pettigrew get the cocaine, and pettigrew again attempted to make a phone call. after no more than 20 minutes, hernandez pulled out his pistol and told pettigrew he had something that would refresh his memory. hernandez jammed the pistol into pettigrew continued to push buttons on his phone. hernandez told him that he would give him 10 seconds. if pettigrew had not produced something at the end of those 10 seconds, hernandez was going to shoot him. neither landers nor vigeant said anything or attempted to stop hernandez. neither told him to put the gun away. they he makes it to 10 he is going to shoot you, so hurry up, get on the phone, call your dealer and get t hernandez began counting. he counted very slowly, waiting approximately 10 or 15 seconds between each number. when he got to 10, he shot pettigrew from a distance of approximately four feet. he did so because that is what landers and vigeant had brought him along to do. he did it to back up his fellow marines. at no time during the shooting pettigrew. landers and vigeant were telling pettigrew to come up with the stuff or hernandez would shoot him. when hernandez shot pettigrew, landers and vigeant were shocked. hernandez believed the shock was not caused by the fact that the shot actually occurred but rather because they were shocked at what they sawthey were not conditioned to see something like that. they knew they were all there to shoot pettigrew. landers jumped mouth and his eyes wide open. the three men ran to the car. landers drove around 7 aimlessly for about half an hour until hernandez told him that they needed to get back on the freeway. vigeant was hysterical. hernandez explained that, when he said vigeant police would show up. he was not crying, and landers was not crying either. hernandez repeated that after he asked landers and vigeant if they wanted the trip between camp pendleton and long beach, when they got to long beach, before they left the barracks, and just before they entand vigeant looked at the gun during the trip, and vigeant played with it until he was told to stop it. before the shot was fired, neither landers nor vigeant told hernandez not to do it. hernandez said that when he told defense counsel on cross-examination that he did not intend to kill pettigrew, he meant that he did not want him dead. it was not up to him. he did not even know him. however, he was willing to kill him because landers and vigeant had asked him to do so. the rationale was that pettigrew was messing with that he shot pettigrew because hernandez had given pettigrew a specific order and pettigrew had not obeyed it. after the shooting, the three men drove back to camp pendleton, stopping on the shooting. they agreed not to say anything and to pretend they did not know each other. should have shot pettigrew two more times to ensure he was dead. on the day after the shooting, september 10, 2007, mauricio rosales, a maintenance man, noticed an apartmlooked inside, he saw a man slumped down on the sofa with a cell phone in his right hand. the man was bloody and was not breathing. rosales called 911. 8 police officers responded to the scene. a nine-millimeter casing and an expended round were collected in the apartment. dr. raffi djabourian, a deputy medical examiner, testified that pettigrew had a bullet entrance wound at the left temple that exited on the back of the head. the wound was rapidly fatal. the victim was found still holding his cell phone due to a rapid onset of rigor. none of the various drugs found in his system contributed to his death. detective scott lasch was assigned to the pettigrew murder case along with detective malcolm evans. they did not find any narcotics or drug-dealing paraphernalia was issued to vigeant on september 6, 2007 (three days before the shooting), in the area of his death and two days before his death. two days before the shooting, vigeant said: - - b-really ugly, and we know where to find you. not only at your apartment, but we got 9 detective bryan mcmahon investigated cell site hits for telephones linked to landers and vigeant. he discovered that the hits on the cell sites during the evening of no. 5 freeway, the no. 22 freeway, and all the way to long beach. a cluster of hits at a certain point led the investigators to go to that location, and they located a gas station that showed vigeant, landers, and hernandez pulling up to the pumps at 8:40 p.m. they all got out of the car. vigeant is seen talking on his cell phone, and landers also used his cell phone. the footage showed landers driving away from the gas station at 8:51 p.m. after landers was arrested in the bay area by united states marshalls, detective robbins interviewed landers in the contra costa county jail on september 27. when shown a photograph of his cousin, vigeant, landers said he did not know him. landers said he did not know hernandez when shown a photograph of him. landers said he had not been in long beach in the preceding weeks. landers acknowledged that he was due back at camp pendleton on september 24, 2007, and had failed to show up. he said it was because he had been scheduled to go to iraq on september 28, and he did not want to go. detective mcmahon testified that he made a series of phone calls to vigeant on september 23, 2007, between 4:32 p.m. and 6:45 p.m. not all of the calls were answered. an audio recording of the calls was played for the jury. vigeant exchanged introduced himself. when asked if he knew anybody that had recently been murdered down in long beach, vhe said david was his 10 just after midniin long beach. vigeant said that landers knew pettigrew from school. when the detective asked vigeant how he could be contacted, vigeant replied that he had just moved into his barracks two weeks earlier and was not sure the detective could contact him there. when asked again about phone calls to pettigrew, vigeant claimed he had lent his phone to a friend named hernandez, but hernandez did not know pettigrew. vigeant had not seen pettthe detective stated that he was trying to figure out what happened to pettigrew. vigeant vigeant expressed surprise. vigeant told the detective that he had gone to a going-away party at the home of a corporal schrader on september 8, 2007, a saturday. he was at the party from 4:00 or 5:00 until 1:00 or 2:00 the next morning. he then said he called pettigrew from the party to ask for his laptop. in a subsequent phone call, detective mcmahon clarified to vigeant that the murder took place on sunday, september 9. vigeant said he was alone detective mcmahon interviewed hernandez on september 28, 2007. hernandez initially denied going to long beach. after being told that another suspect was in custody, hernandez related the events on the night of the murder. an audio recording of e jury. arizona, where hernandez had directed him to look. the gun was a browning high-power nine-long beac 11 discussion i. new trial motion vigeant contends that the trial court erroneously denied his motion for new trial on the grounds of ineffective assistance of counsel. according to vigeant, his trial counsel, investigate them, consult an expert, and introduce expert testimony on the nature of consult an expert to prepare for -examination and testify as necessary. b. relevant authority ineffective assistance of counsel, if proven, is a valid, nonstatutory ground for a new trial. (people v. fosselman (1983) 33 cal.3d 572, 582-583; people v. reed (2010) 183 cal.app.4th 1137, 1143.) upon appeal from the denial of a new trial motion based on a claim of ineffective assistance or other denial of constitutional rights, we apply two distinct standards of review. we defer to the trsubstantial evidence, but we exercise de novo review over the ultimate issue of whether people v. taylor (1984) 162 cal.app.3d 720, 724-725.) on appeal, to establish ineffective assistance of counsel, a defendant has the performance resulted in prproper functioning of the adversarial process that the trial cannot be relied on as having people v. andrade (2000) 79 cal.app.4th 651, 659-660; see also strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 686-687 (stricklandpeople v. fairbank (1997) 16 cal.4th 1223, 1241.) a court need not assess 12 the two factors of the inquiry in order. if there is an inadequate showing on either factor, it need not be addressed. (strickland, at p. 697.) in examining claims of ineffective assistance of counsel, we give great deference s. (people v. hinton (2006) 37 cal.4th 839, 876.) a defendant must establish that the challenged act or omission did not result from an informed tactical choice within the range of reasonable competence. (people v. pope (1979) 23 cal.3d 412, 425.) in order to establish ineffective assistance based on an particular investigations and that the omissions resulted in the denial of or inadequate presentation of a potentiallin re sixto (1989) 48 cal.3d 1247, 1257.) at the same time, any tactical choices regarding the preparation of the case and the focus of the investigation in one area rather than another must be reasonable under prevailing professional norms. (wiggins v. smith (2003) 539 u.s. 510, 521-522.) precisely to the extent that reasonable professional judgments support the limitations on investigation. in other words, counsel has a duty to make reasonable investigations or to id. at p. 521.) appellate courts must refrain from second-ineffectiveness case, a particular decision not to investigate must be directly assessed for reasonableness in all the circumstances, applying a heavy measure of deference to id. at pp. 521-522.) with respect to a claim that counsel has withdrawn a defense, our supreme court potentially meritorious, and that petitioner was denied an adjudication on the matter people v. shaw (1984) 35 cal.3d 535, 541.) a crucial defense is not necessarily one that would result ibid.) 13 c. proceedings below in the instant case, after denying the motion for an evidentiary hearing, the trial defense counsel for the new trial motion, gregorio roman, addressed the court, stating that vigeant was seeking new trial on three grounds: ineffective assistance of counsel, insufficiency of the evidence, and newly discovered evidence consisting of a letter abilities, although trial counsel, cohn, was aware of them. with respect to vigeant, cohn did not investigate his attention deficit disorder or his auditory deficit. as support for this contention, roman cited the report by dr. harvey e. dondershine and the affidavit of james d. gregory, a california attorney. that this mental deficit probably have been different. with respect to hernandez, roman argued, cohn failed to obtain his medical records. these records showed hernandez suffered from many psychiatric disorders. cohneuropsychological findings had been uncovered by cohn and presented to the jury, they t result. in denying the motion, the trial court cited salient portions of the evidence against vigeant and found it sufficient. the court found that the letter from hernandez that was claimed to be newly discovered evidence was not evidencemerely a letter in which hernandez accepted responsibility, which he had done at trial. as for ineffective 14 d. new trial motion properly denied deficits, and the prevailing professional norms obligated him to investigate these deficits, neurodevelopmental disabilities. at the close of the trial of vigeant and landers, the trial court held a marsden3 hearing when vigeant said he no longer wished to be represented by cohn, his retained counsel. at the hearing, vigeant voiced a multitude of complaints, among them that cohn did from vigeant that vigeant did not understand what cohn was telling him, what the told him that her son had add, but cohn never saw any evidence of it and did not see any problems wdifficulty communicating with vigeant during jail visits or court sessions. cohn had not had any problems at all in preparing a defense because of any intellectual, mental or emotional disabilities that vigeant had. ohn, and cohn went on to resulted in a remand for resentencing on appeal. vigeant also filed a petition for writ of habeas corpus on the ground that he was deni 3 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 (marsden.) 15 disabilitiesthe same grounds on which he later sought a new trial. the record from vigeacohn that vigeant had add and an auditory processing disability. she expressed her conccourtroom and by cohn. scheer stated that she provided cohn with (1) copies of records ation audiological evaluation obtained through the john muir medical center. her stated acknowledged receipt of the information and told scheer that vigeant seemed to understand cohn. auditory processing disability, had been diagnosed with add, and recommended a plan of action. the evaluation obtained through the john muir medical center was performed when vigeant was six and a half years old. the evaluation noted multiple weak areas in innate factor. when vigeant was eight years old. the report stated that vigeant had exhibited auditory processing difficulties for linguistic information, but his extremely short attention span could have confounded the test results. it was recommended that he undergo a speech and language evaluation. the records note that vigeant had a very short attention span. the bay area research institute records are from 2003 through 2004, when geant was based on symptoms reported by vigeant and his mother. dr. kathleen toups, who conducted 16 stating that attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (adhd) causes deficits in executive functioning and that the impairment is not generally outgrown. this letter states that were self-reported. the records have been beneficial. considering the totality of the information cohn received, we cannot conclude that trial counsel was ineffective people v. stewart (2004) 33 cal.4th 425, 459.) competent counsel, when presented with information that a client was diagnosed in childhood with a central auditory processing deficit and add or adhd and that the client had participated in a clinical trial at the ages of 16 and 17, could reasonably conclude that his impairments would not rise to the level of a viable defense. as cohn informed the trial court, he had met with vigeant 20 to 25 times. he had gone over discovery with vigeant and discussed his version of events and defenses with him. furthermore, after high school vigeant was accepted into the marine corps at the age of 19 and was four months short of his 21st birthday when the instant crimes were committed. of his brain injuries and the effects the injuries had on him. at trial, cohn cross-examined hernandez about the inconsistencies in his trial testimony and his former their effect on him as a factor in his unreliable testimony about vigeant and as the sole 17 records and in not hiring an expert to analyze them. we do not agree witin the declaration of attorney james d. gregory, which is essentially the same in the habeas petition (exhibit d) and the new trial motion, gregory offers his opinion that an attorney is unqualified to make a determination whether his client suffers from a mental and understand how it provided a potential meritorious defense to the charged offenses. expert meant that he failed to understand the relevance of the medical records to the issue of legal intent, and he was unable to assess the weight to be given the medical evidence in planning his defense strategy. the records cohn received from scheer do not support these opinions. the information provided to cohn indicated that vigeant went untreated for any mental disorder between the ages of eight and 17. vigeant then participated in a clinical trial for approximately seven months and did not seek to continue medication after the clinical trial ended. he was then able to graduate from high school and join the mental state defense seems likely, is not unreasonable under strickland(wilson v. henry (9th cir. 1999) 185 f.3d 986, 990.) does not include the distorting effects of hindsight, but rather evaluates such at the time people v. adkins (2002) 103 cal.app.4th 942, 950.) reasonable counsel might question the merits of a defense based on a disorder for which vigeant sought no treatment. this was evident from the medical records. cohn did not need the aid of an expert to appreciate their significance or lack thereof, especially since vigeant exhibited no symptoms in his dealings with counsel. 18 moreover, vigeant cannot show he suffered prejudice from a failure to consult contends he suffered prejudice because, had the jury been able to view his participation in the crimes in the light of his neuropsychiatric deficits, and had it been presented with a equal participant. it would have rejected the idea that he had the required specific intent in the charged offenses, or it would have determined that the people failed to prove intent beyond a reasonable doubt. at the very least, he asserts, it is reasonably probable the jury would have determined that the people failed to prove the special circumstances. with respect to vigeant, when examining prejudice in the context of ineffective assistance of counsel claims based on a duty to investigate, we also look to the strength of [a] verdict or conclusion only weakly supported by the record is more (strickland, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 696.) in our previous opinion in case no. b218366, we set out the guilt. alsoevidence that vigeant was fully capable of understanding what was said to him, even over the telephone. these conversations also showed he was capable of imparting false and evasive information when asked about his connection with pettigrew. it is not likely that the jury would have been persuaded that vigeant did not fully appreciate the events in which he participated on the night of the shooting if it had been informed that vigeant had been treated in his youth for adhd and an auditory processing disorder. the additional examination of vigeant by dr. timothy collister, a psychologist, investigate. dr. collister wrote a report after examining vigeant in preparation for the new trial motion. this report is contained as exhibit h in the written motion. dr. 19 can cause as part of the basis for his recommending a neuropsychological evaluation of vigeant prior to the cohad managed to finish high school and become a marine during this period of stability. given the fact that vigeant received little treatment for his conditions throughout his life and the fact that he was able to function with these deficits, it is not reasonably probable that a jury would have found vigeant lacked the required intent at the time of the offenses due to his conditions. with respect to hernandez, his medical records, as provided in the new trial motion, do not add significantly to what he himself testified to, at least in the context of the instant crimes. as noted, hernandez himself testified at trial about his disabilities due to his brain injury. hernandez said he lost a third of his brain, which included the frontal left lobe and a part of the frontal right lobe. when asked how his injuries affected him in terms of his mental abilities, hernandez said he was very compulsive and tended to do things he normally would not do. he was also very emotional. he processed information more slowly, and he had less empathy for others. he said he was very dependent on alcohol and could not remember when certain conversations with the defendants took place. he acknowledged it was difficult for him to recall what was said by the defendants on the night of the shooting. reasonable counsel could have determined that especially since hernandez took responsibility for the shooting. have suffered from as a result of the injury to his head. most of the entries involve his rehabilitation after his injury and various physical problems, unrelated to his injury, that he suffered over the years since 2004. a report of a neuropsychological evaluation in october 2004 states that hernandez had intact perceptual and spatial skills, language, attention, learning, and auditory memory ability. hernandez exhibited extremely strong 20 skills in his ability to recall a general fund of information and in visual memory ability. cognitive flexibility was somewhat weak but deemed likely to improve. this evidence would have given the prosecutor a strong counterpoint to any defense expert testimony frankness before the jury, leaves little possibility that his testimony at the trial of vigeant and landers would have been discredited to a greater degree than it already was. people v. landers, supra, b218366.) on appeal affirmatively discloses that counsel had no rational tactical purpose for his act people v. zapien (1993) 4 cal.4th 929, 980.) in cases where a defendant defendant to second-nviction or adverse sentence, and to conclude that a particular act or omission of counsel was unreasonable. [citation.] a fair assessment of attorney performance requires that every effort be made to eliminate because of the difficulties inherent in making the evaluation, a court must indulge a professional assistance; that is, the defendant must overcome the presumption that, under the circumstances, the challen[citation.] there are countless ways to provide effective assistance in any given case. even the best criminal defense attorneys would not defend a particular client in the same strickland, suprapeople v. miller (1972) 7 cal.3d 562, 573-574.) 21 oned tactical decisions, and vigeant has failed to affirmatively show prejudice. any presumed error on the part of undermine confidence in the outcome of the trial. the trial court did not err in denying sixth and fourteenth amendments. ii. lack of evidentiary hearing and refusal to appoint a clinical neuropsychologist a. v vigeant contends that the trial court abused its discretion by refusing to hold an evidentiary hearing on his new trial motion and refusing to appoint a clinical neuropsychologist to examine him and give an opinion about his mental deficits. according to vigeant, such an expert opinion was necessary to establish his ineffective assistance of counsel claim. separately or cumulatively, these errors denied him his rights to counsel, due process, equal protection, and the right to presentation of a defense. vigeant asserts that reversal is necessary because it is impossible to measure the effect of the testimony he would have presented had he been able to subpoena trial counsel and retain a neuropsychologist to examine him and to testify at an evidentiary hearing. b. relevant authority abuses its discretion, in a motion proceeding, by resolving evidentiary conflicts without rosenthal v. great western fin. securities corp. (1996) 14 authority, in ruling upon motions, to resolve evidentiary disputes without resorting to live people v. superior court (zamudio) (2000) 23 cal.4th 183, 201, and authority cited therein.) court, at any time before or during the trial of an action, that expert evidence is or may be required by the court or by any party to the action, the court on its own motion or on 22 motion of any party may appoint one or more experts to investigate, to render a report as may be ordered by the court, and to testify as an expert at the trial of the action relative to public expense for indigent criminal defendants in noncapital cases only for purposes of people v. stuckey (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 898, people v. guerra (2006) 37 cal.4th 1067, 1085, overruled on another point in people v. rundle (2008) 43 cal.4th 76, 151; see also ake v. oklahoma (1985) 470 u.s. 68, 77; stuckey, at p. 916.) c. proceedings below argument regarding the need to time, i am going to rule that the court will exercise discretion, deny motion to have an evidentiary hearing as to whether or not there was a ineffective assistance of counsel. but i did allow both parties to submit written brief as to why a new trial should be granted, and i also have reviewed your request as to why the court should grant a motion for new trial. d. no abuse of discretion or error vigeant contends that a hearing was necessary to resolve material disputed issues failure to investigate and consult and retain experts. he adds that the denial of an evidentiary hearing violated his right to due process. vigeant acknowledges that, although there is no case law requiring a trial court to hold an evidentiary hearing when a new trial motion is based on ineffective assistance of counsel, a trial court has the discretion to hold such a hearing when the new trial is sought on the grounds of jury misconduct. (see, e.g., people v. hedgecock (1990) 51 cal.3d 395, 415.) vigeant urges that the court must have the same discretion to hold a hearing to resolve material disputed issues relating to ineffective assistance of counsel. 23 we agree that the trial court had this discretion, but we conclude that the court did not abuse its discretion. people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 635 is instructive on this point. in that case, the defendant moved for a new trial, alleging jury misconduct and presenting the declarations of three jurors who stated that the jury never reached a verdict on the murder charges even though there were signed verdict forms. (id. at p. 685.) the trial court did not find the declarations credible and denied the motion without holding an evidentiary hearing. (id. at pp. 685-rial court could resolve any disputed factual issue without need for an evidentiary hearing. (id. at p. 686.) the same is true in the instant case and is even more evident. the trial court had heard all the evidence during trial and had had the opportunity to observe trial counsel and vigeant in the courtroom. the new trial motion had many exhibits in support of during the posttrial marsden hearing, as discussed ante. thus, the material facts in this case were adequately explained by the voluminous information before the court, combined with its own observations. the matter was fully capable of being resolved on the record, and no evidentiary hearing was necessary. given the great degree of latitude accorded the trial court in these matters, there was no abuse of discretion. (people v. williams, supra, 16 cal.4th at p. 686; people v. dennis (1986) 177 cal.app.3d 863, 873 stablish, by affidavit, oral testimony or reference we also conclude the trial court did not err by refusing to appoint the neuropsychiatric expert that vigeant requested. even if there was error, vigeant suffered no prejudice. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 [error in the admission or exclusion of evidence warrants reversal of a judgment only if people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 173.) it has been held that nt of experts after trial in 24 connection with sentencing proceedings. nor do the federal or state constitutions entitle an indigent criminal defendant to improve his chances of a favorable sentencing choice by having experts echo the arguments of defense cstuckey, supra, 175 cal.app.4th at p. 905.) vigeant argues that stuckey applies narrowly to sentencing proceedings as occurred in that case but not in the context of a new trial motion, and vigeant faults respondent for failing to respond to this argument. we believe it is not necessary to determine the breadth of stuckeyprejudice from the lack of another expert opinion, even one from a different type of specialist. such evidence would have been cumulative and of insignificant benefit given reports by experts. the issue before the court was clearly presented on the affidavits and the results of tests already performed. there was no reasonable probability that there would have been a different result had the trial court allowed vigeant to consult a neuropsychiatrist to further refine the details of his impairments for the court. there was no abuse iii. cruel and unusual punishment according to vigeant, when his involvement in the instant crimes is viewed in light of his neuropsychiatric deficits, his moral culpability is not that of a depraved killer. therefore, his lwop sentence amounts to cruel and unusual punishment under the state and federal constitutions. b. proceedings below on april 30, 2012, vigeant filed a motion to strike the special circumstance as cruel and unusual punishment under people v. dillon (1983) 34 cal.3d 441, 488-489 criminal history, and character were taken into account in determining he did not foresee the risk he was creating) vigeant relied on the assertion that the nature of the offense and the offender showed that an lwop sentence was disproportionate to his crime. vigeant 25 attached his social history, supporting documents, character letters, dobjection, the trial court allowed vigeant to present several witnesses in support of the motion in addition to argument. in denying the motion, the trial coto present some mitigating factors as to why the court should strike the enhancement allegation, special circumstances allegation. and one of the arguments that you make is that defendant should be granted a mercy by the court. david pettigrew never got mercy from anybody. he was shot, executed. and mr. vigeant was not a minor player, he made calls. he was there the night before[4] and he was there during the actual killing of mr. pettigrew. there is nothing in the evidence that indicates that mr. vigeant was simply there and that h c. relevant authority defining crime and determining punishment are matters uniquely legislative in nature, and courts will not question the validity of legislatively enacted punishments (people v. sullivan grant substantial deference to the broad authority that legislatures necessarily possess in determining the types and limits of punishments for crimes, as well as to the discretion rarest of cases could a court declare that the length of a sentence mandated by the legislature is uncpeople v. zepeda (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 1183, 12131214 [rejecting cruel and unusual punishment challenge to  12022.53, subd. (d)].) because a defendant must overcome a 4 the evidence showed vigeant received a parking ticket near pettthree days before the murder. 26 how his sentence is disproportionate to his level of people v. em (2009) 171 cal.app.4th 964, 972.) to succeed on a challenge under the cruel or unusual punishment provision of the california constitution, the defendant must show that the punishment is so in re lynch (1972) 8 cal.3d 410, 424 (lynch).) a reviewing court must examine the nature of the offense and/or the offender, with particular regard to the degree of danger both present to society; compare the challenged punishment to punishments for more serious crimes in the same jurisdiction; and compare such challenged penalty with the punishments prescribed for the same offense in other jurisdictions having a similar constitutional provision. (lynch, at pp. 425-427.) othe gravity of the offense and the harshness of the penalty; (ii) the sentences imposed on other criminals in the same jurisdiction; and (iii) the sentences imposed for commission ewing v. california (2003) 538 u.s. 11, 22.) d. no cruel and/or unusual punishment lynch factorthe nature of the offender and the offense. vigeant focuses on his mental deficits and contends they made him significantly less culpable than the typical offender. because of his disabilities, he argues, he was more susceptible to peer pressure and was unable to comprehend and foresee the consequences. his participation was inconsistent with his character, which does not reflect dangerousness or a proclivity to violence.5 therefore, the punishment imposed does not fit the criminal. 5 vigeant submitted a report by amy york, a forensic social worker and member of the national association of sentencing advocates and mitigation specialists. the trial court was also provided with many lett 27 amily is not that of a vicious killer. vigeant displayed a different nature, however, on the night of the victim. vigeant showed he could be aggressive. even if he was following along with his cousin, he made a choice to do so. vigeant played with the gun on the long drive to he participated in shouting at pettigrew, increasing the tension in those crucial moments hich was also evident in his telephone messages to pettigrew. the circumstances of the crime showed that vigeant was capable of fully participating in the cruel act of terrifying a victim with a gun to his head and doing nothing to discourage the shooter from carrying out his threat. the cases cited by vigeant, which relate to defendants who were juveniles or mentally retarded, do not aid his cause. (see, e.g., miller v. alabama (2012) 567 u.s. ___ [132 s.ct. 2455]; graham v. florida (2010) 560 u.s. 48; roper v. simmons (2005) 543 u.s. 551; atkins v. virginia (2002) 536 u.s. 304; people v. caballero (2012) 55 cal.4th 262, 268.) vigeant makes no showing on the second and third lynch factors, which require hments in california for more serious crimes and the punishment imposed with punishments in other states. because vigeant makes no representations on these factors, we do not consider them. roportion with the lynch, supra, 8 cal.3d at p. 424; people v. meneses (2011) 193 cal.app.4th 1087, 1094.) personality, his nature as a follower who is easily manipulated, and his susceptibility to acting on impulse. 28 with respect to the federal standard for finding a sentence to be cruel and unusual, a three-part analysis to determine whether a sentence was disproportionate to a crime was set out in solem v. helm (1983) 463 u.s. 277. solemmajority of the supreme court in harmelin v. michigan (1991) 501 u.s. 957. in that case, justice scalia, joined by chief justice rehnquist, concluded solem was wrongly decided and that the eighth amendment does not guarantee proportionality of sentences. (harmelin v. michigan, at p. 965.) justice kennedy, joined by justices id. at p. 1001 (conc. opn. of kennedy, j.).) justice kennedy notesuccessful challenges to the proportionality of particular sentences [are] exceedingly ibid.) the federal gross proportionality test is similar to, and accepts the same analysis as, the first technique in the three-part test of lynch. in harmelin v. michigan, the united states supreme court upheld a sentence of life without possibility of parole for the p. people v. marshall (1990) 50 cal.3d 907, 938.) his lack of a criminal history and his mental deficiencies are outweighed by the gravity of the offense and the circumstances surrounding its commission. therefore, the sentence is not cruel and unusual under the california or federal constitutions. iv. section 654 and count 2 a. proceedings below sentence it had imposed after trial. for the first degree murder with special circumstances in count 1 (murder committed during the commission of residential burglary and attempted robbery), the court imposed life without the possibility of parole. for the attempted home invasion robbery in count 2, the court imposed 54 months to be 29 served consecutively with an additional consecutive year for the principal-armed enhancement under section 12022, subdivision (a)(1). the trial court stayed the sentence for the burglary in count 3 under section 654. vigeant contends that the trial court was required by section 654 to stay the term imposed in count 2 for attempted robbery, just as it did with the burglary count. he argues that the attempted robbery count is indivisible from the special circumstance of murder in the commission of an attempted robbery. the same evidence that established the substantive offenses of burglary and attempted robbery also established the burglary and attempted robbery special circumstances. b. relevant authority act or omission that is punishable in different ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the act or omission be punished under more than on section 654 protects against multiple punishment rather than multiple conviction. (people v. harrison (1989) 48 cal.3d 321, 335.) a defendant thus may not be punished for two separate crimes which arise either out of a single act or out of an indivisible transaction. the indivisibility or divisibility of criminal conduct depends upon whether the defendant has a single or separate criminal objectives. (people v. latimer (1993) 5 cal.4th 1203, 1208; harrisonf the offenses were merely incidental to, or were the means of accomplishing or facilitating one objective, defendant (harrison, at p. 335.) if, on the other hand, which were independent of and not merely incidental to each other, he may be punished for independent violations committed in pursuit of each objective even though the violations shared common acts or were parts of an otherwise indivisible course of people v. beamon (1973) 8 cal.3d 625, 639.) 30 whether multiple convictions were part of an indivisible transaction is primarily a question of fact. (people v. avalos (1996) 47 cal.app.4th 1569, 1583.) we review such a finding under the substantial evidence test. we consider the evidence in the light most favorable to the people and presume the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence. (ibid.; see people v. osband (1996) 13 cal.4th 622, 730.) c. separate punishment warranted that vigeant held separate objectives in the attempted robbery of pettigrew and in the murder. at the court heard argument on the issue of whether the sentences in counts 2 and 3, attempted robbery and residential burglary, respectively, should be stayed under section 654.6 the prosecutor argued that section 654 applied only to the residential burglary count. be stayed because the jury had the option to convict the defendants of felony murder, and there was no indication which theory or theories of murder the verdict rested upon. in to make sure that the defendant is not punished for the same crime. however, this is not the same crime, the trial court ultimately sentenced vigeant to the same sentence as landers. althougimplied finding that vigeant, as well as landers, held a separate intent and objective in committing the attempted robbery. we observe that the attempted robbery was a separate and distinct crime preceding the murder by as much as 20 minutes, according to hernandez. therefore, the trial court legitimately could have decided on the facts before it that a separate sentence was proper. 6 vigeant expressed his desire to fire cohn and obtain appointed counsel. 31 ntinuous course of conduct, however, the crimes he committed are not indivisible. in people v. harrison, supra, 48 cal.3d at page 335, our supreme court explained in connection with section 654, subdivision (a): in people v. osband, supra, 13 cal.4th 622, for example, the trial court imposed consecutive sentences for the rape and robwas stabbed to death and raped, and cash and other items were taken from her home. (id. at pp. 653-654.) osband was found guilty of murder, burglary, robbery, and forcible rape. the jury found true three special-circumstance allegations, including the circumstance that the murder was committed during a robbery and after raping the victim. (id. at pp. 652-653.) osband claimed, inter alia, that the court erred under state law ( 654) in imposing consecutive sentences for the rape and robbery because the crimes were committed for a single objective. (osband, at p. 730.) the people responded that there was no question of a single objective, since the court sentenced osband on the rape and robbery and therefore implicitly found that the crimes involved more than one objective. (ibid.) the people asserted this was a factual determination that had to be sustained on appeal if supported by substantial evidence. the california supreme court agreed with the people determination that osband held more than one objective when he committed the crimes. the court declined to stay any portion of the sentence on section 654 grounds. (osband, at pp. 730-731.) vigeantpeople v. cleveland (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 263. in that case, cleveland was seen beating an elderly man with a two-by- 32 eventually convicted of attempted murder, robbery, and assault with a deadly weapon. (id. at p. 267.) cleveland argued on appeal that his robbery sentence should have been stayed under section 654 because the robbery and attempted murder occurred during an indivisible course of conduct pursuant to the sole objective of robbing the victim. (cleveland, at p. 268.) in addition to reiterating that a defendant may be punished for each violation committed in pursuit of each separate objective even though the violations were parts of an otherwise indivisible course of conduct (id. at pp. 267-268), the court people v. nguyen (1988) 204 cal.app.3d 181, 191, obsmore sinister goal than mere successful commission of the original crime. . . . [] . . . [] . . . [s]ection [654] cannot, and should not, be stretched to cover gratuitous violence or other criminal acts far beyond those reasonably necessary to accomplish the original id. at p. 272.) likewise, in the instant case, vigeathe murder of pettigrew cannot be seen as part and parcel of the goal to rob him. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. boren, p.j. we concur: ashmann-gerst, j. chavez, j. 