filed 5/14/13 p. v. kirk ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. stefone f. kirk, defendant and appellant. b241721 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma054691) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. richard e. naranjo, judge. affirmed. jonathan b. steiner and suzan e. hier, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, stephanie a. miyoshi and william n. frank, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 stefone f. kirk (kirk) was sentenced to 31 years in state prison after he entered a plea of no contest to one count of arson of an inhabited structure and one count of assault by force likely to cause great bodily injury, and after he admitted to strike priors and inflicting great bodily injury on his fianc, bertha curry (curry). kirk appeals on the statements, and by the prospect of curryheld on a body attachment for refusing to testify. we find no error and affirm. facts the charges the los angeles county district attorney filed an information charging kirk with assault on marissa emond (emond) on july 15, 2011, by means likely to produce great bodily injury (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(1) (count 1);1 arson of an inhabited structure or property ( 451, subd. (b)) (count 2); assault on emond on july 29, 2011, by means likely to produce great bodily injury ( 245, subd. (a)(1)) (count 3); first degree burglary of an inhabited dwelling ( 459) (count 4);2 assault on curry3 by means likely to produce great bodily injury ( 245, subd. (a)(1)) (count 5); making criminal threats to curry ( 422) (count 6); kidnapping curry ( 207, subd. (a)) (count 7); false imprisonment of curry ( 236) (count 8); committing mayhem upon curry ( 203) (count 9); felony 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 were seeing each other romantically. . . . on july 15, 2011, a security guard at a trailer . . . told her 3 at the preliminary hearing, curry stated that she was in a continuing romantic relationship with kirk. she also stated: ent to the crimes against curry. face with his fist and squeezed her throat. she received nine stitches in the head as a 3 dissuading curry from reporting a crime on november 26, 2011, ( 136.1, subd. (b)(1)) (count 10); felony vandalism ( 594, subd. (a)) (count 11); and felony dissuading curry from reporting a crime on november 29, 2011, ( 136.1, subd. (b)(1)) (count 12). with respect to count 5, it was further alleged that kirk inflicted great bodily injury upon curry, under circumstances involving domestic violence ( 12022.7, subd. (e)). as to counts 1 through 12, it was alleged that kirk had suffered two prior convictions of serious or violent felonies ( 667, subds. (b)-(i); 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)); kirk had served six prior prison terms without remaining free of prison custody for five years before committing a new offense that resulted in a felony conviction ( 667.5, subd. (b)); and kirk had suffered two prior convictions of a serious felony ( 667, subd. (a)(1)). the plea bargain on march 26, 2012, the prosecutor, kirk and his public defender convened for a . . about settlement of the a 25-to-life case. your attorney and [the prosecutor] spoke. i sent [the prosecutor] would accept. just to cut to the chase, what would they accept to settle the case short of the trial court explained to kirk that if he went to trial and was found guilty on all counts, and if each of the allegations were found true, his sentence would be 319 years to life.4 kithat the outcome was far from certain because it was possible that he might prevail on some of the counts and allegations, and because his attorney would make a romero motion5 to have the strike allegations stricken. but as to the anticipated romero motion, 4 the trial court originally said the potential sentence would be 225 years eight months to life. prompted by the prosecutor, the trial court changed its calculation. 5 people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497 (romero). 4 ing 31 years. however, the offer would be withdrawn when jury selection began. to do, sir, is i want you to think and think hard about this. . . . [the] numbers . . . being thrown at you . . . [live] that long obviously. . . . . . . if the jury convicts you on these charges and finds the strikes true and finds the allegations true, my hands are pretty much tied as to what i can do. so if that all happened that way, i would have to sentence you that way, which is basically a death sentence, without saying the word . . . nobody likes the idea of accepting a 31- percent of his sentence, he would be eligible for parole, meaning that he could get out in 26 years four months as long as he did not have any problems in state prison. the trial court ended its [except] . . . that i would not be happy to have to sentence you to 319 years to life, but i will do my jo the prosecutor explained to kirk that he was facing a minimum of 25 years to life if he was convicted on one count alone. after that, the trial court sent kirk to speak with his public defender. kirk came back to the courtroom and s the trial court spoke to counsel and kirk about some trial issues. following a recess, the public defender said kirk was considering the deal. before entering the plea, kirk asked if he could get a lower offer. the trial court said that the offer was up to the prosecution, and that kirk had to decide whether to accept the offer that was on the table. kirk asked if currywho was in jail due to a body 5 attachment because she was a defaulting witnesswould be released. the trial court kirk was asked if he was entering the plea deal because he thought it was in his g it because in lieu of facing potentially 319 years to life as well as her getting released from custody, d scheme of things when you consider everything, you if kirk accepthat would be semi-nly reason he would take the deal. in response, the trial court stated that it would not accept a plea. kirk expressed surprise. tingent matter of [curry] being in custody. if you to resolve for a determinant sentence . . you getting the 31 years fixed, as opposed to potentially 25 to life on the one count or 319 6 the prosecutor informed kirk of the consequences of his plea. he was advised of and waived his rights. kirk entered a plea as agreed. he pleaded no contest to counts 2 and 5 for arson and assault. in addition, he admitted that he inflicted great bodily injury during the assault on curry, that he previously suffered a prior conviction under the three strikes law, and that he had two prior convictions for a serious felony within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (a). defense counsel joined in the waivers and plea, and stipulated to a factual basis based on the police report and charging document. the trial court found that kirk of the admission, of his prior convictions, and the plea of no contest to count[] 2 and count 5, as well as the great bodily injury admission and the strike admission and the two five- kirk was sentenced to 31 years in state prison. e recordmr. kirk, you understand enter the plea agreement; is that corr . . i already stated very specifically on the record that he was doing it because of the totality of everything, including ms. curry. first he was basing it only on ms. curry getting out that he wanted to take the deal and i said no, it has to be based on everything. when you consider the 319 years, the fixed-term offer, and her release, considering everythingat it individuallywhen considering everything, are you taking it because you believe 7 the appeal; the certificate of probable cause kirk filed an appeal. he requested a certificate of probable cause based upon the claim that he was coerced into pleading guilty. the trial court issued a certificate of probable cause. discussion i. standard of review. whether a no contest plea was voluntarily and intelligently made is subject to de novo review on appeal. (people v. aparicio (1999) 74 cal.app.4th 286, 289; people v. mosby (2004) 33 cal.4th 353, 360361 (mosby) [reviewing an admission that a defendant suffered a prior felony conviction]; u. s. v. kaczynski (9th cir. 2001) 239 f.3d 1108, 1114 (kaczynskiare supported by substantial evidence. (people v. fairbank (1997) 16 cal.4th 1223, 1254 [reviewing the denial of a motion to withdraw plea on the grounds that the plea was not conclusion that he was not intoxicated]; kaczynski, supra, 239 f.3d at p. 1114 [factual findings reviewed for clear error].) ii. the trial court did not coerce kirk. bargain. we cannot concur. ments, subtle or blatant people v. sandoval (2006) 140 cal.app.4th 111, 124 (sandovalin plea discussions might coerce a defendant into accepting a plea bargain. (people v. williams judicial role and thrusts itself to the center of the negotiation process and makes repeated comments that suggest a less-than-neutral attitude about the case or the defendant, then people v. weaver (2004) 118 cal.app.4th 131, 150.) but there is no rule in california prohibiting judicial involvement in plea negotiations. (id. at p. 148.) 8 realistic terms. indeed, kirk does not suggest that the trial court exaggerated the potential exposure when it said kirk was facing 319 years to life. without prejudging a potential romero motion, the trial court indicated that if a jury found kirk guilty, then he should be aware that the objective factors for striking a strike under romero did not appear to be in the trial court express an opinion regarding kirk personally or his likelihood of prevailing on the merits. nor did the trial court advocate the plea trial was not certain, and that whatever kirk chose would not matter to the trial court one way or the other. when kirk said he wanted to go to trial, the trial court did not try to not once did the trial court suggest that it was disappointed that kirk was rejecting the deal. the record indicates that kirk later changed his mind without any involvement from the trial court. then, after kirk indicated he was taking the deal so that curry would be released, the trial court merely informed kirk that it could not accept a plea under that scenario. the trial court advised kirk that he had to enter a plea because he believed it was in his best interest. nder advised him and then joined in the waiver of rights. this suggests that the plea bargain was fair based on facts known to the public including six prior convictions for purposes of section 667.5it is easy to infer that he was not new to the criminal justice system and was not intimidated by it. bolstering that conclusion is the record of any pressure. further, the second and concluding round of colloquy between the trial court and kirk was initiated by kirk. all these facts suggest that he was not coerced into accepting the plea bargain. to support his claim of coercion, kirk states that the trial court took a big role in in getting the prosecution to make a plea offer because it sent the prosecutor to speak to his superiors about what it would take to settle the case. by implication, kirk seems to 9 suggest that the trial court was the driving force behind the plea bargain. but all the record shows is that the prosecutor and public defender were talking about settlement, the prosecutor asked for a counteroffer, and only then did the trial court send the prosecutor to speak to his superiors. in any event, we fail to see the relevance. nothing about the the trial court did is a common occurrence every day in every courthouse around the country. when settlement is a possibility, judges always ask lawyers to consult their clients or superiors, as the case may be. kirk complains that the trial court told him that if he was convicted, he could possibly receive a large sentence and would die in prison. that statement, however, was about a potential romero was false under the law. next, he suggests that it was improper for the trial court to point out that he could possibly get parole in about 26 years, that the trial court would not be happy to sentence him to 319 years to life in state prison, that kirk should consult with the public defender, and that the minimum he faced was 25 years to life if he was statements was neutral and proper. the trial court asked kirk to think about the plea bargain, reminded him that the plea deal would expire when jury selection began and then gave him the opportunity to discuss it with the public defender. he tells us that these statements added pressure on him to enter the offered plea. in a sense, that is true. but the pressure came from the simply let the facts speak for themselves. as a side note, it cannot be ignored that kirk was represented by a public defender. because the public defender joined in the waivers, kirk heard from the trial court. we easily infer that the trial court was not the only source of information kirk received. 10 last, kirk claims to take the plea bargain, and that it therefore exerted psychological pressure on him to accede. this argument misses the mark. the trial court was assiduously careful not to express a preference for what kirk did. kirk contends that his plea was involuntary based on an analogy to the law of package-deal pleas. this contention lacks merit. n the package-(sandoval, supra, 140 cal.app.4th at pp. 124business may be brought into play. for example, a defendant may fear that his wife will be prosecuted and convicted if he does not plead guilty; or, a defendant may fear, as alleged in this case, that his codefendant will attack him if he does not plead guilty. because such considerations do not bear any direct relation to whether the defendant bargaining of adverse or lenient treatment for some person other than the accused . . . might pose a greater danger of inducing a false guilty plea . . . in re ibarra (1983) 34 cal.3d 277, 287 (ibarra) [in a package-deal, the defendant was allowed to plead guilty to a lesser crime and receive a lesser sentence, contingent upon a guilty plea by all cointo the totality of the circumstances to determine whether, in fact, a plea has been unduly id. at p. 288.) during its inquiry, the trial court should ensure that the prosecutor has not misrepresented the facts, and that the substance of the inducement is within the proper ibarra, supra, 34 cal.3d at pp. 288prosecutor must also have a reasonable and good faith case against the third parties to id. at p. same - 11 ibidexamined. psychological pressures sufficient to indicate an involuntary plea might be present if the third party promised leniency is a close friend or family member whom the contemplates special concessions to anotherespecially a sibling or a loved onebears particular scrutiny by a trial or reviewing court conscious of the psychological pressures ibidif the promise of leniency to a third party was an insignificant consideration by a defendant in his choice to plead guilty. for example, if the motivating factor to plead guilty was the realization of the likelihood of conviction at trial, the defendant cannot be ercive factors present had nevertheless remained a substantial factor id. at pp. 289whether defendant or the prosecutor had initiated the plea negotiations [citation], and whether charges have already been pressed against a third party [citation] might be id. at p. 290.) kirk does not explain why his plea bargain was a package-deal, or why package-deal law should apply. his plea bargain was not contingent upon a codefendant entering a plea. there was no codefendant. nor did the prosecutor make a promise that it would not prosecute curry. even assuming that this was a package-deal plea bargain, or that ibarra significant consideration for kirk. the trial court explained that it would not accept a plea unless kirk was entering a plea for his own best interest. kirk said three times that his best interest was served by entering a plea. kirk was facing a possibility of 319 years to life in state prison. a review of the preliminary hearing indicates a factual basis for the charged offenses, and the offer of 31 years was not disproportionate to the charged offenses and alleged enhancements. as the trial court explained, kirk could be eligible for parole after 26 years. thus, the nature of 12 the plea bargain was fair. in addition, he was born in 1970, which means he was nearly 42 years old at the time of the plea. it was alleged that he had six prior convictions for which he served prison terms. he was not a naive young man. rather, he was experienced in the criminal justice system. (mosby, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 365 [a defendawhether he knowingly waived constitutional rights].) this suggests he understood the severity of his exposure, and also that if he took the plea bargain, he could be released one count. with the strike priors, a single conviction would have resulted in a minimum sentence of 25 years to life. it is true that kirk initially stated currfactor. she was in jail on a body attachment, and that was only to secure her testimony. it was not a punishment. no matter what, she was going to be released, at least when the not have been in jail long. and it was possible that she would have been released earlier. if we go prison rather than saving curry from a brief stay in jail was the driving force behind his plea. upon review, we are satisfied that the evidence supported the conclusion that the plea was voluntary. 13 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. ______________________________, acting p. j. ashmann-gerst we concur: __________________________, j. chavez __________________________, j.* ferns * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 