filed 9/13/13 p. v. flores ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. efren flores, defendant and appellant. b241530 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na086309) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of the county of los angeles, arthur jean, jr., judge. affirmed. edward h. schulman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, stephanie a. miyoshi and rama r. maline, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury found defendant and appellant efren flores (defendant) guilty of first degree murder and two counts of attempted murder. on appeal, defendant contends that there was insufficient evidence to support the guilty verdicts, his trial counsel provided ineffective assistance of counsel by failing to object to certain hearsay statements of a former codefendant, and the trial court erred by failing to instruct the jury sua sponte on accomplice liability. defendant also challenges his sentence under the gun-use principles of double jeopardy. we hold that there was substantial evidence in support of the jury verdicts, the claimed ineffective assistance of counsel was not prejudicial, and the claimed instructional errors werchallenges to his sentence under the gun-use enhancement are without merit. we therefore affirm the judgment of conviction. factual background a. on the morning of september 14, 2009, carlos garcia12 westside longo gangwalked to a liquor store at the corner of 20th street and pacific avenue in long beach to buy cigars. after he left the liquor store, garcia had a confrontation with african american and hispanic 1 because the trial court found that garcia was unavailable to testify, the prosecution introduced his preliminary hearing testimony at trial. 2 as defendant, but his case was severed prior to trial. 3 members of the 18th street gang. as he crossed the street from the liquor store parking lot, a van pulled 3 ocontinued walking, but several african american and hispanic gang members exited the van and began walking toward garcia. in response, garcia made a motion, as if he was carrying and about to produce a gun, and then kept walking home. on the evening of september 14, 2009, at around 10:30 p.m., james gaither, an african american, was sitting on the stairs outside his apartment complex with his african american friends david and robert tripplet.4 gaither was sitting at the top of the stairs, robert was located at the middle of the stairs, and david was at the bottom. as gaither and david were text messaging and robert was listening to his ipod, two hispanic males walked up to the group. gaither did not notice the two men until one of suspected that there was going to be trouble. david retrying to calm the situation. tfuck crabs, where you from. fuck crabs. where you from.5 based on those statements, gaither became certain that the male hispanic who had done all the talking, and who gaither identified at trial as defendant, seemed intoxicated, but the other hispanic male did not. the other defendant, as if the two were about to leave. just as the other male hispanic was pulling defendant away, defendant produced a gun from his pocket, pointed at david, and began shooting. gaither heard gun fire and saw david, who had been standing, fall to the ground. 3 garcia considered anyone who threw 18th street gang signs at him as an enemy. 4 to avoid confusion, the tripplet brothers will be referred to by their first names. 5 toward crip gangs. crip gang members in long beach were predominantly african american or asian. 4 gaither turopen the door, he was shot in the hand as he reached for the door knob.6 as he turned around to check on david and robert, gaither saw defendant and the other hispanic male running away. then he sagaither gaither kept shaking robert and david stood up and told gaither he was because he knew d david testified that on september 14, 2009, at around 10:00 or 10:30 p.m., he had just returned to his apartment from the store with his brother robert and his friend gaither. he was standing at the bottom of the apartment stairs, robert was sitting in the middle of the stairs, and gaither was sitting at the top of the stairs. according to david, [t]wo [hispanic] guys walked up and started banging on [david, robert, and gaither] asking [them] where [they] were fresponded by saying7 the male hispanic who had been speaking, and who david identified at trial as defendant, then pulled out a gun away. david put up his hands, but defendant face, turned, was shot again in the back, and fell to the ground. david continued to hear gun shots, as many as four or five. when he stood up, he saw robert lying on the stairs. robert was not moving, so david went to him to determine if he was breathing. after david determined that robert was still breathing, he 6 gaither received stitches in his hand at the hospital. 7 5 went into the house to retrieve a towel and when he came out, the police had arrived. an ambulance took david to the hospital where he stayed for a week to receive treatment and care for bullet wounds to the face, shoulder, and back. at the time of trial, david was still experiencing back pain from his wounds. robert was transported to the hospital where he died. the deputy medical examiner who performed the autopsy on robert found a single, fatal gunshot entry wound beneath the right eye. the bullet passed through the brain and was recovered from inside the skull cavity. according to subpoenaed telephone records, defendant called garcia at approximately 10:55 p.m. the night of the shootings. garcia, who lived near the scene of the shooting, said defendant asked him if he had heard any gunshots. when garcia replied in the negative, defendant asked him if there were police outside. garcia went outside his apartment and confirmed to defendant that there were police near the intersection of 20th street and cedar avenue. defendant then told garcia that he had call. the shootings the night before. defendant told garcia that he and gonzales had been at a bar watching a raiders game on the night of the shootings. the two men, who were drunk, walked from the bar down 20th street where they saw some crips gang members. defendant and gonzales pretended to be more drunk than they were, acting like they . as defendant and gonzales approached the three crips gang members, one of the three walked down the stairs, and defendant began to argue with him. according to garcia, grouchy hit [the three black crips gang members] up. and then one of the crips said bcuz grouchy just sta after the shooting, defendant and gonzales ran away. 6 city of long beach police detective todd johnson was one of the officers assigned to investigate the shootings of robert, david, and gaither. he arrived at the scene of the shootings after midnight. officers at the scene had already recovered two bullet fragments. during the course of his initial investigation, detective johnson developed information suggesting that robert may have been involved in an altercation earlier on the day of the shooting. that information, in turn, caused detective johnson to investigate garcia. a crip gang member informed the detective that a hispanic male with a w on his hat had been involved in an incident at a liquor store on the corner of 20th street and pacific avenue. a video surveillance tape from the store showed garcia, as well as when detective johnson attempted to contact garcia, he learned that garcia had been arrested on a probation violation. during a search of residence, t detective johnson next assembled photographs of eight different hispanic males, one of which was a photograph of garcia. the detective showed the photographs to david and gaither, but neither of them identified garcia as being involved in the shootings. because detective johnson suspected that garcia knew something about the shootings, he went to his residence and brought him back to the police station for questioning. garcia initially denied any involvement in the shootings, but after further r and reviewed records for it, but did not find any telephone calls from drowsy to garcia during the relevant time frame. as a result, he interviewed garcia a second time. during that second interview, ting. when detective johnson investigated clover, he learned that he was don gonzales, the brother of gonzales and a west side longo gang member. but when he attempted to locate clover, the detective discovered that he had been incarcerated for immigration related reasons. 7 based on the information he obtained on clover, detective johnson and his partner, detective william mutsubara, interviewed garcia a third time, and the latter portion of that interview was tape recorded. during the recorded portion of the interview, which was played for the jury, garcia provided, inter garcia admitted that the first version of the shootings that he told the detectives was not true, and then he explained to the detectives that he learned about the shootings from defendant in a telephone conversation the night of the shootings. defendant telephoned garcia and defendant that he saw the police. in response, the shootings. according to defendant, he and gonzales left a bar after watching a raiders game and as they were wtowapped back and he said fuck crabs and he started shooting garcia informed the detectives that he also spoke to gonzales after the shootings. gonzalestially similar to the version defendant had given garcia. according to gonzales, he and defendant were coming back from watching a raiders game, residence. gonzales and defendant were acting as if they were drunk, holding on to one another. pped back and . . . just started shooting at them in addition to recounting his conversations with defendant and gonzales about the shootings, garcia told the detectives about the incident at the liquor store that occurred earlier on the day of the shootings. that morning, 8 20th street and pacific avenue to buy some cigars. as he was walking home, a burgundy van pulled into the parking lot of the liquor store and a male in the front [threw] . . . mexican males and two african american males emerged from the van and began [his] little pocket knife from [his] following the detectives third interview with garcia, they asked him to make obtain an admission to some type of involvement in the shootings. the calls were made over a two-day period in april 2010. , marisa gallegos, . . . . using a wire tap on conversations between gonzales and defendant. they determined that after garcia would make pretext calls to defendant, gonzales would receive calls from defendant. using thsketched faces of gonzales and defendant. police officers walked around neighborhoods passing out the flyers and speaking with residents. they targeted neighborhoods around the scene of the shootings. they also passed the flyers out in the territory of the westside traffidefendant. , gallegos, that after the flyers were passed out, defendant and gallegos switched telephones. one text message from gallegosother way for this longerothang, woo city of long beach police detective sean magee, who was assigned to the gang investigations unit as a gang detective, testified as the prfamiliar with the westside longo gang which had a gang injunction issued against its members. the westside longo gang had approximately 300 members of which 9 approximately 100 members were active. the gang claimed the area of long beach west of the los angeles riverbed. the scene of the shootings in this case was located in a disputed territory claimed by several gangs other than the westside longo gang. the westside longo gang utilized oakland raider football team colorssilver and black. they also had distinctive hand signs. the primary activities of the westside longo gang were murders, attempted murders, manslaughters, assaults with deadly weapons, robberies, and illegal distribution of narcotics, particularly methamphetamine. garland white and eric benites were westside longo gang members. white was convicted of manslaughter in 2005 and benites was convicted of assault with a deadly weapon in 2008. detective magee knew that defendant was a westside longo gang member based on his tattoo and gang graffiti recovered from his room, including graffiti that stated, e crips in long beach were predominately african american or asian. detective magee also knew that gonzales was a westside longo gang member based on admissions of gang membership, his tattoos, conversations with detective johnson, and surveillance of gonzales during the investigation of the shootings in this case. his nickname was chuyito. detective magee was familiar with the facts of this case. based on a hypothetical question premised on facts that closely mirrored the facts of this case, he opined that the shootings in the hypothetical case were committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, and in association with a criminal street gang and were committed with the intent to promote, further, and assist gang members in their criminal activities. he based his opinion on several factors. the challenge to enemies and the terwas consistent with the westside longo e shootings appeared to be part of a sthe 10 shootings did occur. the shootings heightened the perpetrators reputation as killers and when gang members were able to instill fear in a community, it made commit crimes, such as illegal narcotics sales. by instilling such fear in a community, the gang members had a greater ability to control the streets they claimed for their gang. b. defense case the defense called as a witness an expert on eyewitness identifications. the expert testified about various issues associated with eyewitness identifications, including [eyewitnesses] get it right and sometimes they get it wrong. procedural background in an information, the los angeles county district attorney charged defendant in count 1 with the murder of robert in violation of penal code section 187, subdivision (a)8; in count 2 with the attempted murder of david in violation of sections 664 and 187, subdivision (a); and in count 3 with the attempted murder of gaither in violation of sections 664 and 187, subdivision (a). the district attorney alleged that all three counts were committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, and in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further, and assist criminal conduct by gang members within the meaning of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c). the district attorney also alleged as to all three counts that defendant personally used a firearm, personally discharged a firearm, and personally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury or death within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b), (c) and (d). in addition, the district attorney alleged that a principal personally discharged a firearm 8 all further statutory citations are to the penal code, unless otherwise indicated. 11 causing great bodily injury or death within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (d) and (e)(1). following trial, the jury found defendant guilty on all three counts and, as to all three counts, found true the allegations that defendant personally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury or death within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivision (d); a principal personally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury or death within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (d) and (e)(1); and defendant committed the charged crimes for the benefit of, at the direction of, and/or in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further, and assist in criminal conduct by gang members within the meaning of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c). the trial court sentenced defendant to an aggregate sentence of 130 years to life comprised of a term of 25 years to life on count 1, plus an additional consecutive 25 years to life term pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (d), for a total sentence of 50 years to life on count 1; an additional consecutive term of 15 years to life on count 2, plus an additional consecutive term of 25 years to life pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (d), for a total sentence on count 2 of 40 years to life; and an additional consecutive term of 15 years to life on count 3, plus an additional consecutive 25 years to life term pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (d), for a total sentence on count 3 of 40 years to life. discussion a. substantial evidence 1. standard of review defendantguilty verdicts on the first degree murder of robert and the attempted murders of david and gaither is governed by the substanti 12 judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence which is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact people v. johnson (1980) is to the same effect: under principles of federal due process, review for sufficiency of evidence entails not the determination whether the reviewing court itself believes the evidence at trial establishes guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, but, instead, whether, after viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt. (jackson v. virginia (1979) 443 u.s. 307, 317-people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 11 [82 cal.rptr.2d 413, 971 p.2d 618] (rodriguez).) [] moreover, as observed in rodriguezprosecution relies mainly on circumstantial evidence. (people v. stanley (1995) 10 cal.jury to acquit a defendant if it finds that circumstantial evidence is susceptible of two interpretations, one of which suggests guilt and the other innocence [citations], it is the opinion of the reviewing court that the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding does not warrant a reversal of the judgmentrodriguez, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 11, italics added; see generally people v. clark (2011) 52 cal.4th 856, 942-943 [131 cal.rptr.3d 225, 261 p.3d 243] (clarkpeople v. watkins (2012) 55 cal.4th 999, 1019-1020.) 2. analysis defendant contends that there was insufficient evidence to support a finding that he was present during the shooting, much less a finding that he was the shooter. according to defendant, the eyewitness identifications of defendant as the shooter made 13 by david and gaither were unreliable, as were preliminary hearing testimony and recorded statements about his conversations with defendant and gonzales. both david and gaither, who were victims of the shootings, unequivocally identified defendant as the shooter in open court. the jury heard their testimony and observed their demeanor, and was therefore entitled to give it credence. david was standing within three to four feet of the shooter and gaither was at the top of the stairs looking down at the shooter at the bottom of the stairs. given the proximity of both men to the shooter as he spoke prior to firing his handgun, they had ample opportunity to observe the shooter, a fact on which the jury was entitled to rely in evaluating the standard discussed above, the identification testimony of either david or gaither, by s that defendant was present during the shootings and that he was the shooter. therefore, because there was not one, but two eyewitness identifications, substantial evidence supported the verdicts. hearing testimony which was made under oath and subject to cross-examination. the jury also heard the recorded statement that garcia gave to the detectives that substantially corroborated his preliminary hearing testimony. based on that evidence, the jury was presented with admissions by defendant and gonzales that defendant was the shooter. although any one of those admissions, by itself, would have been sufficient to support identifications, they clearly supported a reasonable inference that defendant was the shooter. 14 b. ineffective assistance of counsel failure to object to certain of gout-of-court statements to garcia 1. background prior to trial, the prosecution filed a motion to introduce at trial certain out-of- court statements made by defendant and gonzales. according to the motion, the night of the shooting, defendant called garcia and admitted he was the shooter. the next day, defendant made more detailed statements to garcia concerning his involvement in the hat on the evening the flyers with sketches of defendant and gonzales were posted, gonzales told his girlfriend that he and defendant did the shooting. in support of the motion, the prosecutor argued that both s to garcia and gonzalesadmissible as nontestimonial admissions against penal interest. at the hearing on the motion, the trial court and the prosecutor had the following maria hernandez. and she is going to testify that mr. gonzales said that [defendant] was part of this [prosecutor]: under cervantes and greenberg the people would still argue-- [] the crawford. it is one thing for hernandez to say gonzales [said] penal interest. but the declaration that [defendant] did it too is not a declaration against penal interest. it is a separate issue. [] [prosecutor]: [the] people would argue under greenberger and cervantes if the declaration is against the person that not only makes the statement and you find that he is not exposing his co-defendant in a situation like that, to exposure, saying that i was there, he is the one that shot, it is inherently reliable. and it should be allowed. [] the court: but the statement that [defendant] did it is not a declaration against [gonzalespenal interest. [] [prosecutor]: it exposes him to the same amount of culpability as it does defendant gonzales. [] the court: but it is not a declaration against penal interest. gonzales saying i was there and [defendant] was too 15 and we both did it, the part that he was there and he did it, is a declaration against [his] penal interest. but that [defendant] did it is not a declaration against penal -s in. [] [the] similar statement to garcia implicating defendant as the shooter, which statement was contained in the tape-recorded interview of garcia. at trial, the prosecution did not call without any objection from the defense, detectives was played for the jury, defendant was the shooter. 2. applicable legal principles defendant concedes that he forfeited on appeal his claim that the trial court erroneously admitted statements to garcia implicating defendant as the shooter by failing to object with the detectives. nevertheless, defendant argues that he received ineffective assistance of counsel . e was deficient when measured against the standard of a reasonably competent deficient performance resulted in prejudice undermined the proper functioning of the adversarial process that the trial cannot be people v. kipp (1998) 18 cal.4th 349, 366 [75 cal.rptr.2d 716, 956 p.2d 1169], quoting strickland v. washington [(1984)] 466 u.s. [668,] 686.) preliminarily, we note that rarely will an appellate record establish ineffective assistance of counsel. (people v. mendoza tello (1997) 15 cal.4th 264, 267-people v. thompson (2010) 49 cal.4th 79, 16 on appeal sheds no light on why counsel acted or failed to act in the manner challenged[,] . . . unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or unless there simply could be no people v. wilson (1992) 3 cal.4th 926, 936 [13 cal.rptr.2d 259, 838 p.2d 1212] quoting people v. pope (1979) 23 cal.3d 412, 426 [152 cal.rptr. 732, 590 p.2d 859, 2 a.l.r.4th 1].) a claim of ineffective assistance in such a case is more appropriately decided in a habeas corpus proceeding. (people v. wilson, supra, at p. 936; people v. pope, supra(people v. mendoza tello, supra, 15 cal.4th at pp. 266-267.) 3. analysis assuming, without deciding, sel provided ineffective assistance of counsel by failing to object to the relevant portion of the tape recorded interview of garcia, any such error was harmless. as discussed above, in addition to he shooter, the two surviving shooting victims identified defendant at trial as the man who shot them. and defendant himself admitted to garcia in two separate conversations that he was the shooter. garcia testified at the preliminary hearing and was subject to cross-counsel. thus, the additional statement by gonzales implicating defendant as the shooter was, at best, cumulative corroborating evidence. therefostatement cannot be said to have so undermined the proper functioning of the adversarial process that the trial cannot be relied on as having produced a just result. (see people v. thompson, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 122.) to the contrary, given all of the other substantial evidence in support of the finding that defendant was the shooter, it was not reasonably statement to garcia had been excluded. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) similarly, given the nature and quality of the other evidence showing that defendant was 17 the shooter, a reasonable juror could have found defendant guilty of the charged crimes beyond a reasonable doubt. (chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24.) c. jury instructions defendant contends that the trial court failed to fulfill its sua sponte duty to give appropriate jury instructions on accomplice liability under section 1111 concerning . but, as defendant concedes, accomplice liability is harmless error if there is sufficient corroborating evidence. (see people v. lewis (2001) 26 cal.4th 334, 370.) here, as defendant also concedes, there was sufficient corroborating evidence concerning statements to garcia implicating defendant as the shooter, admissions against interest that he was the shooter. notwithstanding the holding in people v. lewis, supra, 26 cal.4th 334, defendant urges us to reconsider the issue and hold that the claimed instructional error was prejudicial. because we are bound by the holding in that supreme court case (auto equity sales, inc. v. superior court (1962) 57 cal.2d 450, 455), we must follow it and conclude that the claimed failure to instruct on accomplice liability was harmless. d. multiple conviction rule and double jeopardy principles defendant contends that the imposition of a section 12022.53, subdivision (d) firearms enhancement on a defendant convicted of murder violates the multiple conviction rule set forth in people v. ortega (1998) 19 cal.4th 686, 692-694 and people v. pearson (1986) 42 cal.3d 351, 355-360, as well as federal constitutional principles of double jeopardy. according to defendant, the factual element essential to establishing the section 12022.53, subdivision (d) enhancementdischarge of a firearm causing death 18 is necessarily subsumed within the elemental components of murderproximately causing the death of the victim. defendant concedes, as he must, that two california supreme court decisions tiple conviction rule. (people v. sloan (2007) 42 cal.4th 110, 115-125 and people v. izaguirre (2007) 42 cal.4th 126, 130-134.) because we are bound by those decisions under auto equity sales, inc. v. superior court, supra, 57 cal.2d at page 455, we reject defendant defendant also concedes that, historically, federal double jeopardy has not applied to multiple punishment within a unitary trial, but contends that recent united states supreme court and united states supreme court authority holding that multiple criminal punishments that arise out of a unitary criminal proceeding do not implicate federal double jeopardy principles, people v. sloan, supra, 42 cal.4th at page 121, hudson v. united states (1997) 522 u.s. 93, 99, we are bound to follow that authority and reject ouble jeopardy contention. disposition the judgment of conviction is confirmed. not to be published in the official reports mosk, j. we concur: turner, p. j. kumar, j. 