filed 7/15/14 p. v. phillips ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. donald eugene phillips, defendant and appellant. b241821 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va097962) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. john a. torribio, judge. modified and affirmed with directions. patricia a. scott, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews, supervising deputy attorney general, and david e. madeo, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 defendant donald eugene phillips appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial in which he was convicted of two counts of murder, with weapon-use and multiple special circumstance findings. on april 19, 1987, easter sunday, several neighbors of edna and george darrow, an elderly retired couple who lived in huntington park, asked police and firefighters to check on the darrows, who had not been seen for several days. the police opened the m dead. gardener, was quickly identified as the prime suspect, but was not arrested or charged until november of s trial did not commence until october of 2011, more than 24 years after the murders. defendant contends the trial court erred by denying his motion to dismiss the case due to the lengthy precharging delay. he argues the delay violated due process because it was unjustified and he suffered actual prejudice through the death of witnesses, faded memories, changed memories, and lost evidence. after reviewing the entire record and the merits of each aspect of prejudice defendant claims he suffered, we conclude defendant failed to show any actual prejudice resulted from the delay. thus, the trial court properly denied his motion. defendant contends the trial court abused its discretion and violated due process by admitting girlfriend as a declaration against penal interest. we disagree. the girlfriendsubjected her to criminal liability as an accessory and was sufficiently trustworthy. finally, defendant argues, and the attorney general concedes, the trial court section 2933.1, which was enacted after defendant committed the crimes in this case. an amended abstract of judgment reflecting the correct credits. 3 background 1. the crime scene all the doors and windows in the house were closed and locked, and there was no evidence of forced entry. george was found in a bedroom and edna in the living room. george had five stab wounds to the head and neck and several defensive wounds to his hands. edna had six stab wounds on her back and three on her head, including two that went through her brain and dented the inside of her skull on the side opposite the entry wound. a deputy medical examiner testified this would require a heavy knife with a blade length of at least four and seven-eighths inches (the width of her skull). she had no defensive wounds and a tissue clutched tightly in one hand, suggesting she was unaware of the attack. the darrows had been dead two to five days before police found them. all of the kitchen cleaning products were on the kitchen counter, and the cabinet under the kitchen sink appeared to be new. a criminalist collected the trap pipe as evidence. one of the fingerprints lifted from it matched defendant. police found two documents in the house that mentioned defendant. one of these was a receipt for advance payment for cement work. 2. the darrows and their relationship with defendant edna eva hare testified her mother was 72 years old and her father was 78 years old when they were killed. when hare last visited them from michigan in august of 1986, there were no cleaning products sitting on the kitchen counter. these items were instead stored in the cabinet beneath the kitchen sink. in their prior house, when hare was growing up and her father worked nights, her mother kept a . but hare on live oak street, where her parents died. the darrows kept cash stashed in various places in the house, and edna almost always carried a large roll of cash in her pocket. neighbors had 4 seen edna carry a large amount of cash in the pocket of the housecoat or muumuu she wore every day and pay workers with money from that pocket. edna also had told people she and george kept a lot of money in their house. defendant did lawn maintenance work in huntington park and other cities, initially as an employee of ed nelson. in 1986 defendant purchased his route, some equipment, and an old truck from nelson. brother jimmy harris helped defendant at the beginning of 1987. they maintained at their prior residence, then continued to work for them when the darrows moved to the house on live oak street. christina sometimes talked to edna while defendant and jimmy did the yard work, and on occasion she cleaned the house or testified the darrows were extremely nice people, who gave or lent defendant small amounts of money when he needed it and generally treated defendant and christina as if in addition to his work truck, defendant had a gray toyota 4x4 truck with a raised truck and did not let anyone borrow it or drive it. he kept a knife that had a compass on thhe carried the knife for protection because he carried cash. when the work truck was not working, defendant used his 4x4 truck to perform his lawn maintenance work. christina testified defendant once told her the darrows had a lot of money in their house and asked her to imagine what she and defendant could do if they had a lot of money. she became upset and began shaking. defendant had never said anything like that about any other client. when defendant and christina separated in 1987, she discovered he had not paid the rent or utilities for three months. at some later time, closer to 1989, defendant phoned christina and requested that if she were contacted by [him] 5 they asked about. she refused. the police did not speak to christina until 2007. jimmy harris testified he once heard edna tell defendant she kept money in her house because she did not trust banks and she paid cash for everything. jimmy was present when defendant signed a contract to do some cement work for the darrows. edna gave defendant a down payment of several $100 bills that she retrieved from another room of her house. the next day, defendant told jimmy the darrows walked to a doughnut shop every morning at 6:00 a.m. and suggested he and jimmy should look for money in the defendant also suggested jimmy could distract edna while defendant searched for the money. defendant repeatedly , but jimmy always refused to participate. the police did not contact jimmy until 2006. -in-defendant doing landscape work in 1986. grizzell also helped defendant with cement defendant later told grizzell the darrows kept a lot of money under a mattress in the house. grizzell did not reveal this to the police in 1987 because he did not want to get involved. he told detective steve davis about the statement in 2006. both grizzell and jimmy harris testified defendant was very tan and looked somewhat hispanic in 1987. 3. observations by neighbors during the week of the murders a. the kriegers at least one week before easter in 1987, edna told one of her next door neighbors, adrieanniea krieger, that her kitchen sink was plugged and she was going to call the person who had put in the concrete and ask him to find someone to fix it. sometime during the week before easter, adrieanniea saw a truck parked across the street from the . 6 she had never seen that truck in the neighborhood before. at the preliminary hearing in april of 2008, she testified the truck was parked in the darrow jerome krieger saw a truck home at 3:00 p.m. on wednesday, april 15, 1987. he identified photographs of jerome saw three men at the house, including a slender hispanic man who stood near the truck. jerome testified the slender man near the truck looked like defendant did at the preliminary hearing.1 late on the night of april 15, 1987, adrieanniea heard a succession of sounds irst, d twice. then ed, then slammed shut. a few seconds later adrieanniea heard scuffling sounds, like people wrestling inside the house, then a woman. later someone vomited in then water ran in the kitchen for a long time. thereafter, med shut. at adrieanniea jerome and a friend who was visiting him went outside to see what was going on. they iveway and up to their back door. everything was quiet and appeared to be normal. the police interviewed adrieanniea in 1987 and she described the truck. but no one showed her any photographs of a truck or any suspects until the preliminary hearing in 2008. jerome also talked to the police in 1987 and described the truck and the men he had seen . at that time, he said the april 14, not april 15, 1987. b. the sanchez family side. both saw edna nearly every day. about three months before the murders, richard k because the person who had previously 1 stimony was admitted at trial. 7 done it had stopped working for them. on april 15, 1987, richard and debra saw edna in her driveway hours. debra also saw a man with edna in the driveway. after that, they never saw edna alive again. not come out to chat as she usually did. richard and saturday before easter, but no one answered and all he heard from within was the dog barking. in april of 1987, richard told the police that he saw house, and did not see any people. he described the truck as a light gray, four-wheel drive toyota with a roll bar and light bar. richard said the truck he saw was similar to had additional equipment that he did not recall seeing on the truck on april 15, 1987. at trial, richard testified he was familiar with the man who had previously mowed the lawn and done cement work for them, and which richard had that handyman and testified he hof april 15, 1987. he further testified that depicted the truck he had seen at the the afternoon of april 15, 1987. in 1987, debra told the police on april 15, 1987, was similar to the former some of the equipment differed. she also told the police the man she saw with edna that day was not defendant. debra worked with a police artist to construct a composite drawing of the man she saw. she at trial, debra testified that the truck she saw 1987, was the truck of the former gardenerdepicted that truck. debra was uncertain whether the man depicted in the composite 8 drawing she assisted in creating in 1987 was the former gardener. she testified there was she was certain that man was not the former gardener. debra testified she had seen the former earlier in the week before easter with -in-law, victor rojas, frequently visited richard and debra and had gotten to know the darrows. he testified that he saw defendant walk out of the , and up to a modified toyota truck. in both 1987 and the man was thin, tan, and about 5 feet 8 inches tallphotograph from a photographic array, and he tentatively identified defendant at trial. the photographic array included a photograph of defendant from the 1990s. testified he often visited his aunt, debra sanchez, after school and he also became friendly with the darrows.2 on april 15, 1987 he saw the truck saw edna talking to a thin, white male in his twenties whom he recognized as the man had seen the man house several times. around sundown that day. john spontaneously told the court that defendant looked nothing like the man he saw that day. jack salseda, jr. also spent a lot of time at the home of his aunt, debra sanchez, and also became friendly with edna. h, although most of the house was cluttered, the kitchen was spotless and tidy. he never saw anything sitting on the kitchen countertops. 4. detectives interviewed defendant on april 21, 1987 and photographed both him and his truck. detective whisenant described - 2 9 -u-road lights, front brush guard, [and] side step defendant said he had not been at the darrow house since august of 1986 when he and grizzell did the cement work. he denied knowledge of the murders and denied lending his truck to anyone. 5. dactivities before and soon after the murders sometime in april 1987, defendant began dating 16-year-old sharlene heineman, who lived in san bernardino with her aunt, diana britton. britton met defendant for the first time when he arrived at her home with sharlene on april 13, 1987. the next day, three young sons went to disneyland together. britton testified defendant had no money, so she paid for all of the tickets. she retained the date-stamped tickets and gave them to detectives in 1987. the following day, wednesday, april 15, 1987, defendant asked britton if he could take sharlene with him to pick up money from his gardening customers. britton agreed, but told defendant to bring sharlene back that night because she had school the next morning. defendant did not bring sharlene back until the next afternoon and britton was upset. on friday defendant took britton, her friend, and sharlene shopping. he spent about $150 to $250 on britton, and he bought a lot of clothes for sharlene. he $100 bills, and spent about $400 to $600 total on clothing and hairdressers. , faustina harris, testified that just before easter sunday in 1987, defendant took her, sharlene, and a relative of sharlene on a shopping spree. the women also had their hair styled. faustina thought defendant spent $400 to $500, paid in cash. before april of 1987, defendant had often taken faustina on outings and paid her way, but he had never before taken her on a shopping spree. patricia declue, house sometime in 1987. declue learned they recently had visited an amusement park and gone shopping. sharlene and britton showed declue clothing defendant had purchased for them and defendant showed declue things he had gotten for his truck, including an amplifier and speakers. declue asked defendant where the money had come 10 from. defendant was quiet at first and then said that he had had known from his lawn service business. declue did not know about the murders, did not think it was an honest confession, she was also under the influence of methamphetamine when defendant made the statement. she did not report statement to the police after she found out about the murders because she was using marijuana and methamphetamine in that period and did not want any contact with the police. also, no detectives contacted her until 2006. at that time, she told detective davis about defendant osteen, testified that sometime in 1987 before defendant and sharlene went to new york, defendant arrived at her house and asked her if she would store a birthday present he had for his father. she agreed, and defendant retrieved a paper bag from a briefcase in his truck. inside the bag was a knife with a compass on it, in a sheath. osteen kept the knife until detectives visited her sometime in the 1980s and asked for it. detectives first ralph told them that defendant was at his house on thursday, april 16, and saturday, april 18, but not on friday, april 17, 1987. , david phillips, testified that ed nelson, a family friend and the person for whom defendant had worked, called him about one week after the murders and said detectives were looking for defendant. about six months after the murders, defendant told david he had been in palm springs on his honeymoon with sharlene at the time of the murders. another time defendant told david he had been at the embassy suites at the time of the murders. he did not see defendant the week of april 12 through april 19, 1987. david was certain that defendant had not visited him at his workplace that week or any other time. he also denied lending defendant money or giving defendant money to hold for him. he testified that defendant had lent him his toyota truck a couple of times and that defendant always paid for everyone when they went out together. 11 records obtained from the embassy suites hotel in downey showed that defendant checked into the hotel after midnight on the morning of april 17, 1987 and checked out before 11 a.m. the same day. he paid cash for the room. detective 6. searc on july 13, 1987, ralph phillips consented to a search of his home. detectives seized a hunting knife (known at trial as emk-2), a kitchen knife, and two boxes of and a receipt for $980 truck wheels dated april 23, 1987. 7. trip to new york -brother william testified defendant unexpectedly arrived at his home in germantown, new york, on may 19, 1987, driving the truck depicted in photographs of different mothers, william was 14 or 15 years older than defendant, and they had not lived together since defendant was about 3 years old. william arranged for defendant to stay with a friend. sharlene arrived on a different date friend. on june 12, 1987, defendant was involved in an accident in germantown that destroyed his gray toyota 4x4 truck. as a result of this accident, defendant was convicted of a misdemeanor and sentenced to a jail term. while defendant was in jail, sharlene went to live with the family of a local teen she had befriended, serena saltis. soon after sharlene moved in, serena left for canada. when saltis returned at the end of summer, she learned defendant was a murder suspect and detectives had come from california to talk to sharlene. saltis told sharlene that parents were worried and did not want her to go back with defendant. she asked sharlene if she had any information about the murders. sharlene was nervous and hesitant to speak, but eventually told serena that defendant came home one evening 12 covered in sweat, with blood on his clothing, carrying a long-sleeved shirt stuffed with sleeves were tied. defendant had a bloody knife and asked sharlene to help him. although she initially refused, she eventually relented and washed the blood off the knife. the same after the accident, sharlene went to the impound lot, removed the knife from the truck, and stored it in her suitcase. saltis testified sharlene became very upset and was crying as she described what had happened. saltis did not tell anyone what sharlene had said until years later. no law enforcement officers contacted saltis about the murders until 2006 or 2007. at first, she did not tell them anything, but when she was contacted again by detective davis in 2007, saltis reported her conversation with sharlene. william testified sharlene had contacted him after she went to stay with saltisfamily and asked him to keep sharlene had told william defendant was a suspect in a stabbing murder in los angeles. one of the items william received from sharlene was a survival knife in a sheath. detective whisenant traveled to germantown twice in the summer of 1987, the first time in july with detective horton, then again with detective lyons in august. there, they interviewed sharlene, william, and others associated with defendant. during the august trip, william gave the detectives survival knife and sheath. whisenant described the knife as as . . . rambo- with a 6-inch blade serrated on one side and a compass on the end of the handle. at trial --lab designation. 8. forensic testing and testimony wounds were made by a single-edge knife with a thick dull-edge. three of the four knives recovered by police in this case had dull edges that were one-eighth inch thick, and two of these threeemk-4 (the knife recovered in germantown) and emk-2 (the survival knife recovered from were consistent with causing the 13 . of these two, emk-4 was the most consistent because of the way its tip bent. dowell opined only about ten percent of the knives he had examined during his career would hav blood was found on only one of the knives recovered by police: emk-4. the blood was on a washer inside the handle of the knife and there was too little to perform further testing. testing in 1987 revealed that there was human blood on the sheath that had been recovered with emk-4. after the case was reopened in 2006, testing revealed dna on the sheath. no blood or dna was found on the knife detectives obtained from sharosteen). exclusion testing was performed in 1987 on blood found inside the house. neither edna nor defendant could be excluded as the source of blood on a carpet sample. no foreign dna was found ings. two cigarette butts found in the driveway were collected and testing conducted after the case was reopened established the dna found 9. and statement to jailer on july 8, 1987, while defendant was in custody in germantown, he told correctional officer ralph graziano that detectives from los angeles wanted to interview him about the murder of his ex-employer. he said that he had nothing to worry about because he was at disneyland at the time of the murder. detectives whisenant and lyons interviewed defendant in jail in germantown on august 12, 1987. defendant told them he took sharlene and her family to disneyland on tuesday, april 14, 1987, and he pain. on wednesday, april 15, he and sharlene visited his brother david at workplace to return some money that defendant had held for him. they then drove to ralph phillipshills in san bernardino county, where they spent wednesday and thursday nights. been gone so long. on friday, april 17, defendant and sharlene went to see a movie and 14 then spent the night at the embassy suites hotel on firestone boulevard. on saturday morning, defendant took sharlene and britton shopping at a san bernardino mall. britton had her hair styled. defendant and sharlene spent saturday night and easter sunday at . defendant said that the money he spent came from his accumulated savings, which he hid with his lawn equipment, but he was unable to provide the [] for the money he had spent. defendant told the detectives that he quit working as a gardener for nelson on march 24, 1987. had been in april of 1986 when he put in a cement slab. defendant said that he had done some plumbing work for the darrows sometime before the cement work, but he denied doing any such work in the kitchen. 10. s 2006 interview and 2007 conditional examination testimony in an interview with detective davis on august 22, 2006, ralph phillips said defendant had told him three or four months before the murders that he had done yard work and fixed a garbage disposal for an elderly couple who had a lot of money they kept in boxes and flashed around. defendant said it would be easy to rob them. ralph also told davis that defendant and sharlene did not stay at his house around the time the murders occurred, but he was not sure. ralph when supposedly that happened, [defendant] was in, made a couple of collect calls to me, he later added that defendant called late at night and said he was stuck there because someone borrowed his truck. ralph told davis defendant had made about $1000 per week in his lawn care f it up then blow it on this and that and whatever. and amount of money. when the detectives first interviewed ralph in 1987 defendant had $500 to $600 in a drawer in the room he used in ralph also said the 15 by the time of trial, ralph had died. his testimony at a january 2007 conditional examination was admitted at trial. ralph testified that sometime around 1984 or 1985 defendant had told him that ralph did not know whether defendant was talking about the people who were later murdered. after the murders, defendant was all they had to do was ralph further testified defendant 11. a. august 2006 interview on august 15, 2006 detectives davis and cheryl comstock reinterviewed defendant. the interview was recorded and the recording was played at trial. defendant initially claimed not to remember the darrows by name or from a photograph of their house, but soon told the detectives he had done yard work and concrete work for them. the last work he did for them involved spreading concrete in their backyard. he thought it was more than a year before they were murdered. he later recalled he had also repaired the for the kitchen sink sometime prior to the concrete work. when the detectives told defendant all the items that would normally be bodies were found, he saide. i donremember doing it. i think i did that stuff before the concrete.he denied doing any work for the darrows in april 1987. he also denied he had ever taken sharlene to the defendant denied involvement in the darrows, knowing who killed them, and saying he had killed anyone. he admitted he had kept a sheathed knife in his truck, but he denied using it to kill the darrows. 16 around the time of the murders. defendant said that he took sharlene and her family to disneyland and that day or the next day his father told him some detectives had called and wanted to talk to him. he did not remember taking anyone shopping, but he recalled staying at an embassy suites with sharlene the same day they went to disneyland. b. november 2006 interview on november 1, 2006, davis and comstock reinterviewed defendant. the interview was recorded but the recording was not played at trial. instead, portions were read into the record. defendant denied both knowing the darrows kept money in their house and telling anyone they kept a lot of money in the house and would be easy to rob. he further denied suggesting jimmy distract edna while defendant went in the house to take money, but admitted he may have said that jokingly. defendant also denied murders, telling declue he killed people, asking osteen to hold a knife, and taking . defendakitchen pipes the year before they were killed and added he had also put the bathroom. defendant was arrested at the conclusion of the interview. 12. defendant testified he purchased a lawn route from ed nelson in september of 1986, after working the same route for nelson for two years. yards at their old house, then their new house, but he stopped around the time that he did concrete work in their backyard. the darrows were nice and treated defendant like their own son. they paid him in cash when he asked for payment. in 1986, about a year before the murders, defendant did concrete work in their backyard. after they signed the contract for the concrete work, edna went to another room and returned with five $100 bills that she gave defendant as a down payment. about one year before the murders, 17 defendant replaced a pipe somewhere he thought it was in the bathroom. he checked the kitchen sink, but did not remember replacing any pipes there. defendant testified when he worked his lawn maintenance route he made about $4,000 per month, not including handyman work he performed on the side. he often carried a lot of cash with him, and he kept a knife in his truck for protection. he kept a lot of cash hidden in a shed in january 1987, defendant left his wife christina. around the end of march, he only worked for the customers who paid in cash, not checks. his income declined to about $2,000 to $2,500 per month. a few weeks before the murders in april 1987, he started seeing sharlene and when defendant learned that detectives wanted to talk to him about a murder, he went to the police station to speak with them. he did not know who had been murdered at the time. his knife was in the truck, which the detectives searched, but they did not find the knife. defendant no longer remembered where he went, other than disneyland, during the week before easter in1987, but he testified he was honest with the detectives about his whereabouts during the week of the murders. defendant testified that he paid to disneyland. defendant testified he, his sister, and sharlene went to palm springs and stayed overnight on a weekend around that time. he thought it was the saturday before easter sunday. he had previously had receipts from that trip, but he had given them to the detectives. he admitted he had told the detectives, however, that he spent saturday night drinking with britton at her house. defendant testified he wanted to impress sharlene, and he took her, britton, and faustina shopping. he agreed he had probably spent $400 to $500 for everything he purchased for everyone. on april 23, 1987, defendant spent about $1,000 on equipment for his truck. the money he was spending was money he had saved at an earlier time. 18 in may 1987, defendant went to new york to see his family. he had told his aunt at an earlier time he would probably visit her, then after being interviewed by the detectives, he reached his breaking point and decided to go. when he decided to stay more than a week or two, he paid for sharlene to fly out to stay with him. defendant testified when he talked to the germantown jailer, he did not know who had been killed and thought it was ed nelson or joseph gadow. he only found out the victims were his customers when los angeles detectives interviewed him in germantown, but he still did not know which customers. on cross-examination, defendant admitted he had learned that the victims were the darrows when he was interviewed in april of 1987. he claimed he was mistaken when he told davis in 2006 he did not know which of his customers had been murdered, and he thought when detectives interviewed him in germantown they were talking about someone else. the detectives who interviewed defendant in germantown told him to come see them when he returned to los angeles, so when he returned in 1987 he promptly went to talked to them and . he admitted that nothing in the discovery obtained from the prosecution reflected that interview. defendant denied killing either of the darrows or being at their house the week of april 19, 1987or any time in 1987. he denied confessing to patricia declue and suggested she made up the statement to prevent him from telling the police she possessed a stolen car. he also denied telling anyone, including his father, that the darrows kept a large amount of cash in the house or that it would be easy to steal money from them. defendant admitted his truck was very unique, and he never lent it to anyone other than his brother david. 13. verdict and sentencing the jury convicted defendant of two counts of first degree murder and found true several special circumstance allegations: multiple murder, murder in the commission of robbery or attempted robbery, and murder in the commission of burglary or attempted 19 burglary. the jury further found defendant personally used a deadly or dangerous weapon in the commission of the murders. the court sentenced defendant to life in prison without possibility of parole, plus two years for the weapon-use enhancements. discussion 1. precharging delay a. motion and ruling (1) more than two years before trial, defendant moved to dismiss the charges on the ground the lengthy delay of nearly 20 years in filing the felony complaint against him was unjustified and prejudicial, and thus violated his right to due process. the motion cited as prejudice the death of sharlene, detective horton (one of the original investigators), and the deputy medical examiner who performed the autopsies on the darrows; the failure of recollection of detectives whisenant and lyons (the other two original investigators) and ed nelson; missingdegraded and missing bloodstains and samples; failure to photograph the open cabinet under the kitchen sink the day the re found; failure to photograph the pipes under the kitchen sink before removing the one as found; the absence of reports regarding ce loss or degradation of bone and tissue samples from the darrows that were saved for, but not analyzed by, dowell; pertaining to suspect descriptions similar to this case, sightings of strangers and homeless people in the neighborhood, and a murder of a man wi, for which the huntington unavailable due to a computer crash. 20 the motion also noted sharlene told investigators she had seen a knife covered in blood shortly after the murders and defendant asked her to bury it, and she told an aunt in texas years after the murders she had sat in car outside a house while defendant went in, and killed a couple of people. (2) the prosecutor opposed the motion and explained that, although defendant was the eles county district the prosecutor argued the delay was not intentional, was justified, and defendant did not suffer actual and substantial prejudice. the opposition set forth in chronological order a summary of the investigation as it stood in 1987, as well as developed from june of 2006 through the preliminary hearing in april of 2008. in 1987, according to the opposition, the police knew defendant had worked for the darrows as gardener and handyman and defendant knew the darrows kept a lot of money in the house; the cabinet beneath the kitchen sink was empty and its probable contents were sitting on the counter; n shiny of the drain pipe assembly beneath the kitchen sink; 14 or 15, 1987; the man who had worked on the was seen at their house on the afternoon of april 15, 1987; defendant had worked on cement for the darrows patio in 1986; noises were heard at the that; defendant did not have much money when he went to disothers on shopping sprees; defendant and sharlene denly relocated to upstate new when a jail officer in new york told defendant detectives wanted to ask him about a los angeles murder, 21 defendant said he had nothing to worry about because he had been at disneyland at the time of the crime; when interviewed in new york defendant said he had worked on detailed timeline of his activities the week of the murder which was substantially defendant, sharlene, britton, and ; ralph phillips told detectives that just before he went to new york, omething happens to you and mom; sandra underwood told detectives sharlene showed her and other local ad used it to stab a black man; and had new evidence cited in the opposition included a re-interview of adrieanniea krieger in august of 2006 in which she her cement patio and ask them to . also, defendant had said for the first time in his august 2006 interview he had fi. investigators had also interviewed or re-interviewed several people who said defendant had spoken of the darrows keeping cash in the house and being easy to rob. david phillips was re-interviewed and said jimmy harris had told him that around the the victimshad a plan to do so involving jimmy. told investigators jimmy harris also told her of defendanmoney. jimmy harris was interviewed for the first time and told investigators edna told him she kept all of her money in her house, defendant repeatedly urged jimmy to help him rob the darrows, defendant was obsessed with t money and talked about it all the time to many people. kenneth grizzell was re-interviewed and said that around the time of the murders defendant had told him and others that the darrows kept lots of money in their house. ralph phillips was re-interviewed and said defendant often had 22 spoken about how much money the darrows had and how easy it would be to rob them. , 2006 interview, he conceded he might have jokingly ralph phillips also had made statements inconsistent with his prior statements and disposal and had been in palm springs when the darrows were murdered. patricia declue had been interviewed for the first time, and she told investigators that when she asked defendant the source of his wealth defendant replied that he had killed two old people for whom he had performed gardening work. , david heineman, had been interviewed for the first time, and he said he helped defendant with his lawn work in 1987. defendant once persuaded another of his assistants to steal a while they were working. jack salseda, sr. was interviewed for the first time in 2006 and stated he visited the sanchez house on april 15 or 16, 1987 and saw a . he also saw a he had previously seen loading lawn equipment into a truck. jack salseda, jr. was also interviewed for the first time in 2006 and told investigators edna always carried cash in the pocket of her blue muumuu and the always tidy, with no supplies left on top of counters. of the knife recovered from william phillips in new york, steven dowell analyzed the unds and the recovered knives and concluded od handled knife that had been recovered from ralph phillips in 1987 were consistent with having inflicted the injuries to the victims. loped after defendant was arrested and charged. these included serena saltiswith money and a bloody knife. 23 the prosecutor expressed willingness . . . all of (3) defendant filed a reply and, a year later, upplemental motion to dismiss, but neither document course the investigation followed. (4) the trial court delayed ruling upon the motion until after the close of evidence at trial. during the trial, davis tes when the trial court considered the motion after the close of evidence, it noted ereabouts had been well known or easily ascertainable throughout the the delay. the only new evidence developed in the ensuing 20 years was the statement from the young lady [serena saltis] regarding the confession that the court allowed in. [] other than that, all the fingerprints, the car, all of the circumstantial evidence, the the prosecutor nmatter. the court agreed. finds that there was ample evidence to bring [defendant] to trial in 1987; that the circumstantial evidence based upon everything that was available, was more than enough tofor a prosecutor to expect a very good chance of a conviction. so the court find[s] the court later stated it found no intentional delay suspect in a murder of two individuals that were not strangers to him but in fact known to 24 any of the presumption of prejudice due to the delay that exists in the other cases. specifically, as stated in doggett [v. united states (1992) 505 u.s. 647 [112 s.ct. 2686]] at some point the delay becomes so long that efforts to show specific prejudice become does not find that factor to be present and the court believes that is the critical factor in preliminary discussion, before hearing from you, is to deny it on the basis that the defendant . . . was fully aware and was in a good position as anyone to try to figure out what happened and where he was and what was going on in his life during that period of defendant then cited, as additional aspects of prejudice, the inability to compare the darrows to the knife mentioned by edna eva hare; lost third party culpability evidence pertaining to and deceased husband; the changed memories of richard and debra sanchez and john and victor rojas allowing them ; the death of wanda osteenth and memory of jerome krieger, ralph phillips, and detective whisenant; loss of opportunity to find unspecified and loss of unspecified character witnesses for defendant. the prosecutor asked whether the court has made a filing [sic] that the defendant did not suffer actual prejudice by the prosecutor, the court denied the motion without further comment. defendant contends the court erred by denying his motion. b. law regarding precharging delay and standard of review although statutes of limitations are the primary safeguard against precharging delay, due process 25 interest in fair adjudication by preventing unjustified delays that weaken the defense through the dimming of memories, the death or disappearance of witnesses, and the loss or destruction of material physical evidencepeople v. abel (2012) 53 cal.4th 891, 908 (abel).) prejudice from precharging delay is not presumed. (abel, supra, 53 cal.4th at pp. 908must first demonstrate resulting prejudice, such as by showing the loss of a material witness or other missing evidence, or fading memory caused by the lapse of time. (id. at p. 908.) prosecution may offer justification for the delay; the court considering a motion to dismiss then balances the harm to the defendant against the justification for the delay. [citation.] but if the defendant fails to meet his or her burden of showing prejudice, there id. at p. 909.) under california law, either negligent or deliberate delay designed to disadvantage the defendant may violate due process. (people v. nelson (2008) 43 cal.4th 1242, 1255 (nelson).) because deliberate delay is completely a relatively weak showing of prejudice would suffice to tip the scales towards finding a due process violation. if the delay was merely negligent, a greater showing of prejudice would be required to establish (id. at p. 1256.) the justification for the delay is strong when there is investigative delay, nothing else. (people v. cowan (2010) 50 cal.4th 401, 431 (cowan).) should not second- evidence exists to nelson, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 1256.) prosecutors are under no duty to file charges as soon as probable cause exists but before they are satisfied investigative delay is fundamentally unlike delay undertaken by the government solely to gain tactical advantage over an accused because investigative delay is not so one-sided. a prosecutor abides by elementary standards of fair play and decency by refusing to seek 26 indictments until he or she is completely satisfied the defendant should be prosecuted and the office of the prosecutor will be able to promptly establish guilt beyond a reasonable ibid.) the trial court must also resist second-guessing how the state allocates its resources or how law enforcement agencies could have investigated a given case.(ibid.) made his or her case a higher priority or had done things a bit differently they would have solved id. at p. 1257.) we review for abuse of discretion and defer to the trial underlying factual findings if substantial evidence supports them. (cowan, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 431.) c. defendant failed to demonstrate actual prejudice from the precharging delay (1) deceased witnesses defendant argued at trial and argues on appeal the precharging delay prevented him from calling several witnesses who had died by the time of his trial or, in some cases, by the time he was charged. however, he has not shown any likelihood that any of these witnesses would have provided testimony beneficial to his defense. sharlene, who was with defendant for much, if not all, of the week of the murders, was interviewed by the police in 1987 and defendant did not seek to introduce those statements at trial, even though the prosecutor offered to stipulate to admission of her statements. she also made several statements to various individuals that strongly tended to implicate defendant in the murder, although the only one of these introduced at trial was the statement to serena saltis. have provided him with an alibi, but she might instead have provided the prosecution with highly incriminating testimony implicating him given her fact, she may have invoked her privilege against self-incrimination and refused to testify. if she had done so, the prosecutor almost certainly would have offered her immunity to testify against defendant. even if we were to assume she voluntarily testified and 27 provided testimony favorable to defendant, the credibility of that testimony would have been diminished by her numerous inconsistent statements and the bias inherent in her relationship with defendant. defendant therefore has not demonstrated, and indeed cannot demonstrate, actual prejudice from the loss imony. defendant has not explained what he believes detective horton, the deputy medical examiner who performed the autopsies of the darrows, or husband would have helped him prove and how that would have benefitted his defense. the relevaa different the documentation and photographs created during the course of the autopsies. defendant has not identified any issue the testifying deputy was unable to address or resolve. horton was just one of three original investigators, and the other two testified. in exam dna from the cigarette butts in a database to look for a match because the prosecutor said they were not part of the crime scene. the evidence developed at trial established the fourth knife was the one defendant gave to wanda osteen. thus, there was nothing beneficial to be had from horton regarding that knife. the issue regarding the dna on the cigarette butts was not one . had refused to check the dna against the database. defendant could have asked the trial court to order the prosecutor to request that the dna profile be checked against the database. in any event, identification of such men would not necessarily exonerate defendant because some of the neighbors testified they saw multiple men at the house on the afternoon of april 15, 1987. jerome krieger testified he saw three men and debra sanchez testified and told police she saw two men. 28 thus, defendant has not demonstrated actual prejudice resulting from the death of any of these potential witnesses. (2) faded memories defendant argued at trial and argues on appeal he was prejudiced by the diminished memories of various witnesses resulting from the precharging delay. some of these witnesses had died by the time of trial, but testified at conditional examinations. detective whisenant testified at a conditional examination, portions of which were admitted at trial. his memory of the crime scene was limited, but he had reviewed his . defendant had all of that documentation and he has not explained testimony at an earlier time would have benefitted him. similarly, defendant has not set forth any theory of how he would have benefitted from trial closer in time to 1987. ralph phillips was interviewed by the police in 1987 and again in 2006, and he testified at a conditional examination in january of 2007, during which he testified he was honest when he talked to detectives in april 1987. some of early statements to the police were somewhat beneficial to defendant, others were incriminating, and some conflicted with . notably, he did not provide defendant with an alibi for april 15, 1987, the day neighbors noises and a scream from the house. although 2006-2007 statements and testimony were less favorable and more incriminating, defendant has not shown and cannot show that testimony ralph might have given at a trial nearer 1987 would have benefitted defendant. jerome krieger testified at the preliminary hearing, during which he identified the and testified he saw a man near the truck who looked like defendant. krieger was 29 interviewed by the police in 1987 and defendant had a copy of the report of that interview. defendant nearer 1987 would have been less incriminating or more beneficial. the decline of ed nelson, his former employer . . . due to this claim is related to argument that his business and banking records were lost and pertains to the defense contention that the money he spent during the week preceding easter was revenue from his business. however, because defendant had purchased his lawn route from nelson and nelson employer, it is doubtful nelson would have had personal knowledge of defendantearnings. even assuming, for the sake of argument, nelson had possessed such knowledge and testified at a trial nearer 1987 that defendant was making a certain amount of money, this would not establish how much, if any, of his earnings defendant had available to spend in mid-april, 1987. in this regard, we note christina testified when she and defendant separated in january of 1987 she discovered defendant had not paid the rent or utility bills for three months, ralph phillips told the police in 1987 that after source of incomeand defendant testified his income declined by about half near the end of march, 1987 and only worked for customers who paid in cash. accordingly, defendant has not demonstrated actual prejudice resulting from the faded memories of any of these witnesses. (3) improved memories defendant contends he was prejudiced by the ability of richard and debra at trial. we note, however, victor rojas identified the truck he saw house on april 15, 1987 as the one in photographs depicting defendant 30 the murders in 1987. in addition, as far as the record reveals, the descriptions of the truck given by each neighbor who saw it were not only consistes. modified and unusual, if not unique. defendant had copies of police reports of these from 1987 and was able to use these reports to cross-examine the witnesses about their greater certainty at trial. witnesses at trial often testify differently than their statements to the police; the remedies for this phenomenon are cross-examination, ins prior inconsistent statement, and, where identifications are concerned, introduction of testimony by an expert regarding eyewitness identification. testimony at a trial nearer 1987 would have been less incriminating. (4) defendant also argued at trial and argues on appeal he was prejudiced by the precharging delay because certain evidence was lost between 1987 and 2006. defendant argues his ecords impaired his ability to show he had money he had earned from his business to spend during the week preceding easter. however, business when they searched ralph , and defendant testified that to the best of his knowledge all of his business records were provided to the detectives in 1987. defendant has never claimed that the police lost or destroyed these papers or the papers themselves became unreadablepolice were inquiring about his sources of income. accordingly, he had an incentive immediately after the murders to preserve his business and bank records. (see cowan, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 432.) in addition, defendant testified his savings were in the form of cash and were hidden with his lawn equipment and in his . bank records would not reflect these cash stashes. furthermore, as previously noted, other evidence, 31 , tended to show he had experienced financial difficulty in early 1987 and a showing of what he had earned did not mean he had that money available to spend during the week before easter. defendant argues he was prejudiced by precharging delay because he no longer had access to the toyota 4x4 truck. however, the truck had been wrecked in germantown during the summer of 1987. thus, the precharging delay was not responsible for the loss of the truck. in addition, detectives photographed the truck when they interviewed defendant on april 21, 1987. defendant does not claim the tappearance had changed between april 15 and april 21, 1987. defendant argues the delay left him unable to show the witnesses what [defendant] looked like back in 1987 at the time of the crimes. however, detectives also photographed defendant when they interviewed defendant on april 21, 1987. defendant does not claim his appearance had changed between april 15 and april 21, 1987. defendant argues the delay resulted in loss of the opportunity to find unspecified impeachment evidence and unspecified character witnesses. this claim is inherently speculative. impeachment evidence may or may not have existed in 1987, and, if it existed, it may still have existed at the time of trial. indeed, the delay arguably provided a greater opportunity for witnesses to make contradictory statements and commit acts of moral turpitude, if they were so inclined. as for character witnesses for defendant, defendant has not shown that he had no friends, associates, or family members alive and available to provide favorable testimony at the time of trial. defendant further argues the precharging delay culpability in his original motion, he argued several such he no longer asserts on appeal. he now refers only to plumbers anthony rosales and lance . hare testified she and her husband lived in michigan and flew to california when notified by the police that her parents had been found dead. before that, they had not visited california since august of 1986. nothing in the appellate record indicates defendant had any reason to suspect 32 in california, not michigan, at the time of the murders. the appellate record does not reflect any information regarding rosales or inman or their connection to the darrows, let alone any reason to suspect they murdered the darrows. the other third party culpability in order to be admissible as third party culpability evidence, there must be direct or circumstantial evidence linking the third person to the actual perpetration of the charged crime, not just evidence that a third person merely had a motive or opportunity to commit the crime. (people v. edelbacher (1989) 47 cal.3d 983, 1017.) defendant has not set forth any reason to believe murders. he therefore has not and cannot demonstrate any actual prejudice from the inability to investigate third party culpability. defendant also argues he was prejudiced because the bloodstains and samples were degraded or missing. defendant has not explained how he believes further testing using the testing methods available nearer 1987 would have benefitted him. his written motion available at the time was capable only of limited results. since this time, dna has been discovered and testing is available . . . had the blood samples not degraded, both the prosecution and defense could have performed much more sophisticated testing upon them. but defendant cannot legitimately claim the inability to perform such testing was caused by the precharging delay, as opposed to the state of forensic science at the time of the crimes. had defendant been charged in 1987 and tried within a reasonable time thereafter, he would have been limited to the science available at the time defendant similarly argues he was prejudiced by the loss or degradation of bone and tissue samples from the darrows that were saved for, but not analyzed by, dowell. the motion further including the knife penetrated areas, a large block of thoracic vertebrae and attached 33 posterior rib regions, including the knife-wounded areas there and a large piece of knife . . although these samples were taken in november 2006. [] upon visiting steve dowell at thdiscovered that his november 2006 report was done using only the autopsy photos, two bone fragments, one from each victim, and the autopsy reports. it appears that the other samples had been lost or destroyed in the intervening 19 years. he stated that if the samples do still exist, they would have been in formalin for a long time and might not be helpful. defendant has not shown that was inaccurate or inadequate. he could have asked dowell at trial whether examination of additional bones and the one tissue sample collected would have been more accurate or revealing, but he did not. in addition, because it is completely speculative to have been different if he had used tissue and bone instead of photographs for his analysis and comparison, the existence of any actual prejudice to defendant is also completely speculative. by edna hare to have been stored by her mother beneath her bedroom mattress was lost knife. the police did not find it and hare testified she had never seen the knife in the house in which the darrows died. she testified her mother kept that knife under her mattress when they lived in a different house and george worked nights. when they were murdered, george was retired and they lived in a different house. accordingly, defendant has not demonstrated actual prejudice resulting from the (5) nonexistent evidence defendant also argues he was prejudiced because the police failed to photograph ound, failed to 34 photograph the pipes under the kitchen sink before removing the one on which 3 did not write a report regarding whether other, tion an arguably imperfect investigation, not precharging delay, caused the nonexistence of these matters. had defendant been charged in 1987, there still would have been no such photographs and, if the doors had not been processed for fingerprints, it would likely have been fruitless to process them after the police had ended their control over the house. after he was charged in 2006, defendant could have requested the prosecutor to ask the police to check unidentified fingerprints against databases. in any event, as stated in cowan, supra[e]the items, defendant still would have been linked to the murders because his own d. the delay was, at worst, negligent. as noted, the trial court concluded the delay was not justified. but its conclusion lconstitutes an implicit finding the delay was not an attempt to gain a tactical advantage over defendant. nothing in the record suggests the delay was a tactic. thus, at worst, the delay was negligent, and a greater showing of prejudice was required. (nelson, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 1256.) e. the trial court properly denied the motion. had defendant been charged in 1987 and tried within a reasonable time thereafter, the evidence presented by both parties undoubtedly would have been different than that at the trial in 2011. however, defendant failed to establish that he suffered actual prejudice from the lengthy delay. the original investigation was sufficiently thorough and 3 one photograph described as showing the cabinet under the kitchen sink, but for the failure to photograph as true. 35 memorialized in reports, notwithstanding the omissions cited by defendant. defendant was interviewed just two days after the bodies were found and thereby placed on notice at that time he was a suspect in the murders and needed to account for where he had been and what he had done in the relevant time frame. to the extent some lines of inquiry or questioning were unavailable to defendant after 19 years, he has not shown that his defense would have obtained any benefit from being able to pursue such matters. after reviewing the entire trial recordt accordingly, we conclude the trial court did not abuse its discretion by denying delay. 2. admission of regarding the statement sharlene made to her in 1987 about defendant coming home with a bloody knife and a shirt stuffed with cash. specifically, the prosecutor told the court, saltis would testify sharlene told her defendant arrived home late one night, sweaty, frantic, and nervous. he had blood on his clothes and was carrying a long-sleeved shirt tied at the wrists and packed full of money. he told sharlene she had to help him. she was scared, but personally washed blood off a knife. she later took the knife to new york in her suitcase. the prosecutor argued the statement constituted a declaration against interest, in that it subjected sharlene to criminal liability as an accessory. defendant opposed admission of this testimony, arguing did not qualify as a declaration against interest and its admission would violate the confrontation clause. the trideclaration against interest and did not implicate the confrontation clause because it was not testimonial. saltis testified at the preliminary hearing she spoke privately to sharlene, saying ents had told her detectives had come to interview them about a double 36 homicide they believed defendant had been involved in. sharlene repeatedly said she could not say anything, then became more upset and nervous and began crying. saltis conveyed her pamentioned a knife and together and he was covered with sweat and very upset and wanted her help. that when he came in he had a long sleeve shirt with the sleeves tied and . . . the shirt was stuffed full of money and that she personally washed the blood off of the knife in the bathroom defendant asked her to wash the blood off the knife sharlene further said defendant had told her at the time another man was involved and an elderly couple were stabbed many, many times and robbed. sharlene told saltis she had brought the knife with her in her suitcase. sharlene had later retrieved it from the truck and kept it with her personal property. defendant renewed his objection at trial and added due process as a ground for exclusion. the trial court again admitted statement. saltis was not asked about, and did not testify to, another man was involved and an elderly couple were stabbed and robbed. defendant contends interest because she lacked the knowledge and intent required to be an accessory and her statement was untrustworthy because she said defendant came home to an apartment they were sharing, whereas sharlene was living with britton at the time of the murders. defendant further argues the improper s statement was so inflammatory as to violate due process. he does not contend it resulted in any violation of the confrontation clause. a. law regarding declarations against penal interest and standard of review is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule if the declarant is unavailable as a witness 37 and the statement, when made, . . . so far subjected him to the risk of civil or criminal liability . . . that a reasonable man in his position would not have made the statement u the proponent of the evidence must also show that the declaration was sufficiently reliable to warrant admission. (people v. geier (2007) 41 cal.4th 555, 584 (geier), overruled on another point by melendez-diaz v. massachusetts (2009) 557 u.s. 305 [129 s.ct. 2527]is the basic trustworthiness of the declaration. [citations.] in determining whether a statement is truly against interest within the meaning of evidence code section 1230, and hence is sufficiently trustworthy to be admissible, the court may take into account not just the words but the circumstances under which they were uttered, the possible motivation of tibid.) reliable circumstance is one in which the conversation occurs between friends in a people v. greenberger (1997) 58 cal.app.4th 298, 335 (greenberger).) one in which the declarant has been arrested and attempts to improve his situation with ibid.) a]ssessing broad and deep acquaintance with the ways human beings actually conduct themselves in people v. duarte (2000) 24 cal.4th 603, 614 (duarte).) regarding the admissibility of such a statement for abuse of discretion. (geier, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 585.) b. law regarding accessory status penal code section 32 defines person who, after a felony has been committed, harbors, conceals or aids a principal in such felony, with the intent that said principal may avoid or escape from arrest, trial, conviction or punishment, having knowledge that said principal has committed such 38 felony or has been charged with such felony or convicted thereof, is an accessory to such the accessory must know that the principal committed a felony or has been charged with the commission of one. (people v. wilson (1993) 17 cal.app.4th 271, 275 (wilson).) c. was properly admitted as a declaration against her penal interest. ds conduct, as described in her statement to saltis, did not make her an accessory (and thus was not against her penal interest) because she was 16 years old, , was doing, nor and acted from by relenting in what he was ordering her to do under the worst of circumstances (1) sharlenend conduct required to make her an accessory. the circumstances described by sharlene demonstrated she knew at the time she acted that defendant had committed multiple felonies: defendant arrived home sweaty and with blood on him, carrying a bloody knife and a shirt stuffed with cash, and told sharlene an elderly couple were robbed and stabbed many, many times. this was more than sufficient to inform anyone, even a 16-year-old, defendant had committed felonies. include the statement by defendant about robbing and stabbing an elderly couple, the trial judge had conducted the preliminary hearing and was aware of the full we review the trial it was made, . . . not by reference to evidence produced at a people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 739.) notwithstanding , she relented and not only washed the blood off the knife, but thereafter made repeated efforts to conceal 39 that knife. she told saltis she carried it to new york in her suitcase, retrieved it from . nothing indicated she performed these acts under duress. her conduct thus reflects her intent that defendant avoid arrest, trial, conviction, and punishment. finally, destroyed evidence by washing the blood off the knife and concealed evidence by transporting the knife from california to new york, then impounded truck and hiding it in her suitcase established the conduct required to make her an accessory. prin(wilson, supra, 17 cal.app.4th at p. 275.) an accessory to the robbery and murder of the darrows. (2) . sharlene made her statement to saltis in the type of setting deemed most reliable: a . (greenberger, supra, 58 cal.app.4th at p. 335.) in addition, the surrounding circumstances support the trial s conclusion said she could not say anything, then, as she told saltis what happened, she became highly emotional. nothing in the record suggests sharlene was attempting to divert criminal responsibility from herself to defendant, which is the most common context in which a statement is deemed too untrustworthy to constitute a declaration against penal interest. (see duarte, supra, 24 cal.4th at pp. 611612.) saltis testified sharlene referred to defendant returning to an apartment they shared, whereas other evidence in the record indicates they were not living in an apartment. however, the nature of the location to which defendant returned was merely a collateral detail and may have merely been , years later, of different words used by sharlene. 40 we cannot conclude this single collateral detail rendered the statement so untrustworthy as to preclude its admission in light of the surrounding circumstances reflecting trustworthiness. accordingly, we conclude the trial court did not abuse its discretion by admitting nor did its admission violate due process. application of the rules of evidence ordinarily does not violate due process. (people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 998.) the admission of evidence may violate due process if there is no permissible inference a jury may draw from the evidence. (people v. albarran (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 214, 229.) the jury could that defendant had committed a violent, blood crime using the knife he asked her to wash, and had obtained the money in the shirt in the commission of that crime. it could further infer that the knife known as emk-4 that detectives collected in new york was the same knife used by defendant in the crime, then washed, transported to new york, and concealed by sharlene. 3. s presentence credits. defendant contends, and the attorney general concedes, the trial court incorrectly which was enacted more than seven years after defendant committed the crimes in this case. the parties agree defendant should have been awarded 1,004 days of presentence conduct credits, for a total 3,012 days of presentence credits. accordingly, we correct the award of credits and direct the trial court to issue an amended abstract of judgment reflecting the correct credits, if it has not already done so. 41 disposition 3,012 days total, consisting of 2008 days of actual custody and 1004 days conduct credits. the judgment is otherwise affirmed. the trial court is directed to issue an amended abstract of judgment reflecting the correct credits, if it has not already done so. not to be published. miller, j.* we concur: rothschild, acting p. j. chaney, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 