filed 7/14/14 p. v. lewis ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. vince e. lewis et al., defendants and appellants. b241236 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta117431) appeals from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county. ricardo r. ocampo, judge. judgments affirmed. robert d. bacon, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant vince lewis. chris r. redburn, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant ariana coronel. stephen temko, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant mirian herrera. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr. and nima razfar, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________________ 2 a jury convicted defendants herrera, lewis and coronel of first degree murder and found that herrera personally discharged a firearm in its commission. the court sentenced each defendant to 25 years to life for the murder and sentenced herrera to a consecutive 25 years to life for the personal firearm use. we affirm the judgments. facts and proceedings below and all three defendants, vince lewis are members of the easy riders gang. the easy riders are enemies of the dead end harpees. on january 31, 2011, coronel sent a text message to an unidentified recipient that [are] kicking [mickey] out the hood cuz [s]ilent1 told me a hps2 in jail said she was fucking one of [th] on february 2, 2011, coronel sent several text messages to several unidentified recipients. the first message stated: [that] ers3 gang mando hood meeting tonight at 10 pm. outta the hood[.] [.] we although the recipients of corones were not identified at trial, the jury could infer from the contents of the messages that the recipients were other gang . amy aleman was a defendant in the case until she negotiated a plea to voluntary manslaughter and a four-year sentence. she testified for the prosecution at the trial of lewis, herrera and coronel. 1 presumably a gang moniker. 2 presumably harpees. 3 presumably easy riders. 3 aleman told the jury that on the night of the murder she attended a meeting of the easy riders. lewis and three female members, herrera, coronel and noriega were present along with other gang members. she knew that noriega was going to receive a according to aleman, at some point during the meeting lewis told her, noriega, herrera and coronel to come with him to buy beer. the group went to a liquor store where lewis and coronel bought the beer. after the group left the store, herrera, who was eight months pregnant, said she needed to urinate. lewis did not head back to the house where the meeting was taking place, which was only a few minutes away. instead he drove around looking for a private spot and eventually parked on a street next to an alley. herrera, aleman and noriega got out of the car. coronel and lewis remained inside. the three women walked down the alley. aleman was in the lead. herrera and noriega were walking behind her. as aleman was walking down the alley she heard gun shots behind her. she . lewis drove back one of the easy riders drove aleman home after the meeting. he told aleman to get rid of her clothes because they might contain gun powder residue. aleman put her clothes in a plastic bag and either lewis or coronel stuffed them down a storm drain. the police recovered the clothes based on information aleman supplied them with. responding to a call from a neighbor, the police foshortly after the shooting. noriega died from multiple gun shot wounds. the pathologist who examined her body estimated she was hit by approximately 10 bullets which struck 4 her throat, left abdomen, left arm and mid-lower back. a forensic examination found that all the bullets were fired from the same semi-automatic handgun. the day after the murder, coronel sent text messages to a person identified as s dead. . . . like we took her last breath dead. . . . nothing[.] [w]e just gave it to her. . . . the potbellied/pregnant one [herrera] and the other who is barely pregnant [aleman] got out with the rip to supposedly take a piss in the alleyway near 111th st. . . . i stayed in the car with [lewis] because obviously me and the rip . . . t it. . . . and the potbellied/pregnant girl go[t] the nine and shot her all over her body. then from there they got into the car and we got the fuck out of there. . . . i wanted to do it but it w[as] gonna b[e] to[o] ob[v]ious [and] she felt comfortable with both of [th]em so it w[as] coronel had another text conversation with an unknown person later that day. the how did it go . . . . in some of her text messages after the murder, coronel told the rec[j] the following month police arrested an easy rider gang member, gilbert mendoza, on a probation violation. mendoza told the police that he had information stand under a grant of immunity, he swore he could not recall anything that happened at the meeting or anything he told the police. he did testify, however, that therand , 5 yed to the jury.4 mendoza stated that on the night of the murder he was at a meeting of the gang called by lewis. the purpose of the meeting was to discipline noriega for violating the at mickey was violation is essentially said that a violation could involve a shooting or a stabbing. mendoza said were going to participate in carrying out the violation. he also stated that during the meeting lewis said he and the women were going out to buy beer. mendoza observed that the gang had beer there. lewis and the women were gone 30 or 40 minutes and returned to the meeting without noriega. no one commented on her absence. when the meeting broke up, mendoza was with the group that dropped off aleman. he said that one of the gang members told her to change her clothes and give them to him because they mighclothes at the location mendoza named. expert. lee stated that in general a gang meeting is required to decide whether a member meeting. lee testified that the easy riders have only one ed that within a gang alizes with a rival gang member, usually [ends] up either 4 a trial witnesss deliberately evasive forgetfulness authorizes admission of the s prior inconsistent statements under evidence code section 1235. (people v. perez (2000) 82 cal.app.4th 760, 764. 6 being hether the gang considers the violation a minor one or a major one. the more serious the violation, the more times the violator will be shot. murder was committed for the benefit of the easy riders. he admitted, however, that he had never before heard of the easy riders killing one of its own members. a jury found lewis, herrera and coronel guilty of first degree murder and found that they committed the murder for the benefit of the easy riders gang. the jury also found that herrera personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing death. the court sentenced lewis and coronel to 25 years to life in state prison. it sentenced herrera to 25 years to life on the murder charge and a consecutive 25 years to life for the gun use enhancement. (pen. code,  12022.53, subd. (d).) the court did not impose sentence on the gang enhancements because, it reasoned, the punishment of a 15-year minimum for parole eligibility for the gang enhancement (pen. code,  186.22, subd. (b)(5)) is s-year minimum for parole eligibility for the gun enhancement. (people v. nunez and satele (2013) 57 cal.4th 1, 39, fn. 6.)5 discussion i. the court did not abuse its discretion in declining to sever the trials. the court denied the motions by herrera and lewis to sever their trials from each people v. coffman and marlow (2004) 34 cal.4th 1, 41.) any (pen. code,  1098.) the court may order separate trials n the face of an incriminating 5 for this reason, we need not address evidence to support the gang enhancement. lewis concedes that any such error was harmless. 7 confession, prejudicial association with codefendants, likely confusion resulting from evidence on multiple counts, conflicting defenses, or the possibility that at a separate trial a codefendant would give exonerating testpeople v. massie (1967) 66 cal.2d 899, 917.) the court may also order separate trials where a joint trial would compromise a specific trial right of one of the codefendants or prevent the jury from reaching a reliable verdict. (people v. coffman and marlow, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 40, fns. omitted.) the kind of prejudicial evidence that may require severance is evidence against a codefendant that is likely to inflame the jury against the defendant or is evidence in a strong case against a codefendant that may spill over and bolster a weak case against the defendant. (people v. kraft (2000) 23 cal.4th 978, 1030.) no exception to the general rule applies here. defendants who are charged with a common crime involving common events and a common victim in which the evidence is cross-admissible against all the defendants present a classic case for a joint trial. (people v. coffman and marlow, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 40; see people v. kraft, supra, 23 cal.4th at p. 1030.) herrera and lewis argue -admissible insofar as the messages linked them t & 4, ante.) as we because the texts were trustworthy an-admissible in the others, ordinarily any people v. sully (1991) 53 cal.3d 1195, 1222.) thus, the admissibility of evidence that merely links a defendant and a co 8 ii. the testimony of aleman and the statements of mendoza and coronel were properly considered by the jury. defendants lewis and herrera contend that their convictions must be reversed under the rule that the testimony of an accomplice must be corroborated by independent evidence. (pen. code,  1111; calcrim nos. 334 & 335.)6 lewis and herrera maintain that their convictions depended upon the uncorroborated testimony of three alleged accomplices, aleman, mendoza and coronel. the trial court instructed the jury that if the evidence showed a murder was committed then aleman was an accomplice to that murder as a matter of law. the court instructed the jury to decide from the evidence whether, if a murder was committed, mendoza was an accomplice to that crime. the court further instructed the jury that it could not convict the defendants based on the testimony of an accomplice unless that testimony was corroborated by independent evidence tending to connect the defendants to the commission of the crime.7 we conclude that the evidence does not support a finding that mendoza was an accomplice in the murder of noriega and therefore the jury could consider his testimony without evidence to corroborate it. we further conclude that there was sufficient 6 under penal code not be had upon the testimony of an accomplice unless it is corroborated by such other evidence as shall tend to connect the defendant with the commission of the offense; and the corroboration is not sufficient for purposes of this rule, -of-court statements are considered people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 245).) 7 the court did not give the jury a corroboration instruction with respect to no such instruction was required for the reasons we discuss in part iv, post. 9 a. the evidence did not support a finding that mendoza was an accomplice in the noriega murder. therefore his statements did not require corroboration to be admissible. an accomplice is defined in penal code section 1111 as one who is liable to prosecution for the identical offense charged against the defendant on trial in the cause in which the testimony of t abettor is chargeable as a principal, but his liability as such depends on whether he promotes, encourages, or assists the perpetrator and shares criminal purpose. . . . it is not sufficient that he merely gives assistance with knowledge of the people v. sully, supra, 53 cal.3d at p. 1227.) a defendant has the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that a prosecution witness is an accomplice. (id. at p. 1228.) the evidence does not support an admission that he went to the gang meeting knowing that noriega was goor coconspirator. mere knowledge of a crime or failure to attempt to prevent it is not enough to make a person an accomplice. (people v. moran (1974) 39 cal.app.3d 398, 413; see people v. sully, supra, 53 cal.3d at p. 1227.) there was no evidence that mendoza assisted in planning the attack on noriega or in carrying it out. furthermore, defendants have cited no case holding that one whose offer to commit a crime is rejected may nevertheless be held to be a principal solely on the basis of making the offer. b. corroborated by mendoza, the gang expert, the police investigation and the forensic examiner. penal code section 1111 states that a conviction cannot be based on an accompliceas shall tend to connect the defendant testimony . . . need only connect the defendant to the crime sufficiently that we may conclude the jury reasonably could have been satisfied that the accomplice was telling the (people v. letner and tobin (2010) 50 cal.4th 99, 185-186.) 10 corroborating evidence may be circumstantial, of little weight by itself, and related merely to one part of the accomplice (id. at p. 186.) the connection to the (people v. avila (2006) 38 cal.4th 491, 563.) it has long been understood that the testimony of one accomplice cannot corroborate the testimony of another. (people v. fauber (1992) 2 cal.4th 792, 834; see ] testimony) of one accomplice cannot be provided by the (statement/[or] testimony) of after the prosecution rested, lewis and herrera moved to dismiss the case on the ground that aleman and mendoza were accomplices in the murder of noriega and their testimony lacked corroboration from a source other than coronel, an accomplice. the testimony. we agree.8 expert. meeting of the gang to physically punish noriega for fraternizing with a member of a rival gang. his statement served as independent evidence that the women in the gang (herrera, coronel and aleman) were going to be the ones who administered the punishment. it also served as independent evidence ng noriega and the other women to come with him to buy beer (when there was already beer on hand) was a ruse to get noriega to a place where she could be killed. supported an inference that l and that lewis 8 we have earlier concluded that the evidence did not support a finding that mendoza was an accomplice and therefore his statements could be admitted against lewis and herrera without corroboration. (see p. 9, ante.) 11 rival gang members. given corroboration of murder, her entire testimony was properly before the jury, including that she saw herrera shooting noriega in the alley and that after the murder, herrera told her: [i]t had to be iii. against lewis and herrera under the hearsay exception for statements against penal interest. within the hearsay exception for statements against the declaran 9 in were people v. valdez (2012) 55 cal.4th 82, 144.) we disagree.10 the statements at -murder texts which informed members of the her post-murder texts in whi wanted to do it but it w[as] 9 evidence code section 1230 states in relevant part: declarant having sufficient knowledge of the subject is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule if the declarant is unavailable as a witness and the statement, when made . . . so far subjected [the declarant] to the risk of . . . criminal liability . . . that a [person] in 10 out-of-court statements to a friend or associate inculpating the defendant and a clause. (cf. people v. arauz (2012) 210 cal.app.4th 1394, 1397.) defendants do not raise a confrontation clause argument. 12 gonna b[e] to[o] ob[v]ious [and] she felt comfortable with both of [th]em so it w[as] re-murder texts are declarations against her penal interest because they which, according to the testimony of mendoza and officer lee, meant at the least that noriega would receive a severe beating, i.e. an assault with force likely to produce great bodily injury, and that she might even be killed. her post-murder texts were likewise against her penal interest in that they admitted her participation in the murder. all however. (people v. greenberger (1997) 58 cal.app.text messages can be used against lewis and herrera requires further analysis. y those statements or portions of statements that are specifically disserving of the penal interest of the declarant [are] deemed sufficiently trustworthy to be admissible. (people v. greenberger, supra, 58 cal.app.4th at p. 328.) of course, a statement may (id. at p. 335.) such a determination requires an analysis of the trustworthiness of the statement inculpating the nondeclarant. this in turn requires careful consideration of what was said and the totality of the circumstances. (ibid.) the determination of whether a statement is trustworthy rests with the sound discretion of the trial court. a reviewing court may overturn the tdetermination only if that discretion was abused. (people v. frierson (1991) 53 cal.3d 730, 745.) pre-murder text messages were admissible against lewis. the references to lewis were an integral part of the shift the blame for the attack r the crime. to the contrary, the texts show that coronel is reveling in the upcoming action against noriega 13 and is eager to participate ([t]eting is supported by the testimony of mendoza and aleman. the post-murder messages were likewise admissible against herrera. similar to the pre-post-murder lilly v. virginia (1999) 527 u.s. 116, 136-137.) in lilly, the plurality opinion stated that in determining whether a declaration contains particular guarantees of trustworthiness, courts should look to the surrounding circumstances, including the language used by the declarant, and the setting in which the statement was made. (id. at p. 139.) here coronel made her statements voluntarily in a noncustodial setting and for the private use of her audience. as the court observed in greenberger, le circumstance is one in which the conversation occurs people v. greenberger, supra, 58 cal.app.4th at p. 335.) s that she remained in the car and that it was herrera who shot noriega were not an attempt to escape blame for the murder because coronel had a rational reason for not accompanying the other i wanted to do it but it w[as] gonna b[e] to[o] ob[v]ious [and] she felt comfortable with both of [th]em so it w[as] rather than attempting to escape blame or reduce her culpability, coronel owns [w]e took her last breath shooter was not an attempt to escape blame for the crime but her way of boasting about what herrera had done for e potbellied/pregnant girl go the nine and 14 iv. the court was not required to give the jury the accomplice instruction under calcrim circum herrera and lewis argue that the court erred in not instructing the jury under calcrim no. 334 that it must decide whether coronel was an accomplice in the attack on noriega and, if so, that her statements incriminating herrera and lewis must be corroborated and viewed with caution. (people v. avila, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 562.)11 there is little doubt that had it been tendered, the jury would have found coronel was an accomplice in the murder of noriega. it does not necessarily follow, however, nd viewed with caution. as our supreme court explained in people v. williams, supra, 16 cal.4th at p. 245, penal code section 1111 requires a court to instruct on the need for corroboration and caution only testimony ante.) in williams, the court held that within the meaning of . . . section 1111 includes all oral statements made by an accomplice or coconspirator under oath in a court proceeding and all out-of-court statements of accomplices and coconspirators used as substantive evidence of guilt which are made under suspect circumstances. . . . [w]hen the out-of-court statements are not given under suspect circumstances, those statements do not qualify as ibid., 11 calcrim no. 334 states in relevant part: an accomplice, then you may not convict the defendant of [murder] based on his or her [statement] alone. you may use the [statement] of an accomplice to convict the [statement]; [] and [] 3. that supporting evidence tends to connect the defendant to 15 quoting people v. jeffery (1995) 37 cal.app.4th 209, 218 and people v. sulley, supra, 53 cal.3d at p. 1230.)12 the williams uspect circumstances people v. williams, supra, 16 cal.4th at p. 245; quoting people v. jeffery, supra, 37 cal.app.4th at er arrest, under questioning by the police or under other circumstances that might be considered suspect. instead, it appears from the language and tone of the texts that she made her statements freely and to friends. as we noted above, a conversation be which a declarant incriminates a defendant. (people v. greenberger, supra, 58 cal.app.4th at p. 335.) therefore, even though coronel was an accomplice, her out-of-court statements were sufficiently reliable that they did not require corroboration and did not have to be viewed with caution. (people v. sully, supra, 53 cal.3d at p. 1230: with accomplice testimonythat it is consciously self-interested and calculatedis not present in an out-of-court statement that is itself sufficiently reliable to be allowed in ) v. out-of-court statement that she agreed noriega deserved to die and in instructing the jury on adoptive admissions. the court admitted an exchange of text messages 12 the court was not using the term (see crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36) but as the legislature used the term when it enacted penal code section 1111 in 1872. (people v. belton (1979) 23 cal.3d 516, 526- 16 hearsay exception for adoptive athe jury on how to analyze adoptive admissions. coronel argues the court erred in allowing the quoted exchanges in evidence and in instructing on adoptive admissions. we disagree.13 evidence code sparty is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule if the statement is one of which the party, with knowledge of the content thereof, has by words or other conduct manifested his adoption or h manifested her adoption and belief in the truth was admissible under evidence code section 1221. we also rrelevant to her liability as an aider and abettor because it shows that she planned to kill noriega, not just inflict a severe beating. because coronel did not request an instruction on adoptive admissions (indeed she objected to the court giving one), the decision whether to instruct the jury on how to 13 calcrim no. 357, as modified by the court, states as follows: if you conclude that someone made a statement in the text messages that accused ariana coronel of the crime or tended to connect ariana coronel with the commission of the crime and ariana coronel did not deny it, you must decide whether each of the following is true: [] 1. the statement was made to the defendant or made in her presence; [] 2. the defendant heard and understood the statement; [] 3. the defendant would, under all the circumstances, naturally have denied the statement if she thought it was not true; [] and [] 4. the defendant could have denied it but did not. [] if you decide that all of these requirements have been met, you may conclude that ariana coronel admitted the statement was true. [] if you decide that any of these requirements has not been met, you must not for any purpose. [] you must not consider this evidence in determining the guilt of any other defendant. 17 analyze an adoptive admission rested in the copeople v. carter (2003) 30 cal.4th 1166, 1198.) coronel contends that the court erred in giving the instruction because there were no adoptive admissions. we reject that contention for the reasons explained above. we find no abuse of discretion in giving the adoptive admission instruction. vi. the prosecutor did not commit misconduct in arguing aleman and mendoza risked their lives in testifying against defendants. defendants maintain the prosecutor committed misconduct by attempting to frighten the jurors during his closing argument. in explaining to the jurors why they should find aleman and mendoza credible members of the gang. he told the juwalkiget that this would be their fate no matter what verdict the jury returned. in this court as we sit right now, unfriendly ears that are listening to every single word that is said in this the defendants objected to these and similar remarks by the prosecutor. the court overru because they invited the jury to convict the defendants because the witnesses against suggested that the jurors should be afraid of retaliation from the gang if they convicted the defendants. to support their argument, the defendants pointed out that every time there was a break in the trial, the jurors elected to go to the jury room, where they presumably felt safe. these arguments are without merit. 18 there was direct evidence that aleman and mendoza were afraid their testimony would lead to attacks on them and their families by members of the easy riders. the hat could reasonably be drawn from the . (people v. roberts (1966) 65 cal.2d 514, 519-521.) furthermore, unethical appeal for sympathy. evidence that a witness is afraid to testify or that a witness is fearful of retaliation has a direct bearing on the credibility of that witness. (people v. sanchez (1997) 58 cal.app.4th 1435, 1449-1450.) as to fear on the part of the jury, the court explained that the reason the jurors [with] vii. the trial court erred in giving instructions that allowed the jury to convict lewis and coronel of first degree murder under the natural and probable consequences doctrine but the error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. the trial court instructed the jury that it could convict lewis and coronel of murder as aiders and abettors under alternative theories. either they directly aided and abetted herrera in the deliberate, premeditated murder of noriega or they aided herrera in an assault on noriega with force likely to produce great bodily injury and murder was the natural and probable consequence of that assault. the jury returned a verdict of first degree murder. while this appeal was pending, our supreme court issued its opinion in people v. chiu (2014) 59 cal.4th 155[a]n aider and abettor may not be convicted of first degree premeditated murder under the natural and probable (id. at pp. 158-159.) the court made clear, however, based on direct aiding and abetting principles.(id. at p. 166.) 19 we are left with the question whether giving the erroneous instructions allowing the jury to convict lewis and coronel of first degree premeditated murder was, nevertheless, harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 167.) we conclude that it was. legally correct and one legally incorrect, reversal is required unless there is a basis in the record to find that the verdict wpeople v. chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th at p.167.) in chiu, the court found no such valid ground. indeed, there were indications from the jurors focusing on the natural and pr(id. at p. 168.) here, there are no similar indications and the evidence that the defendants directly aided and abetted herrera in the premeditated murder of noriega is so strong that we are convinced beyond a reasonable doubt that the instructional error was harmless. the undisputed facts of this case provide strong evidence of guilt. the evidence established -caller, that only the shot-caller could authorize the killing of a gang member, that lewis called a gang meeting that noriega was required to attend, that he made up the story about needing to buy beer and that he drove herrera, armed with a gun, to a dark alley where she shot noriega. the evidence also included coand her text the i stayed in the car with [lewis] because obviously me and the rip so the rip would have smelt it. . . . i wanted to do it but it w[as] gonna (italics added.) these facts constitute strong evidence that defendants invited noriega to go with them for a car ride and agreed to kill her. 20 disposition not to be published. rothschild, acting p. j. we concur: johnson, j. miller, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 