filed 1/14/13 p. v. laverdure ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. robert dean laverdure, defendant and appellant. b241448 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka096586) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, jack p. hunt, judge, and wade d. olson, commissioner. affirmed. california appellate project, jonathan b. steiner and richard b. lennon, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. 2 robert dean laverdure appeals from the judgment entered following his plea of no contest to being a felon in possession of a firearm (former pen. code,  12021, subd. (a)(1))1 and his admission that he previously had been convicted of robbery (pen. code,  211)2 within the meaning of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i),  1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)). the trial court sentenced laverdure to two years eight months in prison. we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. facts.3 at approximately 4:30 p.m. on november 8, 2011, azusa police officer peter hoh received a radio call directing him to 600 west paramount avenue. the dispatcher indicated there was a man with a gun there. when hoh arrived at the intersection, he saw laverdure, who matched the description of the man given by the dispatcher. he was not wearing a shirt and had appeared to hoh that there were people inside. as hoh approached, he saw a man, residential neighborhood and there were children playing nearby, people arriving home from work and a school approximately 200 yards from the house. two additional police officers had also been directed to the intersection and one of franks and the other officer, corporal kimes, ordered laverdure to get out of his car. he complied with the order, the officers detained him and placed him in the back seat of a patrol car. hoh then approached laverdure, told him he was being detained and, without 1 (stats. 2010, ch. 711 (sen. bill no. 1080),  4, provides for repeal of tit. 2, operative jan. 1, 2012.) laverdure violated the statute on november 8, 2011. 2 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 the facts have been taken from the transcript of the preliminary hearing. 3 advising him of his miranda4 car.5 after hoh spoke with laverdure, he, officer franks and corporal kimes approached his car with their guns drawn as they did not know whether there was anyone else inside. in plain view from outside the passenger side window, hoh could see a gun between the center console and the front seat. the handle was up and the barrel of the handle and silver body. after the gun was found, hoh returned to the patrol car where laverdure was being held and, after advising him of his rights under miranda, asked him if he understood his rights, then asked him if he wished to speak with the officer. laverdure indicated that he understood his rights. however, after agreeing to speak with hoh, laverdure was transported to the police station, where hoh again advised him of his miranda rights, this time using a written form. laverdure again indicated that he understood his rightsparole. 4 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 5 hoh indicated that he did not advise laverdure of his miranda rights at that time because they were in a residential neighborhood with children and others nearby. according to hoh, when circumstances such as those exist and a potentially loaded gun is involved in the incident, officers do not always take the time to give miranda warnings if they are simply asking the suspect about importance. the officers want to make certain that a child or other individual does not 4 2. procedural history. in an information filed february 29, 2012, it was charged in count 1 that, on or about november 8, 2011, laverdure, a convicted felon, possessed a firearm in violation of former section 12021, subdivision (a)(1)), a felony. it was further alleged with regard to count 1 that laverdure previously had been convicted of six offenses, including 8, 2011, laverdure possessed ammunition in violation of former section 12316, subdivision (b)(1), a felony. it was further alleged with regard to count 2 that laverdure was 12021.1 . . . and sections 8100 and 8103 of the welfare and institutions code, having property in violation of section 496, subdivision (a). a felony pursuant to [these] subdivision[s] [would] be served in state prison pursuant to . . serious ( 1192.7) or violent ( 667.5, subd. (c)) felony, robbery. in addition, it was alleged that his prior conviction for robbery amounted to a strike pursuant to the three was ineligible for probation ( 1203, subd. (e)(4)) and that, for five of the six priors, he had served prison terms pursuant to section 667.5, subdivision (b). offer of four years in prison, entered pleas of not guilty to the crimes alleged in counts 1 and 2 and denied the remaining allegations. on april 12, 2012, laverdure filed a motion to suppress evidence pursuant to section 1538.5. he asserted that the law enforcement officers had illegally seized the firearm on november 8, 2011 and that it, and any evidence stemming from it, should be suppressed. laverdure argued that he had been detained and, without the benefit of miranda warnings, had been questioned regarding a gun. then, based on evidence 5 obtained in violation of miranda, the officers had found the gun pursuant to a warrantless suppress evidence. the motion was withdrawn the following day, on april 13, 2012, when laverdure decided to enter a plea. laverdure indicated that he had read over his proposed plea form with his attorney, discussed the nature of his constitutional rights and of the charges against him and understood the consequences of his plea. he informed the trial court that he had initialed the boxes on the plea form indicating that he understood and had waived his right to a jury or court trial, his right to confront the witnesses against him, his right to cross-examine the witnesses against him, his right to use the subpoena power of the court and his right to remain silent. the trial court then informed laverdure that, as a result of his plea, he would be sentenced to state prison for 32 months. upon his release from state p to 180 days for each sed on the 12021[, subdivision] (a)(1) . . . , possession of a firearm by a felon[.admitted that he had suffered a prior conviction for robbery in violation of section 211 pursuant to sections 667, subdivisions (b) to (i) and 1170.12, subdivisions (a) to (d), the three strikes law. with an understanding of the nature and consequence[s] thereof and that there [was] a 6 at proceedings held on may 11, 2012, the trial court ordered probation denied, sentenced laverdure to 16 months in prison for his conviction of count 1, possession of a firearm by a felon, then doubled the term to 32 months pursuant to the three strikes law. laverdure was awarded presentence custody credit for 120 days actually served and 120 days of conduct credit. the court ordered laverdure to pay a $240 restitution fine ( 1202.4, subd. (b)), a stayed $240 parole revocation restitution fine ( 1202.45), a $30 criminal conviction assessment (gov. code,  70373) and a $40 court operations fee ( 1465.8, subd. (a)(1)). the trial court then dismissed all remaining charges and allegations and recommended that laverdure be sent to fire camp. on may 22, 2012, laverdure filed a timely notice of appeal and request for a request for the certificate. contentions after examination of the record, counsel filed an opening brief which raised no issues and requested this court to conduct an independent review of the record. by notice filed october 22, 2012, the clerk of this court advised laverdure to submit within 30 days any contentions, grounds of appeal or arguments he wished this court to consider. from a judgment of conviction upon a plea of guilty or nolo contendere . . . except where both of the following are met: [] (a) the defendant has filed with the trial court a written statement, executed under oath or penalty of perjury showing reasonable constitutional, jurisdictional, or other grounds going to the legality of the proceedings. [] (b) the trial court has executed and filed a certificate of probable cause for such people v. placencia (2011) 194 cal.app.4th 489, 494, citing people v. mendez probable cause is to prevent frivolous appeals challenging convictions following guilty 7 people v. placencia, supra, at p. 493, citing people v. johnson (2009) 47 cal.4th 668, 678.) here, laverdure filed a statement, under penalty of perjury, asserting that his plea had been illegal for a number of reasons. he first indicated he had ineffective assistance of counsel in the trial court. he urged that his counsel did not follow through on his motion to suppress evidence and refused to request an evidentiary hearing regarding the validity of his strike. with regard to the trial court, laverdure argued that the judge who sentenced him prosecutor, his counsel and the trial court all attempted to make him appear to be a violent person in order to justify his plea and the sentence imposed. nothing in the record which indicates any of the parties, including the trial court, acted improperly. a certificate of probable cause and neither the prosecutor nattempted to coerce laverdure into entering the plea. the record indicates laverdure, after being properly advised of his constitutional rights and the consequences of the plea, knowingly and voluntarily entered it. in a letter dated may 28, 2012 and sent to the clerk of this court, laverdure robbery alleged pursuant to the three strikes law. he again urged the trial court erred in denying his 8 . . with whom he had been having a dispute. the roommate had apparently burglarized before the gun was found there by police officers. they then took him into custody and questioned him without the benefit of miranda warnings. moreover, laverdure indicated he entered the plea because the trial court threatened to sentence him to the maximum term possible, 12 years at 80 percent, if he requested a trial. [bargain] olaverdure asserts that evidence at the preliminary hearing showed that his rights pursuant to miranda hearing to verify the validity of his strike. he again asserts that the . e] court review the transcripts, and vacat[e] the strike enhancement as it [is] obvious [he] was never given the record indicates that it is true she did not follow through with his motion to suppress evidence. however, she negotiated a plea for laverdure under the terms of which he will serve less time than that initially offered by the people and significantly less time than the maximum he faced. moreover, a reading of the record indicates laverdure, with the assistance of his counsel, knowingly and voluntarily withdrew his motion to suppress and entered the plea because he felt it was in his best interest to do so. as to his strike, he was convicted of the robbery in 1991. even if counsel could have obtained the records from the case, there is little if any likelihood that laverdure could show that his 21-year-old plea to the crime was improper and that he should now be allowed to withdraw it. 9 tions. (people v. carter (2003) 30 cal.4th 1166, 1211; see strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 694.) d indicates the trial court, understood the constitutional rights he was waiving, the nature of the charges against him and the consequences of entering a plea. nothing in the record indicates the trial court that he be sent to fire camp. review on appeal we have examined the entire record and are satisfied counsel has complied fully with counsmith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 278-284; people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, 443.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: croskey, j. aldrich, j. 