filed 8/14/12 p. v. superior court ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, petitioner, v. the superior court of los angeles county, respondent; b241126 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va121901) craig hunt, real party in interest. original proceedings in mandate. peter espinoza, judge. writ granted. steve cooley, district attorney, irene wakabayashi and phyllis c. asayama, deputy district attorneys, for petitioner. no appearance for respondent. ronald l. brown, public defender, albert j. menaster, christopher capestro and albert camacho, jr., deputy public defenders, for real party in interest. 2 real party in interest craig hunt (hunt) was charged by information with four counts: count 1, kidnapping to commit a robbery on october 1, 2011 (pen. code,  209, subd. (b)(1));1 count 2, first degree residential robbery on october 1, 2011 ( 211); count 4,2 first degree burglary on october 30, 2009 ( 459); and count 5, first degree residential robbery on october 30, 2009 ( 211). the people petition for a writ of mandate to overturn the order of the superior court, granting ion 995 motion to set aside count 1. we grant the petition. factual and procedural background preliminary hearing evidence on october 1, 2011, maria elena dupone lived in a downstairs, one-room apartment on vinevale avenue in the city of bell. her apartment is one of two units (the other being upstairs) located behind a large house that sits at the front of the property. around 7:20 a.m., dupone was sitting outside her apartment drinking coffee when someone wearing a mask, later identified as hunt, grabbed her by the neck. he held a gun to her head, told her not to yell, and dragged her into her apartment, past the kitchen and to her bedroom a distance of approximately 25 to 30 steps. there, he demanded money. she took some money from a drawer and gave it to him. he then pushed her onto the bed, tied her hands, and gagged her. a neighbor, lucy velina serrano, was awakened by the sound of glass breaking and a woman screaming for help in spanish. she called 911. city of bell police officer mar 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 2 s motion. 3 and split up to investigate. officer logan went to the back of the property and saw door. he also noticed that a metal security door and the door to the apartment were open. officer logan went to get one of the other officers, officer jonathan walker. when they returned, the metal security door was closed. officer logan saw hunt walking away, and ordered him to stop at gunpoint. hunt was wearing black clothing, including black gloves. as officer walker handcuffed hunt, be a bb or pellet gun. after officer walker advised hunt of his miranda3 rights, hunt said that he dupone past the kitchen, at the end of the hallway, sitting on the floor outside her bedroom, bound and gagged. hunt was transported to the police station, where $205 in cash and ipod earphones were found on his person. officer walker interviewed hunt at the her. he told officer walker that he shoved dupone, held a gun to her head, dragged her down the hallway, and made her open a locked drawer to give him money. he then tied her up and gagged her so she could not scream for help. is report, he learned that she had earlier been the victim of similar crime. according to dupone, a little more than two years earlier, on october 30, 2009, she arrived home from work with a friend and saw that her clothes were scattered all over her apartment. a man wearing a ski mask and holding a machete emerged from her 3 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 4 closet, threatened her and her friend, and demanded money. dupone gave him $200, and he left. dupone subsequently learned that he had cut the telephone wires. after learning of the earlier crime, officer walker interviewed hunt again. hunt admitted that the october 2011 crime was not the first time he had robbed dupone. he told officer walker about the previous robbery and provided a written statement. procedure at the preliminary hearing, defense counsel moved to dismiss count 1, kidnapping to commit robbery on october 1, 2011 ( 209, subd. (b)(1)). he bedroom was incidental to the robbery and was thus insufficient to support a charge of aggravated kidnapping. the magistrate agreed and granted the motion, but held hunt to answer on the other charges. thereafter, the district attorney filed an information charging hunt with the counts to which he was held to answer, and also refiled, as count 1, the charge of kidnapping for robbery. hunt filed a section 995 motion to dismiss the latter charge. the superior court granted the motion, reasoning (as had the magistrate) was incidental to the robbery. the court granted a stay of its ruling for the people to seek a writ. the people petitioned for a writ of mandate to this court. we issued an alternative writ of mandate ordering the superior court to vacate its may 3, 20cause why a peremptory writ of mandate should not issue. the superior court did not vacate its ruling, and the matter is now before us. 5 discussion ection 995 man of ordinary caution or prudence would be led to believe and conscientiously (people v. plengsangtip (2007) 148 cal.app.4th 825, 835 (plengsangtip).) ng if charges in an information can withstand a motion under section 995, neither the superior court nor the appellate court may reweigh the evidence or determine the credibility of the witnesses. [citations.] ordinarily, if there is some evidence in support of the information, the reviewing court will not inquire into its sufficiency. [citations.] thus, an indictment or information should be set aside only when there is a total absence of evidence to support a necessary element of the offense charged. [citations.] element of the charged crime [citation] such a showing may be made by means of circumstantial evidence supportive of reasonable inferences on the part of the prohibited if there is some rational ground for assuming the possibility that an people v. superior court (jurado) (1992) 4 cal.app.4th 1217, 1226, italics omitted (jurado).) 6 , or aggravated kidnapping, require[s] movement of the victim that (1) was not merely incidental to the commission of the robbery, and (2) substantially increased the risk of harm over and above that necessarily present in the crime of robbery itself. [citations.] these two elements are not people v. vines (2011) 51 cal.4th 830, 869-870;  209, subd. (b); see also people v. leavel (2012) 203 cal.app.4th 823, 833 (leavel).) the movement, which includes the actual distance a victim is moved. [citations.] there is, however, no minimum distance a defendant must move a victim to satisfy [citation.] tion of such factors as the decreased [citations.] the fact that these dangers do not in fact materialize does not, of leavel, supra, 203 cal.app.4th at pp. 833-834.) drawing every legitimate inference from the evidence in favor of the information (jurado, supra, 4 cal.app.4th at p. 1226), and understanding the interrelated nature of the inquiries whether the forced movement of dupone was incidental to the robbery and substantially increased the risk of harm to her (leavel, supra, 203 cal.app.4th at pp. 833-834), there is probable cause to believe 7 context here is significant. without first demanding money, hunt accosted dupone while she was drinking coffee outside her apartment, where they were potentially visible to others, and dupone could try to summon help or flee. hunt not to yell, and dragged her inside the apartment, past the kitchen, down the hallway, and into her bedroom, a distance of about 25 to 30 steps. inside the apartment, dupone was concealed in an enclosed area, away from the view and hearing of others, and at much greater danger and disadvantage should she try to flee. hunt did not demand money until they were in the bedroom. when he did, dupone took money from a drawer and gave it to him. he then bound and gagged her, and left. movement of dupone achieved the following goals: it decreased the risk of detection (moving her from the open to a place of concealment in her own home); it increased the risk of harm to dupone (she was isolated and alone with hunt, who held a weapon, and she was ultimately bound and gagged, a condition that itself could result in injury); it increased the danger should dupone try to escape (the area was enclosed, making it more likely dupone would be apprehended and crimes (dupone was bound and gagged in her own residence and rendered helpless). (see people v. dominguez (2006) 39 cal.4th 1141, 1152.) thus, the evidence was sufficient to establish probable cause to believe that the forced movement of dupone 25 to 30 steps from the patio outside her apartment, through the kitchen, down the hallway, and into her bedroom, was not merely incidental to 8 and resulted in a substantially increased risk of harm beyond that inherent in the crime of robbery itself. (dominguez, supra, at p. 1152.) hunt contends that the movement of dupone into the bedroom was merely incidental to the commission of the robbery because he learned from the prior robbery commit the robbery. he also contends that there was no increased risk of harm because the sole purpose of the asportation was to commit the robbery. perhaps a jury, considering these arguments, might find the evidence insufficient to prove kidnapping for robbery beyond a reasonable doubt. regardless, at this stage of the proceeding we have no doubt that there is some rational ground for assuming the ement of dupone was more than incidental to the robbery and substantially increased her risk of harm beyond that inherent in robbery. (jurado, supra, 4 cal.app.4th at p. 1226.) we therefore grant the 9 disposition let a peremptory writ of mandate issue directing respondent court to information, and to issue a new order denying the motion, reinstating count 1, and setting the matter for trial. not to be published in the official reports willhite, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. suzukawa, j. 