filed 3/4/14 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. david john neal, defendant and appellant. b241850 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka096751) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. jack hunt and tia g. fisher, judges. affirmed but remanded with directions. sarvenaz bahar, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and j. michael lehmann, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 appeals from the judgment on his conviction of unlawful driving or taking of a vehicle (veh. code,  10851, subd. (a)) (count 1) and receiving stolen property (pen. code,  496d, subd. (a)) (count 2).1 he contends: (1) the trial court violated his constitutional right to self-representation when it ruled that he could not represent himself unless he agreed that there would be no continuances and he would proceed to trial in six days; (2) the trial court abused its discretion by refusing to continue the trial so that he could prepare his defense; (3) the trial court abused its discretion when it refused to reappoint his public defender in the middle of jury selection; (4) the trial court erred when it ruled that the prosecution had established that he suffered a prior strike conviction; and (5) the trial court erred in calculating the actual custody and good conduct credits. the people concede that there was insufficient evidence to prove the prior strike conviction, and also that the custody and good conduct credits must be sent back to the trial court for a redetermination. we remand the matter to the trial court for a new trial on the prior strike conviction and for a redetermination of the presentence credits in light of section 4019 and people v. bruner (1995) 9 cal.4th 1178 (bruner). in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. facts initial proceedings; the allegations on march 7, 2012, the parties appeared for a preliminary hearing. judge jack hunt the alleging unlawful driving or taking of a vehicle and receiving stolen property, and also alleged that had suffered two prior convictions for which he served prison terms within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). deputy public defender lashae henderson (dpd henderson)denied all special allegations. the prosecutor amended the information to allege that 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 a prior serious or violent felony conviction ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)).2 may 1, 2012, faretta3 motion to represent himself on tuesday, may 1, 2012, dpd henderson announced ready. when the prosecutor asked to trail the matter until the following monday, dpd henderson stated, e matter a month to hire private counsel. and if that is denied, he wants to go pro per judge hunt weeks, two at the most, for his family to save up enough money to hire a lawyer. judge hunt ll be when judge hunt point judge hunt subsequently, he unwise and he would probably lose. told judge hunt that dpd henderson he had refused. there was a plea deal of 32 months on the table, and that if he went to trial he was facing an exposure of eight years. had dpd henderson ask for a change of venue. judge hunt denied the motion. the in that a deputy district attorney who had previously appeared in the case and th knew familya once again, judge hunt denied the motion, stating u have been talking to the brain trust back 2 and was convicted in federal court. 3 faretta v. california (1995) 422 u.s. 806 (faretta). 4 after a morning recess, informed the trial court that he had read the pro. per. form and faretta waiver. but he had not filled them out because that he had reviewed and completed the pro. per. form and faretta waiver. judge hunt tried, yet another time, to neal that representing himself was not in his best interest. he replied: i have a better chance he added that a take[.] at that point, judge hunt granted faretta motion. judge hunt ensured that d with all the relevant discovery. henry bastien was appointed as standby counsel. for a continuance on the day of trial on monday, may 7, 2012, the parties appeared for trial before judge tia g. fisher. when judge fisher stated that she had ordered a jury panel and wanted to know why a continuance was necessary stated: to . . . a pro per module. i o i could fight it properly. i [had] only been there less than five days. he added that he wanted to hire an investigator. judge fisher stated that she had contacted judge hunt had been allowed to represent himself because he agreed he would be ready for trial on may 7, 2012, and there would be no continuances. as much, but stated that he did not receive his auxiliary funds and added: postpone it so i could look into did not make any sense given that . per. status. filed a motion to obtain auxiliary funds and the appointment of an investigator, and a motion for formal discovery. he asserted, 5 inter alia, that he needed a private investigator so that he could defense [and] . . . gather exculpatory evidence, [and] interview potential witnesses[] and alleged victims. due to the t the civilian the vehicle at the time it was was asked what he wanted to know that he did not already know, and he stated: got at the house a paper saying i was never charged with the case and i was released. that was never given to me in my motion. because i was arrested for receiving stolen property then one of the detectives let me go with the paper saying i was never charged because he wanted me to tell him who stole the truck. and i was released two, three days after i was arrested. i got that paper at the house after a short colloquy with judge fisher, ed: t get all my motions when i asked for recording of m judge fisher asked the prosecutor about the recording. he stated that an investigator taped hifeel everything was there discovery has been c sought citizen complaints against officers, it was denied because it was untimely and lacked good cause. judge fisher stated that the motion to obtain an investigator was not timely. then, also based on a lack of timeliness, she denied the motion for a continuance. 6 still pleading stated: in the pro per modul . . . this and making this determination, i evaluate everything very carefully in terms of your due process rights, in terms of . . . weighing and balancing the right to go pro per. but when you raised that issue and asked for it, it was not particularly timely and so it makes said. i really want a continuance now. missing work or coming in here taking the time and energy to come in here and be on this trial for you and the people. continuing on, judge fisher game playing, if you tell the judge one thing and then three, that. i really just wanted to go pro per. i figu right? in response, that seems fair. judge fisher brought in prospective jurors and the parties engaged in voir dire for the rest of the morning. once the parties returned from a lunch break, neal stipulated that a particular juror could be excused because the juror could not speak english. following the stipulation, judge fisher explained the procedure by which he could challenge jurors. she then stated: [am] thad by dpd henderson if he could re anything and she already knows the case 7 judge fisher stated: . . . i must confess to being kind of mystified only because i was [not] down there in the calendar court but because you thought you would get time. exactlyrejoined: even though the judge told you that you were going to have to be prepared and that was the only reason the judge let you go pro per and you told the judge you were going to be preparedsaid, he thought he was going to have tiwhen judge fisher had filed motions, he replied that [s]omebody down in the tier did that for me. judge fisher asked: going to do have judge fisher said it looked like o questioned further, he revealed that he originally wanted to be pro. per. because dpd henderson would not file a motion for a change of venue based on a conflict of interest with a deputy district attorney who was no longer working on the case, nor would she file a motion for a continuance ly could hire a private lawyer. said he also went pro. per. mng to fight for judge fisher called dpd henderson into court and asked whether she would accept a reappointment. she said she would accept reappointment only if the jury panel was discharged and the trial started over. based on that, judge fisher declined to reappoint dpd henderson. prosecution evidence during the first phase of trial a white dodge ram 2500 pickup truck (dodge ram) was stolen from a lot at the california depart mid-november 2011. several weeks later, on november 30, 2011, two deputies from the los angeles tim nakamura and andrew cruz, were 8 driving in a marked patrol vehicle and saw the dodge ram. was sitting behind the as the deputies approached in their patrol vehicle, got out of the dodge ram and walked away. deputy nakamura and deputy cruz looked inside the dodge ram and saw that the cover to the steering column was missing, which exposed wires, and there was a screwdriver in the ignition. after checking the license plate number and vehicle identification number, they ascertained that the dodge ram had been reported stolen. recovered a cell phone from it contained a series of text messages guilt. on november 27, 2011, at 7:03 p.m., sent a text asking the recipient, anybody who wants a hot dodge ram truck. november 29, 2011, : [] . . . truck going. ignition is fucking up. it broke. have to figure out how to on november 29, 2011, at 10:41 a.m., he sent the following text: out if the person at 4:08 p.m., he textedsit[ting] here waiting for you. keep it parked here for too long on my street. let if then, at 4:14 p.m., he texted: your people about the truck yet? let me know as soon as possible. it for too long. and yes, you get a little some-some out of it if you on november 30, 2011, at 11:27 a.m., texted: anybody who might want to buy a dodge ram 2500-magnum v10 truck year 2000? it even has the rotation back on the bed. -ride. 400. later, at 11:32 a.m., he sent this message: i have it parked on my street. something and send gas moneysend gas money to you. sound like a a few minutes later, at 11:37 a.m., he texted: few calls and probably take it to a shop on valley right before you get on 605 freeway. [] . . . ten minutes later, at 11:47 a.m., he sent the following message: 9 i need truck. i need at 11:51 a.m., texted: to wake up, cora. at 12:06 p.m., he sent this text: one want to buy a g-ride, year 2000, dodge ram, 2500-magnum v10 truck with wrought iron rack. 400. a later truck texted back: -10 and he had a message from tina/sunshine a little later, stating, [] . . . ences. [yeah], i got a ride, sort of, kind of, in a been trying to sell the dodge ram for $400. verdict; second phase of trial; sentence the jury returned a guilty verdict. whether he had priors. after the bifurcated second phase of trial, judge fisher found the alleged priors to be true.4 sentenced to a total term of six years in state prison computed as follows. for the offense of unlawful driving or taking of a vehicle, he was sentenced to a mid-term of two years doubled pursuant to sections 667, subdivisions (b) through (i), and 1170.12, subdivisions (a) through (d). he was then given an additional two years 4 the people offered a federal prison packet into evidence. it contained a judgment bank; robbery of savings and loan association, in violation of 18 u.s.c.  2113(a) as a 1996 probation report filed in connection with a petty theft provided a description of the bank robbery purportedly taken from allegation true. 10 pursuant to section 667.5, subdivision (b). a four-year sentence for the offense of receiving stolen property was imposed but stayed. judge fisher awarded credit for a total of 128 days of presentence custody credit. this timely appeal followed. discussion i. the ruling on the may 1, 2012, faretta motion. contends that his right to self-representation was violated when it was conditioned on the trial not being continued. we disagree. if defendant knowingly and intelligently waives the right to counsel, he has a constitutional right to conduct his own defense. (faretta, supra, 422 u.s. at pp. 835836; people v. lightsey (2012) 54 cal.4th 668, 694695.) this right is unconditional if the defendant makes an unequivocal assertion of that right within a reasonable time prior to trial. people v. wilkins (1990) 225 cal.app.3d 299, 303 (wilkins), citing people v. windham (1977) 19 cal.3d 121, 127n order to invoke the constitutionally mandated unconditional right of self-representation[,] a defendant in a criminal trial should make an unequivocal assertion of that right within a reasonable time prior to the commencement of trial].) when faretta motion the eve of trial and is therefore untimely, the grant or denial of that request is within the sound discretion of the trial court after it has inquired sua sponte into the specific factors underlying the request. (wilkins, supra, 225 cal.app.3d at p. 304; people v. douglas (1995) 36 cal.app.4th 1681, 16881689 (douglasprece.) [i]f a court grants a defendants untimely faretta request, it must also grant a reasonable continuance, if necessary, so that defendant may prepare for trial. id. at p. 1689.) but if the court determines the defendants request is merely a tactic designed to delay the trial, the court has the discretion to deny the continuance and require the defendant to proceed to trial as scheduled either with his counsel or in propria persona. [citations (ibid., 11 cited with approval by people v. valdez (2004) 32 cal.4th 73, 103 he court acted within its discretion in concluding that defendant could represent himself only if he was ready to proceed to trial without delay.) whether a faretta motion is timely depends on the totality of the circumstances that existed at the time that the trial court was asked to rule. (people v. lynch (2010) 50 cal.4th 693, 724 (lynch), overruled on other grounds in people v. mckinnon (2011) 52 cal.4th 610, 636643.) the purpose of the timeliness rule is to prevent a defendant from using a faretta motion to obtain an unjustifiable delay of the trial or obstruct the orderly administration of justice. (lynch, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 724.) trial court may consider the totality of the circumstances in s pretrial motion for self-representation is timely. thus, a trial court properly considers not only the time between the motion and the scheduled trial date, but also such factors as whether trial counsel is ready to proceed to trial, the number of witnesses and the reluctance or availability of crucial trial witnesses, the complexity of the case, any ongoing pretrial proceedings, and whether the defendant had earlier opportunities to assert his right of self-representation.id. at p. 726.) d by dpd henderson at the march 21, 2012, hearing scheduled for arraignment and could have made his faretta motion at that time. he chose not to. when the parties appeared on tuesday, may 1, 2012, dpd henderson announced ready. only after the prosecutor asked to trail the could hire a private atfaretta motion. no one indicated that there were ongoing pretrial matters. there were only six days between the day the motion was filed and the trial date. notably, in people v. hill (1983) 148 cal.app.3d 744, 757 (hill), the court stated that a faretta motion filed five days before the trial date could have been denied as untimely. though case was not complexit involved unlawful use of a vehiclefaretta motion sufficiently in advance of the original may 1, 2012, trial date to research and understand the issues he would face when trial commenced. considering the totality of 12 the circumstances, we conclude that judge hunt did not err when he impliedly concluded that the faretta motion was untimely. pro. per. status on the trial proceeding without a continuance. we take our cue from douglas. the douglas court concluded that the trial court did not abuse its discretion when, on the day trial was scheduled to begin, it ruled that it would allow the defendant no point did [the defendant] claim he and his counsel had not cooperated in preparing his defense or that they disagreed. douglas, supra, 36 cal.app.4th at p. 1689.) claimed lack of cooperation or disagreement with dpd henderson about the defense. at ified motions. but it 2012, hearing, she orally made motions for a change of venue and a continuance. the douglas court noted: from the record it appears, as the trial court concluded, [the defendant] requested a continuance strictly as a delaying tactic and not because he needed time to prepare a defense.id. at p. 1689.) here, judge hunt impliedly found that faretta motion was a delaying tactic, and that finding is amply supported by the record. when the prosecutor stated that she wanted to trail the matter to monday, so his family could obtain the services of a private attorney. only in the alternative did ask to represent himself. he did not state that he needed more time so that he could file motions, hire an investigator, review evidence or learn the law. we additionally observe that the record of the may 1, 2012, hearing suggests that sought a continuance with the hope that he would have a private attorney by the time of trial. as explained in hillappointed counsel does not entitle a defendant to a continuance to allow a different attorney of his choichill, supra, 148 cal.app.3d at p. 757, fn. 5.) pursuant to people v. marsden 13 dissatisfaction with dpd henderson on may 1, 2012, and it is apparent from the record that his dissatisfaction was the primary prompt for his faretta motion. given his motivation, he should not be allowed to achieve a result under faretta that is proscribed under marsden. ii. the ruling on the may 7, 2012, motion to continue the trial. countermanding . per. status and granting a continuance. this contention lacks merit. whether to continue a trial is people v. jenkins (2000) 22 cal.4th 900, er denying any continuances, and for that reasons it cannot possibly be said that judge fisher exceeded the bounds of reason. (biosense webster, inc. v. superior court (2006) 135 cal.app.4th 827, 834.) though he agreed to neal was playing games. judge fisher discovery. at that point, judge fisher examined the discovery and concluded that needing a continuance evaporated. for this additional reason, judge fisher did not err when she denied a continuance. iii. judge fisher erred when she failed to reappoint dpd henderson. upon review, we cannot concur. when a defendant seeks to revoke his pro. per. status and have counsel appointed, a trial court must analyze the totality of the circumstances when exercising its discretion (people v. lawrence (2009) 46 cal.4th 186, 192193, 196 (lawrence).) some of the factors that may be considered, as set forth in people v. elliott (1977) 70 cal.app.3d 984, 993994, are: (1) [a] defendants prior history in the substitution of counsel and in the desire to change from self-representation to counsel- 14 representation, (2) the reasons set forth for the request, (3) the length and stage of the trial proceedings, (4) disruption or delay which reasonably might be expected to ensue from the granting of such motion, and s effectiveness in defending against the charges if required to continue to act as his own attorney.ibid.) a trial court need not review each factor on the record, and no one factor is controlling. (lawrence, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. an abuse of its discretion under the totality of the circumstances . . . . , not whether the court correctly listed the factors or whether any one factor should have been weighed witnesses and the jury panel were waiting. she observed that if dpd henderson was reappointed and the trial was started anew, the jury panel would be lost and the matter would have to be returned to the master calendar court. though wanted dpd halre the case was not complicated. the only issues were whether he unlawfully took a vehicle, and whether he received that vehicle knowing that it was own counsel. the record establishes that he filed motions and otherwise appeared sufficiently intelligent to defend himself. in addition, the rhad been playing games with the court, admitting that he believed he would get a continuance after agreeing there would be no continuances. given the totality of the circumstances, judge fisher acted well within her discretion when she declined to discharge the jury panel, restart the trial and reappoint dpd henderson to represent . the parties agree that the prosecution failed to offer sufficient and/or admissible evidence establishing qualified as a robbery under section 211, and that it therefore qualified as a strike under sections 1170.12, subdivisions (a) through (d) and 667, subdivisions (b) through (i). 15 have doubled the mid-term sentence of two years on count 1, and his six-year sentence should be reduced to four years. the people, on the other hand, contend that the matter should be remanded to the trial court so that it can be retried. regarding the remedy, we agree with the people. both the united states supreme court and the california supreme court have held that the prohibitions against double jeopardy do not apply to proceedings in noncapital cases to determine the truth of prior conviction allegations, sentencing enhancements, or penalty allegations. (monge v. california (1998) 524 u.s. 721, 734; people v. seel (2004) 34 cal.4th 535, 542; people v. barragan (2004) 32 cal.4th 236, 240242.) thus, retrial of an alleged prior conviction is permissible. (id. at p. 241.) v. custody credits. the sentencing hearing was held on june 8, 2012. the record established that total of 128 days of presentence credit consisting of 86 actual days and 42 days of good conduct credit. conduct credit pursuant to the current version of section 4019, subdivision (f). the november 30, 2011, which was after the effective date of assembly bill no. 109, which was part of the criminal justice realignment legislation. (people v. garcia (2012) 209 cal.app.4th 530, 539.) all local prisoners at the rate of ibid.;  4019, subd. should have received two days for every two days he spent in actual custody. of presentence custody. instead of 86 day, he contends that it should have been 118 days because he was in custody from november 30 to december 2, 2011, and then from february 14 to june 8, 2012. 16 there is a wrinkle. the record indicates that while the present case was pending, was on probation for driving with a suspended or revoked driverno. ori01262. the march 21, 2012, the present case, it was also a probation revocation hearing. regarding the latter, judge hunt stated: county jail [to run] consecutive to any other sentence. [] probation is revoked. 120 days county 5 she then told no longer getting credit on the felony. the parties dispute the impact of the sentence in case nhe was not awarded any presentence custody credit in case no. ori01262 and did not start serving his sentence in that case until after being sentenced in the current case, he should be given full credit for his actual days in custody prior to sentencing on june 8, 2012. he asserts that the issue need not be remanded. the people, on the other hand, argue that the case should be remanded for a determination under bruner as to whether no. ori01262 was revoked because of his current offenses. (bruner, supra, 9 cal.4th at pp. 11931195 [under section 2900.5, a convicted defendant shall receive credit for all days spent in custody, but only to the extent that the custody to be credited is attributable to proceedings related to the same conduct for which the defendant was convicted].) revoked, and also when he began serving his 120 day sentence. the matter must be is good conduct credits. 5 it is unclear from the record what judge fisher meant when she said there is 17 disposition that matter is remanded for a retrial on the strike conviction, and for a redetermination of presentence credits in light of section 4019 and bruner. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. ______________________________, j. ashmann-gerst we concur: _______________________________, p. j. boren _______________________________, j.* ferns * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 