filed 2/26/13 p. v. bailey ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. charles bailey, defendant and appellant. b241079 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba390045) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, jose i. sandoval, judge. affirmed. david h. goodwin, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, eric e. reynolds and ana r. duarte, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________ 2 introduction a convicted sex offender is required to register in his county of residence. a convicted sex offender who has no place to live is required to register in the county in which he is a transient. if the transient sex offender thereafter acquires a residence, he must register anew within five working days. (pen. code,1  290, 290.011, subd. (b); people v. aragon (2012) 207 cal.app.4th 504, 506.) defendant charles bailey, who previously was convicted of a crime requiring him to register as a sex offender pursuant to section 290, appeals from the judgment entered after a jury found him guilty of three counts of being a transient convicted sex offender who failed to register after moving to a residence ( 290.011, subd. (b)) and three counts of failing to register as a sex offender after an address change ( 290, subd. (b)), and he admitted that he suffered a prior strike conviction ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12) and served two prior prison terms ( 667.5, subd. (b)). the trial court sentenced him to state prison for a total of six years. the people to present testimony as to efforts made to locate two witnesses who did not testify at trial. defendant claims this evidence was irrelevant and permitted the jury to draw speculative inferences based on innuendo. while we agree that the challenged testimony was irrelevant and thus inadmissible, defendant has failed to demonstrate that the judgment. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 3 facts delmas davis (davis) owned a triplex comprised of 10007, 10009 and 10009 south hobart boulevard in los angeles. he maintained the property, rented the units and collected the rent. davis did not live on the property, but he did live nearby. jakeira green (jakeira) rented the rear unit commonly known as 10009 hobart boulevard, and her sister, jamila green (jamila), rented the upstairs unit. carol ross (ross) rented the front unit. davis was a school teacher. in july and august 2011, while on vacation from teaching, davis went to the property four or five times a month. in september, he returned to teaching and visited his property less often. while at the property, davis often saw his tenants. davis had seen defendant at the triplex five to ten times before july 2011 and continued to see him through september 1, 2011. on one occasion, after seeing him numerous times, davis asked defendant if he lived there. defendant said he did not. davis believed this conversation took place in december 2010. davis knew that only jakeira and her two children, not defendant, were listed as tenants in the rental agreement. on another occasion in february or march 2011, davis observed defendant leave five other occasions, davis had seen defendant drive the green car. davis also regularly saw the green car parked near the triplex, perhaps 10 to 20 times. as of july 2011, davis believed defendant was living with jakeira despite his prior assertion to the contrary. on numerous occasions during the summer months, davis saw defendant with jakeira and her children, leaving the unit and then returning. davis also observed defendant coming on one occasion, jakeira introduced defendant to davis as her boyfriend. on another occasion, maybe a month later, she introduced defendant to davis as her fianc. ross could not recall the precise year she moved into her unit, but she did recall that jakeira and her two children moved into the rear unit about two months later. ross 4 first saw defendant at the property in march 2011. as time went on, ross saw defendant more frequently. in july 2011, ross, who was retired and described herself as a 2 saw defendant everyday and believed he lived with jakeira. ross observed defendant leave in the morning with jakeira and her two children, as well as his defendant left with the baby and returned 20 minutes later with jakeira and her children. green car. ross also saw him every day in august and september 2011, and she believed that defendant lived with jakeira during the months of july, august and september 2011.3 inside. once or twice, ross saw defendant wash the car in front of the building. on july 28, 2011, los angeles police officer fernando cazarez was assigned to the registration enforcement and compliance team (react) at central division. react monitors and registers sex offenders, as well as conducts compliance checks. defendant came into the station and informed officer cazarez that he was changing his registration from one transient location to another transient location at 49th street and broadway avenue. the officer took note that defendant was very well groomed and his ance was inconsistent with that of a person who was homeless. 2 see enough to know the pattern of the neighborhood and to make me aware of my a lot of 3 in december 2011, ross told a defense investigator she was not sure that defendant lived there. she also noted that she was not going to change her mind about what she said to the police. 5 officer cazarez advised defendant that if he was sleeping at a residence or if he was staying with his girlfriend or anyone else, he had to provide that information. if he failed to do so and the police found out he was staying with someone, he would be arrested. defendant appeared to understand the requirements and asked no questions. on august 23, 2011, officer mehra newby, who was assigned to react, tration. defendant, who appeared to understand the registration requirements, stated he was homeless and did not provide information about another address. on september 27, 2011, react officer lauro larrinua registered defendant as a sex offender. defendant again registered as a transient in the area of 49th street and broadway avenue and gave no other address. officer larrinua explained to defendant the requirements that go along with being a convicted sex offender. on october 17, 2011, los angeles police detective michael falvo, along with other officers, went to 10009 south hobart boulevard, where they believed defendant was living. detective falvo drove to the alley behind the location and waited while two officers knocked on the door. while standing in the alley behind a steel gate door, detective falvo saw defendant walk up to the gate from the side of the yard. he was wearing boxer shorts and a t-shirt and was smoking a cigarette. the detective identified himself as a police officer, told defendant that he recognized him from photographs and wanted him to stop fearing defendant would get away, detective falvo jumped over the fence, pursued him through the backyard and stopped defendant as he was attempting to climb over a wall. to interview jakeira, but she was uncooperative and very upset that defendant had been arrested. iaddress. detective falvo did not go into the bedroom to see if there were any male items 6 and did not know if defendant had a key to the apartment. he did enter the bathroom but could not recall if he saw any male toiletries. the detective did not know who paid the rent or purchased the food or whose name was on the utility bills. at the end of march 2012, detective falvo received a subpoena for jakeira. he went to her residence on numerous occasions but jakeira was never there. on march 29, 2012, lawrence arnwine (arnwine), an investigator for the district her address via public records. after checking various other search engines, arnwine case, and personally served her with the subpoena directing her to appear in court on april 3. on april 3, the prosecutor obtained a body attachment for jamila, who failed to appear. that same day, arnwinappearance in court. he was unable to find her at home or in the area.4 the following day, arnwine repeated his efforts without success. discussion a. pertinent background defendant unsuccessfully objected on relevancy grounds to the testimony of detective falvo regarding his efforts to subpoena jakeira and to the testimony of investigator arnwine regarding his efforts to locate jamila after she failed to appear in court as directed by the subpoena with which she was served. defense counsel argued, among other things, that this testimony would insinuate that the testimony of the sisters absence, the defense was at liberty to argue that the jury never heard from the two people 4 on april 3, ross testified that jamila no longer lived in the upstairs unit. 7 view, the absence of jakeira and jamila foreclosed any argument that they might have said something favorable to defendant. defense counsel was unable to cite any legal investiga jamila green or jakeira green, and the people put on evidence that they somehow attempted to bring these people in and were unable to. the fact that they tried to get . . . for all you know, they would have said that mr. bailey did in fact not live there. so you cannot consider that. you must go back in the jury deliberation room and look at what you have in front of you and decide, did they prove this case. and the fact that they gloss over that and then and assume that what they said would have helped them prove in her final summation, upset when the defendant was office and the law enforcement agency to find her. and the same goes for jamila green. you might wonder and will tell you is that burden of proof. but if they want to, they have the power to subpoena anybody they after the trial court overruled an objection made by defendant, the prosecutor 8 entitled and they do have the power to subpoena witnesses on their own behalf, logically, witnesses that they where nor there, in a way, because neither side that attempts were made to find these two witnesses, and those attempts were unsuccessful. but you actually got to hear from witnesses who were completely like jakeira green dating the defendant, right, or people who are related to the ple with a potential bias or motive. you heard from completely independent neutral witnesses with no motive to lie, with no reason to come b. relevancy to be admissible, evidence must be relevant. (evid. code,  350; people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 1010; people v. lewis (2001) 25 cal.4th 610, 639-640.) . . having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of co(evid. code,  210.) evidence that is proffered to prove or disprove a disputed fact in an action is consequence to detereason, experience, or common sense, has, by reasonable inference, a tendency to prove ed. 2009) relevancy and general principles of evidence,  21.16, p. 354; accord, people v. hill (1992) 3 cal.4th 959, 987-988, overruled on other grounds in price v. superior court (2001) 25 cal.4th 1046, 1069, fn. 13.) idence which has a tendency to prove or disprove a disputed fact only if the trier of fact must draw speculative or people v. parrison (1982) 137 cal.app.3d 529, 539; 1 jefferson, cal. evidence benchbook, supra, relevancy and general 9 tendency to prove or disprove a disputed intermediate or ultimate fact of consequence to determination of the action only by resort to inferences or deductions from that evidence the trial court has wide discretion in determining whether evidence is relevant. (people v. booker (2011) 51 cal.4th 141, 187; people v. lomax (2010) 49 cal.4th 530, 581.) the trial court has no discretion to admit irrelevant evidence. (people v. blacksher (2011) 52 cal.4th 769, 819.) c. analysis of discretion standard. (people v. hovarter (2008) 44 cal.4th 983, 1007-1008.) an (people v. benavides (2005) 35 cal.4th 69, 88.) in this case, the disputed material fact was whether defendant was residing with jakeira in july, august and september 2011, the months during which he registered witness testified or how appearance at trial had no tendency in reason to prove or disprove whether defendant resided with jakeira, and had the potential of allowing the jurors to speculate as to why the two sisters did not appear in court. because this evidence was irrelevant, the trial court abused its discretion in admitting it. (people v. blacksher, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 819; people v. parrison, supra, 137 cal.app.3d at p. 539.) prejudice is not presumed, however. it must be affirmatively demonstrated (people v. bell (1998) 61 cal.app.4th 282, 291), and defendant has failed to make the required showing. reversal of the judgment is only required if the erroneous admission 10 of evidence is prejudicial, resulting in a miscarriage of justice. (evid. code,  353; cal. const., art. 6,  13; people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) it is a miscarriage of justice if a result more favorable to defendant would have been attained in the absence of error. (watson, supra, at p. 836.) in this case, the evidentiary error unquestipeople v. homick (2012) 55 cal.4th 816, 872; accord, people v. weaver (2001) 26 cal.4th 876, 946.) the testimony of davis and ross, both impartial witnesses, amply established that defendant was residing with jakeira during july, august and september 2011. that testimony, along with the testimony of the react officers that defendant registered as a transient during those months, established that defendant was guilty of the crimes with which he was charged. sion. (calcrim no. 200) the trial court also instructed the jury that defendant was presumed innocent and that the people had the burden of proving his guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. (calcrim no. 220) the jury received instructions regarding the sufficiency of circumstantial evidence and the requirement that the people prove each element of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt, quired to call all witnesses who may have information about 300) 301). we presume that the jury understood and followed these instructions. (people v. homick, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 853.) and finally, in her final summation to the jury, the prosecutor stressed that it was not to speculate about what jakeira and jamila would have said since speculation was not 11 evidence.5 the prosecutor urged the jury to focus on the actual evidence before it, particularly the testimony of davis and ross. in her summation to the jury, defense counsel emphasized that the absence of jakeira and jamila did not lessen the given testimony favorable to the prosecution. we conclude that based upon the strength of the evidence presented at trial, the instructions provided to the jury anreasonably probable that a result more favorable to defendant would have occurred if the challenged testimony of detective falvo and investigator arnwine had been excluded. the error in admitting this testimonpeople v. weaver, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 946.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. jackson, j. we concur: woods, acting p. j. zelon, j. 5 this was a correct statement of the law. (people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, people v. fielder (2004) 114 cal.app.4th 1221, 1234.) 