filed 10/28/13 p. v. rosas and juarez ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. alex rosas and freddy juarez, defendants and appellants. b241364 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba379767) appeals from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county. william c. ryan, judge. reversed as to rosas; affirmed and remanded with directions as to juarez. barbara s. perry, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant rosas. sharon m. jones, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant juarez. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson, supervising deputy attorney general, and carl n. henry, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendants alex rosas and freddy juarez appeal from the judgments entered following a jury trial in which they were convicted of second degree murder and attempted murder, with gang and firearm findings. rosas contends the trial court erred by admitting two insufficiently redacted recorded statements by juarez to his friend in jail and exacerbated the prejudicial effect of that error by giving testifying accomplice instructions, although juarez did not testify. juarez contends insufficient evidence supports his convictions and his firearm enhancement and sentence are unconstitutional. juarapplicable constitutional authorities in sentencing juarez to the functional equivalent of a resentencing. background around midnight on february 20, 2009, miguel martinez parked his car on union pacific avenue between indiana street and hicks avenue in east los angeles. (undesignated date references pertain to 2009.) martinez testified that the two passengers in his car, joe lopez and guadalupe ramirez, got out of the car and began walking toward indiana street. martinez was putting away his car stereo deck and remained in the car. he and lopez were members of a tagging crew called the insane tagging crew, or itc for short. ramirez was a member of the gage maravilla gang. martinez testified they were going to a party near olympic boulevard and indiana street, about one block away. he denied they intended to tag, break into cars, or write graffiti in the area. martinez heard people running past his car, looked up, and saw two men running in the street, one of whom was holding a gun. he did not see where they had come from. n running toward indiana street. the gunman turned and pointed the gun toward martinez, who ducked down in his car. the gunman began firing toward lopez and ramirez. martinez started 3 his car and, while still ducked down, began driving toward his companions. his car went up onto the sidewalk and crashed into a light pole, dislodging his front bumper. he restarted the car and continued driving. he picked up lopez and ramirez at the corner of union pacific and indiana. martinez took lopez to a nearby hospital, where he died from a gunshot wound to his upper back. martinez testified that he gave the police a general description of the two assailants: the shooter was about 17, thin, about 5 feet 6 inches or 5 feet 7 inches tall, had had brown skin with pimples; the other man was shorter by about an inch and was hispanic. martinez never identified anyone in this case. -caliber cartridge casings between the east and west curbs of the north side of the intersection of union pacific and hicks. some of the casings were damaged, as if they had been run over. all had been ejected by the same gun, a .40-caliber glock. a bullet was also recovered from the wall of a building at the northwest corner of union pacific and hicks. it had also been fired from a .40-a license plate, was recovered next to a power pole at the southwest corner of union pacific and hicks. using the license plate, detective michael valento located martinez, who was the only eyewitness to testify. a recording from a surveillance camera at a store east of hicks on union pacific depicted two people in dark clothing running west on union pacific, west down the sidewalk. on february 23 valento noticed graffiti on a four-unit apartment building at 3963 union pacific, which was near the northeast corner of the intersection of hicks and union prosecution gang expert los angeles police department (lapd) officer jose vasquez eighth street gangs. no evidence established how long any of the graffiti had been there. 4 vasquez opined that at the time of the charged offenses, both juarez and rosas were members of the indiana dukes gang. rosas used youngster, risky, and rascal as was on the eastern border of the territory claimed by the indiana dukes gang. the king kobras, eighth street, and maravilla gangs were enemies of the indiana dukes gang, but vasquez knew of a member of the eighth street gang who lived in the apartments at 3963 union pacific. valento initially had no suspects in the charged crimes, but began to suspect juarez and gerardo morales after they were arrested for an unrelated robbery in august. valento interviewed juarez and morales separately on august 30. a recording of been identified as the shooter in the crimes charged in the present case. juarez denied involvement and explained he lived in san bernardino with his mother. although he came to los angeles on weekends to visit his father and girlfriend, he usually arrived between 1:00 and 3:00 a.m. on sunday. he further denied that he hung out at 3963 union pacific in february, saying it would have been too dangerous because that was territory claimed by the king kobras gang. but he explained he might have been identified because he previously hung out in that area, and everyone in the area knew him. as a ruse, valento had created a photographic array in which valento himself had covering the signature, and told juarez that he had been identified with 100 percent certainty. juarez reiterated that he used to hang out in the area and added that when he king kobras graffiti, writing indiana dukes graffiti, asking people their gang affiliation, and even committing an aggravated assault there. valento also told juarez that witnesses said he had just met morales the day they committed a robbery together. juarez told valento he used only small caliber guns and claimed he had not shot anyone since october 24, 2008. juarez 5 ultimately said he had heard about the shooting in july from a friend named jessie who was a member of itc and had contacted juarez through myspace. jessie told juarez his after juarez said it was the territory of the king kobras gang, jessie said his group knew the perpetrator was someone from king kobras. but juarez opined to valento that the crime was more likely committed by a rival tagging crew because gangs recruit taggers or beat them up, but do not kill them. as another ruse, valento took a saliva swab from juarez after telling him that dna had been collected at the crime scene. after he finished interviewing juarez and morales, valento placed them together in a jail cell that had a concealed recorder. a redacted version of the recording of their conversation was played at trial and the jurors were given transcripts of the recording in which blank lines indicated the redactions. most of their wide-ranging conversation did not pertain to the charged offenses. with respect to the charged crimes, juarez asked if morales had corroborated his statement to valento that they had met just before the robbery. morales replied that he told valento they knew each other in middle school, but that they had not seen each other for four or five years. juarez asked morales if valento as a murder, dog, but people are saying thatyou 6 after morales and juarez spoke further about their robbery charges, they returned to the subject of the murder, telling one another about their interviews with valento. whispering. s followed by eight blank, double-spaced lines, after which juarez -in which he had been identified and recounted to morales what he had told valento. back tke a . . (unintelligible). how is it . . . -spaced lines ensued. after discussing other people and other crimes, juarez returned to the topics of the . juarez then recounted telling valento that everyone in that neighborhood knew him and that he was in san bernardino at the time of the murder. a little later, juarez returned to . 7 . . morales asked if juarez left a glove or shirt at the scene. only believe that urinating on their . . . . double-spaced lines. after that redaction, morales spoke of how surprised he was when the detective . . . (unintelligible) . . was, i went like this, i went walking, then when that fool started, boom, boom, boom, . . cheeww . . if they had fingerprints . . . (unintelligible) . . . . . (unintelligible) . . . . . (unintelligible) . . . . (unintelligible) . . about it, like, fu 8 got itthe shell and then now they got all the shells from all the other, other crimes and to go talk to minor in the county. . . to get rid of that shit, bro. i mean . . . (unintelligible) . . . . hopefully this dna comes . . (unintelligible) . . . . then have my mom say i was in san -spaced lines. following the redaction, juarez and morales resumed talking about their february, fuck . . ol from itc stealing cars and somebody lit em up. they told me it was some fool . . . (unintelligible) . . . . (unintelligible) . . . that was when we jumped up i . . (unintelligible) . . (unintelligible) . . was followed by 23 blank, double-spaced lines. after that redaction, juare . . (unintelligible) . . . picture, mother fucker. i thought he would, they would pull out the homie, youngster. morales said that the police would probably bring youngster in after them, and juarez . . (unintelligible) . . . stay quiet for valento testified that after he heard juarez say he thought they would show 9 found a photograph of rosas and determined that rosas had been in the county jail on august 30, when juarez and morales had their recorded conversation. after juarez and morales were convicted of robbery and sent to prison, valento had them returned to the county jail and reinterviewed each of them on january 29, 2010. valento told juarez that his dna placed him at the crime scene but established he was not the shooter. he showed juarez a fake dna report to this effect. the report included report. valento showed juarez a photograph of rosas and said the dna evidence had implicated rosas as the shooter. valento also told juarez that he did not know where rosas was. valento told morales that he had been exonerated by the dna evidence, then showed morales a photograph of rosas and said the dna evidence had implicated rosas. valento then put juarez and morales together on a bench with a recording device hidden nearby. a redacted version of the recording of their conversation was played at trial and the jurors were given transcripts of the recording in which blank lines indicated the redactions. juarez and morales immediately began talking about their interviews with valento. few lines later, juarez sathey you for a witness . . . 10 a little lat . think i tahe comes back, h(inaudible). yeah, my boy (inaudible). . . guys i juarez resumed recounting his interview with valento, then again said the police had shown the detectives he had no tattoo-spaced lines in the transcript. after a few additional lines of conversation, followed by another lengthy redaction, juarez said he was not going to think ahis was followed by another redaction of 38 blank, double-spaced lines. thoughi can get a hold of his 11 mom, but i need to tell [inaudible] to come visit me. so i can just tell him in paper, ked when it comes valento testified that after the second juarez-morales conversation, he located rosas in a federal institution in virginia and went with detective todd anderson to interview rosas on february 2, 2010. that interview was recorded and the recording was played at trial. rosas told valento his moniker was risky, but later said he had previously been known as youngster. rosas said he had been deported around the time of the christmas holidays of 2008, and did not return to the united states until september of 2009, but was caught in the desert after he crossed the border. he was serving a 17- or 18-month sentence for illegal reentry. valento noted that rosas had been arrested by the lapd in january of 2009 and was deported at that time. rosas corrected himself and agreed that it was january 1 of 2009 that he was arrested and deported. asked where this k and ii got april 29, 2009, and asked when rosas returned between january and april of 2009. explained he was deported in the wake of that case, also. valento asked rosas why he had said he did not return until september of 2009 after being deported at the beginning of 2009. rosas said he had forgotten about the interim events. 12 did not hang out with him. rosas had last seen him about two years earlier when monkey got out of the youth authority. rosas also denied hanging out near the intersection of union pacific and hicks, but acknowledged he was familiar with that location because he previously had a girlfriend who lived near there for a time. the detectives informed rosas that there had been a late night shooting at union pacific and hicks, specifically 3963 union pacific, in february of 2009, noting it was the same address where rosas was arrested in january 2009. they further told him that dna tests had implicated him and monkey in the crime, and that when confronted with that information, monkey had admitted his involvement but told them that rosas was the shooter. rosas repeatedly denied knowledge of the incident, knowing what itc was, and hanging out on union pacific. rosas repeatedly told the detectives he was not there, knew nothing about it, did not know how his dna could be there, and had nothing to say to them he called their bluff with regard to both the dna and the purported statements by juarez, asking them why they were questioning him if they already had such strong evidence. on march 28, 2010, call was recorded and the recording was played at trial. juarez identified himself as both juarez asked if avila knew where rosas was, and she told him rosas was in virginia. juarez asked if any police had come to her house, and she said they had not. juarez reminded avila that h juarez told avila that he had here, because . . . juarez id she would do so. when police are looking for them. 13 on january 5, 2011, valento returned to virginia and brought rosas back to los angeles. the next day, valento told rosas and juarez that each would be placed in separate live lineups to be viewed by a witness. this was yet another ruse designed to record a conversation between rosas and juarez. rosas and juarez were placed together in the lineup staging area while jail deputies sought out other inmates who looked like rosas and juarez to participate in the sham lineups. the recording of the conversation between rosas and juarez and the lineups was played at trial. after answering questions by deputies about their height, weight, and tattoos, ed he had denied knowing rosas. rosas and juarez discussed what the detectives had said to them and what they had said do, homie . . . he had been in the jail. juarez told rosas that he had been arrested with solo (morales) . . they told solo, . . [t]hey thought he was 14 . that fool gots rest in peace, that foall that shit on myspace, so, it was me, and i told that fool, bernardino, nobody from my neighborhood was out there, everybody got locked up, everybody, nobody was theregoti got them f juarez spanishthe detectives did not have any dna, and juarez said they had nothing. juarez stated that juarez if theyif they point us out, what do you did not matter, they would get attorneys and keep on going later, rosas said 15 agreed. rosas and juarez then conversed in spanish. rosas said he was thinking of no one huh, fo nothing to . . . . at that time, deputies began grouping the participants for the lineup containing was in jail, rosas said, they continued to discuss their fellow gang members, the activities of those gang members, and their own tattoos and those of other gang members until the deputies began conducting the lineups. 16 when the lineup containing rosas was conducted, valento instructed the deputy to testified that he made this request because juarez had told morales that phrase was uttered ty reiterated the rosas said it. the participants exited the stage, and rosas rejoined juarez. rosas said, ey, why do you think they made me step fucking crazy. we got . . up witness had not identified him, whereas the detectives had told him that the witness had previously identified him with - one of the lineup deputies told rosas he had been identified and explained, that shit happened, like, at 12, 1, 2 17 r they already had showed the picture of you, the only time, april. i was in san bernardino. you got your care, i was in san juarez the prosecution also played several other recordings of juarez asking various friends to contact potential witnesses. during a january 15, 2011 visit, juarez asked a nscripts), who knew the to jesse, who agreed to do so. on january 23, 2011, juarez phoned grumpy and gave him a phone number for jesse, said jesse knew everything that had happened and knew the taggers, and he would take grumpy to them. grumpy said he would talk to jesse. 18 rn to the united states was a contested issue. officer mark bravo testified he arrested rosas after rosas drove into the driveway at 3963 union pacific on january 1, 2009. the parties stipulated that rosas was arrested that day and physically returned to tijuana on january 6. bravo cited rosas for a traffic violation at indiana and union pacific on march 31. rosas had also received a traffic citation on march 10 in vernon. to attempt to prove that rosas returned before march, the prosecution called crystal marquez as a witness. she testified that on january 16, 2009, she and her cousins -colored car drove up and stopped. rosas, the passenger in the car, got part way out of the car and asked why there was a crowd at the house. marquez did not recognize the driver, who did not get out of t disrespectful funeral reception, and her cousins spoke to rosas and his companion, who then left. a and heard that she was from, and she was offended by this because she did not look like a gang girl. marquez admitted she had been drinking alcohol before the car containing rosas arrived. she further admitted that she had been convicted of selling methamphetamine in 2004, felony check forgery in 2003, and misdemeanor check forgery in 2002. she also used of 2009, but not on the day of the funeral. marquez was further impeached with her prior inconsistent statements to valento, in which she said the car was white, two peopleincluding someone named marcogot out of it, and she personally told the men to leave. at trial, marquez denied knowing anyone named marco. possibly have been in los angeles on january 16, 2009, the day marquez claimed to see 19 him, because avila was sending him money in tijuana and he was phoning her collect from mexico. he called her six or eight times in january of 2009, including january 16, 17 ,19, and 20. she electronically sent him money on january 7, 9, 12, 18, and 23, and documents admitted at trial reflected this. after january 23, she had to send him cash through friends because rosas lost his identification card and was unable to claim money sent electronically. photographs of the tattoos of juarez and rosas taken in january of 2011 were admitted at trial, and gang expert vasquez testified that they signified membership in the indiana dukes gang. vasquez had first met rosas in 2000, when rosas had fewer tattoos. vasquez further testified that he had previously testified at a 2006 trial in which rosas was convicted of possessing a loaded, unregistered gun. the gang, including committing crimes, while older, more experienced members the maravilla gang who entered indiana dukes territory was likely to encounter retaliation. similarly, members of a tagging crew who wrote graffiti in indiana dukes territory were likely to encounter retaliation. in response to a hypothetical question based for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with the indiana dukes street gang with the specific intent to further its criminal conduct. rosas was 22 at the time of the charged crimes and at the time of the sham lineup he was 5 feet 5 inches tall and weighed 165 pounds. juarez was 17 at the time of the charged crimes. at the time of the sham lineup he was 5 feet 7 inches or 5 feet 8 inches tall and weighed 150 pounds. rosas and juarez were tried together by a single jury. the jury convicted each defendant of second degree murder and attempted murder. with respect to both defendants, the jury found the attempted murder was not willful, deliberate, and premeditated, but that the offenses were committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, 20 or in association with a criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in criminal conduct by gang members. the jury further found that rosas personally used a gun, fired a gun, and fired a gun, causing death. (pen. code,  12022.53, subds. (b), (c), (d); undesignated statutory references are to the penal code.) the jury found, with respect to juarez, that a principal personally used a gun, fired a gun, and fired a gun, causing death. ( 12022.53, subds. (b), (c), (d), (e).) the court sentenced rosas to 77 years to life in prison, consisting of 15 years to life for the murder, plus 25 years to life of the section 12022.53, subdivision (d) enhancement, plus 7 years for attempted murder, plus 20 years for the section 12022.53, subdivision (c) enhancement, plus 10 years for the gang enhancement. the court sentenced juarez to 65 years to life in prison, consisting of 15 years to life for the murder, plus 25 years to life for the section 12022.53, subdivisions (d) and (e) enhancement, plus 5 years for attempted murder, plus 20 years for the section 12022.53, subdivisions (c) and (e) enhancement. discussion 1. rights in bruton v. united states (1968) 391 u.s. 123 [88 s.ct. 1620] (bruton), the united states supreme court concluded that introduction in a joint trial of a nontestifying consider the statement only with respect to the defendant who made it. (id. at p. 137.) that the jury will not, or cannot, follow instructions is so great, and the consequences of failure so vital to the defendant, that the practical and human limitations of the jury id. powerfully incriminating extrajudicial statements of a codefendant, who stands accused 21 side-by-(id. at pp. 135people v. lewis (2008) 43 cal.4th 415, 453.) before trial, rosas moved to exclude or redacconversations with morales, sever his trial from that of juarez, or empanel two juries. the trial court denied severance, dual juries, and exclusion, redacted two statements from the first conversation between juarez and morales, and ruled nothing else in either redacted statement violated bruton. before the conversations were admitted at trial, rosas renewed his objections, which the trial court overruled. rosas contends that the redacted juarez-morales conversations nonetheless included statements by juarez that implicated rosas in the charged crimes and thus violated his federal constitutional rights to confront and cross-examine witnesses against him. we agree. sion of a nontestifying . . the confession is richardson v. marsh (1987) 481 u.s. 200, 211 [107 s.ct. 1702] (richardsonent confrontation people v. fletcher similarly obvious indications of alteration, however, leave statements that, considered as a class, so closely resemble bruton unredacted statements that . . . the law must require gray v. maryland (1998) 523 u.s. 185, 192 [118 s.ct. 1151] (gray).) sly refers directly to the defendant, and involves inferences that a jury ordinarily could make immediately, even were the confession the very first item introduced at trial, the bruton rule applies and introduction 22 of the statement at a joint trial violatpeople v. burney (2009) 47 cal.4th 203, 231 (burney).) in richardson, supra, 481 u.s. 200, the confession of defendant williams, who was tried jointly with marsh, was redacted to omit not only all references to marsh, but anyone other than . . id. at p. 203.) the trial court also instructed the jury not to consider that confession against marsh. (id. at p. 205.) the redacted confession stated that williams and martin had discussed the murder in the front else was in the car. (id. at pp. 203204, fn. 1.) although marsh ultimately testified at trial that she was in the back seat of the car (id. at p. 204), the supreme court held that the redacted confession did not violate bruton (richardson at pp. 208, 211). in gray, supra, 523 u.s. 185, a confession by codefendant bell was redacted by merely omitting the names of gray and a deceased accomplice. when a detective read finished reading the confession, he testified that based upon the information provided by bell, he arrested gray. the written copy of the confession substituted blank spaces, separated by commas, for their names. (id. at pp. 188189.) the supreme court held that the redacted confession ran afoul of bruton id. at pp. 192193.) the court noid. attention specially to the removed name. by encouraging the jury to speculate about the accusationibid.) statements redacted in this 23 vital, need for cross-id. redacted confession also points directly to the defendant, and it accuses the defendant in a finger. by way of contrast, the factual statement at issue in richardsona statement about what others said in the front seat of a cardiffers from directly accusatory ibid.) the court in gray here are more gray, supra, 523 u.s. at pp. 194195.) the court also acknowledged that a jury had to use inference to connect the blanks in the richardson placed outside the scope of bruton gray at p. 195.) but the court concluded that richardson kind of, not the simple fact gray at p. 196.) when, notwithstanding redaction, . . . involve[s] inferences that a jury ordinarily could make immediately, even were the confession the very first item introd the introduction of the statement at a joint trial violates the non-id. at pp. 196197.) considering the redacted juarez-morales conversations as a whole, they repeatedly revealed, expressly or implicitly, that juarez had an accomplice in the commission of the charged crimes, and rosas was that accomplice. because rosas was charged with the same crimes and the prosecutor contended that rosas was that accomplice, the jury would have realized that the accomplice to whom juarez referred was rosas. for example, in . . 24 revealed the existence of an accomplice and the jury would have ultimately realized that it was rosaseliminated all of the quoted statements. next, after morales asked a number of questions about what kind of gun juarez -spaced lines. this clearly revealed that juarez was asserting that he had an accomplice, and his accomplice was the shooter. the jury would have realized that the accomplice to whom juarez referred was rosas, and him. (gray, supra, 523 u.s. at p. 194.) we further note that because so much of the unredacted conversation was irrelevant to the charged offenses, the jury would not infer that redacted portions were merely irrelevant. after juarez questioned how he could have left dna at the scene of the charged car, i was, i went like this, i went walking, then when that fool started, boom, boom, boom, boom, . . cheeww . . interpretations, in the context of juarez argued this interpretation in his closing argument. thus, this statement was yet another assertion by juarez that his accomplice was the shooter. the jury would have realized that the accomplice to whom juarez referred was rosas. for the same reasons, the following statements by juarez should have been . . (unintelligible) . . . that . . (unintelligible) . . 25 (unintelligible) . . . let this fool have it. was yet another assertion by juarez that his accomplice was the shooter, and the jury would have realized that the accomplice to whom juarez referred was rosas. more than one page of blank space followed the statement quoted in the preceding fuck they . . . (unintelligible) . . . picture, mother fucker. i thought he would, they would bring youngster in after tstatement, he had spoken about the detective showing him the photographic array with the photograph of himself of rosas showing that he had also been identified as a perpetrator of the charged offenses statements asserted that rosas committed the charged offenses with juarez. in the second conversation between juarez and morales, morales said the detective theymorales then discussed whether youngster had fled, with juarez making several inaudible right theraccomplice in the charged crimes. 26 . . i said right to them, comeshe comes back, he always gots faknames. so he (inaudible). yeah, my boy (inaudible). . . get this case on you. we gosaid purported to recorosas was jumother to help rosas avoid getting arrested. after juarez continued to speak about his interview with the detectives, he said the after two additional brief statements each by morales and juarez, there were 30 blank, double-the absurdity of the police confusing morales with someone else clearly referred to the appearance of his accomplice. the record reveals that rosas had numerous tattoos, including some on his face, he weighed 165 pounds at the sham lineup, and he was 5 feet 27 consistent with rosas. thus, in a few lines of conversation followed the lengthy blank space described in the preceding paragraph, then 33 blank, double-spaced lines ensued. after that, juarez said priors dog, he not gonna break. i just have to tareference to him not confessing and needing to flee. a little later, after four short segments of conversation interspersed with three asked if juarez thought he could make contact with rosas, ani can get a hold of his mom, but i need to tell (inaudible) to come visit me. so i can just tell him in n it comes down to, we go to trial, if we lose, was him that did it.his guilt, through reference to him not confessing and the need to keep rosas from in addition, it is significant that rosas admitted in his interview with detectives that youngster was a moniker he had used, officer bravo testified that rosas used the 28 name youngster and bravo did not know of anyone else from the indiana dukes who used that moniker, and the prosecutor conditioned the jury in his opening statement to gray, supra, 523 u.s. 185, valento testified that valento to obtain a photograph of rosas and to confirm that rosas had been in county jail in august of 2009, when the first juarez-morales conversation occurred. after hearing the second juarez-morales conversation, valento searched for rosas and traveled to virginia to interview him on february 2, 2010. accordingly, notwithstanding the redactions the prosecutor and the court made to the juarez-morales conversations, there can be no doubt that the jury understood the above-quoted segments of those conversations to both refer to and implicate rosas as rosas to be able to cross-examine juarez, which, of course, he could not. introduction of confrontation rights. the attorney general argues, as did the prosecutor in the trial court, that the coconspirator and declaration against interest exceptions to brutonapply. we disagree. the coconspirator exception applies to statements made by coconspirators while participating in a conspiracy and in furtherance of the objective of that conspiracy. (people v. roberts (1992) 2 cal.4th 271, 303304.) assuming, for the sake of argument, that juarez and rosas conspired to kill lopez and attempt to kill ramirez, statements to morales 6 and 11 months after the charged crimes were not made during the course of the conspiracy, but long after the conspiracy had achieved its objective. nor were these statementsmade to someone who was not part of the conspiracyin assistance to complete the objective of the conspiracy, for example. he was instead 29 merely telling morales about the prior crime. accordingly, the coconspirator exception was inapplicable. bruton allows admission only of those portionpeople v. smith (2005) 135 cal.app.4th 914, 922.) the trial court must excise any portion of a statement that is not specifically disserving to the declarant, especially statements that incriminate or shift blame to another. (people v. duarte (2000) 24 cal.4th 603, 617618.) a statement in which a declarant implicates both himself and his codefendant falls squarely within gray, supra, 523 u.s. 185, and its admission at a joint this section implicated rosas and had to be either sufficiently redacted or excluded, even though some of them also constituted admissions by juarez. admission of these statements against rosas violated his confrontation rights. bruton -beyond-a-reasonable-doubt standard of chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 [17 l.ed.2d burney, suprawhether improperly admitted evidence so prejudiced a defendant that reversal of the evidence is overwhelming and the incriminating extrajudicial statement is merely ibid.) apart from the juarez-morales conversations, the evidence against rosas consisted solely of consciousndetectives during the interview in virginia about when he returned to the united states after being deported to mexico in january of 2009 and about not hanging out at 3963 union pacifsomeone had identified either or both of them during the sham lineups, the identity of the 30 witness brought in to view the lineups, and whether that witness was claudio. with pertained to the charged crimes. according to the prosecution, rosas was an active pacific, rosas had possessed drugs for sale at that location and been arrested there multiple times. thus, rosas may have committed illegal acts at or near 3963 union pacific during 2009 other than the charged crimes. with respect to the second category, equally consistent with rosas having some knowledge of the charged crimes and being concerned about misidentification as a perpetrator. other statements he made during his conversation with juarez tended to show he was not involved in the charged offenses. his references to claudio were not necessarily incriminating because valento and note that while juarez and the prosecutor accused rosas of being the gunman, the sole testifying eyewitness testified that the gunman was taller than his accomplice and appeared to be 5 feet 6 inches or 5 feet 7 inches tall, about 17 years old, and thin. this description fit juarez, who was 17 at the time of the offenses, 5 feet 7 inches or 5 feet 8 inches tall, and weighed 150 pounds. rosas, in contrast, was 22 years old at the time of the offenses, weighed 165 pounds at the sham lineup, and he was 5 feet 5 inches tall. thus, the properly admitted evidence was far from overwhelming, and we rosas argues he may not be retried because the properly admitted evidence was insufficient to support a conviction. the attorney general does not address this point. in assessing this issue, we must consider the evidence as a whole, not just the properly admitted evidence. (lockhart v. nelson (1988) 488 u.s. 33, 4041 [109 s.ct. 285].) 31 evidence was sufficient to support the verdicts against rosas. accordingly, double jeopardy does not preclude a retrial. note that, in addition to its obligation to properly redact the juarez-morales conversations jury to consider those statements only against juarez, and not against rosas. the trial court failed to do so, and instead gave instructions pertaining to the testimony of an accomplice that effectively told the jury it could against rosas. these instructional errors necessarily exacerbated the prejudice flowing from the admission of the improperly redacted statements. 2. sufficiency of evidence regarding juarez juarez contends that the evidence was insufficient to support his conviction because rosas was the shooter, meaning juarez was an aider and abettor or coconspirator, and nothing the record rosas, or any words or conduct by him that aided and abetted rosas. juarez implicitly relies upon his own statement to morales accusing rosas of being the actual shooter, and he expressly shit happened, all i was, i, when the other car, i was, i went like this, i went walking, then starte to resolve this issue, we review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment to decide whether substantial evidence supports the conviction, so that a reasonable jury could find guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 1006.) of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond ibid.) we presume the existence of every fact supporting the judgment that the jury could reasonably deduce from the evidence and make all 32 reasonable inferences that support the judgment. (people v. barnes (1986) 42 cal.3d 284, 303; people v. catlin (2001) 26 cal.4th 81, 139.) the theories argued by the prosecutor are not the exclusive theories that may be considered by the jury. (people v. perez (1992) 2 cal.4th 1117, 1126.) direct evidence of knowledge and intent is rare; generally these matters must be established by circumstantial evidence and reasonable inferences therefrom. (people v. buckley (1986) 183 cal.app.3d 489, 494495.) encourages, or instigates the crime is guilty as an aider and abettor of both the offense he or she intended to facilitate or encourage (the target crime) and any other crime committed by the person he or she aids and abets that is the natural and probable consequence of the target crime. (people v. prettyman (1996) 14 cal.4th 248, 259, 261.) an aider and abettor need not have intended to encourage or facilitate the particular offense ultimately committed, and need not have the specific intent otherwise required for the offense committed. (id. at p. 261.) the jury may consider facts such as presence at the scene of the crime, and companionship and conduct before and after the offense, including flight, in deciding encourage the crime. (people v. mitchell (1986) 183 cal.app.3d 325, 330.) the trial court instructed the jury on aiding and abetting and the natural and probable consequences doctrine, specifying assault with a firearm as the target offense. the court further instructed on conspiracy principles. viewing the record in the light most favorable to the judgment against juarez, we conclude substantial evidence supports his convictions. a multitude of statements by juarez establish that he accompanied the perpetrator when the charged crimes were committed. for example, in his first recorded conversation with morales, after morales said, who, who 33 those fools from in his conversation with morales. there was some speculation that martinez, who was on probation for auto theft at the time of trial, and his companions may have been in the area to break into cars. a little later juarez referred to taggers going to union pacific to tag, . . . . (unintelligible) . . . . then have my mom say heard about that fool. that fool from itc stealing cars and somebody lit em up. they told me it was some fool . . . (unintelligible) . . . . (unintelligible) . . . that was when we jumped up in . . (unintelligible) . . . ti although at the time of the first recorded juarez-morales conversation valento had repeatedly expressed concern about the results of the dna comparison. he also how could they get the dna from me . . have come from sweat. dna could be at the scene and referred to how fingerprints could have incriminated him: 34 when the other car, i was, i went like this, i went walking, then when that fool started, . . cheeww . . fingerprints. cuz if they had fingerprints . . . (unintelligible) . . already in the system . . . (unintelligible) . . in the second recorded juarez-morales conversation, after valento had falsely told juarez that dna testing had revealed that juarez was there, but rosas was the shooter, this conversation, he expressed a hope that rosas would not be caught and his confidence his priors dog, he not gonn morales clearly established that he accompanied the perpetrator when the charged crimes were committed and supported inferences of his consciousness of guilt. in addition, a strong inference of consciousness of guilt could be drawn from visit jesse in order to prevent jesse or the taggers he knew from testifying against juarez. in addition, martinez testified that just before the shooting, he heard, then saw, two men running past his car in the street in the same direction lopez and ramirez were walking. jhe was one of the two men. the location of the casings and bullet strike, the gunshot other man whom martinez saw running were pursuing lopez and ramirez. the jury 35 could infer that juarez and his companion intended to confront and intimidate lopez and ramirez, probably for reasons related to gang rivalry or gang territorialism. juarez was a member of the indiana dukes gang, which had written graffiti at 3963 union pacific and tended to hang out near there; lopez was a member of the itc tagging crew, which had also written graffiti at 3963 union pacific; and ramirez was a member of the gage maravilla gang, which was a rival to the indiana dukes gang. martinez saw that one of the men was carrying a gun, and the jury could infer that if martinez could see that gun, was carrying the gun, he at least knew that his companion carried a gun as they chased lopez conduct in running with the other man that both juarez and his companion shared the intent to, at a minimum, aim the gun at lopez and ramirez. (see people v. asher (1969) 273 cal.app.2d 876, 891 [jury could infer a planned conspiracy to rob a bar and its rt a finding accompaniment of the gunman aided the planned armed confrontation because it evened the numbers of attackers and targets and thus strengthened the attack and its prospects for success. 3. juarez: constitutionality of section 12022.53, subdivision (e) section 12022.53 provides for a 20-year enhancement, or 25 years if the victim suffers great bodily injury or dies, for anyone who personally and intentionally discharges a firearm in the commission or attempted commission of certain felonies, including murder. ( 12022.53, subds. (d), (e).) section 12022.53, subdivision (e) extends these enhancements to aiders and abettors if the offense is committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang. 36 juarez contends that the imposition of these enhancements under section 12022.53, subdivision (e) punishes aiders and abettors of crimes committed for the benefit of street gangs more severely than aiders and abettors of crimes committed for the benefit of equally dangerous criminal associations, such as drug cartels and terrorist organizations, and thus violates equal protection. to succeed on an equal protection claim, a defendant must first show that the state has adopted a classification that treats similarly situated persons in an unequal fashion. (people v. wilkinson (2004) 33 cal.4th 821, 836 (wilkinson).) if a defendant shows such disparate treatment, the legislation is reviewed differently based upon the nature of the classification. strict scrutiny applies where the legislation creates a suspect classification based upon race or national origin or infringes a fundamental interest. (ibid.) an intermediate level of scrutiny applies to classifications based upon gender or illegitimacy. (ibid.) at a minimum, a statutory classification must be rationally related to a legitimate governmental purpose. (ibid.) juarez argues that strict scrutiny is required here because a fundamental interesthis libertyis implicated. criminal statutes that distinguish among offenders on the basis of the circumstances of the offense or the manner in which it was committed do not (wilkinson, supra, 33 cal.4th at pp. 837838.) a defendant does not have a fundamental interest in the designation a crime receives or the term of imprisonment provided for a particular offense. (id. context would be incompatible with the broad discretion the legislature traditionally has been understood to exercise iibid.) in people v. hernandez (2005) 134 cal.app.4th 474 (hernandez), division seven of this district addressed the issue raised by juarez and concluded that section 12022.53, subdivision (e) is rationally rbeyond dispute the state has a legitimate interest in suppressing criminal street gangs. [the defendant] concedes this. he also acknowledges the state has a legitimate interest in 37 punishing criminal gun use more severely than the use of other weapons. . . . [] courts have long recognized . . attention county alone there were 328 gang-related murders in 1986, and that gang homicides in 12022.53 10 years later and made aiders and abettors of gang crimes involving gun use f the serious threats . . [] . . . where as here the question is not whether to deprive [the defendant] of his liberty but for how long, we believe rational basis review, not strict scrutiny, is the appropriate test to resolve an equal protection challenge. [] clearly the legislature had a rational basis for imposing a 25-years-to-life enhancement on one who aids and abets a gang-related murder in which the perpetrator uses a gun. . . . as we previously observed, the purpose of this enhancement is to reduce through punishment criminal purpose(id. at pp. 481483, fns. omitted.) we agree with the hernandez court that a rational basis exists for the distinction drawn by the legislature. juarez argues hernandez was wrongly decided, citing people v. olivas (1976) 17 cal.3d 236 as authority for a strict scrutiny analysis of the classification drawn by the statute. but, as the supreme court explained in wilkinson, supra, 33 cal.4th 821, olivas could be interpreted to require application of the strict scrutiny standard whenever one challenges upon equal protection grounds a 38 penal statute or statutes that authorize different sentences for comparable crimes, because nevertheless, olivas properly has not been read so broadly. . . olivas as requiring the courts to subject all criminal classifications to strict scrutiny requiring the showing of a compelling concluded that a broad reading of olivas, as advocated by defendant here, would justice policy.838.) accordingly, hernandez properly applied the rational basis test. we follow hernandez 4. juarez: constitutionality of indeterminate sentence juarez, who was 17 when the charged crimes were committed, contends that his 65-years-to-life sentence is unconstitutional pursuant to miller v. alabama (2012) 567 u.s. __ [132 s.ct. 2455] (miller); graham v. florida (2010) 560 u.s. 48 [130 s.ct. 2011] (graham); and people v. caballero (2012) 55 cal.4th 262 (caballero). we conclude the trial court failed to consider the factors required by these decisions and remand for resentencing in light of these decisions. in graham, the united states supreme court considered the constitutionality of imposing a sentence of life without possibility of parole on a juvenile offender who committed an offense other than homicide. the court concluded that such a sentence constituted cruel and unusual punishment. (graham, supra, 560 u.s. at p. __ [130 s.ct. and brain science continue to show fundamental differences between juvenile and adult minds. for example, parts of the brain involved in behavior control continue to mature id. at p. __ [130 s.ct. at p. 2026].) because juveniles have a less developed moral sense than adults, the court viewed them as less morally culpable than adults who commit the same offenses. (id. at p. __ [130 s.ct. at p. 2027].) in 39 id. at p. __ [130 s.ct. at p. 202on the assumption that the juvenile offender forever will be a danger to society requires the sentencer to make a judgment that the juvenile is incorrigible. the characteristics of juveniles make that judgment questioto differentiate between the juvenile offender whose crime reflects unfortunate yet transient immaturity, and the rare juvenile offender whose crime reflects irreparable id. at p. __ [130 s.ct. at p. 2029].) in miller, supra, 567 u.s. at page __ [132 s.ct. at p. 2475], which was decided grahammandatory life-without-possibility-of-parole sentences for juvenile offenders who commit among them, immaturity, impetuosity, and failure to appreciate risks and consequences. it prevents taking into account the family and home environment that surrounds himand from which he cannot usually extricate himselfno matter how brutal or dysfunctional. it neglects the circumstances of the homicide offense, including the extent of his participation in the conduct and the way familial and peer pressures may have affected him. indeed, it ignores that he might have been charged and convicted of a lesser offense if not for incompetencies associated with youthfor example, his inability to deal with police officers or prosecutors (including on a plea agreement) or his incapacity to assist his own id. at p. __ [132 s.ct. at p. 2468].) the court did not foreclose the possibility of a sentence of life without the possibility of parole in homicide cases for rare juvenile offender whose crime reflects irreparable corruption,sentencing court is required to consider the potentially mitigating effect of the aforementioned factors. (id. at p. __ [132 s.ct. at pp. 2469, 2475].) in caballero, supra, california supreme court considered whether a 110-year-to-life sentence imposed on a 40 juvenile convicted of nonhomicide offenses contravened graham mandate against cruel and unusual punishment under the eighth amendment, and concluded that it does. (id. at a nonhomicide offense to a term of years with a parole eligibility date that falls outside the violation of the eighth amendment. although proper authorities may later determine that youths should remain incarcerated for their natural lives, the state may not deprive them at sentencing of a meaningful opportunity to demonstrate their rehabilitation and fitness to reenter society in the future. under grahamde ruling, the sentencing including but not limited to his or her chronological age at the time of the crime, whether the juvenile offender was a direct perpetrator or an aider and abettor, and his or her physical and mental development, so that it can impose a time when the juvenile offender id. at pp. 268269.) collectively, miller, supra, 567 u.s. __ [132 s.ct. 2455], and caballero, supra, 55 cal.4th 262, require a sentencing court to consider the matters set forth in miller and caballero before sentencing a juvenile to either life without possibility of parole or an aggregate sentence that is the functional equivalent of a life sentence without possibility of parole. (people v. argeta (2012) 210 cal.app.4th 1478, 1482.) juarez was sentenced to 65 years to life, with actual custody credits of 495 days. he was 20 at the time of sentencing. accordingly, he would be approximately 83.5 years old before becoming eligible for parole consideration. according to the most recent national vital statistics reports available from the centers for disease control and prevention, the average life expectancy for hispanic males is 78.39 years. (see <http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/ functional equivalent of a life sentence without possibility of parole. the trial court in this case did not offer any reasons for its sentencing decisions regarding either defendant, let alone consider any of the matters set forth in miller and caballero with respect to 41 juarez. as noted, miller and caballero accordinglycourt is directed to exercise its discretion in accordance with the authorities cited and discussed in this section. disposition the judgment against rosas is reversed and the cause remanded for further is remanded for resentencing in accordance with miller v. alabama (2012) 567 u.s. __ [132 s.ct. 2455] and people v. caballero (2012) 55 cal.4th 262. upon resentencing juarez, the trial court is directed to prepare an amended abstract of judgment and forward a copy to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects, the judgment against juarez is affirmed. not to be published. mallano, p. j. we concur: rothschild, j. johnson, j. 