filed 5/20/13 p. v. ulloa ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. javier manuel ulloa, defendant and appellant. b242104 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba361536) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, rand s. rubin, judge. affirmed. linn davis, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and mary sanchez, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 appellant javier manuel ulloa contends substantial evidence does not -- shooting at an occupied vehicle and assault with a firearm -- were committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further and assist in criminal conduct by gang members within the meaning of penal code section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c). specifically, he contends the prosecution failed to present adequate evidence of the 1 we conclude otherwise and affirm. factual and procedural background a. information appellant was charged by information with attempted willful, deliberate, premeditated murder ( 664/187(a)) (count one), shooting at an occupied vehicle ( 246) (count three), and assault with a firearm ( 245, subd. (a)(2)) (count four).2 it was further alleged that the offenses were committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, and in association with a criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further and assist in criminal conduct by gang members within the meaning of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c). it was also alleged that as to counts one and three, appellant personally used a firearm, personally and intentionally discharged a firearm, and personally and intentionally discharged a firearm which caused great bodily injury within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b), (c), (d), and (e)(1) and that he personally inflicted great bodily injury within the meaning of section 12022.7, subdivision (a). 1 unless otherwise designated, statutory references are to the penal code. 2 count two, for felony evading (veh. code,  2800.2, subd. (a)), was dismissed. 3 b. evidence at trial 1. evidence of the offenses3 on august 20, 2009, laval adolph was driving on avalon boulevard near 79th street. while waiting at a stoplight, he noticed a gun pointing out the open front window of a car to his right. adolph took evasive action, accelerating into oncoming traffic, but was shot.4 adolph could not identify the driver of the car, but recalled that he was hispanic, with long hair.5 two police officers who were patrolling nearby heard multiple gunshots and within seconds saw a car speeding away from the area and executing a number of turns. the officers followed the car. when they activatlights and siren, the car accelerated and drove through stop signs and a red light out. the officers got a good look at the driver, a male hispanic with long hair and a tattoo on his neck. they later identified appellant as the driver. the officers chased and apprehended one of the passengers, christopher edwards, who was holding a gun when he exited the car.6 nd investigating officers found documentation inside it indicating it had recently been purchased by appellant. 3 because appellant raises no issues with respect to guilt, we discuss the facts of the offenses only briefly. 4 5 at the time of the shooting, appellant had long hair. when he was arrested sometime later, he had cut his hair. 6 edwards quickly dropped the gun and the officers recovered it. it was a .40 asings matched a casing the police criminalist test-fired from the recovered gun. 4 after first denying any knowledge of the shooting, edwards told police officers -- and later testified -- that the car was being driven by appellant when adolph was shot, while edwards was sitting on the passenger side of the back seat. edwards, then a member of florencia 13, had been picked up earlier in the day by appellant and his companions, a female and a male member of florencia 13 known -appellant grabbed a gun from the side of his seat and started shooting out the window toward another car. after the shooting, while they were being chased by the police officers, appellant ordered edwards to take the gun. he did, but dropped it as soon as he got out of the car. 2. gang evidence gang expert, officer guillermo de la riva, had been a police officer for four years. he had grown up in santa ana, and was familiar with the hispanic gangs in that area. he had had 60 hours of training in gang awareness after becoming a police officer. in addition, he had attended conferences and roll calls where senior officers lectured on hispanic gangs. he also familiarized himself with gangs by reading books written by gang members and talking to senior gang officers from other cities. he had personally interacted with more than 200 florencia 13 members. officer de la riva testified that florencia 13 has over 2000 members in los spanish pronuncgang members obtain protection from the mexican mafia when in prison. 5 florencia 13 has a hand sign and mmembership. its rivals include the east coast crips and 18th street, both african-division: the neighborhoods, the locos, and the west side florencias. from conversations with florencia 13 gang members and fellow officers, officer de la riva learned that appellant was a member of the gang and had heard no information from any source that appellant had ever left the gang.7 appof huntington park.8 gang culture means committing crimes to benefit the gang, such as attempted the prosecutor asked what type of crimes florencia 13 gang members were known to commit. ofshootings, both walk-ups and drive-bys, robberies, assaults, stabbings, burglaries . . . 7 two other officers testified they had interviewed appellant several times beginning in 2005 and that appellant consistently admitted being a member of florencia 13. 8 appellant, while testifying on his own behalf to deny committing the crime or being in the car, acknowledged that his tattoos indicated membership in the florencia 13 gangster clique. 6 cross-examination, officer de la riva testified that lower ranked members or ting drive-by shootings.9 the prosecutor formed a hypothetical based on the evidence presented in the shooting was committed for the benefit of the gang. officer de la riva testified neighborhood would learn what happened, and word would spread that it was of the community to fear it and fear retaliation if they reported crimes its members committed. the fact that the shooting was apparently unplanned and the victim was randomly selected would elevate the status of the shooter for ruthlessness and cold-bloodedness. if the shooter was a member of a clique that operated outside the area of the shooting, it would build up his status and reputation in the cliques operating in the area where the crime was committed. officer de la riva also testified that a low ranking gang member could be he or she could be murdered or assaulted. c. verdict and sentencing the jury found appellant not guilty of attempted murder (count one) and guilty of shooting at an occupied vehicle and assault with a firearm (counts three 9 officer de la riva also testified he was familiar with florencia 13 gang members hugo pineda and efren ruiz, who were members of the gang on dates when they participated in the shootings of an off-duty african-american police officer and another african-american male. officer de la riva gained his familiarity with these crimes by speaking with the investigating officers. 7 and four). the jury found true all the firearm enhancements, the infliction of great bodily injury enhancement and the gang enhancement. appellant admitted three priors. the court sentenced him to a 20-year determinate sentence, consisting of seven years for count three, plus ten years for the gang enhancement and three years for the three priors. the court also imposed a consecutive 25-year to life indeterminate sentence under section 12022.53, subdivision (d).10 discussion section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c), the gang allegation charged against who is convicted of a felony committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any ongoing organization, association or group of three or more persons, whether formal or informal, having as one of its primary activities the commission of one or common name or common identifying sign or symbol, [and] whose members individually or collectively engage in or have engaged in a pattern of criminal gang people v. gardeley (1996) 14 cal.4th 605, 616, quoting  186.22, subd. (f), italicwith respect to the gang enhancement was unsupported because the prosecution 10 sentence on count four was imposed and stayed pursuant to section 654. 8 the commission of criminal acts enumerated in subdivision (e) of section 186.22.11 for the reasons stated, we disagree. criminal case is whether, on the entire record, a rational trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citations.] on appeal, we must view the evidence in the light most favorable to the people and must presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence. [citation.] [] although we must ensure the evidence is reasonable, credible, and of solid value, nonetheless it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts on which that determination depends. [citation.] thus, if the verdict is supported by substantial evidence, we must accord due deference to the trier of fact and not substitute our evaluation of a witness's credibility for that of the fact finder. [citpeople v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206.) as explained in people v. sengpadychith statutorily enumerated crimpolitical groups whose members occasionally violate the law, such as an environmental group whose members periodically engage in civil disobedience. (id. at pp. 323- 11 among the crimes enumerated in subdivision (e) of section 186.22 are assault with a deadly weapon or force likely to produce great bodily injury, robbery, homicide, sale of narcotics, shooting at an occupied motor vehicle, discharging a firearm from a motor vehicle, burglary, felony vandalism, and illegal weapons possession. ( 186.22, subds. (e)(1)-(6), (e)(11), (e)(20), (e)(23), (e)(31)-(33).) the attempted commission of such crimes can also serve to support the enhancement. (people v. vy (2004) 122 cal.app.4th 1209, 1226-1227.) 9 primary activities included commission of the necessary criminal offenses could be y have id. at p. 324, italics of id. at p. 323; accord, people v. duran (2002) 97 activities, and thus both ma substantial evidence established that a primary activity of florencia 13 was the commission of criminal offenses specified in section 186.22, subdivision (e). officer de la riva testified that members were known to commit murder, attempted murder, robberies, assaults, burglaries, vandalism, and narcotics sales, all of which are enumerated offenses. although he did not expressly state that these were its primary amade that clear. he stated that florencia 13 members committed crimes to benefit committing crimes such as attempted murder, shootings, and robbery. when he discussed the benefits to the gang from the instant shooting, he stated that such so testified in 13 could elevate their status by committing a violent crime such as a drive-by shooting. in addition, he stated that florencia 13 was affiliated with the mexican mafia, which assisted its members when they were imprisoned. he further -american gangs and 10 described two instances when gang members had shot african-american men. viewed as a whole, the evidence supported a reasonable conclusion that florencia 13 existed for the primary purpose of engaging in criminal conduct of the type specified in the statute and protecting its members from the consequences of such criminal activity. on in re alexander l. (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 605 is thefts, auto/vehicle burglaries, felony id. at p. 611.) the appellate court found the testimony insufficient to establish the gang enhancement, both because the expert acknowledged on cross-activities [was] based on highly reliable sources, such as court records of id. at p. 612.) unlike the expert in alexander l., officer de la riva provided sufficient background information concerning his training and the sources of his information about florencia 13 to support the reliability of his opinions and conclusions. the officer testified that he received specific training on gangs, attended lectures by senior officers, had contact with over 200 florencia 13 members, read books written by gang members, and talked to senior gang officers from other cities, as well as officers involved in investigating the predicate crimes committed by florencia 13 members. this was sufficient to establish the foundation for his 11 s.12 (see people v. duran, supra, or her conversations with gang members, personal investigation of crimes committed by gang members, and information obtained from colleagues in his or her own and other law enforcement agencies, may be sufficient to prove a gang's people v. martinez (2008) 158 cal.app.4th 1324, 1330 personal conversations with members and reviews of reports, sufficed to establish finding on the gang enhancement. 12 was based on hearsay because he did not specifically state how he knew that the crimes he listed were committed by florencia 13 members. as we have said, officer de la riva explained in his testimony how he came to acquire his knowledge of the gang. to the extent appellant believes the officer was required to specify the source of the foundation. he has therefore forfeited the issue on appeal. (see people v. seaton (2001) 26 cal.4th 598, 642-643.) 12 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports manella, j. we concur: willhite, acting p. j. suzukawa, j. 