filed 1/24/14 p. v. mcclelland ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. andre mcclelland, defendant and appellant. b242634 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba377622) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, robert j. schuit and drew e. edwards, judges. affirmed. elizabeth garfinkle, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and david e. madeo, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________________ 2 introduction andre mcclelland appeals from his conviction, following a jury trial, of second degree robbery. he contends (1) there was insufficient evidence to support the gang enhancement, (2) the trial court erred in allowing a gang expert to give opinions unsupported by evidence presented at trial, and (3) he received ineffective assistance of counsel. finding no error, we affirm. procedural history on july 5, 2011, a jury found appellant guilty of second degree robbery (pen. code,  211).1 it also found true the allegation that a principal in the offense was armed with a firearm ( 12022, subd. (a)(1)), and that the crime was committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further, and assist in criminal conduct by gang members ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)). in a bifurcated proceeding, the trial judge found true the allegation that appellant had suffered a prior conviction within the meaning of sections 667, subdivision (a)(1), 667.5, subdivision (b), and the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)). after trial counsel was discharged and a public defender appointed, new counsel filed a motion for a new trial on the grounds of ineffective assistance of prior counsel. the trial court denied the motion. the court then sentenced appellant to a total of 21 years in prison, consisting of the midterm of three years for the robbery conviction, doubled to six years as a second strike, plus 10 years consecutive for the gang enhancement and five years for the section 667, subdivision (a)(1) enhancement. appellant timely appealed. 1 all further statutory citations are to the penal code, unless otherwise stated. 3 factual background on october 27, 2010, at around 2:00 p.m., kristopher sallico was robbed at his drycleaning business by two men. he identified the robbers as appellant and codefendant leandre hebrard, whom he knew as -leafrespectively.2 e had spoken with them appellant and hebrard entered his drycleaning business, sallico approached them. appellant replied hebrard, who was standing about three feet behind appellant, lifted his shirt and showed sallico the handle of a handgun. sallico became frightened and walked to the cash register. he took out the money and gave it to appellant. appellant and hebrard walked out, got into a car, and drove away. after the men left, sallico tried to contact his son but could not reach him. about an hour later, he called the police. when the police arrived, sallico told an officer that he had been robbed by two black men who were rolling 40s gang -leaf later that day, sallico positively identified appellant and hebrard as the robbers in a six-pack photographic lineup. he also identified appellant and hebrard as the robbers at the preliminary hearing and at trial. at trial, sallico testified he believed that appellant and hebrard were affiliated with a gang. the area surrounding his store was a gang area, and gang members had repeateddoor and walls. sallico testified that two months after the robbery, he sold the business and moved out of los angeles 2 the jury also convicted hebrard of second degree robbery. this court previously affirmed that conviction. (people v. hebrard (april 24, 2013, b239269) [nonpub. opn.].) 4 and [his] son away from this he also testified his son was a friend of the robbers, being los angeles police department officer guillermo espinoza testified as the proseorked in the gang enforcement part of his work, he had daily contact with members of the gang. officer espinoza also had investigated gang-gang members were suspects and victims. officer espinoza testified that the rs a criminal street gang with about 850 members. gang members have particular symbols, clothing, and tattoos they use to identify themselves. the primary activities of the gang include murder, shootings, robberies, assault, and drug sales. according to officer espinoza, gang members need to put i-- committing crimes for the gang -- officer espinoza business wa was the father of a rollfrom previous contacts with appellant, officer espinoza knew him as a self-member who had gang tattoos and was known by his gang moniker -similarly, officer espinoza knew hebrard as an a officer espinoza stated that h[hebrard] [ . . . [hebrard] has family members that are part of that rival gang, they allow him to stay there without any repercussion. 5 given a hypothetical fact pattern based on the facts of this case, officer espinoza opined that the robbery was committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang, the rolling 40s. he explained that gang members commit robberies to generate income and to instill fear in the community. the fear deters victims from reporting the crimes to the police. it also helps the gang recruit new members. on cross-examination, appellantfficer business of the father of a fellow gang member. officer espinoza stated that his last contact with hebrard was about a year to 18 months ago. he also was aware that hebrargang member in a murder case in 2009, which is not acceptable within gang culture. on redirect examination, over defense objections, officer espinoza testified that gang members looked down on members who attempt to leave the gang. these members could be disciplined, beaten up, or killed. when a gang member leaves the gang, his family also may be targeted. officer espinoza also testified that discouraging people from joining a gang i answers that people have given today, did they change your opinion about whether to a dry cleaner located in . . . territory, committing a robbery with a gun, has it changed your opinion whether that was done with the specific intent to promote gang membership or to benefit the criminal street gang known as the rolling reiterated that 6 appellant did not testify. britney jones, who had been dating appellant at the time of the robbery, testified that she and appellant were together the afternoon of the robbery. later that night, they went to a movie together in culver city. according to jones, they were never apart for more than 15 minutes, and were never in the area near . discussion appellant contends (1) there was insufficient evidence to support the gang enhancement allegation, (2) the trial court abused its discretion in permitting the to opine on hypotheticals not supported by the evidence, and (3) he received constitutionally ineffective assistance of counsel when his trial evidentiary objection had been sustained. a. sufficiency of the evidence appellant contends the evidence was insufficient to establish that appellant in determining whether the evidence is sufficient the relevant question is whether, after viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a rea [citations.] court in a criminal case . . . does not ask itself whether it believes that the evidence at the trial established g [citation.] rather, the reviewing court must review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidence -- that is, evidence which is reasonable, credible, and of solid value -- such that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant gui7 this standard applies to a claim of insufficiency of the evidence to support a gang (people v. vy (2004) 122 cal.app.4th 1209, 1224, italics omitted.) expert testimony may be used to prove the elements of a gang enhancement allegation. (see, e.g., people v. williams (2009) 170 cal.app.4th 587, 621; people v. martinez (2008) 158 cal.app.4th 1324, 1332-1333.) here, the jury found true the allegation that appellant committed the robbery for the benefit of a criminal street gang within the meaning of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c). the section 186.22(b)(1) enhancement requires the jury to find that the crime was committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang and with the specific intent to promote the criminal street gang.people v. ramon (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 843, 849.) we conclude that substantial evidence supports the gang, and that appellant had the specific intent to promote the gang when he members in territory claimed by the gang. the crime victim told the police he had been robbed by rollincommitted by gang members. as our supreme xpert opinion that particular criminal conduct benefited a gang by enhancing its reputation for viciousness can be sufficient to raise the inference that the conduct committed for the benefit of . . . within the meaning of section 186.22(b)(1). (people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 63; accord people v. gardeley (1996) 14 cal.4th 605, 619 [from expert testimony that assault was classic gang activity that frightened residents and secured drug-dealing stronghold in the area, jury could reasonably conclude charged offense was 8 committed for benefit of gang and with specific intent of promoting its criminal activities under  186.22, subd. (b)(1)]; people v. vazquez (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 347, 351, 354 [reasonable jury could infer from expert testimony that violent crimes increased respect for gang and intimidated neighborhood residents, and from other evidence in record that murder was committed with specific intent to activities]; people v. ferraez (2003) 112 cal.app.4th 925, 930- 931 [jury could reasonably infer crime was gang-related from expert testimony coupled with other evidence].) appellant contends that officer espinozawas gang-related was not based upon a proposed hypothetical closely matching the evidence presented in the case. according to appellant, the hypothetical presented to officer espinoza failed to include the facts that the robbery was committed against the family business of a gang member, and that hebrard was the crime. -examination, but on re-direct examination officer espinoza reaffirmed his opinion that the crime was gang-related. in short, there was sufficient evidence to support the gang enhancement. b. gang expert testimony appellant next contends the trial court abused its discretion in allowing officer espinoza to opine on hypotheticals or about facts not supported by evidence presented at trial. we disagree. in rendering his or her opinions, a gang expert may rely upon personal conversations with gang members, personal investigation of crimes committed by gang members, and information obtained from own colleagues and other law enforcement agencies. (people v. gardeley, supra, 14 cal.4th at p. 620; people v. hill (2011) 191 cal.app.4th 1104, 1124-1125 [same]; people v. duran 9 (2002) 97 cal.app.4th 1448, 1463-1464 [same].) here, it is undisputed that based upon his work experience and his personal contacts with the defendants, officer espinoza was qualified to testify about the rolling members. opinion that hebrard was an active gang member at the time the robbery was committed. (see people v. valdez (1997) 58 cal.app.4th 49s membership in a gang is a proper subject of expert testimony].) testimony was supported by his personal contacts with hebrard, the last of which occurred within months of the crime.3 in addition, there was undisputed evidence that hebrard was armed with a handgun and in the company of an active rolling a reasonable jury could infer from this evidence that hebrard was an active gang member. as for the fact that hebrard with a reasonable explanation -- hebrard was living with his mother, and he had no fear about repercussions because he had family members in that rival gang. as for that hebrard territory suggested he was not a known snitch, or that he had been forgiven by the gang. in short, there was no abuse of discretion in allowing officer espinoza to opine that hebrard was an active rolling 3 officer espinoza stated that his last contact with hebrard -- before hebrard -- was approximately a year to 18 months prior to trial. trial started in late june 2011, and the crime occurred in late october 2010. thus, the ofjune 2010, just four months before the robbery. 10 the rolling crimes went unreported was speculative, as no evidence was presented that crime victims do not report gang crimes. however, were based upon his years of working in the gang enforcement unit, s testimony that a criminal street gang would benefit when victims of were too intimidated to report them is reasonable, logical, and self-evident. benefitted the gang, arguing that no evidence was presented that robbing a gang testified that he wanted his son to leave the gang, and had encouraged appellant to become a productive citizen. after the robbery, he sold his business and moved his family out of los angeles to get away from the gang. officer espinoza testified that encouraging people to leave a gang would be seen as the gang. thus, the evidence tended to show that the robbery was intended to intimidate sallico and to discourage him from advising gang members to leave the gang. appellant further contends that the trial court improperly allowed officer espinoza to testify on redirect examination about the possible repercussions that a member attempting to leave a gang could suffer, as there was no evidence that . that testimony, however, was relevant to explain or rebut adverse testimony and inferences developed during cross-examination. (see people v. cleveland (2004) 32 cal.4th 704, 746 [redirect principal purposes are to explain or rebut adverse testimony or 11 inferences developed on cross-examination . . . -examination, hesuggesting that as hebrard was no longer was no longer an active member of the gang. evidence tending to show the disincentives for leaving a gang was relevant to rebut this inference. in short, the trial court did not examination. opinion that about the defendants -- as opposed to hypothetical gang members. we disagree referring to the hypothetic. c. ineffective assistance of counsel during redirect examination, the prosecutor asked sallico why he decided to call the police. sallico responded: -- i felt as if 4-leaf and touche, i felt like i counseled them and talked to them a lot of times. touche one time with a job that he had, a job offer, and i sat him down in the back and said, touche, man, you should take o much better about yourself. and 4-leaf, when he first got out of jail -- immediately objected to the testimony as irrelevant and inadmissible under evidence code section 352. the trial court sustained the objection. appellant now contends that was prejudicial per se. in addition, he 12 contends his trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance by failing to seek an admonishment or move for a mistrial. we disagree. provide the basis for a finding of incurable prejudice.people v. ledesma (2006) 39 cal.4th 641, 683.) however, even knowledge that a defendant previously has been convicted and is being retried is not necessarily incurably prejudicial. (ibid.) hether a particular incident is incurably prejudicial is by its nature a speculative matter, and the trial court is vested with considerable discretion in determining whether a new trial is required. (people v. haskett (1982) 30 cal.3d 841, 854.) people v. bolden (2002) 29 cal.4th 515 is instructive. there, the ait was at the department of corrections parole office located at--before he was interrupted by the prosecutor. (id. at p. 554.) the trial court did not specifically order the testimony stricken. later that day, the defendant moved for a mistrial, which was denied. in affirming the denial, the supreme court held that [t]he incident was not significant in the context of the entire guilt trial, and the trial court did not abuse its discretion is chances of receiving a fair trial had not been irreparably damaged.id. at p. 555.) likewise, here, the singular mention that appellant had gotten out of jail without further details was not significant in the context of the trial, which revolved around the identification by sallico. moreover, any error was harmless. (see people v. garcia (1984) 160 cal.app.3d 82, 93, fn. n cases where jurors are improperly exposed to certain factual matters, the error is usually tested under the standard set out in people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836positively and consistently identified appellant, whom he knew, as one of the robbers. under these circumstances, it is not reasonably probable that appellant 13 would have obtained a more favorable result had the incidental remark not been made. (cf. people v. harris (1994) 22 cal.app.4th 1575, 1580-1582 [in light of overwhelming evidence of guilt, no reversible error where witness mentioned ) in order to prevail on a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel, appellant must show (1) that his trial standard for reasonableness under prevailing professional norms; and (2) that there was a reasonable probability that ofessional errors, the result would have been more favorable to the defendant. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687-688; people v. gray (2005) 37 cal.4th 168, 206-207; people v. kelly (1992) 1 cal.4th 495, 519-520.) in demonstrating prejudice, however, the petitioner must establs failures the trial was unreliable or fundamentally unfair.in re visciotti (1996) 14 cal.4th 325, 352.) here, appellant has shown e to seek an admonishment or to move for a mistrial. the court instructed the jury at the [d]uring the trial, the attorneys may have objected to questions or moved to strike answers given by the witnesses. i ruled on the objections according to the law. if i sustained an objection, you must ignore the question. if the witness was not permitted to answer, do not guess what the answer might have been or why i ruled as i did. if i order[ed] testimony stricken from the record, you must disregard it and must not consider that testimony for any (see calcrim no. 222.) bjection that the testimony was not properly before it. (people v. sanchez (2001) 26 cal.4th 834, 852 s instructions].) more important, for the reasons discussed above, the singular 14 mention that appellant had been in jail was not significant in the context of the trial, and did not render the trial unreliable or fundamentally unfair. in light of the strong eyewitness testimony by sallico, appellant cannot show that he would have attained a more favorable result absent coalleged error. (people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 1003.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. manella, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. willhite, j. 