filed 12/3/13 p. v. kellersberger ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. joshua a. kellersberger, defendant and appellant. b242632 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka093531) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. robert m. martinez, judge. affirmed. patricia j. ulibarri, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, eric r. reynolds and allison h. chung, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________________________ 2 joshua andrew kellersberger was convicted of (1) assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury and (2) hit-and-run driving. on appeal, he challenges the sopinion testimony; and the fairness of his trial. after reviewing the record, we find no error and affirm the judgment. facts on the night of january 20, 2011, friends and relatives attended a birthday party for quinn rodriguez (quinn) at a glendora restaurant. among the attendees were defendant joshua kellersberger; codefendant bryan beljak; manny and mary rodriguez (parents of quinn); heather thomas (girlfriend of quinn); eddie borba; and emily wittkop (girlfriend of borba).1 the victim, joseph smith, arrived at the restaurant later and was seated at a different table with two friends. during the course of the party, tensions arose between beljak and smith. as their voices escalated, the men were told to go outside because they were too loud. smith attempted to calm the situation and apologized. beljak was agitated and pacing. mary rodriguez and emily wittkop tried to separate the two men. according to wittquinn pursued smith and pushed the car door into him as he was about to enter the vehicle. after being strin the face. in return, quinn knocked smith over with a punch, and then ran away as other party attendees approached. a melee began, and eyewitness wittkop was hit in the beljak attacked smith, punching smith multiple times in the face. smith was knocked out and crumpled onto the ground. once smith was on the ground, beljak 1 codefendant beljak is not a party to this appeal. 3 kicked smith in the stomach and face some 10 to 15 times. smith was bleeding from his nose and face. after another partygoer pulled beljak away from smith, smith went to assist a teenaged friend who was fighting with defendant kellersberger. kellersberger and smith started fighting. kellersberger punched smith in the face and kicked him multiple times while smith was on the ground. kellersberger raised by sticking his , and hit smith wittkop heard smith scream as he was being beaten by kellersberger. entire face was bloodied. eventually, manny rodriguez stopped everyone piled into cars and left when they heard police car sirens. kellersberger seemed dazed when the partygoers met up at the rodriguez residence to discuss the fight and to wipe blood off of the participants. wittkop testified that she had a clear memory and was not guessing at her answers to the questions. she is a long-time friend of brian beljak. thomas saw beljak punch one of smifriends inside the restaurant, causing words to be exchanged between smith and beljak. thomas and others intervened, and the two men sat down. smith took a deep breath and seemed fine. beljak walked outside; when he returned, he was giving hard looks and from inside the restaurant, heather thomas saw beljak and smith yelling at each other. some partygoersincluding mary rodriguez, emily wittkop, and thomaswent outside and tried to stop the two men from fighting. beljak ignored their pleas for calm and was trying to charge at smith. thomas went inside the restaurant briefly to look for advised smith and his friends that they should leave quickly. she could see the other partygoers coming up behind them. thomas testified that this was a lie, because smith and his friends did not attack beljak. 4 being jumped. thomas held out her hand to prevent quinn from approaching smith. quinn demanded that smith come forward. smith spit at quinn, who was being held back by his father and thomas, then struck quinn with a slap to the side of the face and a push. quinn pried himself away from those holding him. he hit smith, who fell to the ground. quinn hit smith several times while smith was on the ground, then quinn took off running. thomas was frightened and entered her car, which was adjacent to the brawl that ensued. she saw smith charge at and knock down kellersberger. smith kicked and punched kellersberger, who was on the ground curled into a fetal position. kellersberger hit smith in the back of the head. smith dropped to the ground, and kellersattempted kellersberger fell and smith kicked him multiple times. manny rodriguez separated the two. kellersberger ran away, then returned to the fight and tackled smith, hitting and kkellersberger tackled him. while smith was on the ground being beaten by kellersberger, thomas saw beljak and eddie borba kicking and stomping smith. she described the attackers as in the face 10 times during the fishhook maneuver, according to thomas. sound[l]ike somebody was being tortured, like his nose was getting ripped off of his 5 watching kellersberger harm smith that she started to cry. manny rodriguez intervened and bite smith five to eight times while shouting profanities at smith. thomas saw blood all while the biting was occurring, the sound of approaching police car sirens could be heard. kellersberger ceased biting smith and ran to his parked vehicle, but it was blocked by another car. thomas saw kellersberger ram his car twice into the vehicle that blocked his flight from the scene of the brawl. thomas left before the police arrived. the driver of the car that was rammed, pamela feldstein, testified that her dodge strwho took off without providing his name or insurance information. one of the arriving police officers heard the collision and saw a dark-colored toyota speeding away from the parking lot. at the accident site, feldstein found green and black car parts and a toyota emblem, and gave them to the police. at police found a green toyota with vehicle perfectly. when the police arrested kellersberger on february 2, 2011, his right hand was in a soft cast. joseph smith testified that he went to the restaurant with two friends, to have dinner with the rodriguez family and their friends. the rodriguez group included enraged when smith told him to stop. they went outside, and smith hoped that beljak would calm down. instead, beljak pulled off his shirt and an arm sling and became more smith waited by the car for his friends to pay the restaurant bill. two minutes later, he was approached by a group, including quinn. quinn slapped smith, while mr. and mrs. rodriguez told smith to leave, which is what he intended to do in any event. 6 smith was then blindsided by someone on the right side of his head, then hit a second time by quinn. smith fell to the ground dazed after sustaining multiple blows to the head. he recalls being hit on the back and face, and kicked in the stomach, while on the who kicked or punched him while he was on the ground. he does not recall approaching or hitting kellersberger during the melee. smith was taken to a hospital where photos were taken of his injuries. there were ridge marks from bites on his throat and eyelid. the bites were specially treated to stop bleeding and avoid infection. he had reconstructive surgery on his nose, which was crushed. he continues to have black spots in his vision as a result of torn eye tissue. procedural history kellersberger was charged with assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury and misdemeanor hit-and-run. (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(1), 12022.7, subd. (a); veh. code,  20002, subd. (a)). it was further alleged that kellersberger served a prison term for car theft. a jury found kellersberger guilty as charged. he admitted the prior prison term. the trial court sentenced kellersberger to a total term of seven years, consisting of three years for the assault, a consecutive three years for the great bodily injury enhancement plus one year for the prison prior, and a concurrent 180 days for the hit-and-run.2 2 beljak was convicted of felony assault and sentenced to three years in prison. 7 discussion 1. sufficiency of the evidence a. felony assault conviction appellant contends that there is insufficient evidence to support his conviction for felony assault because the evidence shows that he was merely acting in self-defense. the jury was instructed on self-defense. as the trier of fact, the jury was free to rejectand did reject-defense, after hearing several eyewitness descriptions of the affray. (people v. givens (1960) 182 cal.app.2d 75, 79-scuffle as related by the witnesses [ ] and to reject that of the apppeople v. dinkins (people v. muse (1961) 196 cal.app.2d 662, 664.) the record is reviewed in the light most favorable to the judgment. (people v. jones (2013) 57 cal.4th 899, 960; people v. johnson (1980) 26 cal.3d 557, 578.) forcefully punching or kicking a person constitutes felony assault. (people v. roberts (1981) 114 cal.app.3d 960, 965; people v. mcdaniel (2008) 159 cal.app.4th 736, 748-749; people v. kinman (1955) 134 cal.app.2d 419, 421-422.) wittkop and thomas saw appellant kick and stomp smith while smith was on the ground, and saw appellant stick his fingers into ire face was bloodied. both witnesses saw manny scriptions of the attack. appellant did not stop his attack on smith until police approached. in his haste to flee, appellant twice rammed into a driver who was blocking his exit, totaling her car. his reaction to the arrival of the police showed consciousness of guilt. when arrested, 8 partygoers beljak and borba. at the same time, appellant relies on the supposedly unreliable testimony of thomas to try to prove his theory of self-dknocked him down, then kicked and punched appellant while the latter was on the ground curled into a fetal position. appellant cannot have it both ways: he cannot claim a prosecution witness has no credibility while concurrently crediting the portion of her testimony that supports him. during the preliminary hearing, thomas denied that kellersberger punched or bit the victim. thomas explained to the jury that she repeatedly lied during the preliminary them all out, sir, because i am not lying today. i was scared then and i am not scared the jury determines witness credibility, and reviewing courts do not reweigh witness credibility on appeal. (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206.) defense counsel made every effort at trial to undermine the credibility of the prosecution witnesses, emphpreliminary hearing. the opportunity to present testimony from his friends at the birthday party brawl, to show 9 that someone else inflicted the bites in the photographs that the jury was shown at trial wittkop and thomas unrebutted. b. great bodily injury enhancement kellersberger maintains that the evidence is insufficient to support a finding that occurrence of great bodily injury is a factual question for the jury. (people v. cross (2008) 45 cal.4th 58, 64.) argument is that othersquinn, beljak and borbahit, stomped on, and kicked smith before kellersberger launched his attack. appellant reasons that great bodily injury was inflicted by someone else, so he cannot be subjected to the enhancement. the jury was instructed on great bodily injury and group assault.3 when group afoot in the confusion. (people v. modiri (2006) 39 cal.4th 481, 496-497.) as a result, the legislature allows punishment against all participants who inflict or contribute to the harm in a group assault. (id. at pp. 497-499.) culpability lies if the physical force 3 cannot decide which person caused which injury, you may conclude that the defendant personally inflicted great bodily injury on joseph smith if the people have proved that: 1. two or more people, acting at the same time, assaulted joseph smith and inflicted great bodily injury on him; 2. the defendant personally used physical force on joseph smith during the group assault; and 3a. the amount or type of physical force the defendant used on joseph smith was enough that it alone could have caused joseph smith to suffer great bodily injury; or 3b. the physical force that the defendant used on joseph smith was sufficient in combination with the force used by the others to cause joseph smith to suffer great bodily injury. the defendant must have applied substantial force to joseph smith. if that force could not have caused or contributed to the great bodily injury, then it was 10 id. at p. 494.) the jury was presented with sufficient evidence to find that kellersberger personally applied enough force to cause great bodily injury, either alone or in concert with others. wittkop estimated that brian beljak kicked the victim 10 to 15 times in the stomach and face while smith was on the ground. after beljak was pulled away, kellersberger attacked smith. two eyewitnesses saw kellersberger insert his fingers ul hearing this evidence, the jury could reasonably conclude that kellersberger alone caused significant anstrong punches, amounting to great bodily injury. the jury could also find that assigning responsibility for the injury to a particular fist, foot or finger during the [t]specific injuries to specific blows by defendant, the evidence showed that defendant personally people v. dunkerson in a group beating should not be immune from a personal-infliction finding for the sole re(people v. modiri, supra, 39 cal.4th at pp. 496-497.) to us to be unmistakably an assault which a jury could reasonably find was likely to people v. roberts, supra, 114 cal.app.3d at p. 965 [victim kicked in the head and torso, causing cuts, bruises, a large welt and unconsciousness].) in addition, smith suffered bites to his face and neck that caused bleeding, a high risk of infection and damage to his vision as a result of a bite on his eyelid. kellersberger alone 11 -that he personally inflicted great bodily injury on smith. 2. evidentiary ruling opinion was irrelevant, vague and ambiguous, or speculative. the trial court allowed in distres evidentiary rulings are reviewed for an abuse of discretion. (people v. scott (2011) 52 cal.4th 452, 491; people v. thornton witness may testify in the form of an opinion only when he cannot adequately describe people v. sergill (1982) 138 cal.app.3d 34, 40; people v. callahan (1999) 74 cal.app.4th 356, 380.) lay witnesses to give an opinion about the extent of the suffering. (people v. mcalpin (1991) 53 cal.3d 1289, 1307.) great bodily injury-defense theory: because people v. moody (1943) 62 cal.app.2d 18, 21-22 [blows inflicted on an incapacitated person cannot be seen as people v. kennedy (2005) 36 cal.4th 59was in a t]en feet tall and bulletproof 12 above the law].) the trial court amount to an opinion as to appellantpeople v. prince (2007) 40 cal.4th 1179, 1227.) 3. ineffective assistance of counsel appellant contends that he was inadequately represented at trial because defense eliminary hearing testimony that she heard have found that beljak inflicted great bodily injury, not appellant. appellant reasons that the omission deprived him of due process and a fair trial. under an objective standard and (2) he was prejudiced. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687; people v. linton (2013) 56 cal.4th 1146, 1166; people v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d 171, 215-range of professional assistance and defendant bears the burden of demonstrating that the representation was inadequate. (people v. dennis (1998) 17 cal.4th 468, 541; in re jones (1996) 13 cal.4th 552, 561; people v. mesa (2006) 144 cal.app.4th 1000, 1007.) there s. (people v. lucas (1995) 12 cal.4th 415, 442.) at trial, wittkop testified that she saw beljak kick smith in the face 10 to 15 times, causing his nose to bleed. at the preliminary hearing, wittkopp testified that she unconscious.4 defense counsel pursued an objectively reasonable tactic by not refreshing 4 13 he acted in self-defense when he attacked smith and was therefore not culpable for an himself from someone who was by beljak. in any event, there is no reasonable probability that a different result would have been obtained had defense counsel questioned wittkop about her preliminary hearing vicious attack on smith, kicking manny rodriguez. smith awoke from a daze because someone was biting him: only kellersberger was seen biting smith. because this was a group assault, the prosecution only had to show that kellersberger caused the injury alone or in combination with others. the unrefuted evidence shows that bodily injury. 4. appellant received a fair trial kellersberger points to the issues raised in the preceding sections of this opinion and contends that the cumulative errors he identified in his brief violated his due process rights. as discussed above, we have found no error in the record. though appellant it is true that beljak smithcoming when smith was prone and dazedwas both inexplicable and barbaric. a seeming attempt to rip yes. q. he was bleeding profusely at that point in time, right? a. yes. q. he was bleeding from his nose, right? a. yes. q. did you hear his nose pop? a. yeah. q. 14 consciousness. self-defense was untenable and his conviction was warranted by the evidence. a defendant is entitled to a fair trial, not a perfect trial. (united states v. hasting (1983) 461 u.s. 499, 508-509; people v. marshall (1990) 50 cal.3d 907, 945.) kellersberger received a fair trial. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. boren, p.j. we concur: ashmann-gerst, j. chavez, j. 