 filed 8/22/13 p. v. garcia ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. alfredo garcia, defendant and appellant. b242740 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka095557) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, steven d. blades, judge. affirmed. robert derham, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for respondent. 2 in the underlying action, appellant was convicted of attempted murder and other offenses. his court-appointed counsel has filed an opening brief raising no issues. following our independent examination of the entire record pursuant to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 (wende), we conclude that no arguable issues exist, and affirm. relevant procedural and factual background a. information and plea on november 29, 2011, an information was filed charging appellant with four offenses against carmen meza, namely, attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a), 664), mayhem (pen. code,  203), assault with a deadly weapon (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(1)), and corporal injury to a co-parent (pen. code,  273.5, subd. (a)).1 accompanying the charges were allegations that appellant personally used a deadly weapon (former  12022, subd. (b)(1)), personally inflicted great bodily injury (former  12022.7, subd. (e)), and had three prior felony convictions ( 667.5, subd. (b)).2 appellant pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. 1 all further statutory citations are to the penal code. 2 the legislature has repealed the statutes underlying certain special allegations against appellant, and replaced them with new statutes carrying over the repealed provisions without substantive change. (cal. law revision com. com., 51d pt. 1 wests ann. pen. code (2011 supp.) foll.  12000, p. 32.) 3b. trial 1. prosecution evidence at appellants jury trial, the prosecutions key witness was the victim, carmen meza. for approximately 30 years, meza had an on-and-off relationship with appellant, who was the father of two of her six children. she practiced the catholic faith, and attended the san luigi dei francesi church in la puente.3 appellant also occasionally went to that church. in early 2011, appellant was briefly hospitalized for back pain arising from a kidney problem. according to meza, at some point after the incident, appellants behavior changed. he accused meza of having sex with a tenant who rented a room in their house. on one occasion, he claimed to see snakes in bed, and sometimes said that meza was bewitching him. he also said that he had the special power to talk to the virgin, and spent periods in the backyard looking at the sun. meza discussed appellants mental well-being with their son, who assured her that appellant was okay. on or about september 14, 2011, appellant told her that she needed to change her ways, and ask for forgiveness. when meza replied she would only . . . ask forgiveness from god, no one else, appellant said, i am doing my duty in telling you this. during the following two days, meza saw appellant walking outside the house, waving his hands and praying. two days later, at approximately 9:00 p.m. on september 16, 2011, appellant arrived home. he told meza that he was tired, and sat quietly in the bedroom. according to meza, appellant seemed distracted. while meza prepared food for them to eat, appellant entered the kitchen and took a knife from a drawer. 3 the name of this church receives several different spellings in the record. for simplicity, we employ the spelling associated with mezas testimony. 4later, meza offered some food to appellant, who was again seated in the bedroom. she saw appellant make the sign of the cross, sat near him, and began to eat. after meza urged appellant to eat the food that she had brought for him, he stood in front of her, and said that she had interrupted him. he displayed the knife and asked, do you see what i am going to do to you because you are perturbing me, [sic] you and your son? when meza said, dont do something youre going to regret, appellant replied, im not going to regret it. appellant then stabbed meza with the knife, cutting her lip, neck, chest, and left leg. meza fled to her daughters bedroom, where she and her daughter phoned relatives for assistance. appellant also made a 911 call. approximately 30 minutes after the incident was reported, deputy sheriffs from the los angeles county sheriffs department arrested appellant at a service station. 2. defense evidence bertha marquez, who worked in san luigi dei francesi church, testified that during the afternoon of september 16, 2011, a man briefly visited the church, and then stood outside it with his arms elevated. later, she saw police officers talking to the man. los angeles county sheriffs department deputy sheriff joel broumley testified that he is assigned to the mental evaluation team, which evaluates persons for involuntary commitments pursuant to welfare and institutions code section 5150.4 on september 16, 2011, broumley was accompanied by catherine skofield, a psych nurse. they evaluated appellant, who had been standing near a church and staring at the sun. although they determined that appellant was not 5properly subject to an involuntary commitment because he presented no danger to himself or others, skofield concluded that appellant was psychotic. timothy collister, a ph.d. in clinical psychology, opined that appellant suffered from a condition known as a psychotic disorder not otherwise specified. according to collister, appellants disorder fell in the middle of the range from mild to serious psychosis, in terms of his ability to appreciate the nature and consequences of his actions. collister further opined that appellants condition had an impact on whether he could form the intent to kill. on cross-examination, collister acknowledged that appellant had never suggested that his hallucinations directed him to hurt others. c. verdicts and sentence following the presentation of evidence, the trial court instructed the jury with calcrim no. 3428, which stated that the evidence of appellants mental disorder could be considered only for the limited purposes of determining whether appellant had the intent to kill, and whether he acted willfully, deliberately, and with premeditation. on june 12, 2012, the jury found appellant guilty of attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder, assault with a deadly weapon, and corporal injury to a co-parent, and found true the special allegations related to those charges. the jury acquitted appellant of mayhem, and found him guilty of the lesser included charge of battery causing great bodily injury. on july 19, 2012, after appellant admitted his prior felony convictions, the trial court sentenced appellant to a total term of imprisonment of life plus six years. 4 welfare and institutions code section 5150 authorizes a 72-hour involuntary commitment for those determined to be dangerous to themselves or others. (people v. young (2007) 156 cal.app.4th 1165, 1169, fn. 5.) 6discussion after an examination of the record, appellants court-appointed counsel filed an opening brief raising no issues and requesting this court to review the record independently pursuant to wende. in addition, counsel advised appellant of his right to submit by supplemental brief any contentions or argument he wished the court to consider. appellant has neither presented a brief nor identified any potential issues. our examination of the entire record establishes that no arguable issues exist. (wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at p. 441.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports manella, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. willhite, j. 