filed 2/26/13 p. v. aoatoa ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. gloria julia aoatoa, defendant and appellant. b242840 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta119244) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, john t. doyle, judge. affirmed. john alan cohan, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 gloria julia aoatoa appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial which resulted in her conviction of carjacking (pen. code,  215, subd. (a)),1 second degree robbery ( 211), assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury ( 245, subd. (a)(1)), and grand theft of an automobile ( 487, subd. (b)(1)). the trial court sentenced aoatoa to five years in prison. we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. facts. a. . at approximately 11:00 a.m. on june 18, 2011, maria umali was in carson at the home of a friend named joe. joe lived in a garage, a portion of which had been converted into a bedraoatoa, entered and stood behind her. according to umali, she turned around, looked at umali believed that aoatoa was asking her about a rental car, a brown pt cruiser, which umali had been in possession of for approximately one month while her own car, a white toyota corolla, had been in the shop being repaired. during that month, umali had loaned the pt cruiser out to others for money. she would charge the individuals the cost of the rental plus $5.2 during that same month, umali had seen aoatoa at approximately three different houses and, at each one, the two women had taken drugs. umali had me 15, 2011. however when aoatoa inquired about renting the car, umali told aoatoa that she would not rent it to her. umali would only rent the car to people she knew well, and she did not know aoatoa that well. aoatoa was angry when umali refused to rent the car to her. she apparently had wanted to drive it to san bernardino to visit her children. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 umali admitted that her insurance company was paying for the rental car and that she 3 aoatoa did not give to umali any money or drugs to rent the car and umali returned it to the rental agency on june 17, 2011. so, when on june inquired about the rental car, umali no longer had it in her possession. she, at that time, had only her own car, the toyota. after umali indicated that she no longer had the rental car, aoatoa accused her of lying. umali stated that she was not lying and turned away from aoatoa. at that point t on top of the bed and aoatoa again asked same time, umali noticed that aoatoa was holding a belt. when aoatoa started to swing her arm and hit umali with the belt, by this time, both umali and aoatoa were on the bed and aoatoa was on top of i looked up, she saw aoatoa umali, who was at that time standing on the bed, placed her foot on top of her purse. fell backward, hitting her head against the wall. her purse landed on the floor and when aoatoa began to walk toward it, umali when umali refus could no longer take the pain, she gave her purse to aoatoa. aoatoa took the purse, left the house, and drove off.3 3 friend joe, another friend, chad, and a woman named janice. umali did not know what joe and chad were 4 as aoatoa drove away, umali called 911. when officers arrived, she told them everything that had happened. in particular, umali told a detective moseley that she had umali with her nails. umali did not remember telling an officer popa that her toyota had been parked near a gas station in carson. at approximately 8:45 p.m. on june 18, 2011, san bernardino county deputy sheriff emanuel popa responded to a call which directed him to 25522 fisher street in the city of highland, a town near san bernardino. the dispatcher had reported that someone at that the deputy noted that the front bumper of the car had been damaged and the gate by the gate. a man and a woman were standing on the right side of the toyota and a woman was standing inside the gate. from inside the toyota, popa recovered a purse and a wallet. the toyota had been reported stolen and umali had been listed as the victim. popa spoke to umali on the telephone at approximately 9:00 p.m. that night. during their the name of gloria aoatoa. when he saw her, popa noted that umali had a black eye and other injuries indicating that she had, in fact, been assaulted. los angeles countin the matter. perea first spoke with umali on the telephone then, approximately one week after the incident during which her car had been taken, he had her come to the station. at that ti doing while aoatoa was attacking her. umali, however, remembered janice telling her to 5 during their interview, umali told perea about what had occurred on both june 15 see that seconds, umali circled a photograph of aoatoa and indicated that she was the individual throughout the investigation, perea spoke with umali on the telephone in the initial investigation, at some point umali told perea about the rental car. the information, however, did not appear in either of the able to take the belt away from aoatoa was during her testimony at trial. in addition, . . . on june 17, 2012, the day before trial was set to begin, umali, accompanied by her boyfriend, dibbs, went to the home of her friend steve. there, she met with aoatoa and several other individuals. aoatoa told umali that she was sorry for what had happened and ual suggested that umali change her story show up for court. however, umali had been subpoenaed to testify in this matter and she was afraid that if she did not go to court, she would be arrested and put in jail. aoatoa instead of to court and obtained from her doctor a note indicating that she had been there. although aoatoa never directly threatened umali, she apparently told umali that if 6 on june 18, 2012, the day before she was scheduled to testify, umali, accompanied she could not go to court. after she was there for only a few minutes, she received a telephone call from the district attorney. after speaking with the district attorney, umali and her boyfriend left the office. umali never saw her doctor. umali stated that, had she not been subpoenaed, she would not have been in court. she was not testifying voluntarily and she did not want a lot of people involved in this case. stayed with her boyfriend. b. defense evidence. they had seen each other approximately 20 times before when, on june 15, 2011, they first o aoatoa. on that day, a man approximately 30 minutes; however, the person who supposedly had the pt cruiser did not show up. umali told aoatoa that if the pt cruiser did not arrive by 6:30 a.m., aoatoa could a agreed that if the pt cruiser did not show up she would give to umali more money and some drugs. 7 the pt cruiser never arrived so, after aoatoa gave to umali some money and drugs, umali gave to aoatoa the keys to her toyota and told aoatoa that she could use the car for two hours. at approximately 6:45 a.m., aoatoa drove off in the car, which had been parked -in-the-box restaurant. when aoatoa left umali, she was to san bernardino, where she was ultimately involved in an accident. aoatoa stated that she when it was supposed to[,] [ aoatoa knew that umali had been renting the pt cruiser to others for $30 a day. she let him go back to carson with her. although this made aoatoa angry, she did not use ng to did was apologize for when [she] accidentally [became involved in an accident while in setting up a meeting to talk about this case. aoatoa did nnumber. 8 several other people were in the room during the meeting between aoatoa and umali ade no suggestions. 2. procedural history. following a preliminary hearing, on april 12, 2012, aoatoa was charged by information with one count of carjacking in violation of section 215, subdivision (a), during the commission of which she used a deadly and dangerous weapon, a belt with a buckle, within the meaning of section 12022, subdivision (b)(2) (count 1); one count of second degree robbery in violation of section 211, during the commission of which she used a deadly and dangerous weapon, a belt with a buckle, within the meaning of section 12022, subdivision (b)(1) (count 2); two counts of assault with a deadly weapon or by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury in violation of section 245, subdivision (a)(1) (counts 3 and 4); and one count of grand theft of an automobile in violation of section 487, subdivision (d)(1) (count 5). aoatoa pled not guilty to each count and the matter was set for a jury trial. trial began on june 18, 2012. when the people offered aoatoa a term of five years in prison in exchange for a plea of guilty or no contest on one count, she rejected the offer and indicated that she wished to proceed with the jury trial. after the prosecution presented its case, aoatoa made a motion to dismiss the matter pursuant to section 1118.1. after clarifying that the count alleging carjacking referred to the motion. the jury began deliberating. both counsels agreed to waive presence should the jury ask for a read back of any of the testimony. at approximately 11:00 a.m. on june 21, 2012, the jury requested a read back of ccurred on june 15, 2011, whether, on june 9 p.m. that same day, the jury foreperson indicated that the jury had reached verdicts. the jury found aoatoa guilty of carjacking in violation of section 215, a felony as charged in count 1. however the jurors found the allegation that, during the offense aoatoa used a deadly weapon, a belt with a buckle, pursuant to section 12022, subdivision (b), not true. with regard to the charge of second degree robbery as alleged in count 2, the jury found aoatoa guilty. it again, however, found the allegation that during the crime aoatoa used a deadly and dangerous weapon not true. the jury found aoatoa not guilty of the crime of assault with a deadly weapon, a belt with a buckle, in violation of section 245, subdivision (a)(1), as alleged in count 3. it, however, found her guilty of the crime of assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury in violation of section 245, subdivision (a)(1), as charged in count 4. finally, the jury found aoatoa guilty of the crime as alleged in count 5. aoatoa was sentenced on july 24, 2012. at the proceedings, her counsel asserted prosecutor argued that the maximum sentence of nine years was appropriate. he stated, articipated] in the dissuading of ms. ecutor indicated that the people were not asking for the had not told the truth. the trial court indicated that it was going to sentence aoatoa to state prison rather than county jail pursuant to section 1170, subdivision (h), because her conviction of assault 10 by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury in violation of section 245 acted as a trial court, nevertheless, believed that a sentence of nine years in prison was too high. the trial court denied a grant of probation and imposed as the principal term five n of carjacking in violation of section 215 as alleged section 211, and count 4, assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury in violation of section 245, the court imposed concurrent midterms of three years in prison, then stayed the terms pursuant to section 654.4 count 5, grand theft auto in violation of section 487, the court imposed a term of two years in prison, then, as it had done with counts 2 and 4, stayed the term pursuant to section 654. in total, aoatoa was sentenced to five years in prison. the trial court then granted her presentence custody credit for 37 days actually served and 37 days of good time/work time, for a total of 74 days. the trial court imposed as to each count a $240 restitution fine ( 1204.4, subd. (b)) and a stayed $240 parole revocation restitution fine ( 1202.45). the court also ordered aoatoa to pay a $40 court operations assessment as to each count ( 1465.8, subd. (a)(1)), a $30 conviction assessment as to each count (gov. code,  70373) and a $20 dna fee ( 296). aoatoa filed a timely notice of appeal on the day of sentencing. 4 section 654 provides in relevandifferent ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the act or omission be punished under more than one provision. . . 11 contentions after examination of the record, counsel filed an opening brief which raised no issues and requested this court to conduct an independent review of the record. by notice filed november 29, 2012, the clerk of this court advised aoatoa to submit within 30 days any contentions, grounds of appeal or arguments she wished this court to consider. no response has been received to date. review on appeal we have examined the entire record and are satisfied counsel has complied fully with smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 278-284; people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, 443.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports kitching, j. we concur: croskey, acting p. j. aldrich, j. 