filed 8/12/13 p. v. robertson ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. john allen robertson, defendant and appellant. b242673 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka093781) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, daniel s. lopez, judge. affirmed. jasmine patel, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, michael r. johnsen and kathy s. pomerantz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 i. introduction after being granted probation pursuant to proposition 36, appellant failed to return to court as ordered. a bench warrant was issued and the warrant remained outstanding for almost eight months. appellant ultimately appeared in court because he was arrested on the warrant. he admitted he was in violation of probation for failing to return to court as ordered. the trial court found appellant had made no progress in the proposition 36 program and that his absence from court demonstrated he was no longer a viable candidate for the program. proposition 36 probation was terminated and a state prison sentence was imposed. appellant contends the trial court erred by refusing to reinstate proposition 36 prob ii. discussion with a drug treatment condition to any person convicted of a nonviolent drug possession offense and people v. davis (2003) 104 cal.app.4th 1443, 1446.) there are, however, five categories of defendants who are serious or violent offenses within the last five years; (2) are convicted in the same proceeding of a felony or misdemeanor not related to the use of drugs; (3) possessed or were under the influence of a specified drug while using a firearm; (4) refuse drug treatment as a condition of probation; or (5) have twice failed drug treatment as a condition of probation and been found not to be amenable to drug treatment. ([pen. people v. guzman (2003) 109 cal.app.4th 341, 347 (guzman).) indicated he there was no proof appellant enrolled in a drug program and that appellant 3 guzman[appellant] making a to imposing a prison guzman was appropriate. guzman absconded after being granted proposition 36 probation. (guzman, supra, 109 cal.app.4th at p. 344.) when he failed to appear in court the following month, a bench warrant issued. (ibid.) approximately seven months later, he was arrested on the warrant and admitted he was in violation of proposition 36 probation. (ibid.) the trial court terminated the proposition accept treatment and thaid. at p. 345.) in rejecting an appellate claim that guzman was entitled to reinstatement of proposition 36 probation, division one of this district held the five eligibility requirements (pen. code,  1210.1) remain applicable even after the initial grant of probation. (guzman, supra, terminate the probation of a defendant who, by his conduct following the grant of probation ibid.) such conduct demonstrates the defendant is ineligible for drug treatment under proposition 36. (ibid.) we agree with the analysis in guzman and apply it here. because there was substantial evidence that appellant had a lengthy absence from the court with no progress whatsoever in a treatment program, the trial court justifiably terminated proposition 36 probation and imposed sentence. as in guzman 4 concluded that defendant was ineligible for drug treatment under proposition 36. this guzman, supra, 109 cal.app.4th at p. 350.) iii. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports kumar, j. we concur: turner, p.j. kriegler, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 