filed 11/18/13 p. v. jasso ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jesus javier jasso, defendant and appellant. b242229 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba350171) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, craig e. veals, judge. affirmed. david arredondo, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii and stephanie c. santoro, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 jesus javier jasso appeals from the judgment entered after a jury trial in which he was found guilty of attempted willful, deliberate and premeditated murder with a finding a principal was armed with a handgun. (pen. code,  664/187, subd. (a), 12022, subd. (a)(1).)1 at sentencing, the trial court imposed an aggregate term in state prison of one year to life, consisting of a base term of life enhanced by one year for the finding a principal was armed with a firearm. background appellant argues the sufficiency of the evidence. hence, we set out the trial evidence in the light most favorable to the judgment. (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206.) in september 2008, h.a. was living with her parents. she had a boyfriend named art t. in july 2008, she started seeing art t. after she broke up with her former boyfriend, codefendant mario carrillo (carrillo).2 carrillo would not accept the breakup. carrillo persisted in texting her, calling her and showing up at her residence at all hours of the day and night to see what she was doing. she changed her telephone number, but nothing discouraged him. he continued to harass her. she had not wanted to get the authorities involved. she pretended to be friendly with him, but refused to date him. her way of handling the situation was to keep carrillo away from art t. and hope appellant would give up. carrillo was not friendly with art t., and when carrillo discovered art t. was seeing h.a., carrillo harassed art t., as well. according to h.a.h.a.friend, mercedes. the parties stipulated appellant and carrillo were friends. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 appellant and codefendant carrillo were tried jointly, and each defendant was convicted of the december 8, 2008, attempted willful, deliberate and premeditated murder charge in count 1. carrillo was found guilty of additional charges relating to a september 2008 kidnapping/forcible rape and sexual penetrations charged in counts 2, 3, 4 and 5. in a separate appeal, carrillo has also appealed from the judgment. 3 at 3:00 a.m., on september 6, 2008, carrillo kidnapped h.a. in her own car when she returned home from a date with art t. during the kidnapping, carrillo pointed his semiautomatic pistol at her to coerce her cooperation. carrillo had her drive him to his , held her there in the one bedroom, forcibly raped her and engaged in forcible sexual penetration. when he permitted her to leave, she drove home. she told her father about the kidnapping. several hours later, she reported the kidnapping and the forcible sexual misconduct to the police. on september 8, 2008, in a recorded interview, the police interrogated carrillo about the kidnapping, rape and sexual penetration. he admitted the offenses but denied the use of a firearm. carrillo claimed he loved h.a. and simply wanted her to continue to be his girlfriend. the report to the police did not deter carrillo. he continued to come by h.a.residence where she lived with her family frequently and knocked on her window at 2:00 a.m. at some point, art t. tried to speak to appellant man-to-man about the situation, but lived with his parents. carrillo threatened to shoot art t. at about 6:30 a.m., on december 8, 2008, carrillo showed up at h.a.they argued. carrillo was upset because h.a. refused to marry him. at about 8:30 a.m., h.a. and art t. had arranged to meet that morning to jog or to take a walk. at one point, h.a. did not answer her cellular telephone, and art t. became concerned and drove to her residence. 4 on the way there, art t. saw carrillo two blocks from h.a.t. tried again to talk with carrillo man-to-man. carrillo said to leave him alone and ran away in the direction of h.a. t. drove to the residence. he spoke to h.a. outside and then waited for her to get ready. while they were conversing, h.a. saw a silver h.a. distinctive as it had black rims. h.a. referring to appellant by his nickname. on two prior occasions, art t. had seen appellant previously as appellant drove by h.a.h.a. had identified appellant as as art t. was waiting outside, the same truck pulled up to the corner north of the for two minutes, the men looked in art rection and conversed. then the truck turned and pulled up in front of art t. carrillo and appellant made eye contact with art t. appellant hunched over, and then carrillo got out of the car wearing a black glove, walked toward art t., pulled a handgun from his waistband and pointed the handgun at art t. art t. jumped a fence and ran. art t. turned and saw carrillo chasing him. appellant remained in the truck driving slowly after carrillo as carrillo chased art t. on a residential driveway, carrillo shot at art t., and art t. fell and could not get up. art t. was wounded during the gunfire. carrillo stood over him pointing the gun at him, and art t. closed his eyes. he heard a click. art t. opened his eyes and saw carrillo run to the truck. the truck backed up the street, then drove off. art t. telephoned h.a. and told her carrillo had shot him. h.a. telephoned 9-1-1. h.a. found art t. two doors away bleeding profusely. the police and an ambulance responded. near art t., the officers found 9 expended shell casings and two spent bullets. on december 8, 2008, h.a. identified carrillo and appellant in two different six-pack photographic identification procedures. 5 unit, in two six-pack photographic he to be a deputy sheriff, and he now had permanent nerve damage in his legs that prevented him from running, making him ineligible for the police academy. he had had six surgeries and possibly needed more, and at the time of trial, he was still involved with physical therapy. he walked with a cane. at trial, art t. identified carrillo as the gunman and appellant as the driver of the truck. at trial, h.a. identified carrillo as her former boyfriend and appellant as the silver truck she saw shortly before the shooting. two neighbors witnessed the shooting. teresa c. heard the shots and saw the gunman apparently pointing a gun and shooting. the gunman then ran and jumped into the rear window of a truck waiting in the middle of the street. the truck drove off. the and went outside. he then saw a newer model silver pickup truck, a toyota tacoma or tundra, backing up in the mmodified with what he recalled as unique aftermarket raised wheels and perhaps distinctive chrome rims. ryan b. got a partial license plate, 7yr4, from the vehicle. ryan b. said he got a good loo ryan at trial, and during an extrajudicial six-pack photographic identification procedure, ryan b. identified appellant as ryan b. had never seen appellant before the shooting. california department of motor vehicle records disclosed the license plate for after the shooting, neither art t. nor h.a. heard from, or saw, carrillo again until the preliminary hearing. 6 contentions 1. the sufficiency of the evidence appellant contends the identification evidence is insufficient to support the judgment. a. standard of review recently, in people v. whisenhunt (2008) 44 cal.4th 174, the california supreme court summarized the well-established standard of review. to the sufficiency of the evidence, we do not determine the facts ourselves. rather, we the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidenceevidence that is reasonable, credible and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a ations.] we presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence. [citation.] [] the same standard of review applies to cases in which the prosecution relies primarily on circumstantial evithe reweigh evid(id. at p. 200.) evidence inherently improbable, testimony which merely discloses unusual circumstances does not come within that category. [citation.] to warrant the rejection of the statements given by a witness who has been believed by the [trier of fact], there must exist either a physical impossibility that they are true, or their falsity must be apparent without resorting to inferences or deductions. [citations.] conflicts and even testimony which is subject to justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness . . people v. barnes (1986) 42 cal.3d 284, 303-304, 306.) 7 the uncorroborated testimony of a single witness is sufficient to sustain a conviction unless it is physically impossible or inherently improbable. (people v. young to uphold a judgment even if it is contradicted by other evidence, inconsistent or false as in re robert v. (1982) 132 cal.app.3d 815, 821.) b. the analysis s review for sufficiency of the evidence. art t. had seen appellant before on two prior occasions. on the day of the shooting, art t. had an adequate opportunity to observe the driver of the toyota truck. he positively identified s driver in the extrajudicial post-shooting six-pack identification h.a. truck was unique in appearance due to its newness and aftermarket modifications. two neighbors who did not know appellant or his truck saw the shooting or its b. positively identified appellant by his facial appearance and his truck and got a partial license plate the parties stipulated appellant and carrillo were friends, and h.a. testified appellant was one of cah.a. as his girlfriend. her testimony also made it probative that appellant was the driver assisting carrillo by supplying the firearm to commit the shooting and in assisting carrillo during the shooting and the escape. were neither physically impossible nor inherently incredible. discrepancies in the testimony and issues of reliability were for the jury to resolve. (people v. elliot (2012) 53 cal.4th 535, 585.) even an identification by one of these witnesses would be sufficient to support a conclusion appellant assisted carrillo during the shooting. (people v. avila (2009) 46 cal.4th 680, 703-704 [identification testimony of a single 8 witness is sufficient to support the judgment]; people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 248 [the court uses the general test for sufficiency of the evidence to determine the sufficiency of an out-of-court identification in supporting a judgment].) the identification evidence amply supports the judgment. 2. prosecutorial misconduct appellant contends the prosecutor committed misconduct during the final comments he made to the jury. the complained-of comments are italicized below. a. background the prosecutor initiated his final comments to the jury by saying the very reason they were all there was because carrillo could not accept h.a.inability to accept reality had landed them all here in court three years later. he urged the jury it did not have to rely on h.a.september 2008 kidnapping and forcible rape and sexual penetration. appellant had admitted these crimes during the subsequent videotaped police interview, although he did not admit he had committed the offenses with a firearm. the prosecutor said, as it was, h.a. had to relive this september 2008 incident and appear in he so can make that happen. you need to tell both of the defendants that no meant no and find them guilty as charged. september 2008 kidnapping, rape and sexual penetrations did not relate to appellant. mber, ladies and gentlemen, as and i would beg to differ with counsel because when i say no means no, no was hermila [a.] telling [carrillo to] stop coming over to harass[] us. and the defendantthat defendant 9 [appellant] got involved as he did that he became part of that. and no should mean no to him just as well. evidence independently as to each defendant and each defendant must be determined guilty or not guilty based up [appellant] eans no applies to him the prosecutor then described the evidence indicating appellant knowingly acted as an aider and abettor and the getaway driver during the december 2008 shooting. the ell aware of the situation that existed among carrillo, h.a. and art t. when carrillo and appellant arrived in front of h.a.from art t. but now carrillo was not running. carrillo now had a handgun and was of what was going on. appellant followed carrillo slowly in his truck and drove carrillo off after the shooting. and in driving off, appellant directed ryan b. by a sign to keep quiet about what ryan b. had seen regarding the shooting. the prosecutor argued that evidence indicated appellant was fully involved in the shooting and had acted with intertwinedcomment implied appellant was charged in both incidents. the trial court instructed the prosecutor to clarify his argument. ed as . . . they are the result of that relationship that [carrillo] had with hermila [a.] where he wouldnt take no for an and now would delineate the evidence supportargument from this point on related only to carrillo. he urged the complaint to the police 10 -to-man visit with appellant had efforts to continue his relationship with h.a. after h.a. reported the kidnapping and critical poi trial counsel then made their closing comments to the jury. the prosecutor closed phase of the argument, the prosecutor again summarized the evidence against the defendants and replied to several points made by trial counsel. the prosecutor pointed out appellant apparently had arrived and given appellant a gun, and his sign to ryan b. to be quiet indicated appellant was well aware of the entire situation between carrillo and h.a. the prosecutor urged appellant was as involved in the shooting as carrillo was. b. the relevant legal principles trying their cases. (people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 819 [wide latitude given in closing argument].) prosecutor is allowed to make vigorous arguments and may even use such epithets as are warranted by the evidence, as long as these arguments are not inflammatory and (people v. pearson (2013) 56 cal.4th 393, 441.) a prosecutor may not misstate or mischaracterize the evidence. (people v. caldwell (2013) 212 cal.app.4th 1262, 1268.) people v. samayoa (1997) 15 cal.4th 795, 841 (samayoa).) under under due process principles. (ibid.) under state law, a prosecutor commits misconduct by engaging in deceptive or reprehensible methods of persuasion. (ibid.) where a prosecutor has engaged in misconduct, the reviewing court considers the record as a whole to determine if the alleged harm resulted in a miscarriage of justice. (people v. duncan (1991) 53 cal.3d 955, 976-977.) in 11 focuses upon comments made by the prosecutor before the jury, the question is whether there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury construed or applied any of the complained-of remarks in an objectionable fashion. samayoa, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 841.) c. the analysis appellant contends there was prosecutorial misconduct during the final comments he argues there was no proof appellant was involved in the earlier kidnapping and rape of h.a. appellant had nothing to do with these earlier crimes. he claims the september 2008 argument had a spill-evidence against each defendant should be considered and weighed independently would remarks. argument and urged the charges were intertwined, the comments did not constituted a reprehensible attempt to persuade the jury that appellant was involved in the september 2008 kidnapping and rape. it was apparent from the charges and the evidence, as well as was involved in the september 2008 incident of kidnapping and rape. moreover, the trial court instructed the jury that evidence was introduced against carrillo respecting the september 2008 kidnapping and rape, and such evidence was not admitted against appellant. the idence during closing comments, when trial counsel objected on grounds of prosecutorial misconduct, the trial court twice here is 12 no reasonable likelihood the jury would have been misled into believing appellant was involved in the earlier kidnapping and rape. we presume the jury fully understood and people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 1021.) trial counsel attached a post-trial affidavit to the motion for new trial. therein, a juror claimed the initial vote of guilt regarding appellant was 6 to 6. she said she and rstood and believed appellant was involved in the earlier incident and those beliefs influenced the evidence code section 1150 precludes the use of such post-trial juror affidavits concerning the mental processes of the jury to impeach its verdict. the trial court properly refused to consider affidavit. and pursuant to determin furthermore, we note the trial court denied the motion for new trial insofar as it made the same claim of prosecutorial misconduct. as the trial court commented, evidence code section 1arising of prosecutorial misconduct. the trial court said in the circumstances, trial had on the jury. the jubased on the evidence . . . . it was instructed the statements of counsel were not evidence, and no evidence had been introduced at trial suggesting appellant was involved tember 2008 crimes. the trial court had notes or recalled that it was involvement in the earlier incident.3 3 on appeal, appellant does not contend his motion for new trial or pretrial severance motion were improperly denied. however, he appears to conflate such claims with the two contentions he does raise. this court examined the record with respect to whether the pretrial severance motion and the motion for new trial were properly denied. 13 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: croskey, j. aldrich, j. 