filed 1/8/13 p. v. pak ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. james pak, defendant and appellant. b242582 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba391824) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. teri schwartz, judge. affirmed. marissa mckinster magilligan, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________ 2 on december 7, 2011, police arrested appellant james pak for misdemeanor domestic battery of his girlfriend, a crime seen by at least two witnesses. six days later on december 13, 2011, appellant grabbed a cell phone from the hand of a fellow bus the owner with a tire iron. on december 15, 2011, the people filed a felony complaint against appellant charging him with one count of second degree robbery and two counts of receiving stolen property for possessing the cell phone and its case. in the meantime either before the robbery or shortly thereafter, appellant entered a plea of either guilty or nolo contendere (the record does not indicate which) to misdemeanor domestic battery of his girlfriend and was placed on summary probation. shortly after entering his plea for domestic battery, appellant on december 28, 2011, entered into a plea bargain of the robbery charge. he pleaded nolo contendere to one count of robbery, following which the court formal probation. two months later at 1:00 a.m. on february 21, 2012, police stopped appellant as he was riding a bike. when the officers approached appellant, he dropped a small, cylindrical pipe commonly used to smoke methamphetamine. in searching appellant, the police found a piece of paper containing stolen credit card information. police took appellant into custody and his probation was summarily revoked. 1, 2012, the court rejected as untimely appellantafter testimony by police and the owner of the stolen credit card identified on the piece of paper seized from appellant, the court found appellant had violated terms of his probation by possessing the methamphetamine pipe. at the sentencing hearing two weeks later, appellant requested reinstatement to probation and placement in a residential drug treatment program. the court deemed appellant unsuitable for probation given his propensity for violence in his crimes of domestic battery and robbery. the court instead imposed a low-term two-year prison sentence on appellant for robbery, and dismissed the 3 charges involving the methamphetamine pipe and stolen credit card information. the court also awarded appellant 98 days presentence custody credits and 14 days local conduct credits. this appeal followed. we appointed appellate counsel to represent appellant. on november wende brief stating she could not find any arguable issues for appeal. (people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436.) we sent a letter to appellant inviting him to file a letter or brief raising any issues he wanted us to consider. on november 29, 2012, appellant filed a letter, the gist of which asks that we cut his sentence in half. his letter states his belief that he would be better off in a drug reducing his sentence. as to the latter, our independent review of the record finds no -term of two years (pen. code,  213, subd. (a)(2)). as to a drug program, although from sentence was well within its discretion. following our independent review of the record, we find no arguable issues for appeal. disposition the judgment is affirmed. rubin, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. flier, j. 