filed 4/15/14 p. v. novelo ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. edward alexander novelo, defendant and appellant. b242350 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga044263) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, suzette clover, judge. petition denied. mark s. givens, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and david a. wildman, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 in 2001 appellant edward novelo was convicted by jury trial of multiple sex crimes. after the verdicts were received, but before sentencing, he moved for new trial on the ground of juror misconduct. his motion was based on a declaration stating that a juror discussed the case outside of deliberations, read about the case in newspaper articles, and motion was denied and the conviction was eview was denied by the california supreme court. a series of habeas corpus petitions in both state and federal court followed. eventually, the ninth circuit court of appeal granted habeas relief and ordered the state court to conduct a new evidentiary hearing on the juror misconduct issue. the trial court did so, at further proceedings at which 11 of the 12 former jurors, the original declarant, and an additional witness were examined.1 the court found that the claim of misconduct was not substantiated and the evidence of juror misconduct was not credible. it denied the habeas petition. novelo appeals from that ruling.2 he argues that the trial court erred by failing to conduct an adequate investigation of the misconduct claim when it was raised. he also argues that since the hearing was conducted 10 years later, it was not adequate because memories had faded and one juror had died. he contends that this constituted a violation of his federal right to due process and the state statutes governing claims of juror misconduct. novelo contends he was prejudiced by the misconduct and is entitled to a new trial. we find no due process violation, and that substantial evidence supports the trial resented. 1 counsel reported that the 12th juror was deceased. 2 an order denying a petition for writ of habeas corpus is not appealable. we may treat the appeal as a petition for writ of habeas corpus and reach the merits. (people v. garrett (1998) 67 cal.app.4th 1419, 1423.) we follow that course here. 3 factual and procedural summary conviction in people v. novelo (sept. 17, 2003, b158221) (novelo i). on december 13, 2001, novelo was convicted of two counts of forcible oral copulation, attempted sexual battery, forcible rape, sexual penetration by foreign object, and three counts of kidnapping with intent to commit rape in attacks involving six victims. on april 12, 2002, after the jury had been discharged, novelo filed a motion for new trial raising a number of issues. the only issue relevant to this proceeding is the claim of juror misconduct. no request for release of juror identifying information was made. the motion was based on the attached declaration of jay gardner. gardner declared that he was in the courtroom on the morning of december 11, 2001 to watch instructions and possible lesser charges outside the presence of the jury. a lunch recess [,] came[] back into the corridor where the elevators let you out, we started back to the courtroom. carmen and her babies went to the restroom and i walked toward the courtroom. there was a lady sitting on a bench outside the first courtroom. . . . the courtroom where the gardner declaration continuedle corridor. she was reading a newspaper. she folded it and set it next to her right side. she had no name tag or juror id on. . . . we were the only two people in the entire corridor and as i walk toward the windows, in front of her, the woman said gardner the woman asked gardner how he was doing [?]was because he was he asked the woman why she was there, and she said she was doing jury duty. at having 4 according to gardner, at that time, another juror came by and told the woman she should be wearing her juror badge. gardner courtroom to tell mr. novelo[sic [d]uring that time, and concerning the novelo cas he referred aid publicity, at the hearing on the motion in 2002, the trial court stated that it had just been provided articles about the novelo case from the pasadena star news dated october 20, 2000, october 24, 2000, december 20, 2000, december 21, 2000, and one article after trial began, printed on december 12, 2001. after the verdicts were received there was an additional article on april 16, 2002.3 defense counsel stated that some of the articles, in the judge focused on the december 12, 2001 arwith the juror occurred the day before, on december 11, 2001. the court said the articles e in contrast, it found the december 12 article to be accurate and nonprejudicial. defense counsel stated that gardner had identified the juror with whom he spoke as juror no. 12. the court observed that garlaration was hearsay, but that it the prosecutor argued against an evidentiary hearing, contending that any inquiry into the mental processes or state of mind of the jurors was prohibited by evidence code 3 none of these articles is in the record on appeal. defense counsel indicated there had been an article on december 14, 2001, the day after the verdicts were returned, which included a photograph of novelo being led away in handcuffs. since it was published after the alleged misconduct occurred, it is not relevant. 5 that the december 12, 2001 article was not prejudicial. the court concluded that the defense had not made a sufficient showing of prejudicial misconducreading of the december 12, 2001 article, or her expression of an opinion about the case. the motion for new trial was denied. the court noted that it would have been helpful if novelo was sentenced to an aggregate term of 36 years to life in state prison. novelo exhausted his state court remedies by filing petitions for habeas corpus at the trial court, the court of appeal, and the california supreme court, all of which were denied. at that point, the united states district court considered a petition for writ of habeas corpus filed in that court (novelo v. yates, cv 06-2544cjk(vbk)). the magistrate judge recommended that habeas relief be granted on the ground of juror an unreasonable determination of the facts, in turn based on a record that established the juror could not have been reading the december 12, 2001 article, which was published after the alleged misconduct occurred. it found this error was compounded by the trial ther articles about the case which it 4 the district court accepted the report and recommendation of the magistrate judge and granted habeas relief on the ground of juror misconduct. in so doing, the court and recommendation, the court does have reservations regarding the truth and accuracy party. mr. gardner 4 unreasonable determination of facts in light of the record, because it was inextricably tied to the conclusion that the juror had read the impartial december 12 news article. according to the magistrate judge that statement suggested a real possibility of prejudice which required further development of the facts. 6 suggested that juror number 12 read newspaper articles regarding mr. novelo a year before the trial, and as a result harbored a bias against mr. novelo. then, the juror apparently lied during jury selection about her exposure to these articles and misrepresented that she could serve as an unbiased juror. finally, according to mr. hallway outside the courtroom just before closing arguments. the numerous credibility a judgment granting relief was entered and stayed pending an appeal by respondent james a. yates, warden at the pleasant valley state prison. the ninth circuit affirmed on the grounds stated by the district court. it held that unable to question her about her statement and thus could not show which prejudicial newspaper articles, if any, she had read. gardner declaration suggested that juror number 12 read the newspaper articles the state trial court did find prejudicial; harbored a bias against novelo as a result; lied during jury voir dire; and admitted this misconduct to gardner the court ed only after a hearing in which all facts are developed, and evidence of juror bias was sufficient to warrant the hearing. the case was remanded to the california trial court for a hearing on the misconduct claim. circuit opinion were thwarted because gardner could not be located. the court initiated the process for disclosing juror identifying information under code of civil procedure section 237, sending letters to the 12 jurors informing them of the request for their identifying information and setting a hearing on the matter. on january 17, 2012, juror nos. 8, 9 and 12 appeared in court in response to the juror no. 12 as the female juror who spoke with gardner, juror no. 12 was male, not female. after discussion with these jurors, counsel for both sides stipulated that each had no 7 information and did not recall anything relevant to the misconduct issue raised in the gardner declaration. the matter was continued to february 2, 2012 for hearing on the misconduct motion. at that hearing, the prosecutor informed the court that gardner had been located; he was an inmate at the state prison in chino. the court granted the motion for dis the court and counsel agreed the jurors would be subpoenaed to appear at the misconduct hearing. eight of the nine remaining jurors appeared for the hearing on march 2, 2012. they were examined under oath. counsel informed the court that one juror, tracy graham, was deceased, but did not explain the basis for this statement or when the juror had died. the original jury was composed of six men and six women. through a process of elimination, the record reflects that the deceased juror was female. five jurors recognized novelo as the defendant in the case on which they served as jurors. two did not recognize him, but recognized his name in connection with their jury service. one said he recalled being a juror in this case in the same courtroom 10 years before, but only recognized novelo as the defendant in that case. he did not really recall the that juror had been a juror on only one trial in that courthouse, about 10 years before. none of these jurors recalled a juror mentioning anything about having read about the case in a newspaper at any time during the trial, whether in deliberations or during a recess.5 seven of them did not recall any juror innocence before deliberations started, or basing the verdict on anything other than the evidence presented at trial. the eighth juror was not asked this question. only one female juror was asked whether her verdict was based on anything other than the evidence. she said it was not. two of the jurors, both women, were asked whether they recalled a juror whose appearance matched the description given by gardner in his declaration. each said they 5 when one juror said he did not recall any juror saying he or she had read about the case in the newspaper, he was asked whether it was possible that it happened and that he did not recall bec 8 did not. the other six jurors were not asked this question. three of the female jurors said they never discussed the case with a stranger. two female jurors and the male jurors were not asked this question. one female juror was directly asked whether she personally had read any newspaper accounts about the case during the trial. she said she had not. another female juror testified that she did not know anything about the case other than what she heard in the courtroom. she did not remember anything about the case appearing in the newspaper during trial. the other jurors were not asked about their personal knowledge of press coverage. two female jurors were asked about their physical appearance as it related to time of trial. one said her hair was a little grayer than at time of trial but that her body type was the same. the other said her hair was two inches longer during the trial. no record juror with whom he spoke. gardner was transported from prison to testify at the hearing. the court had prohibited defense counsel from preparing gardner for his testimony by reviewing the declaration filed in support of the motion for new trial, [sic] testimony as of what he remembers about the event . . . and whether or not it gardner was serving time in prison on a conviction for oral copulation. he acknowledged that he knew novelo at berkeley and that they first met in county jail in 2001. he believed they had been in jail together for about three since he had been released from jail, gardner was asked whether he had a conversation in the hallway outside the [he] believed to be a juror i knew was a g to. we were kind of having a little social discussion. she started discussing the case. and she pulled out a 9 newspaper that she had and started to discuss the case. and she had . . . saved a folded-up piece of newspaper that had his case in the newsp gardner explained that it was a portion of a newspaper, folded over. it had an article about not have an opportunity to read the article, but the juror said she had been reading it. the court overruled a hearsay object according to gardner, the juror had the article sitting next to her folded between down, then picked it back after this, gardner met maria carmen alvarez, novehallway. he seated on another case and was out on a break alvarez said that they should tell the judge. gardner testified that he came into the courtroom and told the judge what happened in open court. then he said he could not recall whether he spoke directly to the judge, or whether he told the attorney, who then told the judge. he said: gardner remembered standing in the audience section of the courtroom, and was not sure whether he spoke to the judge. judge while he was present. he did not recall signing a declaration about the incident. gardner was asked whethprobably did happen. i think i talked have because i had to have somebody acknowledge the fact that it happened. i have nothing against her or was trying to get her off the jury for any reasons. i felt what she was doing was inappropriate an 10 he could not recall what the judge said, but said he was not very receptive. gardner said he thought this was not appropriate based on his understanding that gardner did not maintain contact with novelo after the case was over. he said he met alvarez during the trial; he had not known her before. he talked with her once or twice after the trial to check on the baby. the last time was nine or nine and one-half years earlier. he did not know why he was brought to court, and felt blindsided and upset about being transported to the court for the hearing. then he said: e anyway gardner was asked whether he recognized any of the people who had been in the courtroom for the hearing as the juror with whom he had the conversation. he said it could have been one of the ladies. he said the lady he spoke to had gray hair. he i thought i recognized the la the trial court inquired as to the identity of was a smaller-in- the prosecutor agreed. belief that the juror with whom he spoke was one of two women was based on hair color. he just remembered the lady had gray hair. she said she met gardner in court at the trial. on cross- she explained that gardner was trying to help novelo and alvarez gardner did 11 not tell alvarez before trial that he was going to attend. she did not come to trial with gardner. during breaks in t at one point during trial, she saw gardner in the hallway conversing with a juror. alvarez believed the woman was a juror because she later saw her sitting in the jury box at trial. the woman was reading a newspaper. she could not hear their conversation. later that afternoon, gardner told her that the woman was a juror who said that had already decided that he w according to alvarez, this occurred earlier than the timeframe provided by gardner, before the defense had presented any witnesses. said, i was with after considering briefing submitted by the parties, the court found that nothing counsel for novelo conceded that neither gardner nor alvarez was a disinterested party, but downplayed their relationship. he guilt in the jury room. the prosecutor argued the evidence at the hearing did not not credible in light of his relationship with novelo and alvarez. the court rejected the claim of the exception of the juror who passed awayevery single juror in whatever state of health and from whatever location in the country was brought in here, testified that they and certainly a juror bringing up something like that completely against all their instructions would have been something the jurors would the trial court did not credit the scenario described by gardner and alvarez , and pointed out that there was no evidence corroborating it. the petition was denied. as we have stated, we treat novelo as a petition for writ of habeas corpus. 12 discussion i impartial jurors. [citations.] ime has a right to the unanimous verdict of 12 impartial jurors [citation], it is settled that a conviction cannot people v. holloway (1990) 50 cal.3d 1098, 1112, disapproved on other grounds in people v. stansbury people v. nesler (1997) 16 cal.4th 561, in re boyette (2013) 56 cal.4th 866, 890.) [citation.] when the motion is based upon juror misconduct, the reviewing court should ngs and credibility determinations if they are supported by substantial evidence, but must exercise its independent judgment to discussion of evidence not submitted at trial constitutes misconduct. [citation.] juror misconduct raises a rebuttable presumption of prejudice; a trial court presented with competent evidence of juror misconduct must consider whether the evidence suggests a substantial likelihood that one or mo(people v. dykes (2009) 46 cal.4th 731, 809.) ii novelo argues the 10-year delay in holding a hearing on his claim of juror misconduct violated his federal constitutional right to due process and california law on the discharge of jurors. he contends that the trial court erred in failing to hold a hearing in 2001 and 2002, when the claim was first raised. he asserts the 2012 hearing was insufficient since memories had faded in the ensuing 10 years, one juror had died, and gardner was unable to identify the juror with whom he spoke. in addition, he contends 13 that both gardner and alvarez could have provided more detail to support the misconduct claim had they testified in 2001 or 2002. the ninth circuit has determined that the trial court erred by failing to conduct a hearing on the misconduct claim when it was presented in april 2002. based on that, the was not held until 10 years after the misconduct claim arose. a. trial court not alerted during trial december 2001 when the misconduct was first brought to its attention. we find no factual basis for the assertion that the trial court was alerted to the problem in 2001. in the court never had a chance to conduct an inquiry as to possible jury bias/misconduct because the court was never aware of any such misconduct since the defense attorney at the hearing on the motion in april ake any action, because it our conclusion that the claim of misconduct was not brought to the attention of the trial court in december 2001 also transcripts of the trial.6 they establish, as the ninth circuit determined, that the trial session described by gardner in his declaration as occurring on december 11, actually occurred on december 10. that is because gardner described a discussion about jury instructions and lesser included offenses; these occurred on december 10. on december 11, the jury heard closing arguments. nute orders, indicate it is reasonable to conclude, as the trial court apparently did conclude, that if such a significant event had occurred off the record, the court would have made a record of the 6 we have taken judicial notice of the record of the trial, from the record on appeal in case number b158221. (evid. code,  452, subd. (d), 459.) 14 occurrence. thus, it was not credibly shown that the claim of juror misconduct was alternative argument that the failure to accord him a hearing on the misconduct claim violated penal code section 1089 which gives the trial court discretion to discharge a juror for good cause with respect to the jury deliberations. no good cause was shown during deliberations. b. judicial process novelo claims that the 10-year period in which he sought relief through direct appeal and petitions for habeas corpus made it impossible for the trial court to conduct an adequate hearing when ordered to do so by the ninth circuit, resulting in a violation of his right to due process. in people v. mcdowell (2012) 54 cal.4th 395 (mcdowell), the supreme court rejected an argument that a 15-year delay between conviction and a second penalty phase retrial constituted cruel and unusual punishment and a violation of the right to speedy trial and due process. as to the due process claim, the supreme court stated that the defendant availed himself of the judicial process to challenge his id. at p. 415.) the mcdowell court cited with approval white v. johnson (5th cir. 1996) 79 f.3d 432, noting that the case arose in the context of a cruel and unusual punishment claim. but the supreme process claims as well. here, where defendant has benefitted from the careful and meticulouidmcdowell, at p. 415.) that reasoning applies to this case. here novelo benefited from the judicial review which culminated in the ninth circuit order requiring the trial court to hold an evidentiary hearing on his claim of misconduct. no due process violation occurred. in any event, as we next discuss, we conclude that novelo failed to demonstrate that he was prejudiced by the delay. 15 c novelo argues that because of the delay, he was unable to identify a third party witness to the misconduct. he contends that the death of a female juror was particularly prejudicial. woman who committed misconduct because none of the other 11 jurors recalled anything about the misconduct, and the trial court found them credible. he claims his inability to question the deceased juror was prejudicial because either she was the misbehaving juror, or if not, she might have had information to identify that juror. he also claims that gardner and alvarez would have been able to provide additional details if the hearing had been held promptly. as we shall explain, novelo fails to demonstrate a violation of his due process rights. we reject the argument based on the third party witness because the presence of a third party was raised only after the delay occurred. substantial evidence supports the adequate inquiry at the hearing to establish that any female juror fit the description given by gardner. in general, the examination of the jurors was not adequate to support recall. the testimony of the jurors at the hearing did not establish that their deliberations were tainted by outside information or bias. nor did tmisconduct claim. we address each of these issues in turn. 1. third party witness likewise would have been able to identify the third person with whom the offending juror outside of the courtroom. this third person would have been able to provide further corroboration that appellthe juror said that she had been following the case in the news, and that the juror said that she already had made up her mind that appellant was guilty without needing to hear any more evid 16 . . . according to the declaration, another juror arrived only after the juror had already made the allegedly improper comments. gardner declared that he immediately left to report the incident. the presence of a third party was claimed only in his testimony 10 years later. based on this record, the trial court and counsel would have had no reason to attempt to find a third party in 2002, and therefore the 10-year delay was not prejudicial on this ground. 2. identification of the juror gardner did not describe the female juror in his declaration. at the hearing, gardner identified a bystander as the juror with whom he spoke, rather than any of the five female jurors who testified that day. he was not sure about his identification, saying moments he said he just remembered that the juror had gray hair. the record does not establish that any of the women on the jury matched the inquiry at the hearing in this regard was insufficient to provide an adequate record on this issue. only two of the female jurors were asked any questions about their appearance. ms. d.b. said her hair was grayer at the time of hearing, but her body type was the same, although it was not described. juror l.c. said her hair was two inches longer at time of trial, but was not asked how long it was at the hearing, or its color either at trial or at the hearing. three jurors, ms. m.a., ms. g.b. and mr. p.w., were asked if they recalled a white female juror with long dark hair, a description given by defense counsel rather than gardner7. they did not. the others were not asked. counsel for novelo did not introduce a photograph or other description of the deceased juror in order to examine the witnesses at the hearing as to whether she matched the description given by gardner. no evidence of the date of her death was presented. 7 the jurors testified before gardner at the misconduct hearing. 17 under these circumstances, novelo has failed to demonstrate that the juror was not identified because of the delay. 3. deliberations were not tainted novelo claims that none of the 11 jurors recalled whether any other juror possessed newspaper articles about the case during trial or revealed they had read such articles or whether any juror expressed any bias prior to deliberations. the way the questions to the jurors were framed by defense counsel at the hearing created ambiguity in their answers. some expressed an opinion whether the defendant was guilty or not guilty before deliberations juror recalled any juror expressing an opinion about the case based on anything other than the evidence, and said they did not.8 juror j.i. was affirmatively asked whether any juror expressed an opinion about juror m.a. was asked affirmatively: were deliberating or while you were just waiting for court out in the hallway or walking to your car, was there ever an occasion where you had a conversation with one of the she answered juror l.c. also was asked an affirmative question, whether she had a conversation with any juror that raised the suspicion that the juror had read anything about the case in the newspaper. she said she had not. we agree with the trial court that none of the jurors corroborated the claim of juror misconduct in any way. 8 ago, do you recall either having a conversation with or overhearing any conversation in which any of your fellow jurors discussed having read follow- 18 gardner had a criminal history and was serving time in prison in 2012. he downplayed his relationship with novelo. in his original declaration, he said he did not know novelo prior to his arrest. if thnovelo during a prior incarceration in jail9. his declaration did not mention that he came ecause of his interest in the case; that he had tried to provide novelo and his family with legal assistance on the case; and that he had been to the home , as the testimony at the hearing established. this also contradicted stimony that he did not know alvarez before the trial. according to alvarez, gardner played with her daughter during breaks in the trial. in addition, gardner had an unusual interest in criminal law, describing himself as and saying that he likes the law and follows it. he explained that some interest in crime and punishment. i wrote on crime and punishment on netcom. it punishment. i know jurors are not supposed to read about the case or discuss it with other people, and she did all the above out in the hallway. this evidence was sufficient to raise an inference that gardner was biased in favor of novelo. testimony in 2012. in his declaration, gardner implied that he did not know the woman with whom he was talking was a juror until she told him that she was doing jury duty. at the hearing, gardner testified that he knew the woman to be a juror because he had seen her sitting in the jury panel before the break, an apparent reference to the trial session 9 he two men met in berkeley first, or in a county jail. 19 immediately before the break during which the claimed misconduct occurred. but the jury was not present during that session, which was devoted to a discussion of jury instructions and lesser included offenses between the court and counsel. gardner also was inconsistent about whether he was alone with the juror when the alleged only two people in the entire cor according to the declaration, it was only after the juror said she had read about the case, that it was easy, another juror approached. but in his testimony, gardner said he saw the woman, whom he knew to be a juror, kind of having a little social discussion. she started discussing the case. and she pulled out a news gardner was inconsistent about how he reported the misconduct. in his declaration he said he informed defense counsel, who disregarded the report. at the hearing, at first he was unsure whether he told defense counsel or spoke directly with the trial court. as he testified, he became more certain that he had reported the misconduct to the judge in open court. the trial record does not reflect any such report of misconduct. inal record, bias in favor of novelo, and the inconsistencies in his testimony, we agree with the trial court that no juror misconduct occurred. more fundamentally, the alleged comment made by the juror did not establish that she refused to participate lt. s credited, it does not establish a violation of due process. ons so long as his or her mind remains open to a fair consideration of the evidence, instructions, and shared opinions expressed people v. allen and johnson (2011) 53 cal.4th 60, 73.) the allen court acknowledged that 2 requires jurors not to form an opinion about the case until it has been 20 think about the case during the trial. . . ibid.) here there is no evidence that the juror with whom gardener said he spoke failed to consider the evidence, instructions, and opinions of other jurors during deliberations. the 11 jurors were not asked whether there was any juror who refused to deliberate. six of the eight jurors who testified at the hearing said that they did not recall any juror expressing an opinion about on this record, we find no juror misconduct and no e process rights. disposition the appeal, treated as a petition for writ of habeas corpus, is denied. not to be published in the official reports epstein, p. j. we concur: willhite, j. manella, j. 