filed 3/7/14 p. v. sanchez ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. michael lee sanchez, defendant and appellant. b242140 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba365475) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, j. henry hall, judge. affirmed. john a. colucci, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii and stephanie c. santoro, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 michael lee sanchez appeals the judgment entered following a jury trial in which he was convicted of second degree murder with the use of a knife. (pen. code,  187, subd. (a), 12022, subd. (b)(1).)1 at sentencing, the trial court imposed a total term in state prison of 16 years to life, consisting of a term of 15 years to life for the murder, enhanced by a one-year term for the use of the knife. contentions sanchez (appellant) contends the prosecutor committed prosecutorial misconduct by arguing to the jury the provocation for voluntary manslaughter must be such as would cause a reasonable person to kill. in another contention, he claims there was additional prosecutorial misconduct final comments to the jury: the prosecutor showed a pre-death photograph of the victim to the jury, he attempted improperly to appeal to the sympathy of the jury he attempted to inflame the jury by making comments to the jury that amounted to an improper proper objections in order to preserve any error for the appeal, appellant asserts a number of grounds that purportedly permit this court to address the claimed prosecutorial misconduct. if this court finds a forfeiture and thus fails to consider his contentions on the merits, appellant urges a reversal of his conviction on the grounds of ineffective trial counsel. this court concludes the contentions lack merit. background 1. the trial evidence. appellant is not challenging the sufficiency of the evidence. hence, the trial evidence is stated briefly. 1 all further references to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 a. december 2, 2009, disappearance. in 2009, blanca valdez (blanca) lived with her sister, claudia mayorquin (claudia), in south gate. on december 2, 2009, at about 5:45 a.m., after blanca blanca disappeared. the next day, on 51st street west of central avenue in los angeles. south gate police officer carlos corella found blanca dead on the floor board of the truck. at trial, a los angeles county deputy medical examiner testified that the -inch incised knife wound across the front of her throat that had cut her neck to the spine. there were petechia on her face, eyes, gums and inner lip indicating she was strangled prior to death. b. the trial testimony establishing an abduction. 2009, blanca stayed overnight with him at his residence. they parted at 5:30 a.m. at the location where he worked in carson. shortly thereafter, on her cellular telephone, blanca texted rubio she had arrived home safely and could see lights arrived at the beauty salon where she worked. at 6:45 a.m. that morning, rubio sexually explicit. she did not communicate in such a fashion with rubio. he telephoned blanca repeatedly, but she failed to answer her telephone. he continued getting strange texts and telephoned the police at 7:18 a.m. rubio also telephoned claudia. claudia told him that she also had received an reach blanca by telephone. presented, blanca never carried weapons and never kept a knife in her truck. claudia said that she had texted blanca in reply on the morning of december 2, 2009, that if blanca did not answer her telephone, claudia was telephoning the 4 police. claudia said that when blanca did not answer her cellular telephone, she feared appellant, a former boyfriend, had abducted her. nds testified that blanca and appellant had a tumultuous and violent relationship. blanca had told claudia during one recent party that she and appellant had argued about appellant seeing other women. during the altercation, appellant had grabbed blanca by the throat and had choked her until she blacked out. after the recent breakup, blanca had started dating rubio and had decided not to see appellant any more. appellant was stalking blanca and had threatened if he could not be with her, she could not be with anyone else. he had threatened that if she would not see him, he would rape her daughters and disfigure her son. he had threatened to kill everyone who was he pursued blanca relentlessly. blanca was so afraid of appellant, she presently would go nowhere alone. rubio accompanied her to work and home and texted her to make sure she reached each destination. claudia testified she had concluded this last breakup with appellant was permanent -- blanca had cut off all contact with appellant, including restraining order that was never issued due to an error in the arrangements for personal service. tereza marroquin, a coworker, testified appellant harassed blanca at the beauty salon. he went so far as to book all her appointments so on occasion she had no customers. tereza walked blanca to her car when they left the beauty salon. on december 2, 2009, the police contacted appellant disappearance. appellant showed no concern and said he last had seen blanca two days previously. he claimed at that time they were discussing getting back together. he disappearance. 5 c. late on december 3, 2009, appellant was arrested. after a miranda waiver (miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 [16 l.ed.2d 694, 86 s.ct. 1602]), los angeles police officer julio benevides (officer benevides) interviewed appellant in the presence of two other police officers. initially, appellant denied any involvement in the homicide. after several hours, appellant admitted killing blanca. appellant told officer benevidefor himself. he had suffered terribly after they broke up. he killed her as he if she were dead, she could not be with her new boyfriend so it would be okay for appellant to go on with his life, even though he might be in jail forever. appellant explained that prior to her death, they had broken up. bianca had threatened to get a restraining order against him, but he was never served. that made him think he and bianca would be getting back together. so he had hoped, but she dashed his hopes when she told him on wednesday morning, december 2, 2009, she was spending the nights with her new boyfriend. residence shortly after 5:00 a.m. she was outside in her truck and let him into the he could see her face was turning colors. she went still. he was aware that she had a knife in the rear seat of her car. he retrieved it from the back seat and cut her throat with it and gasping for air. he climbed into the backseat and cut her throat again. she was not bleeding from the prior wound, but now she bled a lot. he drove to the railroad tracks near independence and santa fe avenues in south gate and threw out the knife. he then drove around until blanca stopped making noise. 6 he parked the truck in front of a little restaurant and left blanca there in the rear seat of the truck. appellant admitted sister and boyfriend as if he were blanca. d. the defense. at the trial, appellant declined to testify and produced no affirmative evidence in defense. e. the conclusion of the trial. the prosecutor urged the jury to convict appellant of first degree murder. trial counsel argued that appellant had committed voluntary manslaughter. the trial court instructed the jury on first degree murder on theories of lying in wait and willful, deliberate and premeditated murder, on second degree murder, and on voluntary manslaughter. the trial court used the 2008 version of calcrim no. 570 in charging the jury. the jury returned a verdict of second degree murder. discussion 1. the relevant principles concerning prosecutorial misconduct. federal constitution when it infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due process. conduct by a prosecutor that does not render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair is prosecutorial misconduct under state law only if it involves the use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to aim of that the jury construed or applied any of the complained-of remarks in an objectionable f people v. gonzales and soliz (2011) 52 cal.4th 254, 305.) 7 people v. frye (1998) 18 cal.4th 894, 970, disapproved on another ground in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421 & fn. 22.) although a single instance of misconduct may not require a reversal of a conviction, the cumulative effect of a pattern of such conduct may. (people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 845-846.) -ranging right to discuss the case in closing argument. he has the right to fully state his views as to what the evidence shows and to urge whatever conclusimisconduct] claim focuses on comments made by the prosecutor before the jury, a court must determine at the threshold how the remarks would, or could, have been understood by a reasonable juror. [citations.] if the remarks would have been taken by a juror to state or imply nothing harmful, they obviously cannot be people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 1043 (tully); see also people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 752 [the prosecution has broad discretion to state its views as to what the evidence shows and the inferences to be drawn from the evidence].) 2. appellant contends the prosecutor committed misconduct by misstating the standard for adequate provocation, an element of voluntary manslaughter. he and the jury rejected a verdict of voluntary manslaughter in favor of one of murder of the second degree. a. the remarks in question are italicized below. and tells you that relationships are classic examples of voluntary manslaughter. some extreme situations are. [the prosecutor then set out an example of a classic 8 voluntary manslaughter killing in which a married person is surprised upon coming home and finding his or her spouse in bed with another person.] those types of feelings and emotions are extreme given that situation. and so the what it is, but it allows for that possibility. but, of course, our laws are written in such a way that they are kind of broad so that an argument can be made before you that the facts in this case are applicable to that law. hat in situations s you, that there has to be provocation. but it tells you that it is not enough that a defendant simply was provoked. standard of conduct. a reasonable person. would a reasonable person have acted that way that the argument in its logic, any g to hurt feelings, going to be broken hearts, and so therefore is that going to justify somebody being able to kill the person who no longer wants to be with them? of course not. the law tells you that. i want you to ra murder(italics added.)2 2 the trial court instructed the jury, inter alia, with calcrim no. 570, concerning voluntary manslaughter, as follows. manslaughter if the defendant killed someone because of a sudden quarrel or in the heat of passion. [] the defendant killed someone because of a sudden quarrel or in the heat of passion if: [] 1. the defendant was provoked; [] 2. as a result of the provocation, the defendant acted rashly and under the influence of intense emotion that obscured his reasoning or judgment; [] and 9 b. forfeiture at the outset, the parties agree trial counsel failed to object to the above remarks. as a general rule a defendant may not complain on appeal of prosecutorial misconduct unless in a timely fashion and on the same ground the defendant made an assignment of misconduct and requested that the jury be admpeople v. hill, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 820.) doing either would have been futile, or if an admonition would not have cured the harm. (people v. cole people v. linton (2013) 56 cal.4th 1146, 1205 (linton).) [] 3. the provocation would have caused a person of average disposition to act rashly and without due deliberation, that is, from passion rather than from judgment. it can be any violent or intense emotion that causes a person to act without due deliberation and reflection. [] in order for heat of passion to reduce a murder to voluntary manslaughter, the defendant must have acted under the direct and immediate influence of provocation as i have defined it. while no specific type of provocation is required, slight or remote provocation is not sufficient. sufficient provocation may occur over a short or long period of time. [] it is not enough that the defendant simply was provoked. the defendant is not allowed to set up his own standard of conduct. in deciding whether the provocation was sufficient, consider whether a person of average disposition, in the same situation and knowing the same facts, would have reacted from passion rather than judgment. [] if enough time has passed between the provocation and the killing for a and judgment, then the killing is not reduced to voluntary manslaughter on this basis. [] the people have the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant did not kill as the result of a sudden quarrel or in the heat of passion. if the people have not met this burden, you must find the defendant not guilty of ed.) 10 appellant cites the decision in people v. williams (1998) 17 cal.4th 148, 161, fn. 6 (williams), for the proposition that a reviewing court always has discretion to reach an issue that was not preserved by a party. relying on williams, appellant urges this court to exercise its discretion to address his claim despite the forfeiture. people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 434.) unfair to the trial judge and to the adverse party to take advantage of an error on appeal of the general doctrine of waiver is to encourage a defendant to bring errors to the attention of the trial court, so that they may be corrected or avoided and a fair trial people v. saunders (1993) 5 cal.4th 580, 590.) our review of the record reflects no exception to the general principle an objection and timely admonition would have obviated any misleading impressions appellant also urges this court to address his contention as making such comments involves the denial of a constitutional right. we examined the authorities he cites supporting this request section 1259 (a court has discretion over scope of appellate review), people v. vera (1997) 15 cal.4th 269, 277 (pre-apprendi waiver of right to a jury trial on an enhancement), 3 people v. saunders, supra, 5 cal.4th at p. 592 (waiver of plea of once in jeopardy), and people v. holmes (1960) 54 cal.2d 442, 443-444 (waiver of the right to a jury trial). none of these authorities are pertinent to this case or persuade us the comments accordingly, we deem the contention forfeited. 3 apprendi v. new jersey (2000) 530 u.s. 466 [147 l.ed.2d 435, 120 s.ct. 2348]. 11 appellant next argues this court should reach the merits of his contention as trial counsel was ineffective for failing to object. we will address the merits, infra, to the extent necessary to determine his claim of ineffective assistance of trial counsel. (people v. ochoa (1998) 19 cal.4th 353, 431; people v. scaffidi (1992) 11 cal.app.4th 145, 151 & fn. 2 (scaffidi).) 3. ineffective trial counsel. appellant contends his trial counsel should have objected to the above remarks because they constituted najera error, and after objecting, trial counsel should have requested a clarifying jury instruction. (people v. najera (2006) 138 cal.app.4th 212 (najera).) appellant urges on this record he is entitled to a reversal of the judgment as trial counsel rendered him ineffective assistance of failure to object and to request a clarifying jury instruction. a. the standard of review. assistance of trial counsel, we consider reasonableness under prevailing professional norms and whether the defendant suffered prejudice to a reasonable probability, that is, a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 694; people v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d 171, 217.) a reviewing court will of as a matter of sound trial strategy. defendant thus bears the burden of establishing constitutionally inadequate assistance of counsel. (strickland v. washington, supra, at p. 687; in re andrews (2002) 28 cal.4th 1234, 1253.) if the record on appeal sheds no light on why counsel acted or failed to act in the manner challenged, an appellate claim of ineffective assistance of counsel must be rejected unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or there simply could be no satisfactory explanation. (people v. mendoza tello (1997) 12 15 cal.4th 264, 266 . . . .people v. carter (2003) 30 cal.4th 1166, 1211 (carter).) these standards apply with particular force at closing argument because, as we have recognized, [t]he decision of how to argue to the jury after the presentation of evidence is inherently tactical . . . . people v. gamage (2010) 48 cal.4th 347, 391 (gamage).) [t]he inquiry into an ineffectiveness of counsel claim involves two prongs. . . . (strickland, supra, 466 u.s. at pp. 687, 694.) for a court deciding an ineffective assistance claim to approach the inquiry in the same order or even to address both components of the inquiry . . . . if it is easier to dispose of an ineffectiveness claim on the ground of lack of sufficient prejudice, which we expect will (id. (scaffidi, supra, 11 cal.app.4th at p. 151, fn. 2.) b. the analysis. in najera, supra, 138 cal.app.4th 212, the prosecutor made the following remarks. . as a jury, you have to apply a reasonable, ordinary person standard, okay. [] . . . any reasonable ordinary person walking in on a child being molested, if they had a gun in their hand, would probably do the same thing. . . . would a reasonable person do what the defendant did? would a reasonable person be so aroused as to kill najera, supra, 138 cal.app.4th at p. 223, italics omitted.) later, in rebuttal, the prosecutor said: [t]he reasonable, prudent person standard . . . [is] based on conduct, what a reasonable person would do in a similar person standard.najera, supra, 138 cal.app.4th at p. 223, italics omitted.) the najera nts were misleading. (najera, supra, 138 cal.app.4th at p. 223.) the court explained a particular 13 disposition to act rashly and without deliberation. [citation.] the focus is on the provocation the surrounding circumstances and whether it was sufficient to cause a reasonable person to act rashly. how the killer responded to the provocation and the reasonableness of the response is not relevant to sudden ibid.) no reversal was ordered in najera, however, as the reviewing court concluded there was a forfeiture as trial counsel had entered no objection to the misstatements by the prosecutor. further, the najera court held trial counsel was not ineffective as at the outset, the trial evidence was insufficient to warrant a manslaughter instruction. (najera, supra, 138 cal.app.4th at pp. 224-225.) in another recent decision, people v. beltran (2013) 56 cal.4th 935 (beltranby making comments suggesting an erroneous standard concerning the adequacy of the provocation. (id. at p. 954) the beltran court explained the history of this aspect of voluntary manslaughter and said the following. people v. logan (1917) 175 conduct and justify or excuse himself because in fact his passions were aroused, unless further the jury believe that the facts and circumstances were sufficient to arouse the passions of the ordinarily reasonable man. thus, no man of extremely violent passion could so justify or excuse himself if the exciting cause be not adequate, nor could an excessively cowardly man justify himself unless the circumstances were such as to arouse the fears of the ordinarily courageous man. still further, while the conduct of the defendant is to be measured by that of the ordinarily reasonable man placed in identical circumstances, the jury is properly to be told that the exciting cause must be such as would naturally tend to arouse the 14 passion of the ordinarily reasonable man. but as to the nature of the passion itself, (logan, supra, t a matter of law but a matter of fact for the jury in each case to determine under the circumstances of the case whether the assault or whether the blow, or whether the indignity or whether the affront, or whatever the act may be, was such as is naturally calculated to arouse the passions [the court in maher v. people (1862) 10 mich. 212 (maher)] similarly explained that if the standard for provocation was purely subjectilong continued indulgence of evil passions, a bad man might acquire a claim to mitigation which would not be available to better men, and on account of that very wickedness of heart which, in itself, constitutes an aggravation both in morals (maher, suprabeltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at pp. 950-951.) the beltran court said, rovocation is adequate only when it would render thout due (logan, supra, 175 beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 957.) that court explained using the erroneous standard for adequate provocation of whether an ordinary person of average disposition would be moved to the reasons mitigation is permitted in heat-of-passion killings. (id. at p. 949.) . [w]e punish a person who kills in the heat of passion or upon provocation because should have, or as much as common experience tells us he could have, nor as much as the ordinarily law-abiding person would n.] however, if one does kill in this state, his punishment is mitigated. such a killing is not justified but understandable in light killing reaction therefore is the extraordinary reaction, the unusual exception to the general expectation that the 15 beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 949.) in the instant case, there is no prosecutorial misconduct. while potentially misleading, the prosecutor said nothing that directly conflicted with the principles set out in najera and beltran. his comments did not purport to restate the entire provocation. instead, the prosecutor strongly exhorted the jury to focus on the no. 570 correctly states the law concerning adequate provocation. (see beltran, supra 56 cal.4th at p. 954 & ments appear to be more incomplete than erroneous, and the prosecutor referred the jury to the proper comments confused the jury. rather, we presume the jury did just as the prosecutor suggested--in making its determination as to whether the circumstances instruction, calcrim no. 570, and determined the adequacy of the provocation by considering whether a person of average disposition would have been induced to react from passion, rather than from judgment. furthermore, this record discloses trial counsel was never asked about the reasons she failed to object to the complained-of comments. (people v. frierson proceedings. the choice of when to object is inherently a matter of trial tactics not this trial, trial counsel had an uninterrupted opportunity to urge the jury to bring in a verdict of voluntary manslaughter. the complained-of remarks essentially directed the jury to the pertinent jury instruction and that instruction contained a proper statement of law. no doubt trial counsel concluded there was little to be gained by making an objection. 16 4. the remaining claims of prosecutorial misconduct. appellant contends the prosecutor made further remarks that were a. the relevant legal principles guments to the jury that give it the proper role, or invites an irrational, purely subjective responlinton, supra, 56 cal.4th 1146, 1210.) to protect community values, preserve civil order, or deter future lawbreaking. the evil lurking in such prosecutorial appeals is that the defendant will be convicted for reasons wholly irrelevant to his own guilt or innocence. jurors may be persuaded by such appeals to believe that, by convicting a defendant, they will assist in the solution of some pressing social problem. the amelioration of bear. [] united states v. koon(united states v. leon-reyes (9th cir. 1999) 177 f.3d 816, 822.) it is misconduct for a prosecutor to suggest that jurors disregard the trial community in determining the guilt phase of a trial. (people v. morales (1992) 5 cal.app.4th 917, 928; see also people v. whalen (2013) 56 cal.4th 1, 77; people v. redd (2010) 48 cal.4th 691, 743, fn. 25 [a prosecutor may not urge jurors to convict a criminal defendant in order to protect community values, preserve civil order, or deter future lawbreaking].) predeath and post-death photographs of a victim may be relevant for identification purposes and to establish the nature of the homicide in a murder case, and a trial court has discretion to admit such photographs as part of the 17 pros-in-chief. (people v. martinez (2003) 31 cal.4th 673, 692-693 [no reasonable possibility of prejudice arose from the admission in the penalty tully, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 1021 [the possibility predeath photographs shown to witnesses during trial may have generated sympathy for the during the guilt or the penalty phase of the trial].) b. the complained-of remarks. trial counsel commenced his final comments to the jury by remarking as follows. (we have italicized the specific remarks appellant claims constituted prosecutorial misconduct.) december 2, 2009, that man right there, [appellant] ended the life of a mother, a daughter and [a] sister. his jealousy, his rage, his inability to let her go, resulted in him not only strangulating her but to ultimately cutting her, killing added.) the prosecutor then summarized the trial evidence. he told the jury, only thing i want to influence you are the facts in this case and the after asking the jury to now i want to start off by reminding you by showing you this beautiful picture of blanca valdez and i know you are subjected to see other photographs of blanca valdez, and unfortunately we have to do that. because we have the burden to establish what have been taken, the ones that were important and critical to establishing what 18 after the prosecutor completed his opening remarks, trial counsel argued in defense. in commenting on the evidence, trial counsel told the jury the prosecutor was attempting to inflame passions. the prosecutor had done so by el argued defendant never wanted to see the d on how appellant initially asked to consider the facts that we have here . . . .despair at realizing blanca was no longer going to be seeing him. the prosecutor opened his rebuttal remarks with the following. of things that counsel presented in her closing and the only way we can make sure that no one sees these images again is a courtroom [is] if all 12 of you agree to the logical conclusion, the only conclusion you should reach in this case, and that is [appellant] murdered blanca valdez. he trial the prosecutor went on to argue applying the law to the facts resulted in once you apply those facts, i trust that you will ensure that these images will not have to be seen again. (italics added.) 19 c. forfeiture. again, trial counsel failed to object to the complained-of comments, with one exception. but when trial counsel made her one objection, she failed to state the specific grounds for her objection or to request an appropriate admonition be given to the jury to disregard the comments. in the circumstances, the contentions on appeal are forfeited. (people v. wash (1993) 6 cal.4th 215, 259-260; people v. poggi (1998) 45 cal.3d 306, 335.) appellant acknowledges there was only one objection reference to the properly admitted gruesome photographs used at trial to establish the manner of death. appellant argues the requirement for an objection for the later remarks should be excused because the record shows a further objection would have been futile. tied to our record. that the trial court overruled one general objection during the of a statement of grounds for an objection may well have been the reason the trial court overruled the objection. we cannot assume the trial court would not have sustained a proper objection to any improper remarks made by the prosecutor. appellant cannot avoid the forfeiture. (people v. pearson (2013) 56 cal.4th 393, 424-425 [commenting on the circumstances necessary for finding an objection may have been futile]; tully, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 1037, fn. 31[discussing futility].) d. ineffective trial counsel. insofar as appellobject constitutes ineffective trial counsel, he cannot prevail. (gamage, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 391.) here, trial counsel initially argued adequate provocation and that appellant killed in the heat of passion having 20 discovered his former lover was having sexual relations with her new boyfriend. trial counsel then spent the remainder of her argument reinforcing the tristandard jury instruction that it is improper for the jury to decide the case on the basis of bias, sympathy, prejudice, or public opinion. trial counsel reminded the jurors prejudice, bias and sympa she urged them t . trial counsel claimed the prosecutor had she pointed out to the jury any prosecutorial remarks that she viewed as constituting an appeal to the passion, sympathy and prejudice of the jury. and she urged the jury to reach a just verdict by avoiding considering the understandable prejudice and sympathy jurors might feel for blanca and her family. the record fails to contain any evidence as to why trial counsel failed to object to the complained-of remarks. (see gamage, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 391.) but by the prosecutor concerning blanca and her photographs, her smiling face and remind the jurors they were objective fact finders. she addressed any appeal to the sympathy and passion of the jury by the prosecutor in her argument rather than incurring the wrath of the judge and jury by continually interrupting the n merely and obtaining a curative objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms. 21 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: kitching, j. aldrich, j. 