filed 9/3/13 p. v. anderson ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. david dwayne anderson, defendant and appellant. b242392 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta118786) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. kelvin d. filer, judge. affirmed as modified. james koester, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and eric j. kohm, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________________________ 2 a jury convicted defendant david dwayne anderson of mayhem in violation of penal code section 2031 in count 1, assault with a deadly weapon in violation of section 245, subdivision (a)(1) in count 2, and assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury in violation of section 245, subdivision (a)(1) in count 3. the jury found in counts 2 and 3 that defendant personally inflicted great bodily injury upon the victim within the meaning of section 12022.7, subdivision (a). the jury also found that defendant personally used a deadly and dangerous weapon within the meaning of section 12022, subdivision (b)(1) in count 1.2 the trial court sentenced defendant to the high term of eight years in count 1 and struck the enhancement for personal use of a deadly weapon in that count. the trial court imposed the midterm of three years in counts 2 and 3 and three years for the great bodily injury enhancements for a total of six years in each of those counts. the court ordered the sentences for counts 2 and 3 to be stayed under section 654. defendant appeals on the grounds that: (1) the trial court prejudicially erred when it failed to instruct the jury on the lesser included offense of battery causing serious bodily injury ( 243, subd. (b)) as a lesser included offense to mayhem in count 1; and (2) conviction in count 2. facts prosecution evidence on april 12, 2011, ferraria radley went to the game sports bar to celebrate her birthday with her aunt and her sisters, cora and jennifer. a club promoter whom 1 all further references to statutes are to the penal code unless stated otherwise. 2 defendant was tried along with a codefendant, uniqua adams, who was convicted only of simple battery in violation of section 242, subdivision (a) as a lesser included offense of the aggravated assault charge in count 3. 3 ferraria3 knew invited her and her party to enter the vip room at the club. there, he introduced ferraria to defendant and uniqua adams, who was with defendant. defendant was holding a bottle of moet champagne from which he was drinking, and he had purchased other bottles of champagne that he was sharing with the other people in the room. defendant was much more talkative than adams and spoke to everyone in the room. ferraria drank approximately three glasses of champagne in the two hours she was at the club. sisters did not want to go. ferraria decided to go the starz club with defendant and escalade. adams drove, defendant sat in the front passenger seat, and ferraria sat in the rear on the passenger side. defendant had two bottles of champagne in the vehicle, one of which was a green moet bottle. ferraria and defendant passed the bottle between themselves and continued to drink from the green bottle. when the threesome arrived at starz, a security guard told them the bar was closed. they drove away, and adams remarked that she needed to stop for gas. ferraria testified that they had no further plans at that point. ferraria told the couple that she wanted to be taken home because she had to take her daughter to school in the morning. as they were leaving the gas station, ferraria noticed two men standing near their car at a niggers while yobecause she had made no advances toward defendant during the evening. she believed places they had bee 3 to avoid confusion, we refer to the victim and other members of her family by their first names. 4 on the freeway at that point, and ferraria asked to be dropped off at the next exit. adams took the vermont avenue exit from the freeway, made a right turn, and stopped the car. ferraria immediately got out of the car and began walking toward the curb. she intended to walk to a nearby gas station to call a taxi. defendant got out of the physically threatened. adams got out of the car, and ferraria turned to face her. ferraria dropped hgrabbed adams, too, and the two women wrestled each other to the ground. as they know y when ferraria let adams go, adams pushed her onto her back and climbed on top of her. ferraria pushed adams on her back blows to her back, close to her neck. she believed defendant had joined in the attack. she began to move to her right was so painful that it knocked all emotion from her, and she was unable to react. ferraria had no idea what had hit her and thought only of getting away. ferraria could feel blood shooting from her face and could neither see nor hear. she got to her feet and stumbled backwards. she picked up her clutch from the ground and began walking away. she did not even look back to see if the two were coming after her. ferraria thought she should telephone her mother, and her mother would know vermont avenue and begged her to come and get her. ferraria then began to walk. 5 blood and she had black eyes. she said she was in a lot of pain. her father began to drive her to ucla hospital in westwood. ferraria confirmed that it was. officer phillip sudario and his partner, officer padilla, of the los angeles police department (lapd), responded to the hospital where ferraria was taken. officer somewhat incoherent. ferraria told the officers that she pleaded with defendant and adams to let her out of the car and that adams had punched and slapped her. defendant up and also battered her. in an interview in may 2011, ferraria told detective kelly sullivan that she believed defendant kicked her. a few days after the incident, detective marcella fathauer and detective tyson met with ferraria at the hospital. her face was very swollen and had stitches. the detectives showed ferraria two six-pack photographic lineups from which ferraria was able to identify defendant as her attacker and adams as the one who helped defendant. ferraria stayed at that hospital for four days while personnel treated her pain and she underwent various tests. she was given stitches in her nose and eye. she could not see out of her right eye. she needed surgery for her facial fractures but was obliged to undergo surgery at harbor ucla hospital at a later date because she had no health insurance. appointment with her parents and jennifer when they decided to try to locate the spot where the attack had occurred. when they arrived at the scene, ferraria saw marks recognized the bottle from the shards. 6 injured and believed that ferraria could have been struck by the bottle they found. jennifer called the police. detective fathauer arrived and directed other officers to take photographs and retrieve some evidence. ferraria told detective fathauer that she believed she had been struck by a champagne bottle. the remnants of the champagne bottle were inadvertently destroyed by the lapd before trial. detective sullivan saw the shards before they were destroyed and noted that the label on the neck of the bottle identified it as a moet bottle. his visual examination of the bottle did not reveal blood. d a second surgery on her nose in september. despite the eye operation, she was rendered legally blind due to the attack. dr. david isaacs, a clinical instructor at ucla, testified as an expert witness for the prosecution. he had seen ferraria at ucla hospital in westwood at the time of the attack, and he had re-bone, the medial wall of her eye orbit, the orbital floor, the lateral orbital wall, and the zygomatic arch. dr. isaacs counted at least five separate fracture sites and noted a from proptosis, which occurs when the eye protrudes from its baseline state. proptosis that it was unlikely to get better. the affected part of her eye causes blurring of her central vision. he noted that ferraria is legally blind in her right eye. he believed her injuries were consistent with blunt-force trauma, such as being hit with a champagne bottle. defense evidence defendant testified that he and adams made reservations for the vip room of the game sports bar on the day of the incident. he saw ferraria there and at some point 7 with defendant and adams, and it was her suggestion to go to starz. ferraria said she drinks and see some of her friends who worked there. adams drove the escalade because defendant had been drinking. starz was closed, and they next went to a gas station. defendant denied that he became angry with ferraria because she looked at some other men at the gas station. ferraria said she wanted to find somewhere to have drinks, and adams said it was getting late. she asked ferraria where she lived in order to take her home. ferraria was not ready to go home and wanted to keep partying. adams and ferraria began to argue about whether or not to take her home. ferraria made derogatory remarks about adams, and adams was insulted. at one point, ferraria tapped adams on the back of the head. adams became angry and told ferraria that they were dropping her off. adams exited the freeway at vermont avenue, immediately pulling over on the street. defendant believed he should drive from that point on because adams was so upset. he and adams got out of the cadillac to exchange places. they crossed paths in adams and ferraria fighting. he went back around the front of the cadillac and saw that ferraria was on top of adams. ferraria was holding a bottle of champagne over her head ran over to the two women, who were then struggling over the bottle.4 he shoved ferraria off adams and she flew forward. he wanted to prevent her from trying to strike again. defendant then picked up adams and asked her if she was okay. they walked back to the car and defendant drove home after determining that adams was not injured. spoke with a deputy at the front desk. they were told to contact the lapd. they left 4 defendant testified on cross-examination that adams and ferraria were standing up when they were struggling over the bottle. 8 their telephone number and names, and a detective tyson telephoned them. they were not contacted by detective williams. rebuttal evidence detective williams of the lapd received a telephone call from adams at noon on april 13, 2011just a few hours after the incident. he spoke with defendant during the same call. defendant wanted to know why the police were looking for him. detective defendant replied that his girlfriend and another girl had been involved in a fight, and the police were showing photographs of him to some individuals. defendant further explained that he and his girlfriend met a young lady in the vip section of the game sports bar, and after a couple of hours he asked this young lady if she wanted to leave and go to another club called starz. when they got to starz it was about to close and he asked her if she wanted to go to their house, and she agreed. when the detective asked three because her daughter had to go to school. they told her they were not going to get up ulled over and the car door, and began to pull the other woman out of the car. the two women began to fight outside the car. after the fight, the woman ran down the street. he and his girlfriend got back in their car and drove away. defendant said nothing about a champagne bottle being used as a weapon or about pressing charges. man who was a criminal investigation and he was a potential witness. 9 discussion i. lack of lesser included offense instruction defendant contends that the trial court had a sua sponte obligation to instruct the jury on the offense of battery causing serious bodily injury ( 243, subd. (d)) as a lesser eye was injured to the extent that it was useless for the ordinary and practical purposes of life within the meaning of section 203. b. relevant authority human being of a member of his body, or disables, disfigures, or renders it useless, or cuts or disables the tongue, or puts out an eye, or slits the nose, ear, or lip, is guilty of question as to whether all of the elements of the charged offense were present [citation], but not when there is no evidence that the offense was less than that charged. people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 154; accord, people v. valdez any evidence, no matter but such instructions are required whenever evidence that the defendant is guilty only of people v. breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 162; accord, people v. thomas (2012) 53 cal.4th 771, 813.) we review the failure to instruct on a necessarily included lesser offense under the standard of people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836. (people v. breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 165.) we must determine whether an examination of the entire record 10 establishes that there is a reasonable probability the claimed error affected the outcome. (ibid.) c. proceedings below the jury was instructed with calcrim no. 801 that, in order for the jury to find defendant guilty of mayhem, the people had to prove that the defendant caused serious bodily injury when he unlawfully and maliciously disabled or made useless a part of ability to see that the eye was useless for the purpose of ordinary sight. the instruction further provided that a serious bodily injury may include, but is not limited to, a protracted loss or impairment of function of any bodily member or organ, a wound requiring extensive suturing, and serious disfigurement. the instruction stated that a disfiguring injury may be permanent even if the injury can be repaired by medical procedures. d. no error defendant argues that the testimony of both ferraria and dr. isaacs indicated that, although there was a blind spot in the center focus residual vision in the periphery of her eye by means of which she could discern objects. injury, the injury element of mayhem was not proved beyond a reasonable doubt. ferraria still had sufficient vision to discern objects and thus was able to use her eye in the ordinary and usual practical purposes of life. there was no evidence that the limited vision in her right eye substantially diminished her ability to see when she used both of m no. 801.) defendant emphasizes that he does not challenge the 11 (people v. dennis (1985) 169 cal.app.3d 1135, 1138; see also people v. nunes (1920) 47 ts possessor cannot people v. dennis, the ability to focus. she achieved a visual acuity of 20/50 in the eye with eyeglasses, but the glasses blurred the vision in her other eye. (169 cal.app.3d at p. 1138.) the court found such that the victim could not use and the jury reached the correct verdict in finding the defendant guilty of mayhem. (ibid.) in people v. green (1976) 59 cal.app.3d 1, a machete blow to the eye had d he lost the ability to focus. with a corrective lens, the his peripheral vision and caused double vision. (id. at p. 3.) the court held that substantial evidenuseless for ordinary purposes, could not be mended, and the mayhem verdict was correct. (id. at p. 4.) s for the purpose of ordinary sight. as defendant himself acknowledges, ferraria was left with retina is damaged, and she cannot see the center of whatever she is looking at. she sees a black spot in the center of her right eye, and she is classified as legally blind in that eye. ferraria explained that the black hole in the center of her right eye obscures whatever she looks at. outside that black hole it is a blurry gray. the closer the object viewed is to her eye, the more the object is obscured by the black spot. 12 merely because ferraria can function to a certain degree because she still has sight in her uninjured eye does not mean that her right eye was not rendered nearly useless. in the context of eye injuries, section 203 and calcrim no. 801 define mayhem as an injury eye, in the singular. given the degreof guilty on the mayhem charge was supported by the evidence. accordingly, because there was no substantial evidence that the offense defendant committed was less than the offense charged, the trial court was not obliged to read an instruction on a lesser included offense of mayhem. ii. convictions in counts 2 and 3 defendant contends that his conviction and the attendant great bodily injury enhancement related to count 3 must be vacated. according to defendant, his conviction for assault with a deadly weapon in count 2 and his conviction of assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury in count 3 were but a single crime. both counts were charged under section 245, subdivision (a)(1). this statute provides that the offense may or deadly weapon or instrdefendant may be convicted only once. b. relevant authority convicted of multiple offenses based on a single act or an indivisible course of conduct. offenses connected together in their commission, or different statements of the same offense . . . . the prosecution is not required to elect between the different offenses or counts set forth in the accusatory pleading, but the defendant may be convicted of any people v. pearson (1986) 42 cal.3d 351, 354.) 13 multiple convictions based on necessarily included offenses, however, are prohibited. (people v. reed (2006) 38 cal.4th 1224, 1227.) of another with a deadly weapon or instrument other than a firearm or by any means of force likely to the person of another with a deadly weapon or instrument or by any means of force likely produce great bodily injury is not an offense separate from . . . the offense of assault with in re mosley (1970) 1 cal.3d 913, 919, fn. 5; see people v. aguilar (1997) 16 cal.4th 1023, 1036-1037 [the single offense of aggravated assault may be people v. milward (2011) 52 cal.4th 580, 585 [ 245 provides different means certain means of committing the crime deserve greater punishment, such as with use of a firearm, and not because the legislature intended to define separate crimes].) the issue of whether a defendant may receive multiple convictions is one of law, subject to independent review. (people v. johnson (2007) 150 cal.app.4th 1467, 1474.) c. count 3 must be vacated in the instant case, respondent agrees that former section 245, subdivision (a)(1) defines only one crime. respondent argues, however, that defendant is mistaken in assuming he committed only one crime. respondent asserts that defendant assaulted ferraria at least twicefirst by kicking her so hard that he left a footprint on her back, and second by smashing her face with a bottle. according to respondent, it is irrelevant that these separate acts occurred during the same fight. respondent cites people v. reed, supraany number of the offenses 14 it is a given that reviewing courts in california have generally affirmed multiple convictions for a single act or indivisible course of conduct. in many of these cases, the indivisible course of conduct resulted in multiple convictions, but the convictions were for violations of multiple statutes. (see, e.g., people v. sloan (2007) 42 cal.4th 110, 119; people v. reed, supra, 38 cal.4th at pp. 1226, 1230; people v. benavides (2005) 35 cal.4th 69, 97; people v. pearson, supra, 42 cal.3d at p. 354; in re jose h. (2000) 77 cal.app.4th 1090, 1095.) in the instant case, we have two convictions for the same statute, and we note that multiple convictions have been affirmed in such cases as well. (see, e.g., people v. correa (2012) 54 cal.4th 331, 337; people v. scott (1994) 9 cal.4th 331, 346; people v. harrison (1989) 48 cal.3d 321, 327; people v. shields (2011) 199 cal.app.4th 323, 330-331; people v. johnson, supra, 150 cal.app.4th at p. 1473; people v. healy (1993) 14 cal.app.4th 1137, 1139.) in the latter cases, it is clear that the determination as to whether multiple convictions are appropriate under the same statute is manifestly grounded in the facts of each case. we conclude that in the instant case, only one conviction for aggravated in count 2, the people alleged and the jury found true that defendant committed an assault with a deadly weapon and personally inflicted great bodily injury upon ferraria. in count 3, the people alleged and the jury found true that defendant committed an assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury and personally inflicted great bodily injury upon ferraria. at trial, there was no evidence of any injuries other than the smashed bones and eye injury caused by the bottle. ferraria did indeed testify that immediately prior to the stunning final blow, which she later attributed to the bottle, she felt some blows on her upper back. she stated in two separate interviews that she believed she might have been kicked, and her father testified that she had a footprint on her back. in me and with so few blows that it strains credulity to find more than a single assault under former section 245, subdivision (a)(1). (people v. frank (1865) 28 cal. 507, 513 f which 15 separately, or all together, may constitute the offense, all such acts may be charged in a single count, for the reason that notwithstanding each act may by itself constitute the offense, all of them together do no more, and likewise constitute but one and the same different instrumentalities and causing several injuries was found to justify multiple convictions of the same statute. (see, e.g., people v. healy, supra, 14 cal.app.4th at p. 1139 [charges and resultant convictions for numerous violations of  273.5, subd. (a) (corporal injury to a cohabitant), over a period of time are proper]; people v. johnson, supra, 150 cal.app.4th at p. 1473 [convictions upheld for three counts of corporal injury upon a cohabitant ( 273.5) arising from a single incident where defendant beat the victim in the face and head; held her by the throat against the wall; beat her on her back, hips, and legs; and stabbed her in the upper arm causing two black eyes, a split lip, bruises to the neck, back, and hips, and a puncture wound to the arm].) people v. ryan (2006) 138 cal.app.4th 360 (ryan), where defendant ryan was charged, inter alia, with several counts of forgery in violation of section 470. (ryan, at pp. 362-363.) the ryan court stated that the various subdivisions of section 470 set out different ways of committing a single offense, i.e., forgery. (ryan, at pp. 364-365, 366.) therefore, doing one or more of the proscribed acts with respect to the same instrument constituted only one offense. (id. at p. 367.) as a result, with respect to one incident, defendant could not be convicted of two counts of forgeryone for signing the stolen check and another for uttering it at a store, even though these acts were listed in separate subdivisions of section 470. (ryan, at pp. 365, 369.) since this situation occurred with two different instruments uttered at two different stores, the reviewing court vacated one conviction for each incident. (id. at p. 371.) ryan distinguished those cases where multiple convictions were charged and convictions were upheld under section 954 for violations of separate statutes. (ryan, supra, 138 cal.app.4th at pp. 368-represent a different statement of the same offense, it sets out a separate crime, not justas in the case of section 470alternative ways in which the same crime can be 16 id. at p. 369.) we believe that the reasoning of ryan applies to the instant convictions under section 245. as we have noted, circumstances that might alter this view are not present in the instant case. charges in counts 2 and 3 bolsters the conclusion that multiple convictions were improper. the assault. and in are contained in this. basically, if you try to hurt somebody with a deadly or dangerous weapon. so that would come in play if, lnot using a weapon. these are kind of in conjunction with one another, so we leave it up to the jury. you could choose given that the champagne bottle was destroyed by the police before trial, the prosecutor was apparenteye injuries may have been caused by a kick or a stomp to her head. this argument shows that the people were not proceeding on the theory that defendant committed two discrete acts of agin count 3 of assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury was based on his kicking ferraria. there was no substantial evidence that defendant conducted a prolonged attack on ferraria by kicking and punching her prior to hitting her with the champagne bottle. rather, the evidence shows that, while ferraria was on top of adams during their wrestling match, defendant punched or kicked ferraria around the upper back area a few times and then immediately hit her with the bottle. indeed, ferraria 17 he hit her so hard. it is significant that section 954 and people v. reed merely state that a defendant may suffer multiple convictions for different offenses that arise from the same act or course of conduct. (people v. reed, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 1226.) we believe that in the instant scenario, only one assault was committed and proved. accordingly, the conviction in count 3 and its sentence must be vacated. disposition sentence imposed thereon. as modified, the judgment is affirmed. the superior court is directed to prepare an amended abstract of judgment and forward it to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published in the official reports. boren, p.j. we concur: ashmann-gerst, j. ferns, j.* _______________________________________________________________ * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 