filed 6/24/13 in re lockett ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three in re willie ray lockett, jr., on habeas corpus. b242244 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka022221) petition for writ of habeas corpus. patricia schnegg, judge. petition granted. susan l. jordan, under appointment by the court of appeal, for petitioner. kamala d. harris, attorney general, jennifer a. neill, assistant attorney general, phillip lindsay and gregory j. marcot, deputy attorneys general, for respondent. 2 inmate willie ray lockett, jr., petitions for a writ of habeas corpus after the board of parole hearings (board) found him unsuitable for parole for the fourth time. factual background 1. commitment offense, sentence, and prior unsuitability findings. on april 16, 1994, lockett, who had turned 20 four days earlier, carjacked dalbir singh1 able to flee, but lockett forcehim. after driving for a few blocks lockett robbed singh of cash and other possessions, blocks away and releaserichmond in northern california. a few days later lockett led police on a high-speed -end street, he stopped and fled. police searching the car found a .45-caliber semi-automatic gun inside. lockett pleaded guilty to kidnapping for robbery with personal use of a firearm (pen. code,  209, subd. (b), 12022.5, subd. (a));2 carjacking ( 215, subd. (a)); and second degree robbery ( 211). the trial court sentenced lockett to life in prison with department of corrections on april 5, 1995. his minimum parole eligibility date was october 16, 2004. the board found lockett unsuitable for parole at hearings conducted in 2003, 2006, and 2009. his most recent hearing transpired on january 13, 2011. the board again denied parole, for the minimum period of three years, but recommended lockett 1 ame is variously spelled dalbir, dabir, and dalveer. it is unclear which spelling is correct. 2 all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 move to advance his next hearing pursuant to section 3041.5, subdivision (d)(1). at the time of the 2011 parole suitability hearing, he had served approximately 16 years and was 36 years old. lockett petitioned for a writ of habeas corpus in the superior court, which was denied on february 14, 2012. on june 29, 2012, lockett filed the instant habeas petition in this court. we issued an order to show cause. 2. social and prior criminal history. four years old. he has five younger half-siblings, two born to his father and three to his mother; all but one were born after he was incarcerated. he lived with both parents at at the age of eight, he was hospitalized for 11 months for a spinal disease, and was forced to lie on his stomach without moving for much of the time. unknowingly used incorrect gang lingo. he reported taking a gun and shooting at the assailants, but apparently missed. as a result of the beating, he became more aggressive, got into fights at school, and was suspended twice as a result. he was expelled once for participating in extortion. he was sent to live with his father in oakland, but returned to local gang. he left school after completing the 10th grade. between the ages of 12 and 16, he had at least 10 contacts with police that did not result in sustained petitions. five involved joyriding or grand theft auto; one involved extortion; and one involved assault with a firearm. in april 1988 he suffered a sustained petition for assault with a deadly weapon other than a firearm and attempted robbery, after he fought with three minors who attacked him. in september 1988 he suffered another sustained petition for grand theft person after he took a skateboard from another minor, and threatened to shoot the victim when the victim tried to retrieve it. he was placed with the california youth authority (cya) when he was 16, after he violated probation by refusing to follow a 4 made gang signs. after his release from cya, lockett attended community college for one and one-half years, where he was on the football and swim teams. he was employed in various jobs for approximately two years. he was on cya parole when he committed the commitment offenses. lockett used marijuana several times a week starting at age 15. according to a 2003 psychological evaluation, he sold cocaine on the street to support his drug habit. he stopped drug use when he was placed in cya. after his release, at the age of 19, he increased his marijuana use to once or twice a week, sometimes lacing the marijuana with cocaine. he reportedly stopped using marijuana a month before the commitment offense, because he had a bad experience with a batch that, unbeknownst to him, had been laced with pcp. he did not drink alcohol until he was 18, and quickly stopped, given his in 2010, lockett told a prison psychologist he was on good terms, and in contact with, his parents and half-siblings. 3. prison disciplinary history. while in prison, lockett was convicted twice of being in possession of a weapon ( 4502), once in 1997 and once in 2003 for an incident that occurred in january 2002. as a result, he received two additional three-year determinate sentences. including these incidents, lockett has received 12 cdc 115 serious rules violations,3 including nine -4 he has also suffered three administrative rules violations 3 believed to be a violation of law or is not minor in nature. (in re roderick (2007) 154 cal.app.4th 242, 249, fn. 3; cal. code regs., tit. 15,  3312, subd. (a)(3).) 4 lockett states in his petition that in addition to the two violations for weapons possession he suffered four violations for mutual combat; two for battery on an inmate; one for battery on a correctional officer; and one for possession of dangerous contraband. the 2011 hearing transcript at one point indicates a weapon possession in 2009, but this appears to be a typographical error. 5 for refusing a direct order, and has been counseled four times for minor misconduct. lockett has been discipline-free since 2002. 4. accomplishments while in prison. after early 2002, lockett became a model, or at least much improved, prisoner. he obtained his ged in 2008 and completed various community college classes. his test of adult basic education (tabe) score increased from the 8th grade level when he entered prison, to the 12th grade, nine-month level by 2007. he earned certifications in small business management from the professional career development institute, and community college classes, including two english courses, counseling, early childhood education, and mathematics. in 2010 he was enrolled in four additional classes. lockett ended his gang affiliation in approximately 2003. he sought permission to have a gang tattoo on his neck removed, without success. he became a muslim in 2003 and served as the imam of a prison religious group. he attended alcoholics anonymous (aa) in 2006 narcotics anonymous (na) from 2006 through 2009, and was the program chairman at one point. since 2005 he has worked as a cook, on the yard crew, in the paint shop, and as a barber, and has consistently received average to exceptional ratings. he has participated in a variety of self-help programs including overcoming addiction, stress management, search yourself, anger management, successful parenting skills, understanding and handling addiction, core emotions training, conditions of life, and handling suppression, among others. in his spare time, he studies yoga and tai chi, and draws. 5. psychological reports. in 2003, lockett was diagnosed with depressive disorder, polysubstance dependence in sustained full remission in a controlled environment, and antisocial personality disorder. his risk of violent recidivism was estimated to be above average. 6 for violence. a 2010 psychological evaluation concluded that overall, lockett presented in the psychologist used three standard assessment tools: the psychopathy check list-revised (pcl-r), the historical-clinical-risk management-20 (hcr-20), and the level of service/case management inventory (ls/cmi). lockett scored in the moderate range for psychopathy on the pcl-r; the moderate range for violent recidivism on the hcr-20; and the medium range for overall recidivism on the ls/cmi. all three assessment tools relied heavily on historical factors. at the interview for the 2010 psychological t met the criteria of having had a conduct disorder based on his history of criminality and aggression as an adolescent. as of 2010, lockett showed no evidence of any major mental illness. he demonstrated insight into the issues related to the life offense, to his previous use of substances, and in regard to his parole and relapse prevention planning. he did not have negative attitudes and had adopted a prosocial orientation. he had no current symptoms of a severe mental disorder, emotional or behavior volatility, or impulsivity. he had demonstrated response to treatment and was motivated toward self-improvement. 6. parole plans. lockett presented considerable information demonstrating his parole plans, including offers of support, transitional living, and possible employment. his father, who owns a restaurant, and his stepmother offered their support, in terms of housing and a job. past the formative stage and mopending validation of his parole plans. 7 7. as noted, at the 2011 hearing the board arelease would present an unreasonable risk to public safety. the board indicated it did d the denial on five factors: (1) toward, minimization of, and lack of insight into the causative factors of, the crime; (2) his need for (4) his unstable social history as a youth; and (5) the and violent reoffense upon release. the panel observed that it was required to set the next parole hearing for a minimum of three years in the future, but strongly recommended that lockett move, pursuant to section 3041.5, subdivision (d)(1), that the discussion 1. standard of review. eligible parole release date, unless it determines that public safety requires a lengthier period of incarceration. ( 3041, subds. (a) & (b); in re shaputis (2008) 44 cal.4th 1241, 1256 (shaputis i); in re lawrence (2008) 44 cal.4th 1181, 1202 (lawrence).) when determining parole suitability, the board considers a variety of factors specified in the pertinent regulations, as well as any additional reliable and relevant information.5 (in re 5 circumstances tending to establish unsuitability for parole include that the prisoner (1) committed the offense in an especially heinous, atrocious, or cruel manner; (2) has a previous record of violence; (3) has an unstable social history; (4) has sexually assaulted another individual in a sadistic manner; (5) has a lengthy history of severe mental problems related to the offense; and (6) has engaged in serious misconduct while in prison or jail. (cal. code regs., tit. 15,  2281, subd. (c); lawrence, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 1202, fn. 7.) circumstances tending to show suitability for parole include that the inmate (1) does not have a juvenile record of assaulting others or committing crimes with 8 shaputis (2011) 53 cal.4th 192, 218-219 (shaputis ii); lawrence, at p. 1202, fns. 7 & 8; cal. code regs., tit. 15,  2281, subds. (b), (c) & (d).) the overarching consideration is public safety. (lawrence, in re davidson (2012) 207 cal.app.4th 1215, 1221; shaputis ii, at p. 210; in re shigemura (2012) 210 cal.app.4th 440, 451-452.) a rely whether some evidence supports the suitability factors. (shaputis ii, at p. 209; in re prather (2010) 50 cal.4th 238, 251-252; lawrence, at p. 1191.) only a modicum of evidence is required. resolution of conflicts and the weight to be given the evidence are matters for the board, shaputis ii, at pp. 210, 221; shigemura, at pp. 450-procedurally flawed or arbitrary. (shaputis ii, at id. at p. 211.) on the other hand, judicial review must be sufficiently robust to reveal and remedy any evident deprivation of constitutional rights. (id. at p. 215; lawrence, at p. 1210; shigemura, at p. 452.) the potential of personal harm to victims; (2) has a stable social history; (3) has shown signs of remorse; (4) committed the crime as the result of significant stress in his or her life, especially if the stress built up over a long period; (5) committed the crime as a result of battered woman syndrome; (6) lacks any significant history of violent crime; (7) is of an age that reduces the probability of recidivism; (8) has made realistic plans for release, or has developed marketable skills that can be put to use upon release; and (9) has engaged in institutional activities suggesting an enhanced ability to function within the law upon release. (cal. code regs., tit. 15,  2281, subd. (d); lawrence, at p. 1203, fn. 8.) 9 2. with the foregoing princip a. attitude, insight, minimization, victim awareness. the circumstances that led to the commitment crime; and such an inability can imply that the inmate remains vulnerable to those circumstances and, if confronted by them again, provide a logical nexus between the gravity of a commitment offense and a finding of in re rodriguez (2011) 193 cal.app.4th 85, 98; shaputis i, supra, 44 cal.4th at pp. 1260-significant fac(shaputis ii, supra, lockett minimized his culpability for the crime, lacked insight into the causative factors in the record. based upon a 2010 letter lockett wrote to his victim, singh, in which lockett apologized for the set of urban crime i perpetrated against you was a childish antic in an attempt to gain the attention of my parents. being incarcerated seemed to be the only thing which caught their 10 a prank. . . explaining the basis for the unsuitability finding, the panel stated that it wished to see the crime. somehow, i think the panel believes you get it, but when you say things like childish pranks it minimizes and begins to justify a very serious criminal act. and so you there is no qulacks insight or has minimized the seriousness of the crime. at the hearing lockett stated that he did simply trying to explain his lack of maturity and stability, his defiance toward authority, de-valuing the situation. i understand that i was wrong in this crime. and that this crime was very violent, and this crime caused harm, significant harm, to this individual, lockett pleaded guilty to the offenses and told both the board and the psychologist that he accepts the official version of the crime was accurate. he has not attempted to deflect blame for the crime. he has repeatedly acknowledged that his crime was very violent and traumatized the victim. he also readily acknowledged that the high-speed chase he instigated endangered everyone in the neighborhood, as well as passengers in his car. the evidence here does not resemble that in the authorities cited by the warden. (see, e.g., in re tapia (2012) 207 cal.app.4th 1104, 1113 [contrary to the evidence, inmate denied planning a murder]; in re shippman (2010) 185 cal.app.4th 446, 460-462 [inmate repeatedly denied or minimized past incidents in which his irrational need to control his romantic partners resulted in emotional or physical violence].) words was ill-some evidence he has minimized the seriousness of, or his role in, the crime. 11 led to the crime, that is, he lived in a gang area, joined the gang, and adopted the gang mentality. the board also ard opined that lockett needed to further individuals who chose to go down a different path in the same neighborhood. . . . and own inner psychic understacomplained that lockett had intellectualized the incident too much in the letter to his victim.6 committing any aspect of the crime; he has not challenged the version of the crime as set forth in the probation report, nor has he made implausible excuses for his actions. at the 2011 hearing, lockett told the board he had been depressed; had trouble adjusting after being paroled from the youth authority; and had not been mature enough to cope with the communicating and expressing himself. he had been unwilling to accept authority. his parents did not provide the emotional support he needed, and he got into trouble with 6 concurrent advice that lockett develop more insight into the causative factors of the crime. 12 car so he could travel to northern california where his father lived, where he perceived told the psychologist that he had learned through attending aa and na that he used drugs as a teen to ward off depression and loneliness, as an escape, and as part of the . . . able to logically think correctly. to know that i was doing something wrong but still be hindered from again is that no one should ever do harm to others, and that is now my spiritual orientation. i was a criminal, and an outlaw. i am a citizen now. i ask for help if i am neither the 2010 psychological evaluation nor the 2007 psychological evaluation indicated lockett lacked insight into the causative factors of the crime. to the contrary, especially describing a turning point experience that brought about a change in his attitude, perception, and demeanor. this recognition shifted his focus from self-centeredness to an outer directed future orientation that accepted responsibility and lockett had accepted responsibility, believed his sentence was fair and deserved, demonstrated remorse for his actions, and had the capability to empathetically understand 13 shift[] in his attitudes and in his behaviors since about 2003, is documented in his records, and also in how he conveys the changes that have been occurring in himself w insight . . into your life as a whole, the causative factors of the crime, your gang activity, the whole bit. . . psychological factors that impelled him to commit the crimes, as do the 2007 and 2010 psychological evaluations and the statements of the 2009 panel. the 2011 board was not, of course, required to accept the findings of either the psychologists or the earlier board. (see shaputis ii, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 213; in re rozzo (2009) 172 cal.app.4th psychologists].) but review of the record as a whole does not reveal evidence from which the panel could reasonaour supreme court has noted, no special formula for a prisoner to articulate in order to communicate that he or she has gained insight into, and formed a commitment to ending, a previous pattern of violent shaputis i, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 1260, fn. 18.) the circumstances here contrast with cases in which there was evidence of inadequate insight. in shaputis ii, for example, the inmate was convicted of murdering his second wife after he shot her in the neck from close range after an alcohol-fueled argument. among other things, he maintained that the shooting was accidental in the face of strong evidence to the contrary; he denied he had a problem in the way he treated women, despite his history of domestic violence and molestation of one of his daughters; psychological reports reflected that his character remained unchanged and that he was unable to gain insight into his antisocial behavior despite years of therapy and of his violent conduct that it might reasonshaputis ii, supra, 14 deficiency and alcohol abuse [was] insufficient to explain an entrenched pattern of domestic abuse, child molestation, and a pibid.) in in re shigemura, supra, id. at p. 450.) her portrayal of herself as a passive, detached observer, rather than an active participant in the crime, demonstrated id. at p. 457.) in contrast, lockett testified at the hearing that he was responsible for carjacking singh at gunpoint, placing him in the trunk, and leading officers on the high-speed chase. he has not minimized or implausibly excused any aspect of his crime. nothing in the record before us evidences the kind of inability or refusal to accept responsibility for, or articulate the reasons for his commission of, the crime. unsupported by the evidence. one of the commissioners at the hearing asked how many people lockett regarded as his victims. the commissioner explained that in addition to the people lockett named, the victims were all those persons who indirectly suffered as a rresult of a robbery, a child would go to bed hungry; as a result of the hunger, the child d the abused child might grow up to abuse his or her own children. thus, the victims of opriately.7 7 . . [w]hat happens if the money you just 15 lockett explained at the hearing that he understood his crime must have caused the fear activities such as going out at night or being alone in parking lots as a result of his crime, and that such what he did to the victim was very traumatic, and interactions. the psychologist opined that lockett had the capability for empathetic understanding of the consequences of his actions. thus, the record does not contain evidence that lockett lacks victim awareness. b. relapse prevention plan. while in prison, which had an outside branch in oakland where he hoped to parole. he anticipated being able to rely on that group for help, training, assistance dealing with where he hoped to parole. moreover, he had been preliminarily accepted into a program offered through san francisco state university. in regard to his general parole plans, lockett explained he would obtain religious support from the islamic community and the zaytuna institute of berkeley. he had explored several options for transitional living, including the rubicon international program and the delancey street program, which a -help and programming favorably. self--study and apply it to yourself. -help programming . . . is definitely the street with the gang terrorizing the neighborhood how many victims have you left 16 lot . . . sing is the more important steps in a plan restrictions are gone. . . got where you would turn. whwhat do i have to avoid? how do i make that look? and you have to know those things history of substance abuse. as set forth ante, the record shows lockett used marijuana and cocaine as a youth. the psychologist stated that lockett needed to continue substance abuse programming if the free community appear[ed] to be good . . . , pending his continuing with substance abuse programming, and his ongoing clarification of issues he might need to work with related to substance abuse as they apply to his life at present, and also as he would need go up if he engaged in substance abuse. thus, the board could reasonably conclude that to demonstrate suitability for parole, lockett would have to show he had taken steps to address substance abuse both in and out of prison. but the record reflects he had done so. he attended na and aa for a peappeared to realistically assess both his past use of substances, and the plans he has for psychological evaluation explained that through attending aa and na, lockett 17 drugs, rather than being addicted to, or dependent on drugs. he came to the conclusion he used drugs to ward off depression and loneliness. the drugs served as an escape. he also recognized his addiction to the gang lifestyle, and some of his drug use was in part moreover, there was no evidence lockett was addicted, or that at the time of the hearing, had a substance abuse problem. lockett had no disciplinary violations related to substance abuse. his pattern of use as a teenager showed he was able to cease use without withdrawal symptoms. significantly, there was no evidence the life crime was plan, his participation in na and aa, and the statements showing he has identified his indicates current dangerousness. (cf. in re stevenson (2013) 213 cal.app.4th 841, 869-870 [shortcomings in relapse plan were a factor supporting unsuitability finding where the inmate had a long history of alcohol and drug abuse; he abruptly quit a job to focus on selling drugs; he sold crack cocaine for months before the commitment offense; drug use was a factor in the commitment offense; he continued substance abuse for some time while in prison; he had been diagnosed with alcohol and cannabis abuse; and the psychologist opined that his relapse plan was deficient, increasing his risk of dangerousness]; see generally in re loresch (2010) 183 cal.app.4th 150, 161-162.) c. unstable social history and prison misconduct. grants of probation and parole from the cya. a prior record of violence and an unstable social history are factors tending to show unsuitability for parole. (cal. code regs., tit. 15,  2281, subd. (c)(3).) here, -incarceration gang membership, and juvenile record are temporally remote, immutable factors, occurring approximately 17 years before the 2011 hearing. where the board considers immutable factors to be predictive why that is the case. [citation.] 18 . . . do not by themselves continues in re denham (2012) 211 cal.app.4th 702, 717; lawrence, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 1221; in re sanchez (2012) 209 cal.app.4th 962, 975.) these factors remain relevant to the - or post-incarceration history, or current demeanprobative. (lawrence, at pp. 1214, 1221; in re ryner (2011) 196 cal.app.4th 533, 545.) the board did not articulate such a nexus, and the record does not reveal one. as we have noted, lockett was not diagnosed with a drug or alcohol dependency. the psychologist opined that his pre-incarceration substance use was social and related to his gang affiliation, not criminality. he was never disciplined in prison for substance abuse-related offenses. alcohol and drugs played no role in the commitment offense. while incarcerated, he attended available substance abuse programming consistently and 2010 psychological evaluation determined that his prognosis for his ability to refrain from substance abuse in the free community appeared good, providing he continues with ically assess[ed] both his past use of currently presents a danger to society. (see in re loresch, supra, 183 cal.app.4th at pp. 161-162.) current dangerousness. lockett formally debriefed from the gang in approximately 2003. this process required that staff evaluate lockett to conclude he had actually dropped out structure, activities, and affiliates. (see cal. code regs., tit. 15,  3378.1.) lockett told the board he has rejected the gang lifestyle and actively encourages other inmates to stay away from prison gangs. the board appears to have credited these averments. the 19 dangerousness. given that lockett is no longer gang-affiliated, his juvenile gang membership provides no evidence of current dangerousness. similarly, the board current dangerousness. (see in re sanchez, supra, 209 cal.app.4th at pp. 974-975 public safety]; see generally in re moses (2010) 182 cal.app.4th 1279, 1312.) rote recitation of immutable historic factors does not suffice to establish current dangerousness. (id. at p. 1304.) the record does not provide any other evidence of an evidence of relationshin re denham, supra, 211 cal.app.4th at p. 717.) supporting its unsuitability finding. to the contrary, the board stated the only area of -wise you have managed to stay out of trouble since 2003. and . . . your positive efforts to rehabilitate yourself have led to you being assaulted in 2009.[8] . . . seems to have set himself on a not limited to the evidence directly specified by the parole authority. (shaputis ii, supra, years of discipline-free behavior as a positive factor overcoming any negative inferences 8 lockett testified that a year and one-half before the 2011 hearing, another inmate stabbed him. lockett was the chairman of an na group, gave sermons and taught classes on morals and ethics, apparently in connection with his islamic faith, and through these activities attempted to steer others away from gangs. a group of inmates were hostile to these activities, precipitating the attack. 20 that might be drawn from his earlier prison misconduct. we are not at liberty to d. risk assessment. finally, the board pointed to the fact that dr. lehrer, the psychologist who diagnostic tools: the pcl-r, the hcr-20, and the ls/cmi. the pcl-r and the hcr-20 estimate the risk for future violence in the community. the ls/cmi estimates the risk for general recidivism. lockett scored in the moderate or medium range in each. part to historical factors. as to his score on the hcr-that the bulk of data is historical, then by definition, these scores are not easily amenable to significant change, regardless of the number of years of his incarceration. [] it contributing to his overall moderate risk rating. the other areas of the measure currently have very little contribution to his risk of violence. thus, while inmate lockett may never have a less elevated total score on this measure, his maintaining prosocial functioning can over time continue to reduce the significance of his risk of violence on is, elevated his risk. similarly, in regard to the pcl-scores on the pcl-r take into account a combination of his history as reviewed, and his current clinical presentation. . . . [i]tems must be scored based upon the lifetime history was arrested or charged prior to age 16, his punishment for institutional misconduct, his history of expulsion and suspension from school, his acquaintance with criminals, his gang involvement, and his history of physical violence with a weapon. 21 violence and criminality from about the age of 11, extending until about 2002. he does meet the criteria of having had a conduct disorder based on his history of criminality and aggression as an adolescent. since 2002 he has been demonstrating greater controls and personal maturation. this history is best diagnosed as antisocial personality disorder on could theoretically be used to deny parole forever. using a risk assessment elevated almost entirely by preconviction historical factors is little different than relying upon the heinous nature of a commitment offense to deny parole year after year. as with the evaluation of other immutable historical factors (see lawrence, supra, 44 cal.4th at pp. 1212-1214), a risk assessment that is elevated due to historical factors supports a score is probative of current dangerousness only to the extent the historical facts themselves remain probative of current dangerousness. as we have discussed, there is no evidence that they do so here. hearing in accordance with due process of law. (in re prather, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 244.) the warden requests that because section 3043 requires at least a 90-day notification period to the victim before a parole hearing, the deadline for a hearing on 9 is well-taken, and we order the hearing scheduled accordingly on remand. 9 shearing to review or consider the parole suitability or the setting of a parole date for any pri 22 disposition to the board of parole hearings for a new hearing comporting with due process, to be held within 120 days of the finality of this opinion. in the interests of justice, this opinion is made final as to this court five days after its filing. not to be published in the official reports aldrich, j. we concur: klein, p. j. kitching, j. 