filed 9/6/13 p. v. martin ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. brandon martin, defendant and appellant. b242102 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba386277 ) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, dennis j. landin, judge. affirmed. william j. capriola, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and john yang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant, brandon martin, appeals his conviction, by guilty plea, for possession of a controlled substance (health & saf. code,  11350). he was placed on deferred entry of judgment for 18 months. the judgment is affirmed. background evidence. 1. prosecution evidence. los angeles police officer victor cadena, assigned to a narcotics enforcement detail on the afternoon of july 6, 2011, was in plain clothes and driving an unmarked -american men walking down the street. one of them the description of a [grand theft auto] suspect that had been broadcast the day -so, he was exactly like they described, a light- the man with the dreadlocks turned out to be huteson and his companion was defendant martin. cadena radioed to have a backup unit respond to the scene and make a pedestrian stop. while awaiting the backup unit, cadena continued to monitor the two men. he saw them walk down monte vista and turn onto avenue houses west they met up with a male hispanic who . . . handed witness huteson an object. huthe backup officers arrived, cadena instructed them to detain huteson and martin, who were handcuffed. 3 cadena walked over and asked huteson and martin for their identifications. he also made a radio request to have officer ibarra, who had provided the description of the grand theft auto suspect, come to the scene to see if he could identify huteson. while waiting for ibarra to arrive, warrant checks were run on the two men. it turned out there was an outstanding misdemeanor arrest warrant for martin. on his martin was taken into custody on the outstanding arrest warrant. when martin was later searched at the police station holding tank, he was found to be in possession of cocaine. 2. defense evidence. martin testified he ran into his friend huteson after getting off the bus and they were walking down avenue 51. when huteson stopped to talk to a hispanic man, martin went into his handcuffed and taken to where huteson was being detained. about 20 minutes later, three police cars arrived. one of the officers indicated huteson fit the description of a robbery suspect. martin testified he asked the officers, identification, which was almost 30 contention cocaine discovered during his booking search. 4 discussion martin contends the cocaine discovered at the station house should have been street had been illegal. we conclude that, even if the temporary detention was illegal, the arrest and the cocaine was, therefore, admissible. hence, the trial court properly denied 1. background. at the suppression hearing, the trial court initially said it intended to suppress the cocaine because the police lacked sufficient cause to stop martin on the street. but after people v. brendlin (2008) 45 cal.4th 262, the court concluded the evidence was admissible because the legitimate jailhouse search that flowed from the outstanding arrest warrant was a sufficiently attenuating circumstance: . . . acting knowingly unconstitutwith someone who was a suspect in some other crime. and, of course, once he, the police officer learned of . . . the outstanding warrant . . . there is an intervening circumstance . . . the street. he stopped your client because your client was associated with someone who 2. standard of review. select the rule of law, and apply it to the facts in order to determine whether the law as resolution of the factual inquiry under the deferential substantial evidence standard. the ruling on whether the applicable law applies to the facts is a mixed question of law and fact that is subject to evaluating whether the fruits of a search 5 people v. brendlin, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 268.) 3. there may have been a valid terry stop. although the trial court relied on the attenuation of an initial illegality to admit the evidence, on appeal the attorney general contends the evidence could also have been properly admitted on the ground the temporary detention was lawful. this is a close question. a. legal principles. the seminal case in the area of stop-and-frisk detentions is terry v. ohio (1968) conduct necessarily swift action predicated upon the on-the-spot observations of the officer on the beat which historically has not been, and as a practical matter could not be, subjected to the warrant procedure. instead, the conduct involved in this case must be tesand seizures. [] nonetheless, the notions which underlie both the warrant procedure and the requirement of probable cause remain fully relevant in this context. . . . [i]t is ing the need to search justifying the particular intrusion the police officer must be able to point to specific and articulable facts which, taken together with rational inferences from those facts, reasonably warrant that intrusion. . . . and in making that assessment it is imperative that the facts be judged against an objective standard: would the facts available to the officer at the moment of the seizure or id. at pp. 21-22, fns. omitted.) 6 rcumstances of the particular governmental invasion of lesser standard than probable cause, and can arise from less reliable information than required for probable cause, including an anonymous tip. [citation.] but to be detention predicated on mere curiosity, rumor, or hunch is unlawful, even though the officer may be a[cpeople v. wells (2006) 38 cal.4th 1078, 1083.) b. discussion. citing ybarra v. illinois (1979) 444 u.s. 85 [100 s.ct. 338], martin argues his rior knowledge of appellant or suspicion that he was involved in criminal activity. appellant no indication in the record that the grand theft auto from the day before was committed by more than one in ybarra, officers looking for evidence of drug trafficking executed a search warrant naming the aurora tap tavern as the place to be searched and a bartender named greg as the person to be searched. upon entering the tavern, the officers advised all those present they would be frisked for weapons. ybarra, who was standing in front of a pinball machine, was found to be in possession of heroin. the supreme court held that any person found on the premises of the aurora tap tavern7 would be violating the law. the search warrant complaint did not allege that the bar was frequented by persons illegally purchasing drugs. it did not state that the informant had (ybarra v. illinois, supra, 444 u.s. at p. 90, fn. omitted.) ybarra y suspected of criminal activity does (id. at p. 91.) ed someone (huteson) fitting a very unique and specific description of a criminal suspect, i.e., an african-american male with dreadlocks, milling about the very location of the crime that occurred a day earlier. under these circumstances, there was certainly a sufficient basis to detain huteson for purposes of determining whether he in fact was the perpetrator of an earlier crime. because the criminal suspect was accompanied by one additional person, due to officer safety issues and due to the need to determine what criminal connections appellant may on the street and saw that person hand huteson an object. while this may not have sufficed to justify the detention by itself in the absence of evidence regarding the nature of the object, this certainly contributed to the totality of the circumstances the officers observed, supporting a reasona the attorney general cites people v. glasser (1995) 11 cal.4th 354, a case where officers were executing a search warrant at a suspected drug house when the defendant drove up, parked in the driveway and started to walk through a gate into the backyard. although the officers did not recognize the defendant as someone connected to the id. at p. 365) and he was detained. glasser held the detention 8 id. at p. 360.) in the case at bar, the officer safety factor could have been triggered in two ways. tion with the hispanic man might have been a drug transaction, and was arguably a drug suspect. drug-related crimes are classic examples of inherently violent situations in which investigating officers are legitimately concerned about their safety. (see ybarra v. illinois, supra, in the drug business]; people v. glasser, supra, st in protecting against violence during the search of a home for narcotics has been widely huteson and martin had both been involved in the auto burglary. people v. osborne (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 1052, pointed out that auto burglary, although not a classic . . are most instructive to the current case, as they point out that not only may an individual suspected of such a crime reasonably be anticipated to be armed with a weapon (such as a knife or a firearm), but pry tools, which may easily be used as weapons. . . . [] a similar analysis holds true for automobile burglary and automobile theft suspects, as they use tools that can readily be id. at pp. 1060-1061.) will explain, post, the trial court properly denied the suppression motion because any taint from an illegal pedestrian stop was sufficiently attenuated by the subsequent 9 4. ion was sufficiently attenuated by the outstanding arrest warrant. been illegal, the trial court correctly denied his suppression motion because the illegality was subsequently attenuated. as our supreme court held in people v. brendlin, supra, discovery of an outstanding arrest warrant prior to a search incident to arrest constitutes an intervening circumstance that may and, in the absence of purposeful or flagrant police misconduct, will attenuate the taint of the antecedent unlawful traffic stop. we join this chorus of cases and reverse the judgment of the court of appeal, which had in which he was a passenger on the sole ground that the outstanding warrant would not id. at p. 265, italics added.) brendlin explained: . not have come to light but for the illegal actions of the police. rather, the more apt g establishment of the primary illegality, the evidence to which instant objection is made has been come at by exploitation of that illegality or instead by means sufficiently distinguishable to be purged of the primary -fo[citation] can be too attenuated to justify exclusion. . . antecedent unlawful traffic stop is an issue of first impression for this court, the general framework for analyzing a claim of attenuation under the fourth amendment is well proceeding from the unlawful conduct has become so attenuated or has been interrupted . . 10 arrest warrant has attenuated the taint of an antecedent unlawful seizure, other state and federal courts have likewise invoked the three brown factors [citing brown v. illinois (1975) 422 u.s. 590, 592 (95 s.ct. 2254)] i.e., the temporal proximity of the unlawful seizure circumstances, and the flagrancy of the official misconduct in effecting the unlawful people v. brendlin, supra, 45 cal.4th at pp. 268-269.) in brendlin, an officer spotted a car being driven by karen simeroth with expired registration tags. the officer learned by radio a renewal application was in process and he could see a valid temporary operating permit taped to the rear window of the car. however, he could not tell if the permit matched the car, so he made a traffic stop to investigate further. the officer asked simeroth for her license and asked her passenger, defendant brendlin, to identify himself. during this query, the officer saw drug-related contraband in the car. the officer then learned by radio that defendant was a parolee with an outstanding arrest warrant. the court of appeal suppressed evidence found on defendant and in the car on the rationale that, because the officer had only a mere hunch the car was unregistered, the traffic stop was illegal. applying the three brown factors, brendlin held there was sufficient attenuation to admit the evidence. although a close temporal proximity between the illegal detention and the subsequent search usually militates against an attenuation finding,1 intervening circumstance is a lawful arrest under an outstanding arrest warrant, the ave exploited the people v. brendlin, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 270.) brendlin courts have held that the first brown factor is not relevant to the attenuation of the taint of 1 al police conduct and the challenged evidence was a volitional act by the defendant, such as people v. brendlin, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 270.) 11 an antecedent illegal seizure where the intervening circumstance is an outstanding arrest warrant. [citations.] other courts have reasoned that the first brown factor is nonetheless relevant (and tends to favor suppression of the evidence) but is not dispositive. [citations.] we need not decide which line of authority is correct because kind of situation, this first brown factor is outweibid.) brendlin brown factor, the case law uniformly holds that an arrest under a valid outstanding warrant and a search incident to that arrest is an intervening circumstance that tends to dissipate the taint caused by an illegal traffic stop. . . . the challenged evidence was thus the fruit of the outstanding warrant, and was not obtained through exploitation of the unlawful traffic stop. [citation.] [] the third brown factor, the flagrancy and purposefulness of the police purpose of the exclusionary rule contends that the reasonable suspicion that any occupant of the vehicle had violated the law when he made unregistered vehicle. laws does not establish that the traffic stop was pretextual or in bad faith. [citations.] deputy brokenbrough testified that he ordered the traffic stop in order to investigate the vehistop, but that (in his experience) such stickers sometimes belonged to a different vehicle or had been falsified. although the people have conceded that this was insufficient to justify a temporary detention to permit further investigation, the insufficiency was not so investigation of what he believed to be a suspicious registration, nor does the record show have an excuse to run [a] warrant 12 people v. brendlin, supra, 45 cal.4th at pp. 271-272.) martin argues his ca-searched) explained ante, such a pat search was probably warranted for reasons of officer safety and, in any event, nothing was found during this pat search. the drugs were not cadena had absolutely no reason to suspect he was involved in the auto burglary or any other crime. not so; the trial court reasonably concluded cadena suspected martin might brown v. illinois, supra, 422 u.s. 590, is misplaced. there the defendant came home to find two police detectives inside his brown, all without probable cause and without any warrant, when he arrived. they later testified that they made the arrest for the purpose of questioning brown as part of their id. at p. 592.) there was no attenuation in brown because the entire point of arresting the defendant had been the chance the detectives might find incriminating evidence for their on-going investigation. huteson, not because catena had some independent ulterior motive for investigating martin. and even if that connection was insufficient to justify a terry stop, it was enough to demonstrate catena had not been acting in bad faith. the trial court properly held the drug evidence was admissible because the llegal temporary detention. 13 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: kitching, j. aldrich, j. 