filed 8/23/13 p. v. galassi ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. bridget c. galassi, defendant and appellant. b242663 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sa078606) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of the county of los angeles, cynthia rayvis, judge. affirmed. gail ganaja, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, eric e. reynolds and esther p. kim, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction defendant and appellant bridget c. galassi (defendant) was convicted of leaving the scene of an accident (veh. code,  20001, subd. (a))1. on appeal, defendant contends that the trial court erred in failing to instruct the jury, sua sponte, on the defense of necessity for leaving the scene of an accident, and precluding the defense from inquiring arising from the same incident upon which the charges against defendant were based. we affirm the judgment. background a. factual background 1. prosecution evidence on august 30, 2011, defendant, a newly hired teacher at the vista del mar school (school), attended an orientation program for new faculty employees. also present at the 1 involved in an accident resulting in injury to a person, other than himself or herself, or in the death of a person shall immediately stop the vehicle at the scene of the accident and shall fulfill the requirements of sections 20003 [applicable upon injury or death of another as a result of the accident] and 20004 [applicable upon death of another as a driver of any vehicle involved in an accident resulting in injury to or death of any person shall also give his or her name, current residence address, the names and current icle injured in the accident, the registration number of the vehicle he or she is driving, and the name and current residence address of the owner to the person struck or the driver or occupants of any vehicle collided with, and shall give the information to any traffic or police officer at the scene of the accident. the driver also shall render to any person injured in the accident reasonable assistance, including transporting, or making arrangements for transporting, any injured person to a physician, surgeon, or hospital for medical or surgical treatment if it is apparent that treatment is necessary or if that transportation is requested by any 3 orientation program were assistant principal scott decker and vice-president of education donna baker. while baker was discussing a specific policy at the orientation, defendant voiced hwas leaving permanently and no longer wanted to be employed, or was leaving temporarily because defendant was simply overwhelmed by the situation at the time. defendant side of her vehiclea small sports utility vehicle. baker testified that either decker or o the school, but by the time of trial baker had determined that defendant had not been given keys. ind met defendant before this encounter. defendant started her vehicle. decker knocked on the window again and, without decker nor did she say anything to him. because she was behind the vehicle she placed her hands on the rear of the vehicle and --k are you doing? you almost hit her. 4 t to be behind a vehicle that was backing up. d between the two vehicles, and baker went forward down a hill and decker fell off the hood after the vehicle traveled forward about six or eight feet. decker testifimay have adjacehis left leg and he landed on the hood of the vehicle facing the windshield. assistant hood of from exiting the parking space. went forward with him on the hood of the vehicle, and he fell off the vehicle after it traveled about 20 to 25 yards. decker landed on the back of his heels and fell backwards onto the ground. 5 remained on his back for about five or six minutes. defendant did not stop, render aid to decker, or provide any information, but rather left the scene. the paramedics arrived and took decker to the hospital where he was treated for a concussion and some abrasions. decker thereafter suffered intermittent severe headaches, neck pains, and anxiety. 2. defendant testified on her own behalf. on the day of the orientation, defendant t realized that she in fear and on cross-examination, defendant acknowledged that she did not leave the orientation because she felt like she was not welcome; defendant left the orientation because she did not agree with the policies of the school. defendant also agreed with the necessarily taunting. are the fucking keys? gikeys decker was r-not been given keys to the school. defendant did not tell decker and baker that she did 6 peak. defendant was not planning on hitting anyone with her vehicle. defendant probably told decker to tell baker to move, and defendant asked decker to leave. defendant continued to reverse her vehicle, and when she was about to move forward, decker jumped on the le to decker and baker, was concerned for her safety. and saw that decker landed on his feet and was standing up, and defendant drove home. injuries. defendant did not call the police because she called her husband and explained what had happened and that she did not hit decker with her vehicle. on august 31, 2011, the day after the incident, defendant took a photograph of her vehicle showing where, based on the disturbance of dust, decker had landed on the misunderstanding. i spoke to my husband and . . . we thought this was a . . . wanted to be on his way, too. he looked fine when i left. 7 b. procedural background the district attorney of los angeles county filed an information charging defendant with assault with a deadly weapon in violation of penal code section 245, subdivision (a)(1) (count one), leaving the scene of an accident in violation of vehicle code section 20001, subdivision (a) (count two), and assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury in violation of penal code section 245, subdivision (a)(1) (count three). following a trial, the jury found defendant guilty of count twoleaving the scene of an accident in violation of vehicle code section 20001, subdivision (a), and not guilty of the remaining counts. the trial court placed defendant on formal probation for a period of three years. discussion a. sua sponte jury instruction defendant contends that the trial court erred in failing to instruct the jury, sua sponte, on the defense of necessity for leaving the scene of an accident. we disagree. people v. abilez ce of a request defense, or [2] if there is substantial evidence supportive of such a defense and the (people v. dominguez (2006) 39 cal.4th 1141, 1148; people v. maury (2003) 30 cal.4th 342, 424.) zed based on public policy people v. kearns (1997) 55 cal.app.4th 1128, 1134-1135.) justify an instruction on the defense of necessity, a defendant must present evidence 8 sufficient to establish that [he] violated the law (1) to prevent a significant and imminent evil, (2) with no reasonable legal alternative, (3) without creating a greater danger than the one avoided, (4) with a good faith belief that the criminal act was necessary to prevent the greater harm, (5) with such belief being objectively reasonable, and (6) under circumstances in which [he] did not substantially contribute to the emergency. people v. galambos (2002) 104 cal.app.4th 1147, 1160.)2 ient to warrant a jury instruction, the trial was evidence which, if believed by the jury, was sufficient to raise a reasonable doubt . . . people v. salas (2006) 37 cal.4th 967, 982.) defendant contends that she fled the scene of the accident and did not call the support a defense of necessity, and therefore the trial court did not err in failing to instruct on the defense. until he demonstrates that, given the imminence of the threat, violation of [the law] was authority discussing the necessity defense is that the situation presented to the defendant 2 _________________ <insert crime[s]> if (he/she) acted because of legal necessity. [] in order to establish this defense, the defendant must prove that: [] 1. (he/she) acted in an emergency to prevent a significant bodily harm or evil to (himself/herself/ [or] someone else); [] 2. (he/she) had no adequate legal alternative; [] avoided; [] 4. when the defendant acted, (he/she) actually believed that the act was necessary to prevent the threatened harm or evil; [] 5. a reasonable person would also have believed that the act was necessary under the circumstances; [] and [] 6. the defendant did not substantially contribute to the emergency. [] the defendant has the burden of proving this defense by a preponderance of the evidence. this is a different standard of proof than proof beyond a reasonable doubt. to meet the burden of proof by a preponderance of the evidence, the defendant must prove that it is more likely than not that each of the six list 9 be of an emergency nature, that there be threatened physical harm, and that there was no people v. galambos, supra, 104 cal.app.4th at pp. 1162-in reasonable fear that baker and decker would pursue her after she drove a short distance away from them. defendant was not in imminent peril when she drove out of the parking lot and left the scene of the accident. in addition, defendant had an alternative to fleeing the scene of the accident. before or immediately after exiting the parking lot, after establishing a reasonable distance between her, on the one hand, and decker and baker, on the other hand, defendant could have asked someone in the vicinity, for example, merrill, who testified that she was walking near the incident, to call the police. she also could have pulled out of the parking lot, parked nearby, and called the police herself. instead she drove away (i.e., fled the scene of the accident) and never called the police. even if the trial court did err in failing to instruct the jury, sua sponte, on the defense of necessity, the error was harmless under either chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 22, 24 (chapman) [harmless beyond a reasonable doubt], or people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 (watson) [reasonable probability of more favorable result]. calcrim no. 3403 requires that defendant has the burden of proving the defense of necessity by a preponderance of the evidence. a reasonable juror would not find that the attempts by decker and baker to retrieve the school keys from defendant was no evidence that decker or baker attacked defendant or made any threats of imminent harm to her. in addition, a reasonable juror would find that defendant substantially contributed to the emergency. it is unreasonable for defendant to characterize the inquiries made of thereby escalating the incidentbecause she feared for her life. similarly, after decker asked defendant for - 10 given any keys to the school, it was unreasonable that defendant did not tell decker and baker that she did not have the keys to the schoolfurther escalating the incidentdefendant leaving the scene of the accident, defendant substantially contributed to it. b. precluding defendant from questioning decker about a civil lawsuit defendant contends that the trial court prejudicially erred in precluding the defense from inquiring about a civil action purportedly filed by decker against defendant arising from the same incident upon which the charges against defendant were based, 1. standard of review etion. (people v. jablonski (2006) 37 cal.4th 774, 805; people v. harris (2005) 37 cal.4th 310, 335; people v. alvarez disturbed, and reversal . . . is not required, unless the trial court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage people v. foster (2010) 50 cal.4th 1301, 1328-1329.) 2. applicable law cluding evidence relevant to the credibility of a witness . . . , having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any r motive to falsify is a commonly used factor to attack the credibility of a witness. (evid. code,  780, subd. (f).) such bias, interest or motive may be elicited by cross-examination of a witness as well as established by extrinsic proof. [citations.]people v. james (1976) 56 cal.app.3d 876, 886.) 11 3. background facts during the cross-following excounsel:] this goes directly to motive for him to talk about his injuries, talk about how brian ro [] 4. analysis defendant contends tevidence. (people v. hart (1999) 20 cal.4th 546, 604-605.) even if the trial court did err in excluding the proposed evidence, the error was harmless under the standard of either people v. watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836, or chapman, supra, 386 u.s. at p. 24. bly supported an inference that decker was downplaying his role however, was cooberated by the testimony of baker and merrill. thus, even had the evidence been admitted, there is not a sufficient probability that the result would have been different so that it was prejudicial. 12 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. mosk, acting p. j. we concur: kriegler, j. kumar, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 