filed 9/30/13 p. v. uribe ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. alexis uribe, defendant and appellant. b242739 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va121201) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, robert j. higa, judge. affirmed. tracy a. rogers, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, linda c. johnson and toni r. johns estaville, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant and appellant alexis uribe appeals his convictions for attempted murder. uribe was sentenced to 32 years to life in prison. he contends the trial court committed instructional error. we disagree, and affirm. factual and procedural background 1. facts. in 2011, jose lopez (jose) lived near violeta avenue in hawaiian gardens. jose had two brothers, oscar lopez (oscar) and eduardo lopez (eduardo).1 the lopez home was located in a neighborhood claimed as the territory of the varrio hawaiian gardens criminal street gang, but the lopez brothers were not gang members. jesus castillo, roberto estrada, and appellant uribe were members of the varrio -in-law2 lived across the street from the lopez home. castillo lived in a house behind the lopez home. for several months, castillo, through their yard en route to visit the brother-in- on july 1, 2011, castillo, estrada and uribe were visiting at the brother-in-home. jose and oscar went across the street to speak to the brother-in-law about the fence-jumping issue. the brother-in-law peacefully discussed the problem and promised to talk to the culprits. however, during their conversation jose could hear uribe and 3 uribe and estrada made hand signs, and laughed in a mocking fashion. oscar and jose did not respond to oscar and jose returned to the lopez residence and, along with some other relatives, began drinking beer in their garage. approximately an hour and a half later, 1 for ease of reference, and with no disrespect, we hereinafter sometimes refer to the lopez brothers by their first names. 2 -in- 3 3 they decided to go to a liquor store to obtain more beer. as they were leaving they encountered uribe, estrada, and castillo. the trio confronted the lopez brothers, stating that they were members of the varrio hawaiian gardens looked at the men, but neither he nor jose said anything to them. oscar and jose returned from the liquor store about 10 minutes later. estrada, castillo, and uribe were standing in the street. estrada yelled that the lopez brothers stance, raising his fists in the air. oscar became angry, approached estrada, and punched estrada in the face. estrada appeared stunned, but did not fall to the ground. oscar then moved toward castillo. uribe pulled at the waistline of his pants and raised his fist as if he was about to hit oscar. jose punched uribe in the face to protect oscar. castillo then fired approximately six gunshots in rapid succession. two of the shots hit jose in the back and arm. oscar was uninjured, but had a hole in his shirt. neither jose nor oscar was armed. the gang members left the scene. castillo as the shooter. jose spent a month in the hospital. at the time of trial, a bullet remained lodged in his back. he suffered from back pain and his left leg remained numb. a gang expert testified that territory is very important to varrio hawaiian gardens gang members, who will commit assaults and other violent crimes to protect it. respect was also of paramount importance to the gang. a gang member who is not respected is considered a coward, and will not be tolerated by the gang. a person who shows disrespect to a varrio hawaiian gardens gang member will be assaulted by the gang. if a 4 person punches a gang member, other gang members will assault him. the victim is culture, it is crucial that gang members back each other up. if a fellow gang member is hawaiian gardens gang members commonly possesses firearms. when given a hypothetical based upon the facts of the case, the expert opined that the crimes were committed for the benefit of the varrio hawaiian gardens gang.4 a request that gang members stop jumping a fence and cutting through a yard would be them. confronting th 2. procedure. trial was by jury. uribe was convicted of the attempted murders of oscar and jose lopez (pen. code,  664, 187, subd. (a)).5 as to both counts, the jury found a principal personally and intentionally used and discharged a firearm, proximately causing great bodily injury ( 12022.53), and that the crimes were committed at the direction of, for the benefit of, or in association with, a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)). the jury found allegations the attempted murders were willful, deliberate, and premeditated not true. the trial court sentenced uribe to a term of 32 years to life in prison.6 it imposed a restitution fine, a suspended parole restitution fine, a court operations assessment, and a criminal conviction assessment. uribe appeals. 4 the people presented additional evidence relevant to prove the penal code section 186.22, subdivision (b) gang enhancement. because uribe does not challenge the sufficiency of the evidence to prove the enhancement, we do not further detail it here. 5 all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 6 allegation was dismissed. 5 discussion the trial court did not err by failing to sua sponte instruct the jury on voluntary manslaughter. uribe was tried as an aider and abettor on a natural and probable consequences theory. the prosecution theorized that he directly aided and abetted the target crime of challenging another to a fight in public, and was therefore responsible for the natural and probable consequences of that crime, attempted murder. the defense did not request, and the trial court did not give, instructions on voluntary manslaughter. uribe contends this was prejudicial error. a. applicable legal principles. a trial court must instruct the jury, sua sponte, on the general principles of law relevant to the issues raised by the evidence. (people v. enraca (2012) 53 cal.4th 735, 758; people v. booker (2011) 51 cal.4th 141, 181; people v. moye (2009) 47 cal.4th 537, 548.) instructions on a lesser included offense are required when there is substantial evidence from which the jury could conclude the defendant is guilty of the lesser offense, but not the charged offense. (booker, at p. 181; people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 584; people v. breverman included offense instruction, the evidence supporting the instruction must be substantialthat is, it must be evidence from which a jury composed of reasonable persons could enraca, at p. 758; people v. thomas (2012) 53 cal.4th 771, 813; manriquezlesser included offense. (booker, at p. 181; manriquez, at p. 587.) murder is the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought. ( 187, subd. (a); people v. manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 583.) voluntary manslaughter is the intentional but nonmalicious killing of a human being. (manriquez, at p. 583; people v. moye, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 549;  192, subd. (a).) voluntary manslaughter, and attempted voluntary manslaughter, are lesser included offenses of murder and attempted murder, respectively. (manriquez, at p. 583; people v. lee (1999) 20 cal.4th 47, 59; 6 people v. avila (2009) 46 cal.4th 680, 705; calcrim nos. 603, 604.) a killing may be reduced from murder to voluntary manslaughter if it occurs upon a sudden quarrel or in the heat of passion on sufficient provocation, or if the defendant kills in the unreasonable, but good faith, belief that deadly force is necessary in self-defense. (manriquez, at p. 583; lee, at pp. 58-59.) two kinds. first, an aider and abettor with the necessary mental state is guilty of the intended crime. second, under the natural and probable consequences doctrine, an aider and abettor is guilty not people v. mccoy (2001) 25 cal.4th 1111, 1117; people v. medina (2009) 46 cal.4th 913, 920; people v. favor (2012) 54 cal.4th 868, 874; people v. prettyman (1996) 14 cal.4th 248, 254; people v. lisea (2013) 213 cal.app.4th 408, 414-415.) a natural consequence is one within the normal range of outcomes that may be reasonably expected to occur if nothing unusual intervenes. (people v. leon (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 149, 15to happen. (ibid.) he intent of committing, encouraging, or facilitating the commission of the target crime, the defendant aided, promoted, encouraged, or instigated the commission of the target crime. the jury must also find fense other than the target crime, and people v. prettyman, supra, 14 cal.4th at p. 254.) and abettor actually foresaw the additional crime, but whether, judged objectively, it was reasonably position would have or should have known that the charged offense was a reasonably 7 people v. medina, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 920; people v. favor, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 874; people v. lisea, supra, 213 cal.app.4th at p. 415.) whether a consequence was reasonably foreseeable is a factual issue to be resolved by the jury, and turns on the circumstances surrounding the conduct of both the perpetrator and the aider and abettor. (favor, at p. 874; people v. woods (1992) 8 cal.app.4th 1570, 1587.) a defendant who aids and abets a target crime may be either more or less culpable than the direct perpetrator, depending on whether he has a more or less culpable state of mind. (people v. mccoy, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 1122; people v. canizalez (2011) 197 cal.app.4th 832, 851; people v. nero (2010) 181 cal.app.4th 504, 513-514.) in people v. woods, supra, 8 cal.app.4th 1570, a divided court held that the same may be true in the somewhat different context of aider and abettor liability premised on the natural and probable consequences doctrine, and the jury must be instructed accordingly. (id. at p. 1577.) woods lesser offense instructions are not required for the perpetrator . . . , the trial court may have a duty to instruct sua sponte on necessarily included offenses as to aider and abettor liability. if the evidence raises a question whether the offense charged against the aider and abettor is a reasonably foreseeable consequence of the [target offense] but would support a finding that a necessarily included offense committed by the perpetrator was such a consequence, the trial court has a duty to instruct sua sponte on the necessarily included offense as part of the jury instructions on aider and abettor liability. otherwise . . . the jury would be given an unwarranted, all-or-nothing choice concerning aider and abettor liability. [] however, the trial court need not instruct on a particular necessarily included offense if the evidence is such that the aider and abettor, if guilty at all, is guilty of something beyond that lesser offense, i.e., if the evidence establishes that a greater offense was a reasonably foreseeable consequence of the criminal act originally contemplated, and no evidence id. at p. 1593.) 8 b. application here. here, the trial court gave the jury standard instructions on aiding and abetting (caljic nos. 3.00 [principals defined]; 3.01 [aiding and abetting - defined];7 3.02 [natural and probable consequences doctrine]8), as well as a special instruction defining the target offense.9 the court also gave caljic nos. 5.32 (use of force in defense of 7 a person aids and abets the commission or attempted commission of a crime when he: [] (1) with knowledge of the unlawful purpose of the perpetrator, and [] (2) with the intent or purpose of committing or encouraging or facilitating the commission of the crime, and [] (3) by act or advice, or, by failing to act in a situation where a person has a legal duty to act, aids, promotes, encourages or instigates the commission of the crime. [] a person who aids and abets the commission or attempted commission of a crime need not be present at the scene of the crime. [] mere presence at the scene of a crime which does not itself assist the commission of the crime does not amount to aiding and abetting. [] mere knowledge that a crime is being committed and . . . the failure to prevent it does not 8 and abets another in the commission of a crime or crimes is not only guilty of that crime, but is also guilty of any other crime committed by a principal which is a natural and probable consequence of the crimes originally aided and abetted. [] in order to find the defendant guilty of the crime of attempted murder, under this theory, as charged in counts one and two, you must be satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt that: [] 1. the crime of challenge to a fight was committed; [] 2. that the defendant aided and abetted that crime; [] 3. that a co-principal in that crime committed the crimes of attempted murder; and [] 4. the crimes of attempted murder was [sic] a natural and probable consequence of the commission of the crimes of challenge to a fight. [] in determining whether a not on what the defendant actually intended, but on what a person of reasonable and ordinary prudence would have expected likely to occur. the issue is to be decided in light which is within the normal range of outcomes that may be reasonably expected to occur 9 the specreferred to as the target offense in this case. [] the prosecution must prove beyond a reasonable doubt the following: [] 1. a principal willfully and unlawfully challenged another person in a public place to fight, or [] 2. used offensive words in a public place 9 another)10 and 5.55 (plea of self-defense may not be contrived).11 uribe does not challenge the sufficiency of the evidence to prove attempted murder was a natural and probable consequence of the target crime of challenging another to fight. (see, e.g., people v. medina, supra, 46 cal.4th at pp. 919-920.) however, he argues that a jury would have been more likely to conclude voluntary manslaughter was a foreseeable consequence of the target crime than was an intentional murder. therefore, he urges, the trial court had a sua sponte duty to instruct on voluntary manslaughter on both heat of passion/sudden quarrel and imperfect self-defense theories. in his view, omission of the instructions was reversible error. assuming the woods majority opinion correctly states the law,12 we discern no 10 reasonable person, has grounds for believing and does believe that bodily injury is about to be inflicted upon another person . . . to protect that individual from attack. [] in doing so, he may use all force and means which that person believes to be reasonably necessary and which would appear to a reasonable person, in the same or similar 11 -defense is not available to a person who seeks a quarrel with the intent to create a real or apparent necessity of exercising self- 12 in a somewhat different context, people v. canizalez, supra, 197 cal.app.4th 832, held that when the natural and probable consequences doctrine is at issue, an aider and canizalez, the court as a principal was not error when applied in the context of the natural and probable consequences doctrine. (id. at p. 852.) canizalez culpability under the natural and probable consequences doctrine . . . has a different theoretical underpinning than aiding and abetting a target crime. aider and abettor culpability for the target offense is based upon the intent of the aider and abettor to assist the direct perpetrator commit the target offense. by its very nature, aider and abettor culpability under the natural and probable consequences doctrine is not premised upon the intention of the aider and abettor to commit the nontarget offense because the nontarget offense was not intended at all. . . . because the nontarget offense is 10 evidence suggested castillo acted in the heat of passion upon legally adequate provocation, or with the actual belief he or his cohorts were in imminent danger sufficient to warrant deadly force. there was likewise no evidence that either theory could have otherwise applied to uribe. the evidence showed that if uribe was guilty at all, he was guilty of more than voluntary manslaughter. (see people v. woods, supra, 8 cal.app.4th at p. 1578.) was obscured or disturbed by passion to such an extent as would cause the ordinarily reasonable person of average disposition to act rashly and without deliberation and people v. barton (1995) 12 cal.4th 186, 201; people v. enraca, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 759; people v. moye, supra, 47 people v. souza (2012) 54 cal.4th 90, 116; people v. lee, supra, which incites the defendant to homicidal conduct . . . must be caused by the victim . . . or be conduct reasonably believed by the defendant to have been engaged in by the vict(lee, at p. 59; people v. manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. may have been physical or verbal, but it must have been sufficiently provocative to cause an ordinary person of average disposition to act rashly or without due deliberation and reflection. (enraca, at p. 759; lee, at p. 59.) thus, the heat of passion requirement has subjectively, kill under the heat of passion. [citation.] but the circumstances giving rise unintended, the mens rea of the aider and abettor with respect to that offense is irrelevant and culpability is imposed simply because a reasonable person could have foreseen the commission of the nontarget crime. it follows that the aider and abettor will always be id. at p. 852.) because we conclude the trial court did not err under the woods analysis, we need not consider whether canizalez and woods may be harmonized. 11 manriquez, at p. 584; enraca, at p. 759.) adequate provocation and heat of passion must be affirmatively demonstrated. (lee, at p. 60; people v. johnston (2003) 113 cal.app.4th 1299, 1312.) there was no evidence of legally adequate provocation in the instant case. the complaint about their trespassing, verbally taunted and implicitly threatened oscar and -in-law, uribe and estrada called oscar and jose insulting names, laughed at them, made gang signs, and raised their shirts. oscar and jose did not respond to the insults. later, when oscar and jose encountered y, when oscar and jose estrada belligerently challenged them to a fight. at thchallenge and punched him. jose then punched uribe, who had pulled at the waistline of his pants and raised his fist as if to punch oscar. none of this evidence showed either of the lopez brothers engaged in any legally -in-law about the fence-jumping issue was obviously not s group people v. enraca, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 759.) that oscar responded to estrlikewise did not provide evidence of provocation. people v. johnston, supra, 113 cal.app.4th 1299, is instructive. there, the defendant, angry with his ex-girlfriend and her family, armed himself with a a.m., demanded that she exit the house, verbally abused her mother and family members, and 12 threatened violence to the family. he then stood on the front porch, shouting and challenging the ex-girlfrieaccepted the challenge and a mutual fight ensued. when the brother, who was unarmed, got the better of the defendant in the fight, the defendant pulled a knife and stabbed him to death. (id. at pp. 1302-1304.) the jury convicted the defendant of second degree murder but the trial court reduced the offense to voluntary manslaughter reasoning that the victim, not the defendant, started the fight. (id. at p. 1310.) the appellate court reversed. thheard to assert provocation by the victim, such that a reasonable person in his position id. at p. 1312.) johnston concluded the answer was no. tcreating a loud disturbance at the residence, cursing the mother of the victim and girlfriend and, most particularly, challenging [the victim] to come out and fight. having done that, he cannot be heard to assert that he was provoked when [the victim] took him id. at p. 1313; see also people v. najera (2006) 138 cal.app.4th 212, 226 [ of slight and trifling character, such as words of reproach, however grievous they may be, or gestures, or an assault, or even a blow, is not recognized as sufficient to arouse, in a reasonable man, such passion as reduces an unlawful killing with a deadly weapon to them in the street, and then challenged them to a fight. having done these things, uribe cannot now complain that the lopez brothers provoked him or his compatriots. uribe attempts to distinguish johnston by pointing out that there, the defendant not only challenged the victim to fight, but also threatened the victim and his family with violence and death, a fact the johnston court at one point incorporated into its holding. (people v. johnston, supra, provokes a physical encounter by rude challenges to another person to fight, coupled with threats of violence and death to that person and his entire family, is not entitled to claim 13 that he was provoked into using deadly force when the challenged person responds without a difference. johnstonfight cannot then assert he was provoked when the challenge is accepted. people v. breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th 142.) in breverman, property, acted in a menacing manner, challenged the defendant to fight, slashed one of attered and smashed his car. (id. at p. 163.) in response, the defendant fired shots at the armed group, hitting and killing one of them. the defendant of intruders caused the defendant immediate fear and panic. (id. at p. 163.) under these his reason was thus obscured, by a provocation sufficient to produce such effects in a peibid.bore no resemblance to that of the victim in breverman. moreover, and equally important, there was no evidence castillo actually acted under the influence of passion resulting from provocation. there was no direct evidence on the point. no circumstantial evidence suggested castillo was enraged and acted rashly. castillo was not embroiled in the fistfight, and did not say or do anything indicating his passions were inflamed. nothing in the evidence suggested a heat of passion defense was somehow available to uribe, when it would not have been available to castillo. nor was there evidence that would have supported an imperfect self-defense theory. imperfect self-defense is the killing of another human being under the actual but unreasonable belief that the killer, or a third person, was in imminent danger of death or great bodily injury. (people v. booker, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 182; people v. cruz (2008) 44 cal.4th 636, 664; people v. vasquez (2006) 136 cal.app.4th 1176, 1178.) 14 accepted the challenge to fight and punched estrada and uribe,13 there was nonetheless insufficient evidence to allow the jury to find imperfect self-defense for at least two time. there was no direct evidence suggesting castillo shot due to an actual fear of imminent harm. there was likewise no circumstantial evidence from which the jury might have inferred castillo shot because he unreasonably believed he or his cohorts were in imminent danger. up until the moment oscar punched estrada, the gang members pursued the lopez brothers, repeatedly attempting to provoke a confrontation. their mocking and insulting behavior suggested an absence of fear. at the time castillo shot, the fistfighattempt to retreat in response, and did not say or do anything indicating fear of imminent harm. the have believed otherwise. the lopezes were also outnumbered, three to two. thus, there 13 the doctrine of imperfect self-defense cannot be invoked by a defendant whose own wrongful conduct, such as a physical assault or commission of a felony, created the ustified. (people v. booker, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 182; people v. valencia (2008) 43 cal.4th 268, 288-289; people v. vasquez, supra, -defense does not apply if a the victim is legally justified in resorting to self-defendant set in motion the chain of events that led (vasquez, at pp. 1179-attempt to inflict injury, and no conduct or words, no matter how offensive or exasperating, are sufficient to justify a battery people v. mayes (1968) 262 cal.app.2d 195, 197; people v. davis (1995) 10 cal.4th 463, 542-543; calcrim no. threat to inflict injury. (see people v. johnston, supra, 113 cal.app.4th at p. 1313 15 about to apply lethal force. in short, no evidence suggested castilloor uribe or estradaactually feared imminent bodily harm. in light of this evidentiary deficiency, imperfect self-defense instructions were unwarranted. in response to a mere fistfight defeats any claim of self-defense, perfect or imperfect. as people v. lee explained, a defendant who using deadly force against an unarmed victim. (people v. lee, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 60, fn. manslaughter, it must appear that the contest was waged upon equal terms, and no undue advantage was sought or taken by either side; for, if such was the case, malice may be people v. sanchez (1864) 24 cal. 17, 27 [cited by lee].) in lee, for example, the defendant and his wife were engaged in an argument that entailed mutualee, at p. 60, fn. 6; see also people v. valencia, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 288, fn. 6 [if a defendant unreasonably as going to punch him in the arm and stabbed him to death in response, this belief would not support a claim of imperfect self-defense for the reason people v. johnston, supra, 113 cal.app.4th at p. 1313.) here, castillo took undue advantage by suddenly using a gun in a fistfight against unarmed victims. under these circumstances, the jury could not have concluded castillo was guilty only of voluntary manslaughter on either a perfect or an imperfect self-defense theory. no evidence suggests it could have come to a different conclusion as to uribe. -defense, the court was required to instruct on imperfect self-defense. (people v. de leon (1992) 10 -defense purposes, imperfect self-lso people v. viramontes (2001) 93 cal.app.4th 16 -defense, it is also sufficient to support instruction on imperfect self-people v. valenzuela (2011) 199 cal.app.4th perfect self-defense, this does not necessarily mean it has a sua sponte duty to also instruct on imperfect self- -defense instructions were warranted insofar as they advappear reasonably necessary to prevent imminent injury. (caljic no. 5.32.) but as we have explained, there was no evidence from which jurors could have concluded castillo acted with the belief, reasonable or unreasonable, that he or his companions were in imminent danger, and therefore there was insufficient evidence the shooting was committed in self-defense, perfect or imperfect. therefore, the court did not have a sua sponte duty to instruct on imperfect self-defense. (see people v. de leon, supra, 10 cal.app.4th at pp. 824-825 [although court gave self-defense instruction, it properly omitted imperfect self-defense instruction where there was no substantial evidence of an honest belief in imminent peril to support either self-defense or imperfect self-defense].) perpetrator, castillo, acted in the heat of passion or upon a sudden quarrel, or in imperfect self-defense. there was likewise no evidence suggesting that a heat of passion or imperfect self-defense theory could have applied to uribe. uribe does not point to evidence or extenuating circumstances that might have allowed the jury to find such theories applied to him, or might have led to a finding his individual culpability was less people v. nunez and satele (2013) 57 cal.4th 1, 44.) accordingly, the trial court had no duty to instruct on voluntary manslaughter. (people v. woods, supra, 8 cal.app.4th at p. 1593.) there was no error. 17 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports aldrich, j. we concur: klein, p. j. croskey, j. 