filed 5/6/13 p. v. jackson ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. tony rene jackson, defendant and appellant. b242495 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta119482) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. eleanor j. hunter, judge. affirmed. david m. nisson; david j. scharf for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and noah p. hill, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________________________ 2 defendant tony rene jackson appeals from the denial of his motion to quash the search warrant and his motion to suppress evidence under penal code section 1538.5.1 after denial of his motions, defendant agreed to plead no contest to one count of possession of a firearm by a felon with four prior convictions ( 12021, subd. (a)(1)) (count 3) in exchange for a sentence of four years.2 the sentence consisted of the midterm of two years, doubled to four years serious felony. ( 1170.12, subd. (a) (d); 667, subd. (b) (i).) defendant appeals on the grounds that the trial court erred by denying his motion to suppress evidence because the facts alleged in the affidavit did not justify the search, and the good faith exception did not apply. factual and procedural history joe cummings had known defendant for several years.3 cummings believed defendant was angry with him for an incident that occurred at the funeral of mother.4 cummings did not allow defendant to bring a gun into the funeral. cummings made a police report about an incident that occurred on march 25, 2011, when he encountered defendant at a store. defendant approached cummings and lot, and cummings saw that defendant was armed with a gun. store employees called police, and defendant fled. when the police arrived, cummings provided the officers 1 all further references to statutes are to the penal code unless stated otherwise. 2 ea, the people moved to dismiss one count of making criminal threats ( 422) with an arming enhancement ( 12022, subd. (a)(1)) (count 1); an additional count of possession of a firearm by a felon with four priors (count 2); one count of possession of ammunition ( 12316, subd. (b)(1)) (count 4), and a serious felony allegation ( 667, subd. (a)(1)). 3 unless otherwise indicated, the facts are obtained from the search warrant and 4 at the hearing, defense counsel stated that the funeral occurred five years prior to the march 2011 incidents. 3 with some information about defendant. the officers attempted to pursue and apprehend defendant, but were unsuccessful. the officers returned to the store, but cummings had already gone. on march 26, 2011, cummings was in front of his home when he saw defendant fear and called the police. on april 26, 2011, cummings went to the police station. it appears he officially reported the march 25, 2011 incident at this time. on june 14, 2011, cummings returned to the police station and met with los angeles police detective patrick flaherty. on august 4, 2011, a magistrate approved detective flaheraffidavit. the transcript of the preliminary hearing shows that detective flaherty a loaded .25-caliber semiautomatic pistol. discussion i. def defendant asserts that detective flaherty failed to aver sufficient fresh facts to support the search warrant. the affidavit recited the opinions and conclusions of the affiant, and the information from cummings was inadequate and unreliable. defendant also argues that the detective could not rely on the good faith exception under the circumstances. therefore, all evidence should have been suppressed. ii. contents of the warrant the record shows that the warrant was obtained to searcand any vehicles connected to the occupants of that residence. the items to be seized were any and all firearms or pieces of firearms and firearm paraphernalia, any evidence of street gang membership, any safe, and any items tending to establish the identity of the persons in control of the premises. detective flaherty summarized his experience as a impact team. 4 in the statement of probable cause, detective flaherty summarized the two police reports made by cummingsone describing the march 26, 2011 incident, and the other describing the march 25, 2011 incident. the affidavit stated that cummings knew defendant as a hardcore gang member of the blood stone villains. detective flaherty address by means of department resources. he had shown cummings a photographic lineup, and cummings had identified defendant as the person who threatened to kill him with a gun. detective flaherty stated that defendant had several prior arrests for violent crimes including rape, robbery, attempted murder, narcotics violations, and weapons violations, and he was a convicted felon. firearm is recovered, i believe that above items tend to show that a firearm existed and may have once been located in a place to which the suspect had access, and that these items would tend to connect the suspect to the weapon sought. i further note that in my experience, the above items are not normally disposed of after the commission of a crime, and that they are therefore still likely to be found in any location or vehicles to be iii. motion hearing information was 131 days old, there were no facts to indicate defendant was a current when the only place it had been seen was in a car in a different city. moreover, the officer expressed that a firearm might not even be found. the prosecutor argued that the defense had cited only drug-related cases as authority, and a firearm is a personal in making its ruling, the trial court first noted that the warrant did contain some ihe 5 cases note that, that there is a difference between the two . . . had been seen with the gun several times, albeit over a long period of time, was a circumstance of the crime that indicated it was a continuing offense. the dremark to the victim that he had his gun implied that defendant had a possessory interest circumstances, the trial court believed that the magistrate had sufficient grounds to deem there was probable cause. the court denied the motion to quash and agreed that, in the alternative, the good faith exception applied. the trial court denied the motion to suppress. iv. relevant authority probable cause exists illinois v. gates (1983) 462 u.s. 213, 238.) of establispeople v. lazalde (2004) 120 cal.app.4th 858, 865.) in determining the sufficiency of an affidavit for the issuance of a search warrant, the test of probable cause is whether the facts in the affidavit would lead a person of ordinary caution and prudence to believe and conscientiously entertain a strong suspicion of the guilt of the accused. (people v. kraft (2000) 23 cal.4th 978, 1041.) emote in time may be deemed to be people v. gibson (2001) 90 cal.app.4th 371, [citations.] if circumstances would justify a person of ordinary prudence to conclude that an activity had continued to the present time, then the passage of time will not render people v. hulland (2003) 110 cal.app.4th 1646, 1652.) there is no bright-line rule defining a point in timewhether it be in days, weeks, or monthsat which information in an affidavit must be considered too stale to support probable cause. (people v. carrington (2009) 47 cal.4th 145, 163-165.) 6 probable cause is entitled to deferential review. people v. carrington, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 161; people v. kraft, supra, 23 cal.4th at pp. 1040-reviewing courts as long as th(kraft, at pp. 1040-1041; skelton v. superior court (1969) 1 cal.3d 144, 150; see also illinois v. gates, supra, 462 u.s. at pp. 238-not be easy to determine when an affidavit demonstrates the existence of probable cause, the resolution of doubtful or marginal cases in this area should be largely determined by the preferunited states v. ventresca (1965) 380 u.s. 102, 109; see also people v. weiss (1999) 20 cal.4th 1073, 1082-1083.) v. trial court properly denied motions we disagree with defendant and conclude that, given the nature of the evidence invalidated by stale information, despite the lapse of time between the last sighting of defendant with the gun and the request to search. the most significant factor in support of this conclusion is the fact that the nature of the item to be sought was a firearm, with which defendant had been seen on at least two occasions, albeit far apart. cummings may have seen it on a third occasionin the store parking lotand it is clear that defendant at least alluded to having his gun at that time. although defendant repeatedly points out that defendant was seen with the firearm miles from his home, we do not believe this fact is significant. a firearm is portable and is usually meant to be in the same place as its owner, wherever the owner may be. if an individual brandishes or uses a firearm, the most logical places to look for that firearm are on his person, in his home, or in his car. this constitutes a reasonable inference in united states v. bowers (9th cir. 1976) 534 f.2d 186 (bowers), where the defendant was charged with the shooting death of a park ranger, the ninth circuit 7 id. at pp. 188, 190.) the court based its conclusion on the circumstances of the murder and the evidence at the scene, which indicated that other evidence, including guns and ammunition, would likely be found where the perpetrators lived. (id. at pp. 190-192.) the court found that the magistrate properly concluded that there was a reasonable ground to believe the items were located at a house to which the defendant was connected, since the objects sought were of the type likely to have been kept for the six weeks that elapsed between the murder and the search, and the items would probably be found where the perpetrators lived. (id. at pp. 192-nexus between the items to be seized and the place to be searched rested not on direct observation, as in the normal search-and-seizure case, but on the type of crime, the nature id. at p. 192) defendant argues that the facts of the instant case are comparable to those of united states v. charest (1st cir. 1979) 602 f.2d 1015 (charest), a case that criticized the holding in bowers. unlike bowers, the charest court found that a warrant was invalid because the affidavit did not provide a sufficient nexus between the firearm charest, at pp. 1015-1016.) an eyewitness to the gun was found in a bedroom closet. (id. at p. 1016.) the charest court stated that there was nothing in the affidavit from which a factual finding could be made that the gun used in the shooting was n sense tells us that it is unlikely id. at p. home on the sole basis that a handgun had been used by that person in the commission of ibid.) the court noted the bowers bowers as good precedent, and as 8 to this we have some doubt, it is different from our situation where the affidavit states that the property for which the issuance of a search warrant is sought is a single ibid.) the charest court also found it was contrary to common sense to expect a murderer to keep the murder weapon in his own home for 16 days, which was the time lag between the murder and the date of the affidavit. (id. at p. 1018.) we believe charest is distinguishable from the instant case. defendant was not accused of murder, and a particular handgun (e.gcharest, supra, 602 f. 2d at p. 1016.) although the charest court might be correct that a murderer would not logically keep in his home a murder weapon that could be subjected to ballistic tests, in the instant case, defendant referred to the gun as his gun, and the crime he was accused of in relation to that gun was related principally to its illegal possession, not a murder. an individual who carries a gun and uses it to make himself feared or for protection against enemies is likely to keep the gun nearby rather than to continually dispose of his guns and acquire new ones. and the most likely places the individual would keep the gun are at his home and in his car. we believe the bowers ruling was correct under the totality of the circumstances in that case, and we believe the totality of the circumstances in the instant case favors the ruling by the trial court. basis of which a warrant is sought and obtained, is one of the factors which determine whether there is probable cause to believe that the articles covered by the warrant will be found at the place that is people v. hernandez (1974) 43 cal.app.3d 581, 586.) nevertheless, if circumstances would justify a person of ordinary prudence to conclude that an activity had continued to the present time, then the passage of time would not render the information stale. (people v. hulland, supra, 110 cal.app.4th 1646, 1652.) as noted previously, courts have refrained from establishing a bright-line rule for determining staleness. information concerning someone who is suspected of possessing firearms 9 u.s. v. neal (8th cir. 2008) 528 f.3d 1069, 1074; see also u.s. v. kennedy (8th cir. 2005) 427 f.3d 1136, 1142, fn. 5; bowers, supra, 534 f.2d at pp. 192-193.) additionally, courts have upheld warrants despite delays between evidence of criminal activity and the issuance of a warrant when there is reason to believe that criminal activity is ongoing or that evidence of criminality remains on the premises. (people v. carrington, supra, 47 cal.4th at pp. 163-164; hulland, at p. 1652.) activity. defendant attempts to cast explanation was given as to why cummings never told the police about the march 25 acknowledges, cummings was a citizen informant (rather than a police informant, paid or otherwise), and he was therefore presumptively reliable. (people v. ramey (1976) 16 cal.3d 263, 268-269.) according to the statement of probable cause, when detective flaherty met with cummings on june 14, 2011, cummings had reported the two previous incidents, which had two separate case numbers. cummings spoke with police at the time of the march 25 incident, and it is possible he believed that sufficient. in any event, in determining probable cause, an infortotality of the circumstances test. (illinois v. gates, supra, 462 u.s. at pp. 230-231.) the terms of library analysis by scholars, but as understood by those versed in the field of law idwith a statement that the event was observed firsthand, entitles his tip to greater weight id. at p. 234.) or witness is provided. the affidavit summarizes police report no. dr 1118-2011 at 1330 hours victim perry arrived at southeast station to make a police report 10 about an incident that occurred on march 25, -08798 and addendum dr 1118-10670 which respondent that the reference to perry was most likely made in error by detective flaherty, and the detective was referring to cummings in that one and only mention of a victim perry. courts should not invalidate search or arrest warrants by interpreting an affidavit in a hypertechnical manner rather than in a common sense manner. (united states v. ventresca, supra, 380 u.s. 102, 108.) moreover, as noted by respondent, defendant did not question the reference to perry in his written motion or during the hearing and has therefore forfeited any claim of unreliability based on a single mention of this name. (people v. williams (1999) 20 cal.4th 119, 136.) background as a gang officer in the warrant application. we note that detective flaherty did not include information on his experience in the statement of probable cause. sufficient training and experience, when making a probable cause determination. (people v. kershaw (1983) 147 cal.app.3d 750, 760.) in the instant case, the detecand experience was not offered as a substitute for a lack of evidentiary nexus between the location to be searched and probable cause to believe the search would produce evidence of the suspected criminal activity, as defendant claims. rather, the information on the him indicated a possessory interest in the gun, whithat gang members tended to keep their guns, and which factored into the probable cause assessment. record, which included prior weapons violations as well as several violent crimes. a 11 history of similar offenses is also a factor to be considered in the determination of probable cause. (see people v. kershaw, supra, 147 cal.app.3d at p. 760.) the information in the affidavit must be taken together and read in a common sense manner. (see, e.g., people v. tuadles (1992) 7 cal.app.4th 1777, 1783.) even if this were a doubtful case, it has been held that doubtful cases of probable cause should be determined by the preference accorded to warrants. (united states v. ventresca, supra, turning on the assessment of probabilities in particular factual contextsnot readily, or even usefully, reduced to a illinois v. gates, supraproof beyond a reasonable doubt [citation]; less than a preponderance of the evidence tuadles, at p. 1783.) viewing the totality oresidence or inside his vehicle, and that the affidavit did not contain information so stale that it could not support a reasonable probable cause determination. accordingly, we requirement is inapplicable. the motion to suppress evidence was properly denied. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. boren, p.j. we concur: ashmann-gerst, j. chavez, j. 