filed 11/5/13 p. v. perez ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose perez, defendant and appellant. b242119 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la064981) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, michael k. kellogg, judge. affirmed. jennifer a. mannix, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and stacy s. schwartz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 appellant jose perez challenges his convictions for kidnapping to commit rape, attempted kidnapping to commit rape, and other offenses. he contends the trial court erred in declining to suppress his statements to police, arguing that he asserted his right to remain silent and his right to counsel under miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 (miranda). we reject the contentions and affirm. relevant procedural background on july 1, 2011, an 11-count information was filed, alleging that appellant committed offenses against five victims. the information charged appellant with attempted forcible rape and kidnapping to commit other crimes regarding emily m. (pen. code,  261, subd. (a)(2), 209, subd. (b)(1); counts 1 and 7); attempted kidnapping to commit another crime regarding v.m. (pen. code,  209, subd. (b)(1), 664; count 2); lewd acts upon a child regarding kaylie s. (pen. code,  288, subd. (c)(1); count 3); kidnapping to commit another crime regarding debbie f. (pen. code,  209, subd. (b)(1); count 4); and attempted kidnapping to commit another crime regarding jessica f. (pen. code,  209, subd. (b)(1), 664; count 5).1 furthermore, with respect to each victim, the information charged appellant with assault with intent to commit a felony ( 220, subd. (a); counts 6, 8 through 11). accompanying counts 1, 7, and 8 were allegations that appellant inflicted great bodily injury ( 12022.8). appellant pleaded not guilty to all the counts and denied the special allegations. prior to trial, the charge of lewd acts upon a child (count 3) was dismissed. certain statements that he made to los angeles police department (lapd) detectives, and later denied his motion for reconsideration of the ruling. a jury 1 all further statutory citations are to the penal code. 3 found appellant guilty as charged on all counts, with the exception of count 10. regarding count 10, the jury found appellant guilty of the lesser included offense of assault against kaylie s. the jury also found true the great bodily injury allegations asserted in connection with counts 1, 7, and 8. the trial court sentenced appellant to two terms of life imprisonment plus 17 years. factual background a. prosecution evidence 1. offenses against emily m. (counts 1, 7, and 8) emily m. was born in may 1993. on march 19, 2009, at approximately 5:55 p.m., she was seated in a secluded outdoor area of the sherman oaks center for enriched studies, studying for a test. she saw a hispanic man standing nearby, watching children on a playing field. he looked into the school windows, and then jumped over a brick wall. moments later, he placed his hands over mouth when she resisted, he punched her face. as she retreated from him, his punches made her fall, but she repeatedly got back up on her feet. she eventually found herself on the ground in some bushes, where he choked her and tried to remove her pants and underwear. emily held onto her clothes and kicked the man, who eventually ran out of the school yard. was determined to be fractured. ed 2. offenses against jessica f. (counts 5 and 6) on may 8, 2009, at approximately 5:30 p.m., jessica f. was walking home from school. she was then 15 years old. she noticed a man driving a silver volkswagen up and down the street, and thought that he might be looking for a street corn vendor. the man parked near a corn vendor, and walked past her. 4 from behind her, he put an arm around her neck, placed a hand on her mouth, and dragged her toward his car, whose rear passenger door was open. jessica noticed that there was a tattoo on thin an effort to escape, jessica hit the man in the head with a water bottle that she had been holding. the blow caused the man to fall and release her. he ran to his car, closed the rear passenger door, and drove away. at trial, jessica identified appellant as her assailant, and appellant showed 2 3. offenses against v.m. (counts 2 and 9) v.m. was born in february 1996. on november 11, 2009, at approximately front of her on the sidewalk. he grabbed her and tried to push her into a nearby car, whose rear door was open. her screams attracted the attention of two 13-year-old boys, chris may and connor mcaree, who tried to assist her. v. resisted the man, slipped out of his grip, and ran from him. the man then drove away. at trial, may and mcaree identified appellant as v. 4. offense against kaylie s. (count 10) on april 26, 2010, at approximately 4:25 p.m., kaylie s. -- then 14 years old -- planned to meet her brother and ride home with her parents. appellant drove past her in a gray volkswagen jetta, made a u-turn, and parked his car. he left the car and asked kaylie whether she had seen a certain small child. she noticed that he 2 jessica acknowledged that after the attack, she identified a different man as her assailant in a photographic lineup. 5 appellant asked her several questions, including whether he could have her phone number, and then grabbed her left breast with his hand. kaylie pushed him away, entered the school, and phoned 911. when police officers arrived, she gave them the license plate number. the officers later determined that appellant was a registered owner of the jetta. 5. offenses against debbie f. (counts 4 and 11) debbie f. was born in november 1991. on april 28, 2010, at approximately 3:30 p.m., she was walking from her high school house. as she neared the house, she entered an alley and saw a parked white suv. as debbie began to unlatch the gate to he man grabbed her legs, lifted debbie then heard shouts from her uncle, douglas sanchez. she fled from the suv, which drove away. , and provided it to the police officers who responded to his 911 call. shortly afterward, appellant was detained while driving a white suv bearing the reported license plate number. appellant was later determined to be a registered owner of the suv. 6. police interviews on april 28, 2010, lapd detectives alvarez and cole interviewed appellant regarding the attempted kidnapping of debbie f. after alvarez advised appellant of his miranda rights, appellant agreed to the interview and denied any misconduct regarding debbie f. 6 the next day, on april 29, 2010, lapd detectives doerbecker and blizzard interviewed appellant. at the beginning of the interview, doerbecker reminded appellant that alvarez and cole had advised him regarding his miranda rights, and that he had waived them before speaking to alvarez and cole. appellant agreed to talk to doerbecker and blizzard. appellant said that when he saw debbie f., she winked at him. he maintained that he only wanted to scare her, and that he had no plan to rape or kill her. he stopped his car, picked her up off the ground, and tried to put her in his appellant further stated that he saw kaylie s. near an elementary school while . he parked the car, approached her, and grabbed her breast, but left when she told him to stop. regarding emily m., appellant stated that he was walking around the campus of the sherman oaks center for enriched studies when he began talking to her. a fist fight between them ensued, and after a while, he walked away. he denied that he intended to kill emily, but admitted that he wanted to have sex with her. appellant acknowledged that he grabbed v.m., but denied any recollection of the incident involving jessica f. he further stated that he had attacked as many as ten victims. after the attacks, he went home and masturbated. he said that his fantasy was to be able to rape somebody, and that he had once paid a prostitute to act out a rape fantasy. b. defense evidence lapd detective katherine gosser testified that on march 19, 2009, she spoke to emily m. in a hospital in tarzana. emily said that her assailant covered 7 say a he then pushed her to the ground, and repeatedly kicked and punched her. when she tried to stand up, he shoved her back down. she moved away from him, but he followed her. eventually, he pushed her into some bushes and began choking her. he also tried to rip her clothing off. she resisted furiously and broke his grip on her. lapd detective scott crowe testified that after the incident involving v.m., he interviewed chris may. according to crowe, may said that he could not identify v. lapd officer jusef kassis testified that when he interviewed jessica f., she recalled no tattoos on her assailant.3 discussion appellant contends the trial court erred in denying his motions to suppress his statements during the april 29, 2010 interview with detective doerbecker and his colleagues. as explained below, we disagree. a. governing principles in mirandameasu [citation.] . . . [] to counteract the coercive pressure, miranda announced that police officers must warn a suspect prior to questioning that he has a right to remain silent, and a right to the presence of an attorney. [citation.] after the warnings are given, if the suspect indicates 3 according to paula, after the attack, jessica said that her assailant had a tattoo on his right arm. 8 that he wishes to remain silent, the interrogation must cease. [citation.] similarly, if the suspect states that he wants an attorney, the interrogation must cease until an attorney is present. [citation.] critically, however, a suspect can waive these (maryland v. shatzer (2010) 559 u.s. 98, 103-104.) once suspects have waived their miranda rights, in order to halt police counsel or silence. (davis v. united states (1994) 512 u.s. 452, 459 [right to counsel] (davis); berghuis v. thompkins (2010) 560 u.s. 370, __ [130 s.ct. 2250, 2260] [right to silence] (berghuis).) thus, after a miranda rights have been waived, if the suspect makes an ambiguous or equivocal statement concerning the right to counsel or silence, the police are not required to end the interrogation, or ask questions to clarify whether the suspect wishes to invoke his or her miranda rights. (davis, supra, 512 u.s. at pp. 461-462; berghuis, supra, 130 s.ct. at pp. 2259-2260; people v. martinez (2010) 47 cal.4th 911, 947-948 (martinez).) the invocation of the right to counsel or silence is assessed by remarks. (davis, supra, 512 u.s. at p. 459; see berghuis, supra, 130 s.ct. at p. 2260; people v. nelson (2012) 53 cal.4th 367, 376-378 (nelson).) miranda issues on appeal, we accept the trial courts resolution of disputed facts and inferences as well as its evaluations of credibility if substantially supported, but independently determine from undisputed facts and facts found by the trial court whether the challenged statement was legally (people v. smith (2007) 40 cal.4th 483, 502.) 9 b. interviews 1. first interview on april 28, 2010, lapd detectives alvarez and cole interviewed appellant regarding the incident involving debbie f. shortly after the interview began, cole advised appellant of his miranda rights, and appellant affirmed that he understood those rights: . . . you have the right to remain silent. do you understand? you understand? and during any questioning, do you understand? you free of charge, before any questioning, if you want. do you understand? following the advisements, appellant agreed to throughout the interview, appellant repeatedly denied that he attempted to kidnap debbie f. near the midpoint of the interview, detective sanchez joined detectives alvarez and cole. sanchez told appellant: reason you are here is to give your side of the story. . . . l and you go to court sometime in the future. . . . 10 shortly afterward, alvarez told appellant that his public defender would and sanchez urged ive a -- no more. when the detectives asked appellant to stand up and relax, the following exchange took place: sanchez: are you willing to take a lie detector test? i after appellant agreed to the polygraph test, the interview ended. 2. second interview the next day, appellant was interviewed by detectives doerbecker and blizzard. at the beginning of the interview, blizzard reminded appellant that he had talked to detectives the previous night. the following dialogue then occurred: zzard: . . . and i know that the detectives admonished you of your miranda rights. 11 d you waived your rights and you agreed to speak to them. lant]: yes. okay. when blizzard urged appellant to describe what had happened regarding jessica f., appellant initialed the following dialogue: that? -- -- -- the appellant made no further references to an attorney. in response to the admitted his participation in several of the offenses charged against him. c. underlying proceedings prior to trial, appellant filed a motion to suppress his statements during the second interview, arguing that doerbecker and blizzard failed to re-advise him of 12 his miranda rights, and questioned him after he invoked his right to counsel. in denying the motion, the trial court concluded that during the first interview, cole advisements regarding appellantmiranda rights, and that at the beginning of the second interview, doerbecker and blizzard provided an . the court further determined that during the second interview, appellant did not invoke his right to counsel when he asked why he had not spoken to an attorney. although the trial court remarked that wit found no defect of [] that mandated later, appellant asked the court to reconsider its ruling, arguing that he invoked his right to remain silent at the end of the first interview. the court noting that appellant immediately agreed to a polygraph test, which necessarily involved further questioning, and later agreed to talk to doerbecker and blizzard after they reminded him that he had heard and waived his miranda rights. d. appellant contends he unequivocally invoked his right to silence at the end of the first interview, and unequivocally invoked his right to counsel during the second interview. 1. no invocation of right to silence we agree with the trial court that appellant did not invoke his right to silence during the first interview. after the suspect has waived his right to silence, officers are not obliged to stop their questioning absent an unambiguous invocation of that right. (berghuis, supra, 130 s.ct. at p. 2260.) this bright-officers to continue questioning unless the suspect clearly invokes the right to 13 silence, as determined under the reasonable-officer standard. (nelson, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 377.) although clarifying inquiries when the suspect makes an ambiguous or equivocal statement, there is no duty to do so. (see davis, supra, 512 u.s. at p. 461; nelson, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 377.) under these principles, remarks that facially suggest a desire to halt police questioning do not, in fact, invoke the right to silence if they are reasonably viewed as unclear or equivocal. (berghuis, supra, 130 s.ct. at p. 2260; nelson, supra, 53 cal.4th 367.) in people v. stitely (2005) 35 cal.4th 514, 534, the defendant denied his complicity in the underlying crime and said to thwhen the officer responded, that he committed the crime. (ibid., italics omitted.) our supreme court determined that a reasonable officer . (id. at pp. 535-536.) in so holding, the court noted that the officer gave the suspect a clear opportunity to invoke his right to silence by stopping the interview and reminding him of stop talking.id. at pp. 535-536.) in people v. jennings (1988) 46 cal.3d 963, 977, the defendant said to the interrogating officershit out of me. . . . ndant apologized for his remarks and continued to answer questions. (id. at p. 979.) in interrogation, our supreme court concluded that his statements did not invoke the 14 one of the interrogating officers. (id. at pp. 978-979.) again, in martinez, a detective issued miranda advisements to the defendant, who agreed to an interview regarding a specific assault. (martinez, supra, 47 cal.4th at pp. 944-you,id. at p. 944.) the next morning, two other detectives met with the defendant, reminded him that he had previously waived his miranda rights, and interrogated him regarding the assault and other crimes. (id. at pp. 944-946.) during the interrogation, the defendant said, i ymore right now. (id. at p. 945.) in response, the detectives announced that they intended to take a break, urged the defendant to think about it, (id. at pp. 951-952.) the okay,break. (id. at 952.) in concluding that the defendant did not invoke his right to silence during the initial interrogation, the supreme court as merely meaning, will stick with it. (martinez, supra, 47 cal.4th at pp. 949-950.) the court further concluded that the detectives conducting the second interview were not obliged to re-administer miranda advisements, as the miranda rights. (id. at p. 950.) the court also held the second interview did not invoke his right to silence, remarking that the aimed at clarifying think about it. (id. at pp. 951-952, quoting davis, supra, 512 u.s. at p. 461.) 15 we conclude that appellant never invoked his right to silence during the first interview. to begin, the record shows that appellant was clearly apprised of that right and understood it. in addition to the miranda advisements administered by cole, . . . sometime in the future. . . . understanding that he was entitled to end all questioning. the record also establishes that appellant never invoked that right, as determined - (nelson, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 367). ayou guys later (italics added.) in response, the detectives halted their questioning. however, in view of the italicized phrase, it was reasonable for s expressed transitory frustration toward the detectives, rather than a unequivocal desire to end questioning, by asking whether appellant would take a polygraph test. because appellant agreed to the test, he necessarily approved further questioning. furthermore, the next day, appellant agreed to questioning by doerbecker and blizzard after they reminded him of his miranda rights. michigan v. mosley (1975) 423 u.s. 96 and people v. deleon (1994) 22 cal.app.4th 1265 is misplaced. in each case, the defendant was advised of his miranda rights and clearly invoked them regarding a specific crime, but agreed to a second interview regarding other crimes after receiving a fresh set of miranda advisements. (michigan v. mosley, supra, 423 u.s. at pp.104-105; people v. deleon, supra, 22 cal.app.4th at p. 1268.) the courts held miranda rights because it concerned different crimes. (michigan v. mosley, supra, 16 at pp. 105-106; people v. deleon, supra, at pp. 1268-1272.) in contrast, appellant never unequivocally invoked his right to silence during the first interview. 2. no invocation of right to counsel we also agree with the trial court that appellant did not invoke his right to counsel during the second interview. generally, to invoke that right, he suspect must articulate sufficiently clearly his or her desire to have counsel present so that a reasonable officer in the circumstances would understand the statement to be a request for an attorney. [citation.] [i]f a suspect makes a reference to an attorney that is ambiguous or equivocal in that a reasonable officer in light of the circumstances would have understood only that the suspect might be invoking the right to counsel, our precedents do not require the cessation of questioning. (people v. williams (2010) 49 cal.4th 405, 432 (williams), quoting davis, supra, 512 u.s. at p. 459.) an instructive application of these principles is found in williams and people v. davis (2009) 46 cal.4th 539. in williams, the defendant agreed to an interview with the interrogating detectives, who suggested that he was complicit in a murder. (williams, supra, 49 cal.4th at pp. 431-i ied that he participated in the crime. (id. at p. 431.do you want your attorney now or do you want to talk to us?,to him, on the condition that one of the detectives remained silent. (ibid., italics omitted.) the supreme court concreferences to an attorney constituted an expression of frustration, rather than an invocation of the right to counsel. (id. at pp. 432-433.) in people v. davis, when the interrogating detectives accused the defendant 17 people v. davis, supra, 46 cal.4th at pp. 587-588.) the but resented accusations that he participated in the crime. (id. at p. 587.) the challenge to deflect questions, rather than a request for counsel. (id. at p. 587.) here, the record establishes that appellant did not invoke his right to counsel. to begin, we note that appellant never expressly requested counsel, even when alvarez suggested during the firsrather, when appellant made the pertinent reference to an attorney during the second interview, he framed his remark as a request for information. the record discloses the following dialogue: ppellant]: can i ask a question? that? because appellant had never asked to talk to an attorney, yet used the past tense to express his question, blizzard reasonably interpreted appellant to be inquiring how and when he might obtain representation, as no attorney had talked to him up to that point. that inquiry is unsurprising, in view of the fact that the miranda advisements appellant received did not expressly advise him when, in the absence of a request for counsel, an attorney would be appointed to represent him. in duckworth v. eagan (1989) 492 u.s. 195, 198, the interrogating officers issued 18 miranda advisements to the defendant informing him, inter alia, that he had a right to counsel during questioning, the right to stop questioning until he had talked to a lawyer, and the right to stop questioning at any time. in addition, the officers said, n attorney] will be appointed for you, if you wish, if and when you go to (ibid., italics omitted.) after the defendant waived his rights and confessed to the crime alleged against him, the seventh circuit concluded that the additional information rendered the miranda advisements constitutionally defective, reasoning that it suggested that indigents lacked the right to appointed counsel before any interrogation. (id. at p. 199.) the united states supreme court reversed that decision, concluding that the defendant had received adequate miranda advisements, and that the additional information was merely an accurate statement of state procedure regarding the appointment of counsel. (id. at pp. 203-204.) in so holding, the high court remarked that commonplace for a suspect, after receiving miranda warnings, to ask when he will obtain counsel. (id. at p. 204, italics omitted.) that is the type of procedural information that blizzard provided to appellant. did not constitute a clear invocation of his right to counsel under miranda. when doerbecker told appellant that an attorney would be appointed for him at his arraignment unless he hired a private attorney, appellant did not say he wished to speak to an attorney before further questioning, or even that he wanted counsel appointed, despite having been previously advised that if he could not afford an attorney, one would be appointed for him free of charge, before any questioning. instead, appellant counsel, even though he had been told -- and claimed to have understood -- that he could end the interview at any time (see pt. d.1, ante). because was reasonably interpreted as a general procedural question regarding the 19 appointment of counsel if he wished representation, rather than a request for counsel, the interrogating detectives had no duty to clarify the inquiry. (davis, supra, 512 u.s. at pp. 461-462; berghuis, supra, 130 s.ct. at pp. 2259-2260.) in short, the trial court did not err in denying appellantstatements. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports manella, j. we concur: willhite, acting p. j. suzukawa, j. 