filed 7/12/13 p. v. briceno ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. raul briceno, defendant and appellant. b242110 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la034110) appeal from a postjudgment order of the superior court of los angeles county, gregory a. dohi, judge. affirmed. law office of anthony d. zinnanti and anthony d. zinnanti for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle, supervising deputy attorney general, and michael c. keller, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 summary appellant raul briceno appeals from a postjudgment order denying his motion to vacate a victim restitution order. we conclude that briceno has failed to present a justiciable controversy. background in may 2000 briceno entered a plea of no contest and was convicted of one count each of kidnapping and robbery, with an admission that a principal was armed during the commission of the robbery. briceno was sentenced to 7 years, 8 months in state prison, 1 in the amount of [$]700,000[ ] joint and severally with all co- in october 2003, the victim of the crime, at systems west, inc. (at systems), filed a civil action against briceno and his codefendants for unspecified damages for, among other things, theft, embezzlement and misappropriation. at systems claimed the defendaclaim was made and much of the outstanding loss was paid with insurance proceeds, [at action against briceno and his codefendants was subsequently settled on terms not disclosed in the appellate record, and dismissed. in february 2012, after his release from prison and discharge from parole, briceno asked the court to discharge the entire 2000 restitution order, which had grown to over $905,000 with accumulated interest.2 a hearing on the motion began on february 16, 1 unless otherwise stated, statutory references will be to the penal code. 2 the penal code does not provide for accrual of interest on restitution fines, attorney fees and probation costs. the penal code only permits enforcement of the order for such amounts in the manner provided for enforcement of money judgments. 3 2012, but was continued to march 16, 2012 after the trial court requested supplemental briefing. in a supplemental brief, briceno argued, among other things, that the restitution order should be discharged absent proof that at systems was an extant corporate entity. in a declaration accat systems . . . no longer existsconsisted of his haviwas unable to find at systems listed as a corporation, and phone calls to the office of the california secretary of state seeking to determine if at systems still existed, none of which yielded any information.3 zinnanti did not present any documentation from the secretary of state to confirm the results of his inquiries. zinnanti also submitted a document reflecting that, on the day before the motion was to be heard, he contacted david calderon, an attorney at the firm that represented at systems in the civil action in his march 16, 2012 response, calderon informed zinnanti that his recollection of the te some time and [he] believe[d] . . . that they were purchased by another armored car company zinnanti made several attempts to contact garda but was unable to speak with the 3 information about any corpocorporate status or c 4 at systems . . . infor irect victim of the robbery, militated in favor of nullifying the restitution order. the trial court denied the motion. the court agreed, however, to permit briceno belatedly to submit a certified document from the secretary of stateof which the court would take judicial notice4 the court also noted it would not change the to collect on the restitution order, it would first have to establish that it was, in fact, at systems. discussion briceno maintains that the trial court erred and that the restitution order must be vacated because at systems, the direct corporate victim of his crimes has purportedly been acquired by another entity and cannot collect on the order. [any] economic loss as a result of the commission of a crime [is entitled to] receive people v. runyan (2012) 54 cal.4th 849, 856;  1202.4, subd. (a)(1).) for restitution purposes, a victim ciation, joint venture, . . . or any other legal or commercial entity when that entity is a direct victim of 4 the record does not reflect that briceno ever submitted such a document. 5 runyancompensating victims, the restitution mandate serves rehabilitative and deterrent people v. hume (2011) 196 cal.app.4th 990, 995.) section 1214, subdivision (b), provides that an order for a defendant to pay rewere a civil judgment, and enforceable in the same manner as is provided for the that remains unsatisfied after a defendant is no longer on probation [or] parole is le as if 5 ( 1202.4, subds. (a)(3)(b), (f) & (i); people v. willie (2005) 133 cal.app.4th 43, 47, fn. 2.) no separate judgment is necessary, nor is one authorized. (people v. hart (1998) 65 cal.app.4th 902, 906.) however, the 10year period of enforceability for money judgments does not apply to victim restitution orders. ( 1214, subd. (d)(2).) briceno does not contest that at systems was entitled to restitution as the direct victim of his crimes, nor does he take issue with the amount of the original restitution order. he argues only that the entire amount should be deemed discharged because the victim of his crimes allegedly no longer exists and is unable to collect upon the order. 5 although [citation], it is not a civil judgment. people v. vasquez, supra, 190 cal.app.4th at p. 1132.) nor will a civil id. at p. 1133addition to compensating the victim, a restitution order is intended to rehabilitate the id. at p. 1133; people v. crow (1993) 6 cal.4th 952, 957.) 6 but briceno has not established that at systems no longer exists. briceno . . . is unclear and neither garda nor the 6 briceno also points to hearsay in correspondence from an attorney who once represented at systems. freely admitting that his recollection here is no evidence that garda has ever confirmed to briceno (1) that it actually did acquire all or part of at systems or, (2) if it did, whether at systems still existed notwithstanding its acquisition. the most briceno got out of garda was a statement by an employee whose authority is unknown that acquire at systems, the record is bereft of evidence that an assignment of the right to enforce the restitution order was among the specific assets garda acquired. proof as to each fact the existence or nonexistence of which is essential to the claim for relief or defense that he is assertingpeople v. vasquez, supra, 190 only one reasonable option: to deny the motion. briceno will suffer no hardship from our affirmance. even if garda acquired at systems, and the assets it acquired included the restitution order, garda has taken no steps to enforce that 13-year-old order against briceno and may never do so. briceno may at any time pursue relief on his own upon proper evidentiary showing and authority. 6 briceno requested and received leave of court to submit proof that at systems no longer existed, but never did. 7 further, if victim restitution is ever sought against him, briceno has the additional right to a hearing at that time and will have an opportunity to raise these issues supported by the appropriate factual record and legal arguments. ( 1202.4, subd. (i); people v. hume, supra, 196 cal.app.4th at p. 1001; see also people v. harvest (2000) 84 cal.app.4th 641, disposition the order is affirmed. not to be published. johnson, j. we concur: mallano, p. j. rothschild, j. 