 filed 7/12/13 p. v. enriquez ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jesse enriquez, defendant and appellant. b242980 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka095961) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. juan carlos dominguez, judge. affirmed. linn davis, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________ 2 defendant jesse enriquez was charged by amended information with assault with a deadly weapon (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(2); count 1), and with being a felon in possession of a firearm ( 12021, subd. (a)(1); count 5). the information also included gang and two prior strike allegations ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(a) & (b),  667, subd. (a)(1), 667.5, subd. (b)).1 the jury found defendant guilty of both counts and found marsden2 and romero3 motions. defendant was sentenced to an aggregate term of 64 years to life, consisting of 25 years to life for count 1, plus a determinate term of 5 years under section 667, subdivision (a)(1), and 5 years under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(b). he received a consecutive term of 25 years to life on count 5, plus an additional four-year term under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(a). defendant appeals his conviction. we appointed appellate counsel to represent him. appointed counsel filed a brief in which no issues were raised. (people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 (wende).) the brief included a declaration from counsel that counsel reviewed the record and advised defendant of his right, under wende, to submit a supplemental brief. defendant did not file a supplemental brief with this court. the facts are these: on the morning of october 29, 2011, d.a., who was confined to a wheelchair, was retrieving something from the trunk of his volvo. the volvo was group of eight or nine young african-american men were gathered across the street. d.a. heard one of the young men say something, and when he looked up, they were all started shooting towards the group of african-which was parked in front of his volvo. d.a. was unable to identify defendant in court. 1 girlfriend, rosemary perez, was charged with being an accessory after the fact (pen. code,  32; count 3). she entered a plea under a grant of immunity. 2 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118. 3 people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497. 3 cmale passengers. l.b. pulled onto carlton avenue behind the focus and noticed a group of african-american males, and a man in a wheelchair. the focus parked and suddenly, a man ran into the middle of the street with a gun. when l.b. heard gunshots, she put nto the house. the group of african-american men scattered; one of them followed l.b. and the shooter. m.d. had been sitting in his car on carlton avenue. some african-american 357 holding something resembling a gun out the window. after the car passed by, m.d. heard gunshots. case and had been identified by a witness during the preliminary hearing. she thereafter gave a proffered statement to the district attorney. before the interview, she was not offered immunity or leniency in her case. she understood if she was not truthful, she could be charged with perjury or obstruction. the morning of the shooting, after perez and defendant spent the night together at before at family gathe car to talk to chase and asked perez to give chase a ride. defendant let chase sit in defendant sat behind perez. defendant told perez where to drive, and then chase and defendant began to argue in spanish. perez did not understand what they were arguing about and was confused about where to drive. 4 she drove around for awhile, and then threatened to drop defendant and chase off where she had picked up chase because she was in a hurry to get to work. perez was this to mean either that he had a gun, or that he was mad. chase then gave perez directions. as she turned, she saw a group of african-american males on the side of the road. defendant and chase continued to argue, and then perez heard gunshots. perez saw a black gun outstretched from the backseat of her car, where defendant was sitting. chase told perez several times to stop the car. she stopped after chase pulled out a gun. both chase and defendant got out of the car, and perez heard gunshots. perez ducked and then saw defendant running back to her car. she did not see a gun in his after defendant and chase got back into the car, they argued again in spanish. she asked what had happened, but neither chase nor defendant answered her. perez drove to the other side of town, and dropped off defendant and chase. perez did not go to the police because she was scared. defendant called perez later that day, and they went to the beach around 9:00 p.m. a halloween party, defendant came to her bedroom window and handed her a gun. she put it in a shoe box in her closet, and they left for the party. perez had seen defendant with a gun before. she believed he got it from a member of the cesenas family. perez identified chase in court. his name was victor gomez. se, she was pulled over by police. when she was initially questioned, she denied she was present at the shooting. however, after police told her she had been identified, she admitted to 5 being the driver. she did not identify defendant because she was scared. she identified chase because she felt he was the one responsible for the incident. ay of contacting defendant. when detective jerry uribe later confronted perez about her conversation with her mother, perez admitted defendant was involved in the shooting. on cross-examination, perez admitted she entered into a plea agreement for probation and a suspended prison sentence in this case. at the time of her testimony, she had not been sentenced. she was told if she did not testify truthfully, she would be prosecuted and the deal was off. her and arranged to meet with her in person. defendant told her perez had been arrested. he asked a.r. to retrieve a gun 4 defendant, another male, and a female recover the gun. a.r. agreed to help found it there. a.r. concealed the gun in her backseat. defendant and the others then drove a.r. home. interview after his arrest. defendant admitted to being present at the shooting. he denied he was the shooter, or that he knew the shooting was going to occur. defendant once the car stopped, defendant heard a bunch of gunshots. he also got out of the car, but ducked down. when detective uribe asked defendant why he got out of the car, he said he did not know why. defendant admitted he had given a gun to perez to hold for him, but he denied it was the gun used in the shooting. as for the gun used in the shooting, defendant 4 defense counsel proposed a.r. should have a lawyer. she consulted with a court-appointed attorney, who advised her to invoke her fifth amendment right to remain silent. she ignored his advice and elected to continue her testimony. 6 admitted to knowing where it was, but refused to tell detective uribe its location. t following her arrest. defendant also admitted to being a gang member. a video of the interview was played for the jury. detective eric berger testified as a gang expert. he testified about the happy town gang, and that members of the cesenas family happy town and the 357 crips are rival gangs. the shooting took place in 357 crips territory. there had been several skirmishes between the two gangs leading up to the shooting. based on a hypothetical tracking the facts of this case, detective berger opined the shooting was for the benefit of the happy town gang. we marsden transcript, and are arguable appellate issues exist. (people v. kelly (2006) 40 cal.4th 106; wende, supra, 25 cal.3d 436.) we therefore affirm the judgment. disposition the judgment is affirmed. grimes, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. flier, j. 