filed 3/25/13 p. v. beckwith ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. gerald delane beckwith, defendant and appellant. b242147 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma052644) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, akemi d. arakaki, judge. affirmed as modified. murray a. rosenberg, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, lawrence m. daniels, supervising deputy attorney general and ana r. duarte, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________ 2 gerald beckwith was convicted of first degree residential burglary and petty theft, and received a sentence of 37 years to life. beckwith appeals, arguing that the trial court abused its discretion in denying his motion to dismiss one or both of his prior strikes. we modify the abstract of judgment and otherwise affirm the judgment. background an amended information charged beckwith with one count of first degree residential burglary in violation of penal code section 4591 (count 1), and one count of petty theft with three priors in violation of section 666, subdivision (a) (count 2). the information also alleged that beckwith had suffered two prior strike convictions as to both counts within the meaning of sections 1170.12, subdivisions (a) through (d), section 667, subdivisions (b) through (i), and section 667, subdivision (a)(1), and further alleged that beckwith had served eight prior prison terms within the meaning of penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b). beckwith pleaded not guilty and denied the allegations. a jury found beckwith guilty as charged on both counts. in a bifurcated proceeding, beckwith waived jury trial, and the court found the prior conviction allegations to be true, except for one of the eight prior prison term allegations. the trial people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497 (romero). the court sentenced beckwith to a total of 37 years to life, detailed as follows: on count 1, years each for the two prior serious felony convictions, and one year each for two of the seven prior prison terms. the court stayed the term for count 2 under section 654. the court ordered beckwith to pay fines and fees, and awarded him 478 days of custody credit. beckwith filed a timely notice of appeal. moving into her new apartment at 44641 10th street west in lancaster. at 2:30 p.m., she locked the apartment door and went with her mother to buy some pizza. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 returned home about 1:00 p.m. or 2:00 p.m. beckwith, who was a former boyfriend of blupolice, but when nobody answered she gave the phone to her daughter and peeked outside. blue watched beckwith make a call and then a younger man, antonio smalls,2 box back, call the police. when she returned to her door, she saw beckwith and smalls walking away on the street, holding boxes. she shouted at them to bring the boxes back, but they continued to walk away. blue called the police. when eaton returned from buying a pizza, she saw that her apartment door was open and the frame was damaged, and when she went inside she saw that her things had been knocked down and some of her property was missing. blue told eaton that she had seen two men steal a couple of boxes. blue then drove to where beckwith and smalls had gone, followed by eaton and her mother. the women confronted beckwith and demanded that the men give it back. eaton and her mother eventually recovered the stolen items. address. the defense read into the record a stipulation between the parties that a doctor n of 2 the parties stipulated that smalls was convicted of the first degree residential 4 would have been painful, although not impossible, for beckwith to hold an object in his right hand. i. the court did not abuse its discretion in failing to strike all the prior strike allegations. beckwith filed a posttrial motion requesting that the trial court dismiss prior strike allegations in the interest of justice under section 1385 and romero, supra, 13 cal 4th 497. beckwith argued that the court should exercise its discretion to do so because his current offense was not violent or life-threatening, he would receive a long sentence even without the prior strikes, and he cooperated with the police after his arrest. beckwith also argued that his two prior strikes were remote, consisting of robbery convictions in 1985 and 1988. taking a vehicle auto in 1988; robbery in 1988; possession of a controlled substance in 2003 and 2007; and petty theft with a prior in 2006. the court stated that it had taken time to analyze the romero background, character, and prospects.3 court struggled with it. i will admit. i really considered the age of the strikes. however, based such a long period of time, he has suffered so many prison priors, and based on the seriousness of the current charge, the court does not believe that mr. beckwith is outside 3 the court took into account references and a letter from a psychologist who had examined beckwith. the psychologist reported that although beckwith stated that he had been diagnosed with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder (for which he required medication), at the time of the interview he was calm and clear in his thoughts, and of the offense. 5 the romero motion. beckwith addressed the court and asked it to reconsider, arguing that there were inconsistencies in the evidence, and maintaining his innocence of the burglary charge. time again that you have continued to conduct yourself inappropriately and pick up felony convictions, sir. it is not a matter of you walking in here, mr. beckwith, 25 years later with a clean slate . . . . for the last seven cases, mr. beckwith, you have gone to prison. [] . . . [] . . . and for theft-related the trial court has discretion under the three strikes law to dismiss prior conviction allegations in the furtherance of justice. ( 1385, subd. (a); romero, supra, 13 cal.4th at pp. 529530.) in exercising its discretion, the court must take into account the rights; the nature and circumstances of the current and prior offenses; and the interests of society, to decide whether the defendant may be deemed outside the anti-recidivist people v. williams (1998) 17 cal.4th 148, 161; romero, at pp. 530romero (people v. carmony from this norm and requires the court to explicitly justify its decision to do so. in doing so, the law creates a strong presumption that any sentence that conforms to these sentencing norms is both rational and proper. [] in light of this presumption, a trial court will only abuse its discretion in failing to strike a prior felony conviction allegation id. at p. 378.) if the record shows that the trial court has considered the relevant facts and reached its decision impartially and in the spirit of the 6 ibid.) no extraordinary circumstances appear in this case. the trial court properly rent and prior offenses. although no statement of reasons is required when the court does not dismiss a prior conviction finding (in re large ( 2007) 41 cal.4th 538, 550), the trial e in 1985 and 1988, there were seven other convictions (the most recent in 2007), most of which were to his more recent and his current offenses, but substance abuse is not necessarily a mitigating factor when a defendant has a long-term problem and does not show that he has pursued treatment for his addiction. (people v. martinez (1999) 71 cal.app.4th 1502, 1511.) convictions was not a decision with which all reasonable people would disagree, and we therefore conclude that the court did not abuse its discretion in denying the romero motion. ii. the abstract of judgment must be amended. respondent points out, and beckwith concedes, that one additional court security fee and one additional court construction fee should be added. the omission of mandatory assessments, surcharges, and penalties may be corrected for the first time on appeal. (people v. castellanos (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 1524, 1530.) one $40 court code,  1465.8, subd. (a)(1); people v. roa (2009) 171 cal.app.4th 1175, 1181.) one felony criminal conviction as a court construction fee. (gov. code,  70373, subd. (a)(1); people v. lopez (2010) 188 cal.app.4th 474, 480.) the court imposed only one court operations fee and one court construction fee. re that we order the abstract of judgment corrected to reflect a second $40 court operations assessment under penal code section 1465.8, 7 subdivision (a)(1), and a second $30 court construction fee under government code section 70373, subdivision (a)(1). we agree with respondent that the abstract must be further amended to reflect the yminute order, however, states that the court imposed a single five-year prior serious felony enhancement under section 667, subdivision (a)(1), and then doubled the five years under the three strikes law for a total of 10 years. the abstract of judgment also states that one 10-year enhancement was ordered. the abstract of judgment must be amended to reflect that two separate five-year enhancements were ordered for beckwithprior serious felonies. disposition the trial court is ordered to correct the abstract of judgment to reflect a second $40 court operations assessment pursuant to penal code section 1465.8, subdivision (a)(1); a second $30 court construction fee under government code section 70373, subdivision (a)(1); and two separate five-felonies pursuant to penal code section 667, subdivision (a)(1). the court is directed to forward a corrected copy of the abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. johnson, j. we concur: mallano, p. j. rothschild, j. 