filed 4/30/13 in re goodrich ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three in re bradley goodrich on habeas corpus. b242254 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya063387) original proceedings in habeas corpus. steven van sicklen, judge. order to show cause returnable to the superior court shall issue. california appellate project, jonathan b. steiner and richard b. lennon for petitioner. bradley goodrich, in pro. per., for petitioner. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, kenneth c. byrne and e. carlos dominguez, deputy attorneys general. _______________________________________ 2 petitioner bradley goodrich filed the instant petition for writ of habeas corpus, asserting that his attorney rendered ineffective assistance of counsel in advising him to accept a plea bargain. based on the record before this court, and certain concessions made by the attorney general, we conclude that proper disposition of this petition requires a further trial court hearing as to all of the factual circumstances on which of ineffective assistance of counsel is based. we therefore will issue an order to show cause returnable to the trial court on this issue. factual and procedural background on october 11, 2006, petitioner was charged by amended information with: (1) attempted premeditated murder (pen. code,  664, 187); (2) infliction of corporal injury to a spouse (pen. code,  273.5); and (3) kidnapping (pen. code,  207).1 it was further alleged, in connection with the first two counts, that petitioner inflicted great bodily injury on his spouse under circumstances involving domestic violence (pen. code,  12022.7(e)); and, in connection with all three counts, that petitioner suffered a prior conviction within the meaning of penal code section law) and penal code section 667, subdivision conviction was suffered in los angeles superior court case no. sa040761, in which goodrich pleaded no contest to aggravated assault under penal code section 245, subdivision (a)(1). 1 according to goodrich, the offenses arose from an incident in which he choked 3 count one, for attempted premeditated murder, subjected petitioner to an indeterminate life sentence, with the possibility of parole. (pen. code,  664, subd. (a).) according to petitioner, the prosecution offered a plea deal, which provided that if he pleaded guilty to the offense of attempted (non-premeditated) murder, and admitted the sentence enhancements, he would receive a sentence of 20 years in prison, calculated as follows: five years (low term) for attempted murder, doubled for the strike, plus five years (high term) for infliction of great bodily injury on a spouse, plus five years for the prior serious felony. petitioner alleges that he informed his trial counsel that his prior conviction did not constitute a strike or a prior serious felony, and that he did not want to accept a deal under which his sentence would be enhanced for the prior conviction. according to petitioner, he made the trial court aware of his concerns regarding his prior conviction. the trial court to the court. the next day, the trial court informed petitioner that the court had investigated the prior conviconviction. he was sentenced to 20 years in prison, pursuant to the plea agreement. the remaining charges were dismissed. petitioner takes the position that the prior conviction was not a prior strike or prior serious felony, and that his counsel had provided ineffective assistance by failing to argue to the contrary before the trial court. he also argues that he would have been in 4 a more favorable negotiating position had his prior conviction not been considered as an enhancing offense. petitioner filed a series of habeas petitions, both in the trial court and in this court. he raised numerous challenges, including challenges relating to his prior conviction. his most recent petition in the trial court was denied on may 31, 2012. the a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel in not investigating an alleged strike prior to which defendant admitted as part of a plea bargain in this case. he now claims it was not a strike because it was expunged. petitioner has made these claims before. the prior was a strike. he plead to a violation of [penal code section] 245(a)(1) and admitted to a great bodily injury allegation pursuant to [penal code section] 12022.7(e). petitioner then filed the instant habeas petition in this court. attached as an exhibit is the minute order reflecting his plea to the aggravated assault in case no. sa040761. it demonstrates that petitioner pleaded no contest to a violation of penal code section 245, subdivision (a)(1). there is, however, no indication that petitioner admitted a great bodily injury allegation.2 2 the trial court ruling on the habeas petition may have been confused. petitioner admitted a great bodily injury allegation in connection with the instant attempted murder offense. it does not appear, based on the record before us, that he did so in connection with the prior conviction. 5 an aggravated assault, under penal code section 245, subdivision (a)(1), may or may not constitute a serious felony.3 conviction, penal code section 245, subdivision (a)(1) prweapon or instrument other than a firearm or by means of force likely to produce great  1192.7, subd. (c)(31)) or a defendant personally inflicted great bodily injury (pen. code,  1192.7, subd. (c)(8)), then the assault constitutes a serious felony. however, if no deadly weapon was used, and the defendant simply used force likely to cause great bodily injury, but did not actually do so, penal code section 245 is violated but the felony is not a serious felony.4 (people v. rodriguez (1998) 17 cal.4th 253, 261.) t conviction constituted a strike because 3 both serious and violent felonies constitute strikes. (pen. code,  1170.12, subd. (b)(1a violent felony. the issue is solely whether it constitutes a serious felony; if so, it constitutes a serious felony for both the prior serious felony enhancement and the three strikes law. 4 prior to march 8, 2000, penal code section 1192.7 did not identify assault with a deadly weapon as a serious felony. (people v. james (2001) 91 cal.app.4th 1147, 1149, 1151.) however, any felony in which the defendant personally used a dangerous or deadly weapon was a serious felony. (pen. code,  1192.7, subd. (c)(23).) as such, prior to march 8, 2000, if a defendant aided and abetted an assault with a deadly weapon, but did not personally use a deadly weapon, the crime did not constitute a serious felony. (people v. rodriguez, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 261.) in this case, both argument can be made that the prior law applied. now that assault with a deadly weapon is specifically identified as a serious felony (pen. code,  1192.7, subd. (c)(31)), personal use of the deadly weapon is not necessary to render the crime a serious felony. 6 he had admitted inflicting great bodily injury. but the record indicates that petitioner had not admitted inflicting great bodily injury, which left open the possibility that he had admitted a violation of penal code section 245, subdivision (a)(1), which was not a serious felony. concerned by this discrepancy, on july 5, 2012, we requested the attorney general file preliminary opposition to the petition, addressing the issue. there followed a series of extension petitioner code, assault with a deadly weapon, a glass bottle,[5] or by means of force likely to he did not admit inflicting great bodily injury. apparently in infliction of great bodily injury when he pleaded no contest to a violation of penal code section 245, subdivision (a)(1), and thus it does not constitute a serious or violent felony procedural default. 5 in the instant proceeding, petitioner suggests that it was not a glass bottle, but a champagne flute, with which he struck the victim on the head, breaking the glass. he makes no mention of any injuries the victim may have suffered. 7 we issued an order to show cause, and ordered counsel appointed for petitioner. we indicated that, if the attorney general elected to deem its preliminary opposition to be the return to the petition, it should notify the court. the attorney general elected to 6 both parties then waived oral argument. as a result of these circumstances, this court was faced with the situation in which both parties had agreed based on a prior conviction which was not a serious felony and therefore did not justify the prior serious felony and second strike enhancements. neither party, however, had briefed the manner in which this court should proceed. we therefore requested the parties to address the issue of remedy in letter briefs, and to attend oral argument. issues raised as we shall disaggravated assault conviction was not a serious felony, the concession may have been 6 the attorney general argues that petitioner waited five years to raise this claim and it is therefore untimely. the attorney general also argues that petitioner filed numerous habeas petitions in which the issue could have been raised. the attorney general did not supply this court with any evidence on which we could conclude that the issue was not court, previously filed habeas petitions will not be lodged in conjunction with this ng that, in at least one prior habeas petition, filed within one year of his instant conviction, petitioner a strike. in any event, petitioner raises issues of an illegal sentence, which the prosecution appears to concede. under the circumstances, we will not disregard the contentions on the basis of an alleged procedural default. 8 of a serious felony, in which case there was no ineffective assistance of counsel, and no remedial action is necessary. moreover, even if the prior conviction was not a serious felony conviction, factual issues still exist regarding ineffective assistance of counsel. establishes a prima facie case of ineffective assistance of counsel. as such, a further ineffective assistance with respect to his plea must be conducted. discussion 1. constituted a prior serious felony conviction as discussed above, a conviction of aggravated assault may or may not constitute a serious felony. (people v. rodriguez, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 261.) standing alone, a plea of no contest to the offense does not establish a serious felony conviction. (ibid.) in order to establish that the felony was serious, the prosecution would be required to establish the use of a deadly weapon or the personal infliction of great bodily injury. conviction. (people v. rodriguez, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 261.) had this case proceeded a serious felony, the prosecution could have relied, for example, on the preliminary hearing transcript in case no. sa040761 to demonstrate either the use of a deadly 9 weapon or the personal infliction of great bodily injury.7 (people v. morgan (2011) 194 cal.app.4th 79, 85-86.) if a review of the preliminary hearing transcript provides evidence that petitioner used a deadly weapon8 or personally inflicted great bodily injury, it would have been provable that his prior conviction was a serious felony, and counsel would not have rendered ineffective assistance by recommending that petitioner accept the plea which included admitting the enhancements. 2. ineffective assistance petitioner assumes that if his prior conviction does not constitute a serious felony, his counsel rendered ineffective assistance by recommending that he accept a plea agreement under which his sentence was enhanced for a prior serious felony conviction and a prior strike. the conclusion does not necessarily follow. while it is true that a trial court should not accept an admission of a prior serious felony conviction which was not, in fact, a serious felony (people v. ellis (1987) 195 cal.app.3d 334, 343), a defendant may be estopped to challenge the sentence enhancement imposed 7 reviewed the preliminary hearing transcript from case no. 8 while petitioner asserts that, in the prior assault, he struck the victim with a champagne flute, the information in that case apparently alleged he struck the victim with a glass bottle. while a glass bottle is not a deadly weapon as a matter of law, it may be one depending on the circumstances in which it is used. (people v. aguilar (1997) 16 cal.4th 1023, 1028-1029; cf. people v. zermeno (1999) 21 cal.4th 927, 931.) in its supplemental letter brief, the attorney general suggests that, as petitioner pleaded to assault with a deadly weapon, the prior conviction was, in fact, a strike. but a deadly weapon . . . or by means of force likely to ambiguous. 10 when the defendant has admitted the prior serious felony conviction as part of a plea bargain (id. at pp. 344-lenient sentence, yet the defendant avoided a potentially harsher sentence by entering into the plea bargain, it may be implied that the defendant waived any rights under such people v. couch (1996) 48 cal.app.4th 1053, 1057.) thus, if it can be shown that defense counsel recommended that petitioner accept the plea bargain, even knowing that the prior conviction did not constitute a prior serious felony conviction, in order for petitioner to avoid a potential indeterminate life sentence, and petitioner accepted this advice under those circumstances, this may support a not render ineffective assistance. 3. a further hearing is necessary the record and briefs before this court, however, are sufficient to require a ance of counsel, a petitioner must deficient representation subjected the petitioner to prejudice, i.e., there is a reasonable people v. landau (2013) 214 cal.app.4th 1, 13, petn. for review filed mar. 21, 2013.) petitioner represents that he did not wish to accept a plea bargain which included a sentence enhancement for the prior conviction if it was not a serious felony. indeed, he represents to this court that he made the trial 11 court aware of these concerns, and the trial court, before accepting his plea, requested counsel to look into the circumstances of the prior conviction. petitioner argues that he would have been in a better negotiating position had the trial court been aware that his prior conviction was not, in fact, a prior serious felony conviction. furthermore, the serious felony conviction. taken together, these facts are sufficient to raise a prima facie case of ineffective assistance of counsel. a hearing must therefore be held. assistance, then petitioner was properly sentenced and no further proceedings are required. ineffective assistance, then petitioner should be given the opportunity to vacate the plea agreement. should he do so, the prosecution would be permitted to reinstate the charges which a (people v. shelton (2006) 37 concept of reciprocal benefits. when either the prosecution or the defendant is deprived of benefits for which it has bargained, corresponding relief will lie from concessions people v. collins (1978) 21 cal.3d 208, 214.) as such, when a defendant withdraws a plea or otherwise attacks it, dismissed counts may be restored. (id. at p. 215.) there would be no limitation on the sentence which could be imposed on retrial or resentencing. when a defendant successfully challenges a sentence as in excess o12 sentence as a limitation on what the trial court may do thereafter. (people v. craig (1998) 66 cal.app.4th 1444, 1449.) disposition we hereby issue an order to show cause, returnable to the superior court of los angeles county, directing the superior court to hold an evidentiary hearing on the his plea bargain. counsel should be appointed for petitioner in connection with these render ineffective assistance of counsel in the proceedings below, then the trial court should deny his habeas corpus petition and discharge the order to show cause as no further action on this matter would be required. should the trial court, however, conclude that ineffective assistance of counsel was rendered, then the trial court should uch further proceedings as may be appropriate and are not inconsistent with the views expressed herein. not to be published in the official reports croskey, acting p. j. we concur: kitching, j. aldrich, j. 