filed 5/20/13 p. v. morris ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. charles henry morris, defendant and appellant. b242335 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma055074) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, john murphy, temporary judge. (cal. const., art. vi,  21.) affirmed. randall conner, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and kimberley j. baker-guillemet, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________ 2 introduction defendant charles morris appeals from a judgment of conviction entered after a jury trial. the jury found defendant guilty of possession of a controlled substance (health & saf. code,  11350, subd. (a)). the trial court found true the allegations defendant suffered four prior convictions for which he served prison terms (pen. code,  667.5, subd. (b)), and that he suffered two prior serious felony convictions (id.,  667, subds. (a), (b)-(i), 1170.12). defendant was sentenced to state prison for a total term of 10 years. the sentence was composed of three years as the base term, doubled as a second strike pursuant to section 1170.12, subdivisions (a) through (d), of the penal code, plus four one-year enhancements pursuant to penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b). on appeal, defendant contends that the trial court erred in admitting evidence of his 2007 conviction for violating section 11350, subdivision (a), of the health and safety code to show intent, pursuant to evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b). we disagree and affirm the conviction. facts a. prosecution on january 6, 2012, at approximately 7:10 p.m., los angeles department deputies uriel cruz and lee warren were on patrol in lancaster in a marked vehicle. they entered the parking lot of the shadow park inn, an area known for high narcotics and prostitution activity. they saw five men walking, one of whom was defendant. the men appeared surprised as they glanced at the patrol car and resumed walking at a quickened pace. the deputies got out of their patrol car and ordered the men to stop. everyone in the group complied with the request except defendant. defendant continued to walk away from the officers. the deputies ordered defendant to stop five times. deputy cruz 3 defendant was carrying an aluminum-colored box, which contained instruments and material for inscribing tattoos. as deputy cruz was following defendant, defendant made a left turn so that he was on the other side of some pine trees. deputy cruz saw approximately two to three feet away from defendant. it appeared to deputy cruz that deputy cruz retrieved the object that defendant had thrown, which was a piece of plastic containing a substance resembling rock cocaine. after advising defendant of his miranda1 rights, deputy cruz questioned defendant regarding the object he had thrown. after showing the object to deputy warren, deputy cruz booked it into evidence. with regard to the box and its him at all times just in case he got a client where he could just do a tattoo real quick and on january 9, 2012, senior criminalist gregory burke examined the object that deputy cruz had recovered from defendant. after conducting two different tests on the substance, he concluded that it contained cocaine in base form and weighed 0.14 grams. b. defense darrell duncan (duncan) testified that on january 6, 2012, he was arrested at the shadow park inn along with defendant. duncan had called defendant to meet him in a 1 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 [86 s.ct. 1602, 16 l.ed.2d 694]. 4 so defendant could give him a tattoo. duncan had met defendant the defendant started the tattoo process and had completed the outline of the tattoo on left to go to the store to get food. when he returned, defendant was on his way up to the room. duncan saw the police in a patrol car. the patrol car pulled up on a group of three to four people who were right behind defendant and duncan. at the time, duncan had two plastic bags and an orange container containing a green leafy substance resembling marijuana on his person. duncan stated that the police walked towards the group, told them to stop, turn around and walk back to the car. the police flashe while he was being detained by deputy warren, duncan could see what was 2 duncan did not see defendant toss anything on the ground. defendant had his tattoo equipment in his hands the entire time. not have any drugs, including cocaine, on his person that day. c. rebuttal after deputy cruz advised duncan of his miranda rights, duncan told the deputy that he was staying at the motel with friends. duncan did not mention receiving tattoos from defendant. deputy cruz recovered marijuana from duncan, and duncan told deputy cruz that he sold marijuana. 2 duncan used objects in the courtroom to describe the relative distance defendant walked away from the patrol car. the court approximated that the distance duncan 5 individuals in the group that day. defendant stated he was carrying around the tattoo box discussion defendant contends the trial court erred in admitting evidence of his 2007 conviction for violating health and safety code section 11350, subdivision (a), possession of a controlled substance, because its prejudicial effect outweighed its probative value. we find no abuse of discretion. a. procedural background conviction evidence was inadmissible to prove similar conduct. during the discussion with the trial court, the court stated that the people had to prove, among other things, cted an evidence code section 352 analysis and ruled that to show that the defendant has a bad character. it is coming in to show simply intent [pursuant to evidence code section 1101, subdivision people prove up four of them. only one of them, that he has a conviction for 11this very same [health and safety] code section[] defense counsel argued that the people had other ways to show that defendant was the court noted that it was the court stated that it would give a limiting instruction to the jury that the prior conviction was not being introduced to show that defendant had a character for 6 possessing illegal drugs and/or cocaine base specifically, but only to show that he was aware that the substance he possessed was illegal. the jury was instructed with calcrim no. 303, limited purpose evidence, as rpose. you may consider that evidence only for that purpose and for no other. this instruction purpose of determining if the [p]eople have proved beyond a reasonable doubt that the during closing argument, the prosecutor argued to the jury that defendant had known that the substance he possessed was a controlled substance. during part of her argument, the prosecutor displayed a power-trial on the grounds that the prior conviction was wrongfully admitted and the prosecutor slide, it also says, defendant was convicted of the same same offense. and then i believe three or four exclamation points after that. there are no exclamation marks in any of the other slides i saw. . . . i think the only inference or insinuation that [the prosecutor] could have been making . . . was the propensity to commit the same crime . . . st subverted the whole the court denied the motion, finding that there was no prosecutorial misconduct and the admission of the evidence was proper, especially in light of the fact that the court had given an explicit limiting instruction to the jury regarding evidence. b. evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b) evidence code section 1101, subdivision (a), prohibits, with specified exceptions, rait of his or her character (whether in the form of an opinion, evidence of reputation, or evidence of specific instances of his or her conduct) . . 7 subdivision (b) of section 1101 provadmission of evidence that a person committed a crime, civil wrong, or other act when relevant to prove some fact (such as motive, opportunity, intent, preparation, plan, knowledge, identity, absence of mistake or accident . . .) other than his or her disposition circumstances of the [uncharged offenses] and the charged offenses supports the inference that [the] defendant committed the charged offenses pursuant to the same people v. ewoldt (1994) 7 the results, but such a concurrence of common features that the various acts are naturally to be explained as caused by a general plan of which they are the individual manifestati . . [] to establish the existence of a common design or plan, the common features must indicate the existence of a plan rather than a series of similar id. at pp. 402-403; accord, people v. balcom (1994) 7 cal.4th 414, 423-424.) the admissibility of evidence of a prior crime or wrong in order to prove a fact to be proved or disproved; (2) the tendency of the uncharged crime to prove or disprove the material fact; and (3) the existence of any rule or policy requiring the exclusion of people v. thompson (1980) 27 cal.3d 303, 315, italics omitted [disapproved on another ground as stated in people v. scott (2011) 52 cal.4th 452, 470].) as noted in thompson, evidence of prior crimes or bad acts of the defendant has a (people v. thompson, supra, 27 cal.3d at p. 314, fns. omitted.) 8 the evidence of dsubstance tended to prove that defendant knew that the substance he possessed was a controlled substance. (people v. ewoldt, supra, 7 cal.4th at pp. 402-403.) the trial court correctly stated befo hat the knowledge similarity between the uncharged misconduct and the charged offense to prove ffense makes it extremely unlikely that he was not aware that the substance he possessed in the instant case was a controlled substance. (people v. ewoldt, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 402.) uisite knowledge to violate the same code section as charged in the instant case. the court properly admitted the prior conviction. c. evidence code section 352 even if the evidence of prior bad acts is admissible to prove a fact other than criminal propensity, as permitted by subdivision (b) of evidence code section 1101, it may be highly prejudicial. (people v. thompson, supra, 27 cal.3d at p. 318.) and, before it may be admitted, it must be found that its probative value outweighs its prejudicial effect. (people v. ewoldt, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 404; see evid. code,  352.) probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prove the issue upon which it is offered; (b) is offered upon an issue . . . material to the 9 people v. guerrero (1976) 16 cal.3d 719, 724.) admission of evidence pursuant to evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b), is confided to the sound discretion of the trial court. (people v. linkenauger (1995) 32 cal.app.4th 1603, 1609.) its decision to admit such evidence will not be disturbed on appeal absent an abuse of discretion. (id. at p. 1610; see, e.g., people v. ewoldt, supra, 7 under evidence code section 352 people v. funes (1994) 23 cal.app.4th 1506, 1519.) defendant contends that the trial court erroneously admitted the prior conviction evidence because it was cumulative, and more prejudicial than probative. defendant relies in part on people v. lopez (2011) 198 cal.app.4th 698, 715, which states lopez, the court held that the prejudice from the evidence of a prior car burglary and a prior car theft outweighed the probative value of that evidence as to intent, because the charged act of entering a kitchen and taking two purses showed intent, making the prior crimes evidence cumulative. error in admitting the prior acts evidence required reversal, because the evidence connecting defendant to the charged burglary was minimal and conflicting. (id. at p. 716.) in lopez, however, the critical issue was identity of the perpetrator; the defense put on evidence that someone other than the defendant committed the crime. (people v. lopez, supra, 198 cal.app.4th at pp. 706-707.) intent was not an issue; identity was. (id. at p. 715.) here, the probative value of the challenged evidence was its tendency to required for a conviction under health and safety code section 11350, and a fact which was in dispute. not only did defendant deny that he possessed a controlled substance, he denied that he engaged in any furtive acts or suspicious conduct which would indicate 10 walk at a quickened pace and was not attempting to flee, but simply did not hear the attempting to flee and to get rid of the substance. the illegal character of the substance that was thrown. because the defense position was omething that moreover, the testimony concerning the prior conviction was not cumulative, was certainly not more inflammatory than the charged offense, did not unduly consume time, and did not confuse the jury. (see people v. lopez, supra, 198 cal.app.4th at p. 715.) inasmuch as the probative value of the evidence outweighed its prejudicial effect, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the evidence under evidence code section 352. (people v. ewoldt, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 404.) prejudicial, in that it is not reasonably probable defendant would have been acquitted had the evidence been excluded. (evid. code,  353, subd. (b); people v. earp (1999) 20 cal.4th 826, 878.) deputy cruz was following defendant, who kept speeding up to get away from from his waistband, stomach areamiranda response was not that he had not thrown anything or that the object was not his, it was, while defendant did present duncan as a defense witness, he was not a particularly credible witness. he had drugs in his possession when stopped by the deputies, and his testimony differed both from what he told the deputies at the scene and 11 what defendant told the deputies. it is not reasonably probable the jury would have believed duncan absent the evid disposition the judgment is affirmed. jackson, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. woods, j. 