filed 10/29/13 p. v. scott ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. thomas scott, defendant and appellant. b243460 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga079679) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, janice e. croft, judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part. joshua l. siegel, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, marc a. kohm and kathy s. pomerantz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 appellant thomas scott appeals his conviction of grand theft, receipt of stolen property and multiple counts of burglary. appellant contends the trial court erred in disqualifying his retained counsel after she violated the rules of professional conduct by talking to a former codefendant about the case outside the his motion to sever three of the burglary counts from the other charges. finally, he contends the conviction for receipt of stolen property must be reversed, as he was also convicted of theft of the same property. respondent concedes the final point. we reverse the receipt of stolen property conviction and otherwise affirm. factual and procedural background a. information on february 4, 2011, an information was filed charging appellant with second degree commercial burglary (pen. code,  459) in count one, grand theft of personal property (pen. code,  487, subd. (a)) in count two, receiving stolen property ( 496) in count three, and first degree burglary (pen. code,  459) in counts four through six.1 it was further alleged that appellant had suffered nine theft and burglary-related prior offenses between 1990 and 2008, that prison terms were served for said offenses, and that appellant did not remain free of custody for, and committed offenses resulting in felony convictions during, a period of five years subsequent to the conclusion of said terms for purposes of section 667.5, subdivision (b). 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. teneka marie marshall was charged with the same offenses in counts four through six and appeared at all pretrial hearings, but was ultimately not tried with appellant. 3 b. evidence at trial on april 1, 2010, craig wiggins, a sergeant for the los angeles county avenue in los angeles. appellant was a passenger in the vehicle. sgt. wiggins and his partner searched appellant and found nine gold coins encased in plastic in one of his pockets. appellant said the coins were his and that he got them from 2 martin chang owned a health food store in san gabriel. the rear door, which allowed access to his office, was left unlocked when deliveries were 1996 for $30,000. they were packaged in individual plastic casings or envelopes identifying the seller. on march 28 or 29, 2010, chang put the coins in a backpack and took it to his office, intending to take the coins to a bank. on april 2 or 3, 2010, deputies came to his business to ask him about the coins. chang searched his backpack and realized they were missing. chang identified the gold coins taken from appellant on april 1 as his. ere chang had placed his backpack. the deputies who searched appellant on april 1 also found a set of keys inside the vehicle. the keys fit a residence located near where the vehicle was stopped. inside the residence, deputies found a utility bill with the telephone number of sarath sok. sarath sok testified that in december 2009, the briefcase was stolen from his place of business in northridge. 2 interviewed after his arrest, appellant said he was a coin collector and had owned the coins for more than a year. 4 kristy jennings lived in a loft apartment located inside the biscuit company loft building in downtown los angeles. there is a restaurant on the ground floor jennings was home with her infant child. the door to her apartment was unlocked. she saw the door handle turn and the door open. an african-american man put his head in the room. jennings screamed and the intruder left. that same day, michael cioffoletti, who lived in the same lofts on the same floor, heard some people talking as they came up the stairwell. he observed his unlocked front door opening but because he was sitting behind the door, did not uders left. joshua newman lived in the same building as jennings and cioffoletti, on the same floor. at approximately 9:00 a.m. on march 31, 2010, his unlocked door was opened and two people stepped into his residence. newman asked if he could help them. the intruders turned and walked out. a few days later, newman was shown a photographic six-pack and identified appellant as one of the intruders. newman also identified appellant in a live lineup, at the preliminary hearing, and in court. the prosecution played a video from a security camera, showing appellant and a female companion entering the building behind two workmen. appellant was wearing a black t-shirt and khaki pants the prosecution also played a cd of three telephone calls appellant had made from jail, two on april 3, 2010 and one on april 4. in the first, appellant told a female caller to tell someone to get his beige khakis and black t-shirt out of his dirty laundry. in the second, a female caller said she could not find what appellant asked for and he told her to take all his black t-shirts and khakis, even the clean someone screamed. appellant further stated that from outside the apartments 5 looked e] we live at huh. . . . c. verdict and sentencing the jury found appellant guilty on all six counts. asked to identify the specific property that supported count three, the jury found appellant guilty of admitted to seven separate and independent prison priors. the court imposed a four-year sentence on count four (burglary of -year-four-month sentence on count five (burglary of -eight-month sentence on count two (grand theft), and an additional five years for 6 the prior prison terms, for a total sentence of 11 years.3 the court stayed the sentences on counts one and three under section 654. appellant was credited with 999 days of presentence custody credit -- 869 actual days plus 130 days good time/work time. discussion a. disqualification of a 1. background codefendant, taneka marshall, was represented by alternate public defender beverly bourne.4 at a hearing on october 27, 2011, bourne asked to speak to the with marshall in the hallway outside the courtroom with a notepad and pen in hand.5 lating the rules of professional conduct by conversing with a represented client outside 6 with marshall but claimed not to recall exactly what was said. she later stated she was trying to find out where marshall and appellant had been on march 31 prior to 3 the court also imposed various fines. 4 until the eve of trial, it appeared that marshall and appellant would be tried inculpatory statements made by marshall which implicated appellant. (see bruton v. united states (1968) 391 u.s. 123; people v. aranda (1965) 63 cal.2d 518.) 5 conversation took several minutes. 6 bourne reported that when con 7 as an made herself a potential witness, as anything marshall said to her would not be protected by the attorney-reveal to the court what had been said. however, bourne stated she would prefer that information not be revealed to anyone else, and the court agreed it should not be disclosed because of the constitutional rights that could be affected. the court research the issue. t where the defendants had been prior to arriving at the lofts when marshall came forward and volunteered information about several ing] with any kind of attorney-client with what she had said at the prior hearing, and found a potential conflict based on e way the case was tried and the way questions were asked. the court appointed separate counsel to advise appellant of the potential conflict and his options. after conferring with counsel, ien. on behalf of 7 7 when bourne made the motion, marshathe court subsequently conducted a hearing to determine whether a conflict between marshall and her counsel existed. (see people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118.) 8 conflict, tcase . . . right to [a] fair trial and to the . . . integrity of the process and the integrity of the 2. analysis prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right . . . to have the assistance of counsel for his . . [a]n element of this right is the right of a defendant who does not u.s. v. gonzalez-lopez amendment] commands, not that a trial be fair, but that a particular guarantee of fairness be provided -- to wit, that the accused be defended by the counsel he believes to idthe defendant is erroneously prevented from being represented by the lawyer he id. at p. 148.) accordingly, erroneous deprivation of the right to counsel of choice is structural error requiring per se reversal. (id. at p. 150.) the sixth amendment right to chosen counsel is not absolute, and can be ng the ethical and u.s. v. ries (9th cir. 1996) 100 f.3d 1469, ensuring that criminal trials are conducted within the ethical standards of the 9 choice. (wheat v. u.s. (1988) 486 u.s. 153, 160.) the court has further recognized u.s. v. gonzalez-lopez, supra, 548 u.s. at p. 152.) our state supreme court has said that although the state should keep to a significant prejudice to the defendant himself or in a disruption of the orderly (people v. crovedi (1966) 65 cal.2d 199, 208; accord, people v. ramirez (2006) 39 cal.4th 398, 422; people v. baylis (2006) 139 cal.app.4th 1054, 1071.) power of every court in the furtherance of justice to control the conduct of ministerial officers and other persons in pending judicial proceedioaks management corp. v. superior court (2006) 145 cal.app.4th 453, 462, quoting neal v. health net, inc(people ex rel. dept. of corporations v. speedee oil change systems, inc. (1999) id. at p. 1144; see . (2003) 109 motion to disqualify], the trial court is required to make reasoned judgments which motion involves people ex rel. dept. of corporations v. speedee oil change systems, inc., supra10 reviewing court sid. at p. 1143.) -100 of the rules of professional conduct, whicmember shall not communicate directly or indirectly about the subject of the representation with a party the member knows to be represented by another lawyer in the matter, unless the member has the consent of t-100 (chronometrics, inc. v. sysgen, inc. (1980) 110 cal.app.3d 597, 60necessary to the preservation of the attorney-client relationship and the proper functioning of the administration of justice . . san francisco unified school district ex rel. contreras v. first student, inc. (2013) 213 cal.app.4th 1212, 1230 (contreras)), and its willful breach may warrant disciplinary action against the culpable attorney by the state bar. (see continental ins. co. v. superior court dibidwhen faced with a violation of rule 2-100 is not to impose a penalty (continental ins. co. v. superior court, supra, at p. 111, fn. 5; myerchin v. family benefits, inc. (2008) 162 cal.app.4th 1526, 1538, disapproved on other grounds in village . (2010) 50 cal.4th 913), but to determine whether confidential information, or any other information which could create an unfair advantage or impact the fairness of trial or the integrity of the judicial system, has been obtained as a result of the misconduct. (continental ins. co. v. superior court, supra, at p. 111, fn. 5.) if so, the court 11 myerchin v. family benefits, inc., supra, 162 cal.app.4th at p. 1538, italics omitted; accord, contreras, supra, 213 cal.app.4th at p. 1231.) the court may exclude improperly uding disqualification of counsel. (triple a machine shop, inc. v. state of calif. (1989) 213 cal.app.3d 131, 144; see rico v. mitsubishi motors corp. (2007) 42 cal.4th 807, 819 [disqualification appropriate remedy because of unmitigable damage caused by dissemination and use of confidential information].) appellant contends the court could have ameliorated the effects of his ordering that marshall be tried separately. while exclusion of evidence may be an appropriate remedy in a civil trial where opposing counsel has conferred with a party (see triple a machine shop, inc. v. state of calif., supra, 213 cal.app.3d at p. 144) or in a criminal case where the prosecutor has obtained information in an improper fashion (see u.s. v. hammad (2d cir. 1988) 858 f.2d 834, 842), appellant and marshall were criminal codefendants. the court could not exclude relevant evidence that might be helpful to the defense in a criminal matter. moreover, the court was constrained in its ability to make the inquiries required to determine the exact nature of the information obtained in order to fashion a to the loft burglaries in an apparent attempt to obtain information that would have from marshall indicating she had accompanied appellant to the lofts would likely have incriminated her, undercutting her fifth amendment rights in a setting in which she was not protected by the attorney-client privilege. a hearing to determine exactly what was said during the interview would only have exacerbated 12 he record. the court was further constrained in its ability to determine an appropriate remedy short of assertions that she had spoken to marshall only briefly and could not recall what had been discussed. nor can we agree that ordering separate trials would have been a reasonable response. separate trials add unnecessary time and expense and are inconvenient for the witnesses and the court.8 moreover, separate trials would not necessarily have alleviated the conflict that existed. appellant contends there was no serious potential for a conflict of interest because the information his former counsel because marshall might have chosen not to testify or might have testified in marshall, nor was the court required to speculate as to whether or how marshall would testify.9 moreover, as it appears appellant took the lead in testing doors and unlikely to inure to the benefit of appellant and could well have implicated him further. if marshall testified in a way that implicated appellant and exonerated een required to testify, acting as both advocate and witness to the confusion of the jury. (see people v. donaldson (2001) 93 8 as noted, at the time of the motion, appellant and marshall were set to be tried together. 9 superior knowledge of her anticipated defense, made a determination of the risk posed to ualification. 13 conflict arising and with no clear way to ameliorate short of disqualification, the b. motion to sever 1. background related to the coins and the briefcase) from counts four through six (the charges related to the lofts). appellant contended the evidence supporting the commercial burglary was substantially stronger, as he was found in possession of the stolen property and his handprint was left at the scene of the crime. he argued that trying the counts together would confuse the jury, particularly with respect to the intent to steal element of the residential burglary charges. the prosecution argued there was or joinder, but did not suggest that the evidence pertaining to the commercial burglary was cross-admissible under evidence code section 1101 to establish intent in support of the loft burglary charges. at a pretrial hearing, the court denied the motion, stating that a reasonable was renewed before the trial judge, who found joinder appropriate because each count was within the same class of crimes and occurred within a few days of each other, and concluded the evidence pertaining to the burglary of the gold coins was -making process. 14 commercial his companion waiting by a pillar for someone else to gain entry to the building manner in which [appellant] conducted each of [the loft] entries indicate[d] that he his intrusion, as well as the fact that he continued to enter one loft after another until someone screamed, and never spoke with any of the residents or asked for its own bubble aside from the commercial burglary and theft of the coins, in its about [appellant]. we know that once he gained entry into somewhere where there was no person present, he stole. and . . . defense counsel argued, based on the instructions given, that the jurors t you just look at the commercial burglaries and the grand theft to infer intent for the residential instead of looking at it, like common sense and logic would dictate, as a whole picture. so 15 2. analysis section element of substantial importance in their commission, for the joinder prevents repetition of evidence and saves time and expense to the state as well as to the ein, cal. criminal law (3d ed. 2000) pretrial proceedings,  208, p. 412, quoting people v. scott (1944) 24 cal.2d 774, 778.) . . . people v. soper (2009) 45 cal.4th 759, 771, quoting  954 (soper).) appellant does not dispute that the counts were properly joined under section 954, but contends the court erred in denying his motion to sever the first three counts from the remaining three counts. for the reasons discussed, we disagree. stablish that the trial court abused its discretion . . . soper, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 774, quoting alcala v. superior court whether a trial court abused its discretion under section 954 in declining to sever soper, supra, at p. 774.) we begin by considering the cross-admissibility of the evidence under evidence code section 1101 in a hypothetical trial. (ibid.-admissible, that factor alone is normally sufficient to dispel any suggestion of 16 (id. at pp. 774-775.)10 section 1101 of the evidence code permits the admission of evidence of disposition, including intent, plan, identity, and absence of mistake or accident. ving intent, the act is conceded or assumed; what is sought is the state of  300, p. 238.) for example, in a prosecution for shoplifting in which it was conceded or assumed that the defendant left the store without paying for certain demonstrate that he or she did not inadvertently neglect to pay for the merchandise, but rather harbored the intent to people v. ewoldt (1994) 7 cal.4th 380, six because he left the lofts without taking anything. (see people v. rodriguez glary is defined as entry into a building or stole the gold coins supported the existence of the requisite intent to steal on the other occasions. appellant contends the crimes were too dissimilar to support cross-admissibility. as explained in people v. ewoldt(between the uncharged act and the charged offense) is required in order to prove people v. ewoldt, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 402.) in order to be cross- 10 ground that the evidence in the first three counts was cross-admissible to support the remaining counts, the parties address this issue on appeal. 17 ibid.) here there were a number of similar elements. the three loft residents testified that appellant opened their unlocked doors and immediately withdrew when he realized the premises were occupied. there was no evidence of a break-in at the health food store, and chang testified that the back door was regularly left unlocked. he was unaware of the unauthorized entry and had no notion that the coins had been taken until visited by the investigators. the evidence supported that appellant opportunistically entered unlocked premises for purposes of theft when he believed no one was there. a potentially significant difference was that counts one through three related to burglaries of commercial establishments and counts four through six involved burglaries of residences. however, the evidence further established that there was a restaurant on the ground floor of the lofts and that the name of the building -- biscuit company loft building -- suggested a commercial enterprise. significantly, appellant stated in his first recorded telephone conversation that the building appeared to contain businesses. accordingly, the evidence supporting counts one through three was admissible to counts four through six. even were we to conclude otherwise, we would not find reversible error. [the] charges would not be cross-admissible at hypothetical separate trials is, standing alone, insufficient to establish that a trial court abused its discretion in soper, supra, 45 cal.4th at pp. 779-780.) if the reviewing court determines that the evidence underlying properly joined charges would not be cross---sideration of the evidence of 18 soper, supra, at p. 775.) the court trial requires a single courtroom, judge, and court attach[s]. only one group of jurors need serve, and the expenditure of time for jury voir dire and trial is greatly reduced over that required were the cases separately tried. in addition, the public is served by the reduced delay in disposition of criminal charges both in trial and soper, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 772.) it further stated that a court, including an appellate court, errs when it fails to take into ial of properly discovery and other pretrial matters, one set of prospective jurors, and one appeal and record. (id. at at pp. 772, 782.) in view of these clear benefits, a heavy burden id. at p. 773, italics omitted.)11 as applicable here, the specific factors to be considered in determining inflame the jury against the defendant; [and] (2) whether a weak case has been joined with a strong case or another weak case so that the totality of the evidence soper, supra, 45 11 the court wparticular face ever-increasing civil and criminal dockets without any guarantee of corresponding, additional funds for court services -- office personnel -- to meet the demand. today, no less than in the past, the opportunity for joinder with its attendant efficiencies provided by section 954 is integral to the operation of our public court system. manifestly, severance of properly joined charges denies the state the substantial benefits of efficiency and conservation of resources soper, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 782.) 19 cal.4th at p. 775.) here, the evidence for neither set of charges was likely to inflame the jury. the evidence overall suggested that appellant operated in a manner that was nonviolent, non-confrontational and non-destructive, as it entered only unlocked doors, and left if the premises were occupied. moreover, we cannot agree that counts four through six were substantially weaker than the first three counts, even with respect to intent. appellant was caught on video waiting for the outer security door to be opened by workmen and entering the building surreptitiously. once inside, he opened three different doors in quick succession and offered neither an apology nor an innocent explanation for his actions when observed by the occupants. he left when jennings screamed. afterward, he was overheard instructing his female callers to get rid of the clothing he was wearing in the video and speculating as to whether there was sufficient evidence to sustain a conviction for burglary. on this record, we conclude that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in determining that the prospect of prejudice was outweighed by the substantial benefits of joinder, and in denying the motion to sever. reviewing court must determine whether, in the end, the trial was conducted in such a way as to result in gross unfairness, depriving the defendant of due process of law. (soper, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 783.) although the jury was not specially evidence pertaining to each charge and the prosecutor blurred the distinction between the charges in closing argument, these factors, standing alone, do not establish gross unfairness depriving defendant of due process as a matter of law. (id. at pp. 783-784.) where, as here, the evidence underlying the separate charges 20 the nature of the two charges and the burden of proof for conviction, and the jury is told that each count mitigated. (id. at p. 784.) the jury here was clearly able to follow instructions and compartmentalize the evidence presented, as it found appellant not guilty of any crime with respect to the briefcase. we conclude that viewed as a whole, appellant received a fair trial. c. conviction of theft and receipt of the stolen coins appellant was charged with and convicted of grand theft of the gold coins in count two and of receiving stolen property in count three. although the charge in count three pertspecifically found appellant not guilty with respect to the briefcase. accordingly, he was convicted of theft and receipt of the gold coins. respondent concedes appellant cannot stand convicted of stealing and receiving the same property, and that the conviction of receiving stolen property must therefore be reversed. we agree. (see  496; people v. allen (1999) 21 cal.4th 846, 857; people v. recio (2007) 156 cal.app.4th 719, 723.) 21 disposition the conviction on count two for receipt of stolen property shall be reversed. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. the superior court is directed to prepare an amended abstract of judgment and to forward a copy to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published in the official reports manella, j. we concur: willhite, acting p. j. suzukawa, j. 