filed 9/6/13 p. v. alvarez ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. adam manuel alvarez, defendant and appellant. b243218 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka096105) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, george genesta, judge. affirmed. philip i. bronson for defendant, under appointment of the court of appeal, for defendant and apellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and rene judkiewicz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 appellant adam manuel alvarez challenges his convictions for possession and sale of cocaine, possession of firearms, and unlawful possession of ammunition. he maintains that the gang allegations accompanying his convictions for certain gun-related offenses must be reversed due to insufficiency of the evidence and evidentiary error. we reject his contentions and affirm. procedural background on march 29, 2012, an amended information was filed, containing seven counts numbered 1, 2, and 4 through 8. the information charged appellant in counts 1 and 4 with possession of a firearm as a convicted felon (former pen. code,  12025, subd. (a)(1)), in count 2 with possession of cocaine with a loaded weapon (health & saf. code,  11370.1, subd. (a)), in count 5 with possession of a firearm (former pen. code,  12021.1), in count 6 with possession of an assault weapon (former pen. code,  12280, subd, (b)), in count 7 with the sale, transportation, or offer to sell cocaine (health & saf. code,  11352, subd. (c)), and in count 8 with unlawful possession of ammunition (former pen. code,  12316, subd. (b)(1)).1 accompanying each count were allegations that appellant committed the offense for the benefit of a criminal street gang (pen. code,  186.22, subd. (b)(1)(a)), and that he had suffered prior convictions (pen. code  667, subd. (a)(1), 667.5, subd. (b)), including one three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b) - (i), 1170.12, subds. (a) - (d)). under count 7, the information also alleged that appellant was personally armed during the 1 the legislature has repealed several provisions of the penal code under which appellant was convicted and replaced them with new statutes carrying over the repealed provisions without substantive change. (cal. law revision com. com., 51d pt. 1 wests ann. pen. code (2011 supp.) foll.  12000, p. 32.) 3 offense ( pen. code  12022, subd. (c)), and that he had been convicted of possession of a controlled substance for sale (health & saf. code, 11370.2, subd. (a)). appellant pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. the trial was bifurcated with respect to the special allegations concerning .2 for purposes of the jury trial regarding the offenses charged against appellant, counts 4 through 8 in the amended information were re-numbered counts 3 through 7. the jury was asked to make gang findings only with respect to the offenses related to the possession of firearms and ammunition, as alleged in counts 1, 3 through 5, and 7 (as re-numbered). on april 11, 2012, the jury found appellant guilty as charged, and found the pertinent gang and gun use allegations to be true. appellant stipulated to the truth of the prior conviction allegations. on august 9, 2012, the trial court sentenced appellant to an aggregate prison term of 29 years and four months. facts a. prosecution evidence 1. evidence regarding offenses on november 10, 2011, several members of the los angeles county covina residence, where narcotics activity was suspected. deputy sheriff mario garcia watched the house from an undercover unmarked van. nearby were two vehicles containing the rest of the surveillance team, including deputy sheriff steve busch, who waited in a black-and-white patrol car. 2 appellant stipulated to a prior felony conviction, for purposes of the jury trial on the offenses that included a prior conviction as an element. 4 godina, leave the residence and drive away in a black chevrolet suburban. garcia later noticed that appellant was a passenger in the suburban. while garcia followed the suburban, godina pulled over, let garcia pass, and then began to tactics. to ensure his safety, he asked the other team members to watch the suburban. busch saw godina drive through a red light, and stopped the suburban. the occupants to show their hands, godina was cooperative, but appellant moved his moved close to the vehicle, he smelled fresh marijuana inside it and saw what appeared to be a plastic bag containing marijuana in a cup holder in the center console. miranda rights.3 when garcia asked appellant whether the bag found in the t stated that he belonged to the east side duarte gang and owned the suburban. appellant denied there were guns or other narcotics in the suburban, and permitted the deputy sheriffs to search it. inside the vehicle, the deputy sheriffs found a bag containing .40 grams of cocaine and a loaded handgun in the center console. on or near the there. . . . y 3 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 5 an assault rifle there. no one was present to destroy evidence. they thereafter obtained a search warrant and conducted a search. in the kitchen, they found a digital scale and a bill displaying appella-ammunition, a bullet-est, and a plastic storage container holding what appeared to be marijuana. the handgun was later determined to have been reported stolen following a robbery committed by east side duarte gang members. when booked, appellant said he was unemployed. two cell phones, the suburban, deputy sheriffs found a second hand gun hidden in the center ame were found in the glove box. 2. gang evidence gang expert, testified that east side duarte is a hispanic gang whose territory lies t rival is an african-american gang known as the duroc crips. appellant belongs to the east side duarte gang. cortinas further testified that the east side duarte gang engages in many crimes, including theft, possession of weapons, possession of narcotics, selling of narcotics, robberies, assaults, attempted murders, and murders. he opined that the crimes charged against appellant related to the possession of firearms were 6 committed for the benefit of that criminal street gang. (pen. code  186.22, subd. (b)(1)(a).) b. defense evidence appellant presented no evidence. discussion a. gang enhancements appellant contends the gang enhancements accompanying his convictions for possession of firearms and ammunition fail for want of substantial evidence. penal code section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1), provides a sentence enhancement of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promoestablish the enhancement, the prosecution relied primarily on expert testimony other evidence was insufficient to show that his offenses were committed for the benefit of the east side duarte gang. for the reasons discussed below, we disagree. 1. standard of review in determining whether the evidence is sufficient to support a conviction . . . whether, after viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubin a criminal case . . . does not ask itself whether it believes that the evidence at the 7 the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidence -- that is, evidence which is reasonable, credible, and of solid value -- such that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendapeople v. vy (2004) 122 cal.app.4th 1209, 1224.) testimony may be presented to establish the culture and habits of criminal street gangs and related matters (people v. gardeley (1996) 14 cal.4th 605, 617), including whether the defendant possessed a gun for the benefit of his gang (people v. garcia (2007) 153 cal.app.4th 1499, 1512-1514 (garcia)). as with other types of expert witness, the prosecution is authorized to elicit testimony from a gang expert by asking hypothetical questions. (people v. gonzalez (2006) 38 cal.4th 932, 946.) thus, a gang expert may render an opinion on the basis of a hypothetical question that asks the expert to assume the truth of specified facts, (gardeley, supra, 14 cal.4th at p. 618.) 2. expert testimony cortinas, a gang investigator with the operation safe streets bureau, testified that although hispanic gangs such as the east side duarte gang are territorial, their members sometimes live outside their claimed territory. according to cortinas, the east side duarte has approximately 339 documented -related crimes and crimes involving the possession of weapons. they wear baseball caps bearing the letter affiliation with the mexican mafia. cortinas 8 you are aligning yourself with the mexican mafia and doing work and paying them inas noted that appellant had responding to hypothetical questions, cortinas opined that appellant committed the gun-possession offenses for the benefit of the east side duarte gang with the specific intent to promote its criminal activities. in support of that themselves from anybody [wenhanced its reputation. in addition, observing that a hand gun reportedly stolen by other east side duarte members was founinvestigative area. cortinas also opined that the pay-owe sheeevidenced that his gun possession was for the benefit of his gang. according to cortinas, unlike a usual pay-owe sheet, which records funds owed by individuals -owe sheet listed sums that individuals owed with respect to certain gangs in the hacienda heights-la puente area. cortinas -owe sheet for selling narcotics. this looks like somebody collecting taxes on behalf of the mexican mafia. [] . . . [] every gang makes money, and . . 9 in cross-s remark that hhad placed the guns in his suburban solely for his own self-protection. cortinas replied that the evidence established that appellant was significantly involved in gang activities, including the sale of narcotics. he also maintained that appellant possessed the hand gun and assault rifle found in the house for the benefit of his gang. during the re-direct examination of cortinas, the prosecutor inquired whether appellant might have placed the guns in the suburban to benefit his gang, even though he also derived a personal benefit from their presence. noting that there were two guns in the suburban, cortinas responded in the affirmative, explaining that if a gang member with two guns was contacted by another who 3. analysis appellant maintains there was insufficient evidence to establish that he possessed the firearms and ammunition in his vehicle and re in garcia, police officers stopped a truck driven by the defendant, a gang garcia, supra, 153 cal.app.4th at pp. 1502-1504.) after the officers smelled marijuana, the defendant admitted that he had smoked some marijuana, and consented to a search of the truck, which disclosed a concealed handgun. (id. at p. 1503.) although the defendant had a history of gang activity, he denied active gang membership, yet demonstrated a knowledge of recent shootings by members of his gang, including where they hid guns. (id. at p. 1504.) the charges against the defendant included carrying a loaded unregistered weapon in public, accompanied by a gang allegation. (id. at 10 p. 1507.) at the trial, a gang expert opined that the defendant possessed the gun for the benefit of his gang, as it enabled him to protect himself and fellow gang members from rival gangs, and thus enhanced his id. at pp. 1505-1506.) after a jury convicted the defendant and found the gang allegation to be true, the appellate court held there was sufficient evidence to support the gang finding. (id. at pp. 1507, 1511-1512.) here, the evidence is significantly stronger that appellant possessed guns and ammunition to benefit his gang. the evidence at trial showed that appellant belonged to the east side duarte gang, whose rivals include an african american gang. two firearms, cocaine, a digital scale, and a large amount of cash were digital scale, and a pay-owe sheet were discovered at his covina residence. when stopped by the deputy sheriffs, appellant acknowledged his gang membership and admitted that one of the firearms in the suburban was there because house was reported stolen following a robbery by appellantmembers. on the basis of this evidence, cortinas opined that appellant was engaged in three activities beneficial to his gang, namely, narcotics sales, the operation of a for the activities that funded his gang, and also enabled him to assist other gang members. in our view, the evidence was sufficient to establish that appellant possessed the guns and ammunition to benefit his gang. people v. ochoa (2009) 179 cal.app.4th 650, people v. ramon (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 843, people v. albarran (2007) 149 11 cal.app.4th 214 and in re frank s. (2006) 141 cal.app.4th 1192 is misplaced. gang membership, the opinion will not support a gang enhancement. (people v. ochoa, supra, 179 cal.app.4th at pp. 656-665; people v. ramon, supra, 175 cal.app.4th at pp. 849-853; people v. albarran, supra, 149 cal.app.4th at p. 227; in re frank s., supra, 141 cal.app.4th at pp. 1195-1199.) that proposition is gang membership and his possession of the firearms and ammunition.4 in sum, there was sufficient evidence to support the gang enhancements accompanying b. text messages testimony regarding the existence of text messages requesting narcotics. his sole contention is that the testimony constituted inadmissible hearsay. as explained below, we disagree. 1. governing principles evidence code section 1200 defines hearsay evidence as evidence of an out-supreme court has explained, an out-of- 4 for similar reasons, people v. martinez (2004) 116 cal.app.4th 753, upon which appellant also relies, is factually distinguishable. there, the court concluded there was insufficient evidence to support a gang registration requirement attached to the committed his crime for the benefit of his gang. (people v. martinez, supra, 116 cal.app.4th at. pp. 758-762.) as explained above, that is not the case here. 12 testimonially, i.e., it is offered for the purpose of inducing the trier of fact to believe in the truth of the assertiopeople v. green (1980) 27 cal.3d 1, 23, fn. 9, italics omitted, overruled on other grounds in people v. martinez (1999) 20 cal.4th 225, 232-238.) under this principle, requests ordinarily do not by itself, does not assert the truth of any people v. jurado (2006) 38 cal.4th 72, 117 (jurado).) california courts have commonly regarded evidence that a defendant received requests to buy narcotics as admissible circumstantial evidence that the defendant sold contraband, rather than as hearsay. in people v. nealy (1991) 228 cal.app.3d 447, 449-450 (nealy), the defendant was charged with possession of cocaine for sale. over hearsay objections, police officers were permitted to testify (id. at pp. 450-451.) the appellate court concluded that the calls were not hearsay, but circumstantial evidence supporting the inference that the cocaine found in the section 352, and appropriate editing, when a police officer participates in a telephone conversation where he is lawfully executing a search warrant and hears a third person offer to purchase a controlled substance, testimony thereon is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule and may be received as circumstantial evidence tending to show the controlled substance seized at that location was id. at pp. 452- 453; see also people v. ventura (1991) 1 cal.app.4th 1515, 1517-1519 [reaching same conclusion on similar facts]; people v. reifenstuhl (1940) 37 cal.app.2d 402, 405 [phone calls to defendant requesting that bets be placed on horse races properly admitted over hearsay objection as circumstantial evidence that defendant operated illegal betting enterprise].) 13 in people v. morgan (2005) 125 cal.app.4th 935, 945 (morgan), the properly admitted over a hearsay objection, but adopted an alternative theory to support the principle, namely, that requests to buy drugs are admissible hearsay. in offering the theory, the court observed that any inference from the request to the of the request, namely, that the speaker desires drugs and believes that the defendant can provide them. (id. at p. 943.) the court reasoned that those (id. at pp. 943-944.) nonetheless, the court concluded that the hearsay rule does not bar the admiuntrustworthiness characteristic of assertions subject to exclusion under the hearsay rule. (morgan, supra, rationale for not treating an implied assertion as an assertion subject to the hearsay rule is that is it primarily conduct and not intended as an assertion. to the extent conduct . . . rather than simply words are involved, the implied assertion is more reliable. . . . [] this rationale applies to the [request by phone] in this case. the caller was not intending to assert that [the defendants] were selling methamphetamine; rather, he was attempting to purchase methamphetamine. tatements were more ibid.) 2. underlying proceedings members often communicate by cell phone and text messages in order to obtain guns, the following exchange occurred: 14 . . cell phones [were] recovered, and during [the] investigation[] those cell phones were constantly alerting [that] text messages . . . were being received . . . that related to drug activity, would that affect your opinion in any way? sic] or sales? the gang. because the text messages themselves are asking specifically for narcotics--added.) assumed facts exceeded the scope of the cross-examination. the court conducted a bench conference, during which the prosecutor stated that her question anticipated a stipulation regarding text messages on a cell phone that the deputy sheriffs discovered. according to the prosecutor, she and defense counsel had tentatively that were related to drug in discussing the proposed stipulation, the court observed that the relevance of any s . . response, th . . [w]e can talk about 15 offered to present testimony from cortinas regarding the content of the text messages, and asked whether the court would admit his testimony. after noting that evidence code section 352 might bar that testimony because there was other evidence that appellant sold drugs, t the prosecutor immediately ended her examination of cortinas. no stipulation regarding the cell phone was introduced, and no additional evidence was presented regarding the text messages on it. 3. analysis nt solely to prove the truth of what they regarding wording of the text messages or the cell phone on which they were e under the theories stated in nealy and morgan. he is mistaken. booked into evidence during the iunderstood, the remark constituted evidence of the existence of requests for narcotics that was admissible over a hearsay objection. under nealy, the remark was not subject to exclusion because requests for narcotics are not hearsay. furthermore, under morgan, the remark was not subject to exclusion because a 16 recipient can supply them. (morgan, supra, 125 cal.app.4th at p. 944.) 5 appellant argues that in the absence of other evidence regarding the details of the text messubject to exclusion under the hearsay rule. we disagree. neither nealy nor morgan suggests that evidence regarding the precise wording of a request for narcotics and the circumstances of its discovery are necessary predicates for admission of the request over a hearsay objection, although they recognize that the admission of the request is also subject to other requirements that appellant has not invoked, including those stated in evidence code section 352. (nealy, supra, 228 cal.app.3d at p. 453; see morgan, supra, 125 cal.app.4th at pp. 940-941.) here, the absence of evidence regarding the details of the text messages affected the potentially opened it to other objections, but did not render the remark vulnerable to a hearsay objection. in sum, appellant has shown no evidentiary error.6 5 in so concluding, we do not examine or adopt the theory stated in morgan, or request, by itself, does not assert the truth of ajurado, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 117.) 6 in addition, even if we were to conclude the remark was incorrectly admitted, we would find any error harmless. the remark occurred while cortinas explained his n of firearms benefited his gang. as explained above (see pt. a.3, ante), that opinion relied on considerable evidence independent of the remark, showing that appellant, an active gang member, sold drugs, operated a safe nefit his gang. under the circumstances, there is no reasonable likelihood that appellant would have achieved a more favorable outcome had the remark been excluded. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) 17 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports manella, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. willhite, j. 