 filed 2/20/13 p. v. copprue ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. sheon m. copprue, defendant and appellant. b243375 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma054891) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of the county of los angeles, akemi arakaki, judge. california appellate project, jonathan b. steiner, executive director and ann krausz, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. 2introduction defendant and appellant sheon m. copprue (defendant) pleaded no contest to second degree commercial burglary (pen. code,  4591) and petty theft with three prior convictions ( 666, subd. (a)). on appeal, appointed counsel for defendant filed an opening brief in accordance with people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 requesting that this court conduct an independent review of the record to determine if there are any issues which if resolved in defendants favor would require reversal or modification of the judgment. on december 31, 2012, we gave notice to defendant that his counsel had failed to find any arguable issues and that defendant had 30 days within which to submit by brief or letter any grounds of appeal, contentions, or arguments he wished this court to consider. defendant did not file a response brief or letter. after independently reviewing the record, we affirm the judgment. background the district attorney of los angeles county filed an information charging defendant with one count of second degree commercial burglary in violation of section 459 (count 1), and one count of petty theft with three prior convictions in violation of section 666, subdivision (a). the district attorney alleged as to both counts that defendant had been convicted of two serious or violent felonies as defined by the three strikes law, sections 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d).) the trial court granted the prosecutions motion to dismiss one of the prior strike allegations. defendant pleaded no contest to both counts. the trial court denied defendants motion to strike his remaining prior strike conviction made pursuant to people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497. the trial court sentenced defendant to state prison for a term of 4 years, consisting of a middle term of 2 years on the count for second degree commercial burglary, which was doubled pursuant to sections 1170.12, subdivisions (a) through (d) and 667, 1 all statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 3subdivisions (a)(1). the trial court sentenced defendant to state prison for a term of 4 years on the count for petty theft, and stayed that sentence pursuant to section 654. discussion we have made an independent examination of the entire record to determine if there are any other arguable issues on appeal. based on that review, we have determined that there are no arguable issues on appeal. we are therefore satisfied that defendants counsel has fully complied with counsels responsibilities under people v. wende, supra, 25 cal.3d 436. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. mosk, j. we concur: armstrong, acting p. j. kriegler, j. 