filed 12/27/13 p. v. flynn ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. girard flynn, defendant and appellant. b243277 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta121468) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, laura walton, judge. affirmed. verna wefald, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, eric e. reynolds and connie h. kan, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 girard flynn appeals from the judgment entered following his conviction by jury on one count of first degree murder. (pen. code,  187, subd. (a).)1 appellant contends that the evidence is insufficient to sustain the conviction, and that the trial court erred in instructing the jury that flight may indicate consciousness of guilt. we affirm. factual and procedural background prosecution evidence william payne lived on 113th street in the city of los angeles, across the street from appellant. on january 3, 2012, around 6:00 a.m., appellant called payne and asked him to take him for a ride, although he did not specify where he wanted to go. appellant then house while payne went to a haircut at 9:30 that morning. payne refused and instead took appellant with him to his haircut appointment. appellant appeared to be high, and he seemed nervous. while payne was driving them home from his haircut, appellant made a appellant was screaming and in tears. appellant said he was going to turn himself in to the police. payne started police cars and an ambulance. appellant wanted to get something to eat before turning himself in, so payne drove him to burger king and then returned to , where appellant surrendered to the police. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 that same morning, around 10:48 a.m., los angeles police department officer jaime zarate and his partner, officer lozano, responded to a radio call about a possible murder victim at a house on 113th street in the city of los angeles. when they arrived, all the doors and windows of the residence were locked and no one responded to their knocks on the door, so officer lozano kicked in the front door. when they entered the house, they found the victim dead on the bedroom floor. around 11:30 a.m. that day, detective sonny patsenhann was driving on . detective patsenhann asked appellant if he was all right, and appellant started crying. appellant continued crying and told detective patsenhann he killed his brother, gesturing to the police car and ambulance in front of his house. appellant was taken into custody by officer carlos gonzalez and his partner. appellant continued crying and apologizing, saying he was sorry. appellant told the officers he had a knife. officer gonzalez searched appellant and found a knife and a screwdriver. detectives jorge gutierrez and scott teubert interviewed appellant and recorded the interview. detective gutierrez noted that appellant did not appear to have any recent wounds on his body or hands. . appellant appeared high during the interview. he spoke freely about what happened, rambling and crying. detective roberto bourbois interviewed several witnesses, including . flynn told detective bourbois that appellant 4 think did not want to call the ambulance and asked her to do it. los angeles police department criminalists elizabeth swanson and annette woiwode examined the crime scene for potential evidence. swanson found blood stains, a broken mop handle, a broken mug, glass shards, a broken chair, and an ashtray in the kitchen, dining room, and den. she also found possible drag marks on the den floor. swanson found broken pieces of a chair, blood stains, a broken mop, a six-inch long knife blade, and a broken knife handle in the bedroom where milner was found. around his ankle. swanson found a blood-stained iron near an overturned cabinet. the autopsy of milner showed multiple lacerations, bruises and swelling on his face, a broken nose, and a split lip. the coroner opined that the injuries were caused by blunt force trauma. there were contusions on his upper body and wounds from a sharp object such as a knife on the right side of his lower back and on his left shoulder. the coroner stated that there were multiple bruises and abrasions on the right arm, right chest and shoulder area caused by blunt force trauma. there were sharp force trauma wounds on the back of the forearm from milner attempts to defend himself. milner also had numerous contusions on the left side of his body from blunt force trauma. the coroner testified that there were also fracture and sharp force trauma in the left leg. the coroner conducted a toxicology test and found no alcohol or drugs in miln an i 5 the brain, and blood in the intestines and stomach. the coroner opined that the immediate cause of death was a subdural hematoma in the brain due to blunt force the coroner estimated that the time of death was 21 hours before 12:19 a.m. on january 4, or 3:19 a.m. on january 3. defense evidence appellant testified on his own behalf. he explained that was completely blind in his left eye. he had been addicted to cocaine for about 26 years and was high at the time of the incident. appellant stated that, on december 31, 2011, he was living in the house on 113th street with milner and a woman named rochelle gray. appellant wanted to appellant described as something to put into a glass pipe to smoke crack cocaine. milner gave appellant some brillo, but appellant said it was the wrong kind. milner then looked at a butcher knife sitting on his dresser. appellant saw milner look at the knife and decided he needed to leave the room. back and saw milner about 12 inches away from him, holding the knife. . appellant . milner leaned down to pick the knife up, and appellant started kicking him. appellant stopped because he realized he was kicking milner too much. when milner stood up, appellant saw that he had badly hurt milner in the mouth. 6 milner tried to pick the knife up, appellant kicked him in the head about four times. appellant then milner stood up again, got the blade and tried to put the blade back on the handle. kicked in the head. appellant told from milner and threw it against the wall. appellant did not know what to do, so he called his mother. milner was r told him to call an ambulance. appellant asked milner if he needed paramedics, and milner said no, so appellant did not call an ambulance. appellant put the phone to . his mother told him to watch milner and hung up. milner lay on his back, and appellant said that it sounded as if milner was choking on the blood in his mouth, so appellant turned him onto his side. milner kept turning onto his back, but appellant stayed with milner about two hours, eventually falling asleep for a few hours. when he awoke, he decided to tie milner up so that milner could not get up and hurt him. he reasoned that milner had been strong enough to stand while appellant was on the phone with his mother and that milner had fought being turned on his side, so he still feared for his safety. appellant got an old telephone . instead, he took a uld not get up and hurt him if he fell asleep. 7 appellant heard gray return to the house, so he gave her some money while she was at the back door before she could come inside. appellant went to check on milner and discovered he was dead. appellant went into shock, covered milner, and walked out of the room without touching anything. he waited for gray to return with some drugs. fight was on january 1, he noticed milner was dead on january 2, and on january 3, he called his mother. appellant called his mother and told her that he killed milner. he was screaming on the phone, asking her what to do. he asked her to call the police and tell them he would meet them at the house. appellant testified that he loved his brother and was not trying to kill him, but he was afraid milner was going to kill him with the knife. appellant explained that he was particularly afraid because he had been stabbed 32 years earlier and had a strong reaction to knives. when appellant saw the knife, he was determined not to let milner stab him. when the really [] i just going to fuck up him bad then he going to do what i say because bad [sic], i appellant repliedsic] and letting mother fuckers in the house, my foot he was not [sic 8 to get that knife, that blade. i was mad because he would not usually, you hit a person and they go knock out. and they knock out. they stop moving. . . . [] because he would not go out and i was mad because he would not stop trying to when asked about the blood and broken glass in the kitchen area, appellant stated that he did not know anything about it. appellant told the detectives that he got along with milner but did not like that milner was dirty . he also said that milner used to stand behind appellant on his blind side, which he knew angered appellant. dr. kevin booker, a neuropsychologist specializing in adult trauma and human decision making, testified about posttraumatic stress disorder, an anxiety disorder after someone has been subjected to a life-threatening or traumatic experience. one symptom is hypervigilance, in which a person has an extreme concern about protecting himself because his prior trauma caused him to believe he could be injured at any time. dr. booker examined appellant and learned that he was stabbed by a neighbor when he was 20 years old, resulting in three to four weeks of recovery following emergency medical care. dr. booker testified that appellant suffered from hypervigilance to knives, nightmares, intrusive daydreams, and avoidance behavior as a result of this trauma. cocaine use increased his hypervigilance. procedural background appellant was charged in an amended information with one count of murder. ( 187, subd. (a).) following a jury trial, appellant was found guilty of 9 first degree murder. appellant was sentenced to 25 years to life in prison. appellant filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion appellant contends that the evidence is insufficient to sustain the finding of first degree murder and that his conviction should have been for second degree murder instead. he also contends that the trial court erred in instructing the jury that flight may indicate consciousness of guilt. we disagree with both contentions. i. sufficiency of the evidence appellant was prosecuted for first degree murder under two different theories: (1) the murder was willful, deliberate, and premeditated; and (2) the murder was committed by torture. ( 189.) he contends that the evidence is insufficient to support the verdict under either theory. favorable to the judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidence that is, evidence which is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable people v. gonzales and soliz (2011) 52 cal.4th 254, 294.) 10 willful, deliberate and premeditated murder is an intent to unlawfully kill a human being. [citationspeople v. moon occurred as the result of preexisting thought and reflection rather than unconsidered or rash impulse. [citation.] however, the requisite reflection need not span a specific or extended period of time. thoughts may follow each other with great rapidity and cold, calculated judgment may be arrived at quickly. . . . [citation.] (people v. stitely (2005) 35 cal.4th 514, 543 (stitely).) although appellant testified that he did not intend to kill milner, there was also evidence from which a reasonable jury could infer that the murder was intentional. for example, appellant told detectives ass. i wanted to try to make his ass die. . . . [] i was trying to kill him. i wanted his ass dead. he to rehab. he wanted me to kill him. . . . [] he grabbed that knife because he wanted m stitely, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 544.) in stitely, the court reasoned that evidence that the defendant defendant had ample opportunity to consider the deadly consequences of his actions. ibid.) similar to stitely, appellant here committed numerous acts of lethal violence against milner over an extended period of time. he kicked milner repeatedly in mouth 11 sicappellant complained during his interview with the detectives that milner also admitted hitting milner with chair legs and a coffee cup. appellant told detectives that milner was asking for help when appellant stopped beating him, and that appellant was glad that his mother heard milner say that. stating that milner told his mother he did not need the paramedics. his failure to obtain help for milner, and his other acts of violence after hearing milner choking on his blood constitute substantial evidence to support a finding of willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder. murder by means of torture there is also substantial evidence to suppoappellant committed murder by means of torture. committed with a wilful, deliberate and premeditated intent to inflict extreme and [citations.] [] the intent to inflict extreme and prolonged pain may be inferred from the circumstances of the crime. people v. raley (1992) 2 cal.4th 870, 888.) as discussed above, appellant repeatedly kicked milner in the mouth and head while wearing shoes with thick soles, describing his actions as kicking . even after hearing milner choking on his own blood, appellant used 12 foot. the coroner testified that there were 350 milliliters of blood in stomach and intestines, indicating that milner was alive, bleeding profusely in his mouth and swallowing this blood for hours. a reasonable trier of fact could find an intent to inflict extreme and prolonged pain from the circumstances of the verdict of first degree murder is supported by substantial evidence. ii. jury instruction regarding flight appellant contends that he was deprived of his due process rights when the trial court instructed the jury that flight may indicate consciousness of guilt. the prosecutor asked for a flight instruction on the basis that appellant went . defense counsel objected to the instruction, arguing that appellant never tried to flee, called his mother to call the police, and flagged down the police when he saw them. the court did not think that appellant left the house to avoid arrest, pointing out that appellant stayed with his brother for 24 hours and stayed longer than that after realizing his brother was dead. the court also pointed out that appellant told detectives, and told them he killed his brother. the prosecutor, however, cited the coronedeath occurred around 4:00 a.m. on january 3, and the evidence that appellant called payne shortly thereafter, at 6:00 a.m. the court on flight whenever the prosecution relies on the evidence of flight to show the trial court instructed the jury pursuant to calcrim no. 372 as follows: 13 may show that he was aware of his guilt. if you conclude that the defendant fled, it is up to you to decide the meaning and importance of that conduct. however, defendant departed the crime scene under circumstances suggesting that his movement was motivated by a a defendant left the scene is not alone sufficient; instead, the circumstances of [citations.] to obtain the instruction, the prosecution need not prove the defendant in fact fled, i.e., departed the scene to avoid arrest, only that a jury could find the defendant fled and permissibly infer a consciousness of guilt from the evidence. people v. bonilla (2007) 41 calan instruction is statutorily required when flight evidence is relied upon by the people v. howard (2008) 42 cal.4th 1000, 1020 (howard);  1127c2.) appellant contends that the trial court erred in giving the flight instruction because the prosecutor did not contend that appellant was trying to avoid arrest. however, the transcript cited by appellant indicates only that the prosecutor acknowledged that appellant eventually returned to the house after going to the barber with payne. nonetheless, the prosecutor actions in . the prosecution 2 flight of a defendant is relied upon as tending to show guilt, the court shall instruct the jury substantially as follows: [] the flight of a person immediately after the commission of a crime, or after he is accused of a crime that has been committed, is not sufficient in itself to establish his guilt, but is a fact which, if proved, the jury may consider in deciding his guilt or innocence. [] the weight to which such circumstance is entitled is a matter for the jury to determine. [] no further instruction on the subject 14 therefore did rely on evidence of flight, requiring the trial court to give the instruction. (howard, supra, 42 cal.4th at p. 1020.) the error resulted in a miscarriage of justice. [citation.] . . . [w]e must determine probable a verdict more favorable to defendant would people v. burns (2011) 198 cal.app.4th 726, 734.) than his alleged flight. it is not reasonably probable a verdict more favorable to appellant would have resulted had the flight instruction not been given. any alleged error therefore was harmless. (people v. zavala (2005) 130 cal.app.4th 758, 771.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports willhite, acting p. j. we concur: manella, j. suzukawa, j. 