 filed 9/5/13 p. v. kelson ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. believe kelson, defendant and appellant. b243357 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta112124) the court:* appellant believe kelson appeals from the judgment following a bench trial in which he represented himself. the trial court found appellant guilty of felony assault with a firearm (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(2)) (count 1) and misdemeanor vandalism (pen. code,  594, subd. (a)) (count 4). the trial court did not find appellant guilty of two other assault counts. the trial court also found true the allegation that appellant personally used a firearm during the commission of count 1 (pen. code,  12022.5, subd. (a)). appellant admitted that he had suffered a prior conviction for violation of health and safety code section 11352, subdivision (a). the trial court sentenced appellant to state prison for eight years, consisting of the midterm of three years on count 1, plus four years for the gun enhancement, plus one year for the prior conviction. the * boren, p. j., ashmann-gerst, j., chavez, j. 2trial court imposed various fines and fees and awarded appellant 193 days of presentence custody credit. we appointed counsel to represent appellant on this appeal. after examination of the record, counsel filed an opening brief in which no arguable issues were raised. on may 20, 2013, we advised appellant that he had 30 days within which to personally submit any contentions or issues that he wished us to consider. on may 31, 2013, appellant submitted a response in which he essentially reargued the facts and law. we have reviewed the entire record and conclude that it provides a factual basis to support the convictions. the prosecutor presented the following evidence: on march 1, 2012, appellant was at an apartment complex in lynwood, california where his girlfriend lived. the victim, william leslie (leslie), lived in the same complex with his mother and brother, and his sister was visiting that day with her children. that afternoon, appellant and leslie got into an altercation. leslie was on a bicycle and appellant told him to fade or get killed. fade means to fight. leslie got off the bicycle and began fighting with appellant, knocking appellant down. leslie then went inside his apartment and appellant went inside his girlfriends apartment. a short time later, leslies brother was in the courtyard and saw appellant walking towards his apartment, holding a double barrel shotgun with the barrel sawed off. the front door to the apartment was open, but the screen door was closed. leslies sister saw appellant walk up to the front door with a gun. he cocked the gun and told leslie to come outside. he pointed the gun at the screen door and leslies sister closed the front door. several people outside screamed at leslie to stay inside the apartment. appellant then broke the window of the apartment with the gun. leslie peeked through the curtains and saw a shotgun barrel. he was scared so he led his sister and her children to the back of the apartment. leslie could not see who was holding the gun, but testified at the preliminary hearing that appellant was holding the gun. that afternoon, deputy adam kirste of the los angeles county sheriffs department received a radio call of a man with a gun. when he arrived at the 3apartment complex, he saw a group of people and several officers. he was then advised by the sheriffs dispatch center that appellants girlfriend had reported that appellant was at king taco. deputies went to the location, but did not find appellant. deputy kirste called appellants girlfriend, who gave the deputy different stories of where she was. sheriffs deputies eventually made contact with appellant inside his girlfriends apartment. despite numerous requests, appellant refused to come out. he remained inside the apartment for about seven hours. after countless warnings, tear gas was fired into the apartment and appellant was forcibly removed. a search of the apartment yielded nine .38-caliber rounds and 49 millimeter rounds of ammunition. appellant testified on his own behalf. he stated that he and leslie had had problems in the past. it was appellants birthday so he decided to make amends with leslie, who was with a group of people. appellant offered everyone a drink except leslie, who punched appellant. appellant was drunk, but managed to walk to his girlfriends apartment. appellant quickly left the apartment and passed by the window of leslies apartment. appellant hit the window with his arm because he was pissed off at leslie, and the window broke. appellant did not have a gun at the time. neither the record nor appellants response demonstrate the existence of any cognizable issues on appeal. (people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, 441.) the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. 