filed 12/31/13 p. v. nieblas ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. remigio nieblas, defendant and appellant. b243851 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba360224) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. sam ohta, judge. affirmed. jeralyn keller, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, stephanie a. miyoshi and rama r. maline, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 remigio nieblas was convicted of one count of murder. on appeal, he challenges the admission of certain evidence at his trial. finding no abuse of discretion, we affirm. background the information charged nieblas with one count of murder in violation of subdivision (a) of penal code section 187 (count 1).1 it further alleged that, in the commission of the murder, a principal was armed with a firearm (a handgun) within the meaning of penal code section 12022, subdivision (a)(1). the information also alleged four counts of extortion and two counts of robbery against a codefendant, robert padilla. nieblas pleaded not guilty. the charges against nieblas and padilla were tried of first-degree murder and convicted him of all four extortion counts. in a prior appeal, we affirmed the judgment as to padilla. (people v. padilla (oct. 30, 2013, b244585) [nonpub. opn.].) the court sentenced nieblas to 25 years to life, plus a consecutive sentence of one year for the firearm enhancement (to be served before the indeterminate sentence). the court also imposed various fines and fees and credited nieblas with 1,121 days of presentence custody (1,121 actual days). nieblas timely appealed. padilla and freddy juarez are members of the indiana dukes criminal street gang. the indiana dukes, extorted money from two employees of a smog check shop as payment in, stella villa, is a member of the gang and is married to padilla. luis hernandez was the true owner of the nayarit smog shop, but hernandez had employees. according to herna 1 all subsequent statutory references are to the penal code. 3 prosecution introduced evidence tending to show that nieblas was dissatisfied with the pay he was receiving from hernandez and that he sought to have members of the indiana dukes street gang kill hernandez, presumably so that he (nieblas) would then own the shop. and various associates began stopping by the shop almost daily to speak with nieblas. the girlfriend of an employee of the smog shop testified that nieblas referred to padilla on july 31, 2009, padilla and juarez arrived at the shop accompanied by two told salguero and salazar that they had to pay him $500 that day and $500 per week thereafter. salguero and salazar recognized padilla and juarez as gang members and feared for their safety if they did not pay. after padilla and juarez left, nieblas spoke with salazar near the bay door of the padilla and juarez returned later that day, and salguero gave padilla $500 ($300 from the shop, plus $100 each from salguero and salazar). salazar reported the events involving padilla, juarez, and nieblas to the police, who consequently stationed a task force near the smog shop on august 7, 2009. padilla arrived at the shop on that day, and salguero gave him $250, which salguero believes came from salazar. (through villa, arrested padilla. 4 discussion nieblas argues that the superior court prejudicially erred by admitting evidence .2 rulings on the admission or exclusion of evidence are reviewed for abuse of discretion. (people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 196-197.) we find no abuse of discretion here. course of the extortions were inadmissible hearsay as against nieblas, because the superior court determined that there was insufficient evidence that a murder-for-hire conspiracy still existed when the statements were made. in his opening brief, however, act verbal acts their only relevance was based on the supposition that pathe implicit but inadmissible out-of-express words purportedly depends, and we cannot discern them. insofar as nieblas has in mind his own statements to the indiana dukes (or intermediaries) arranging for 2 nright to confront and cross-examine the witnesses against him, his right to affirmatively present evidence in his own defense, and his right to effective representation as guaranteed to him under the fifth, sixth, eighth, and fourteenth amendments to the united states constitution and their california clones, article i, sections 7 and 15, of the claims through legal argument or citation of authority. we therefore shall not consider them. (people v. stanley (1995) 10 cal.4th 764, 793.) 5 admissions and as verbal acts. we conclude that nieblas has not shown that the superior he made in the course of those extortions was not relevant to the murder charge against insufficient evidence of an ongoing conspiracy when padbut nieblas fails to mention that in a separate discussion concerning relevance, the court expressly determined that evidence of the extortions had significant probative value nd that evidence of the murder likewise had significant probative value concerning the extortions. the court stated, for example, that the murder and the relevance determination, which we in any event conclude was not an abuse of discretion. padilla and other gang members, whom salazar and salguero. a jury could reasonably infer that padilla and juarez committed in the killing. the evidence of the extortions was therefore relevant to the murder charge. 6 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. rothschild, acting p. j. we concur: chaney, j. johnson, j. 