filed 8/10/15 p. v. virto ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. agustin bernardo virto et al., defendants and appellants. b243201 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta118561) appeal from judgments of the superior court for the county of los angeles. laura r. walton, judge. affirmed. susan k. shaler, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant agustin bernardo virto. chris r. redburn, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant edwin zamora. robert e. boyce, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant rodrigo sandoval. john a. colucci, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant pedro antonio sierra. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, and jonathan j. kline and taylor nguyen, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________ 2 summary four defendants agustin bernardo virto, edwin zamora, rodrigo sandoval and pedro antonio sierra appeal from attempted murder convictions with gang and other enhancements, asserting multiple claims of error. arguments, prosecutorinstructional error on aiding and abetting (and error in to a jury question on that topic); insufficient evidence of aiding and abetting; insufficient evidence of intent to kill and premeditation in the attempted murders; and error in failing to instruct on attempted involuntary manslaughter and assault. defendants also contend the gang expert was not qualified to testify as an expert; photographs depicting their gang should not have been admitted in evidence; and the gang expert should have been required to disclose the identity of gang members with whom the expert spoke about the benefit of the crimes to the gang. defendants contend there was error in the admission of evidence that they admitted gang membership while being booked for these crimes. defendant sandoval contends the trial court erred in denying his motion for severance. he and defendant zamora, who were under age 18 at the time of the offenses, contend their sentences violate constitutional prohibitions on cruel and unusual punishment. defendants also claim error in the amount of the restitution fines imposed, and cumulative error. with two exceptions, we find no error. first, the trial court was required as a matter of law t second, our supreme court has held that admissions of gang membership, elicited during routine booking procedures without miranda 1 warnings, may not be admitted in evidence during t 1 miranda v. arizona (1996) 384 u.s. 436 (miranda). 3 error, however, was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. accordingly, we affirm the judgments. facts 1. the crimes this case involves two separate incidents, one a stabbing and the other a shooting, in which various defendants, all alleged to be members of the compton varrio segundo (cvs) gang, attacked two different victims, each believed to be associated with other gangs. defendants virto and sandoval were involved in the shooting, and defendants zamora and sierra were involved in both incidents.2 a. the june 5, 2011 stabbing of andres perez on june 5, 2011, andres perez was walking with a friend to a liquor store near his home in paramount when a black hyundai pulled over. mr. perez had been living in the area for only a month or two, and had seen the black hyundai before, just after he moved to paramount. there were four people in the car. where i was ez had visible tattoos on his arms saying .ignoring it took him about 15 minutes to walk home. he went inside for about five minutes to get a basketball, and then walked toward a nearby park. ame the same question, where i was 2 a fifth defendant, noe favela salazar, was charged and tried in the stabbing incident, but the jury did not reach a verdict in his case. mr. salazar and three others were also charged with conspiring to dissuade witnesses from testifying, but those charges were tried separately for security reasons. 4 them [later identified as mr. zamora], came towards me and pulled me back while i was [(later identified as mr. sierra)] came out, the other guy from the other back came out. and the guy that pulled me back [(mr. zamora)] was trying to stab me in my neck. while i was trying to get rid of him, the other guy [(mr. sierra)] came and stabbed and collapsed, telling several people there he had been stabbed by segundos. he was taken to a hospital where he had surgery and remained for nine days. an 11-year-e was and then they ran in the car, and there was a person in the front that was deputy leticia reyes followed mr. perez to the hospital and talked to him in the recovery room after his surgery. mr. perez was heavily sedated and in and out of . . . knew that if he could see, like, a picture of them, he would be able to see them or identify not iden 5 on june 7, 2011, two days after the stabbing, detective kasey woodruff -mr. perez immediately identified mr. salazar from the first six-involved in the stabbing. on a second six-pack, mr. perez noted that three of the individuals in the photos (one of whom was mr. on june 13, 2011, detective woodruff brought additional six-packs of photos to mr. zamo. . . .-packs contained an updated photo of mr. sierra. mr. perez again said m (at the trial, mr. perez identified mr. sierra as the person who stabbed him in the side. h-packs contained photos of defendants virto and sandoval, who were not charged in the stabbing and whom mr. perez did not recognize.) two days later, detective woodruff showed mr. perez photos of a black hyundai and a knife that had been recovered from the black hyundai, and mr. perez identified them as being the car and knife used in the stabbing. no fingerprints were found on the b. the june 12, 2011 shooting of raul magallanes raul magallanes was at the corner of san vincente street and orange, in paramount, in the late afternoon of june 12, 2011, when a black hyundai with four people in it approached and stopped. one of the four, later identified as defendant sandoval, got out of the rear seat on the passenger side, and approached mr. magallanes the person shot at mr. rough cars, and a gray t-shirt. 6 here my grandmother stays at to the next eight people were gathered in front of the house. mr. magallanes waited in the backyard shooting occurred. she saw her brother walking down orange, saw the black car approach and saw the shooter get out. the shooter chased her brother with the gun. her vincente shooter ran past her, and after he passed, ms. magallanes called 911. (ms. magallanes salazar, sandoval and zamora. she had seen car as on the night of the shooting. (defendant sandoval, however, had been incarcerated from october 5, 2010, until two days before the magallanes shooting.) when deputy paul klinefelter arrived after the shooting, mr. magallanes told him black revolver from his waistband and shot at him the same people inside the car shot (mr. magallanes later testified he used to associate with the sans street gang, a rival of cvs, and he had been a member of 155, a gang in compton.) deputy ted gomez participated in a search of the area where the shooting occurred. he found a gray t-shirt and a black or dark--& wesson revolver, later found to have three expended casings and two live rounds. 7 the police found defendant sandoval hiding underneath a truck in the driveway of another home on san mateo street, and took him into custody. deputy reyes did a gunshot residue examination of mr. sanevidence. deputy joel andrade was driving in the vicinity of the crime scene and saw the black hyundai. he followed it and stopped it as it entered the city of compton. he took defendants sierra (the driver), virto (the front seat passenger) and zamora (the rear passenger) into custody, and placed them in his patrol car. deputy klinefelter took mr. magallanes to the place where deputy andrade was holding defendants. as they pulled up, mr. magallanes saw the black car and said, approached by the same car five or six times in the past.) then, the deputies brought the suspects out, one at a time. mr. magallanes identifiidentified mr. sierra immediately, saying that he was the driver, and similarly identified mr. magallanes no longer remembered who he identified on the day of the shooting.) deputy klinefelter then took mr. magallanes to the place where defendant sandoval was detained, and mr. magallanes identified mr. sandoval, who was no longer wearing the gray t-shirt and black cap, as the shooter. mr. magallanes also told (as indicated above, mr. sandoval was incarcerated at that time.) deputy sergio cosio talked to olivia magallanes at the crime scene. she told him she had heard three to four shots. deputy cosio drove ms. magallanes in his patrol car to two field show-ups. at the first, she identified mr. virto as the front passenger in the black hyundai, which she also identified. at the second show up, ms. magallanes identified mr. sandoval as the shooter. (at the trial, ms. magallanes did not remember ever identifying mr. virto.) 8 during the booking process, mr. sierra admitted he was a member of the cvs gang, and deputy andrade recorded that on the booking sheet. mr. virto did not admit he was from a gang, but admitted that he associated with the cvs gang, and deputy moniker. mr. virto had several cvs tattoos on the back of his head. mr. zamora said he was affiliated with cvs and his moniker was darky. when he was booked, mr. sandoval told deputy reyes he was a member of the cvs gang. he had several tattoos, inclu defendants virto, sierra, sandoval and zamora were charged with the attempted willful, deliberate and premeditated murder of raul magallanes. the information also contained firearm use and discharge allegations, and alleged defendants sandoval and zamora were minors at the time of the offense. defendants sierra, zamora and salazar were charged with the attempted willful, deliberate and premeditated murder of andres perez. the information alleged defendant zamora was a minor; defendants zamora and sierra personally used a deadly weapon (a knife); and the three defendants personally inflicted great bodily injury upon the victim. the information also alleged both offenses were committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, and in association with a criminal street gang. 2. other evidence presented at trial mr. magallanes testified that about four weeks after the shooting, someone from amuck detective liliana jara, who was an investigating officer in the magallanes shooting, also testified as a gang expert. based on hypotheticals mirroring the facts of the crimes charged, she opined that the perez stabbing was committed for the benefit of, 9 at the direction of, and in association with the cvs gang, and that the magallanes shooting was committed for the benefit of and in association with the cvs gang. other evidence will be described in our discussion as necessary in connection with the claims on appeal. 3. the discovery violations the prosecution was continually late in turning over discovery. the trial court denied a mistrial motion, but ordered continuances and held compliance and sanctions hearings in an effort to ensure the defense could adequately prepare. the chronology is this. thursday, march 22, 2012 a jury panel was sworn on march 22, 2012, and ordered to return for jury selection on monday, march 26. the court reviewed the status of ongoing issues relating to recorded jailhouse conversations, in connection with alleged attempts to dissuade witnesses from testifying. despite previous court orders for transcription of tapes by a spanish translator by march 14, a tape with six hours of conversations was not turned over by the prosecutor until march 20. notwithstanding that, defense counsel announced ready for trial; counsel did not request a continuance or exclusion. to the contrary, mr. of the victims; photographs of items from the crime [(field identification cards)] they intend to use which relate to their proof of the fact that their victims are gang members . . . .ing 2011, from the crime scene. she also said tany existed. (counsel for mr. virto later acknowledged she received victim f.i. cards on march 29.) 10 monday, march 26, 2012 counsel for defendant zamora stated he received late discovery involving some dna results from the knife alleged to have been used in the perez stabbing. the results were inconclusive, and the prosecutor had not decided whether to introduce that dna evidence. counsel asked for a continuance to have the dna retested, or a sanction excluding the dna evidence. the court ordered the prosecutor to comply, by wednesday morning, march 28, with five discovery requests that would assist the laboratory in determining whether to retest the dna. the court denied mr. . acknowledged the court in that if the defense laboratory needed addi. . . trial was set to begin on april 9. that date for the start of trial had been decided in february, to accommodate the schedules of defense counsel. tuesday, march 27, 2012 stated he had never gotten a gunshot residue report. the prosecutor had recently discovered she had no report and the testing had not been wednesday, march 28, 2012 jury selection was completed on march 28, and the court ordered the jury to return on monday, april 9 for the beginning of trial. the court set monday, april 2, 2012, as the discovery compliance deadline for the -related discovery requthe information to be ready no later than 4:00 p.m. the next day, march 29, absent which there would be a hearing on april 2, 2012, on sanctions for failure to comply with discovery. 11 hearing on april 2 and no further complaint by defense counsel on the dna or gunshot residue items.) tuesday, april 10, 2012 on april 10, 2012, counsel for mr. zamora complained that he had not received a copy of a fingerprint report on the knife. other defense counsel could not remember whether they had received the report. (the report showed no prints were developed on the knife.) the prosecutor said she turned over the report last year, and asked for a hearing later in the day to present her proof that she had turned everything over. the court stated it would have the hearing at 3:00 p.m. the following day so the prosecutor unsel was ill that day and the hearing did not occur. wednesday, april 11, 2012 the court announced that court would not be in session from wednesday, april 11 (because of the illness of defense counsel) through and including monday, april 16 (because of defense counsel for mr. sandoval reported that the prosecutor had emailed him two tapes the day before, of interviews with victim raul magallanes and his sister, olivia. the tapes had been in existence since june 13, 2011. the tape of raul magallanes included a statement he had been convicted of a felony in orange county. defense counsel did not know mr. magallanes had a rap sheet, which defense counsel had previously requested. the prosecutor said she received the recordings the previous day from detective jara; there had been a miscommunication with detective jara, who thought the prosecutor already had them. the prosecutor turned them over immediately, and also sent them out to be transcribed. the court ordered the prosecutor to turn over transcriptions to the defense by friday, april 13, at 3:00 p.m. counsel for mr. zamora later confirmed he was provided with transcripts of the two magallanes interviews on friday, april 13. 12 as for the rap sheet, the prosecutor reaffirmed the clets printout showed no convictions. the following day, under cross-examination by mr. mr. magallanes admitted that he had been arrested and convicted of a grand theft auto in orange county five years before. when counsel then asked about other convictions, the court held a sidebar. the prosecutor showed the court a clets printout dated march 21, she said shhe told the court his only other conviction was for being under the influence of methamphetamine. there was no further controversy about the rap sheet. tuesday, april 17, 2012 -examination, the prosecutor told the court that detective jara had just told her during a he the court ordered the prosecutor to turn over the interviews at the end of the day, and scheduled a hearing for 9:00 a.m. the following morning to consider the defense request for discovery sanctions. the court said it would not excuse mr. magallanes as a witness, so the defense could cross-examine him based on the tapes, and that the court would give a late d. . . at the end of the april 17 session, the prosecutor said that she had gone over with wednesday, april 18, 2012 the court held a lengthy hearing on the defense motion for sanctions for the late disclosure of the recordings of the three interviews of olivia and raul magallanes. the 13 recordings were 35 to 40 minutes in length, and the interviews had occurred in september 2011. defense counsel summarized the recordings for the court. the recordings were tried to dissuade witnesses from testifying to the crimes against mr. magallanes. one of the recordings revealed that raul magallanes knew sniper (defendant joshua garcia, who was tried separately) sby snip the defense moved for a mistrial. the court denied the motion, saying in pertinent part . . . [] . . . [] [t]he additional turned over recordings yesterday [do] not go to the underlying charge . . . which is the attempt[ed] murder. it only goes to . . . whether or not mr. magallanes was in any way dissuaded or felt pressured by another individual approaching his family members. but it does not go to the underlying charges o your ability to attack the credibility . . . on cross-examination, and the tape recordings are only 35 to 40 minutes adequate. the court granted a prepare transcripts of the three additional tape recordings of victim magallanes and his sister, olivia magallanes, and have them to all defense counsel by 3:00 p.m. . . . friday, april 20th . . . monday, april 23, 2012 -examination continued on april 23. on redirect, the prosecutor elicited testimony that, between the previous week and april 23, mr. magallanes had been relocated. whether the defense had been informed. they had not. detective jara told the court she applied for the witness relocation on thursday of the previous week (april 19) because 14 defense objected they had not been told of his relocation, and the court agreed the defense should have been informed before mr. magallanes took the stand that morning. the defense again moved for a mistrial. the motion was denied. wednesday, april 25, 2012 on redirect examination, olivia magallanes testified that she had seen the black said she thought there was a police report on that day. (this occurred on january 22, 2011, before the shooting incident.) at the noon recess, defense counsel asked for the police report ms. reports on the incident. the prosecution turned over the report during the recess. the prosecutor alvandalism is also part of her recorded interview from june 13th, and all counsel have that tuesday, may 1, 2012 on april 23, 2012, the prosecutor had emailed a three-minute youtube video to comments on the video were as recent as . . . april 23 on may 1, 2012, the defense objected to use of the video. the court refused to allow the prosecutor to show the video but allowed the prosecution to use certain still photographs taken from the videos, depicting cvs gang symbols and the like, finding expertise. 15 late disclosure of the recordings of the june 13, 2011 and september 7, 2011 interviews with raul and olivia magallanes, as quoted in the margin.3 4. the verdicts and sentencing the jury convicted defendants virto, sandoval, zamora and sierra of attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder in the magallanes shooting. the jury found true the allegations that mr. sandoval personally and intentionally used and discharged a firearm, and, with respect to defendants virto, zamora and sierra, that a principal did so. in the perez stabbing, the jury convicted defendant zamora of attempted murder, and convicted defendant sierra of attempted willful, deliberate and premeditated murder. the jury found true the allegations defendants zamora and sierra personally used a deadly weapon, a knife, and also that defendant sierra personally inflicted great bodily injury on the victim. the gang allegations were found true as to both crimes. defendants sandoval and zamora filed motions for a new trial, based in part on transcripalthough they were turned over late, were, 1, in no way exculpatory in this case, and 2, the court is certain that with the experience and expertise of the defense attorneys, if they felt the recordings . . . were in any way exculpatory or amounted to significant 3 before trial, within the time limits set by law. failure to follow this rule may deny the other side the chance to produce all relevant evidence, to counter opposing evidence, or to receive a fair trial. [] an attorney for the people failed to disclose: the recordings of interviews of raul magallanes and olivia magallanes from june 13, 2011 and september 7, 2011 within the legal time period. [] in evaluating the weight and 16 impeachment of the witnesses, they would have brought that out during their questioning police report on the january 22, 2011 noted that the police report showed ms. magallanes did not indicate she was able to description . . . .-examine ms. to identify any of the individuals at the time she gave the vandalism reports to the police officers. [] . . . [n]or did the defense request additional time after they received the police reports to conduct their the court sentenced defendant virto to life in prison with a minimum term of 15 years, plus 20 years consecutive, and likewise sentenced defendant sandoval to 15 years to life, plus 20 years consecutive. the court sentenced defendant zamora to state prison for an aggregate term of 43 years to life, and sentenced defendant sierra to an aggregate term of 51 years to life. the court imposed restitution fines of $240 in each case, and made other orders not at issue in these appeals. defendants filed timely appeals that were later consolidated. discussion 1. the discovery violations defendants contend denial of their mistrial motions, as a sanction for , deprived them of due process of law. we find no error by the trial court. a. the law in people v. verdugo (2010) 50 cal.4th 263 (verdugo), the supreme court described the requirements of penal code section 1054.1, a part of the reciprocal-discovery statute.4 section 1054.1 requires the prosecution to disclose to the defense 4 all statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 17 various categories of evidence in the possession of the prosecuting attorney or [known by] the prosecuting attorney . . . to be in the possession of the investigating agencies. (verdugo, at pp. 279-280.) evidence subject to disclosure includes statements of defendants, real evidence obtained as part of the investigation of the offenses charged, written or recorded statements of witnesses, and so on. (id. at p. absent good cause, such evidence must be disclosed at least 30 days before trial, or immediately if discovered or obtained within 30 days of trial. [citation.] [citation.]ibid.) if the prosecutor has not complied with section 1054.1 (and the defense has complied with informal discovery procedures), the triamay make any order necessary to enforce the provisions of including, but not limited to, immediate disclosure, contempt proceedings, delaying or prohibiting the testimony of a witness or the presentation of real evidence, continuance of the matter, or any other lawful order.( 1054.5, subd. (b).) in addition, the court may advise the jury of any failure or refusal to disclose and of any untimely disclosure.(ibid.) a violation of section 1054.1 is subject to the harmless-error standard set forth in people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836. [citation.] (verdugo, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 280.) we geners ruling on matters regarding discovery under an abuse of discretion standard. [citation.] in particular, a trial court may, in the exercise of its discretion, consider a wide range of sanctions in response to the s violation of a discovery order. [citation.] (people v. ayala (2000) 23 cal.4th 225, 299.) b. this case here, we find the trial court provided an adequate remedy for the late disclosure of evidence, and the defendants do not demonstrate prejudice, so there is no basis for reversal of the judgment. we first address the late disclosure of recorded interviews with olivia and raul magallanes the two june 2011 interviews, disclosed on april 10 after opening statements, and the three september 2011 interviews, disclosed during the cross- 18 examination of mr. magallanes. from these recordings, defendants found that mr. magalla[(sniper) defendants each generally argue the failure to timely disclose those interviews deprived them of sufficient time to investigate, and they could not effectively cross-examine witnesses because of the late disclosure. notably, none of their contentions is anything more than a generality, not a demonstration of prejudice. none of defendants explains for the violations were inadequate. the defense had five days to consider its tactics after it conviction. as for the september 2011 recordings not disclosed until mr. magallanes was already being cross-examined on tuesday, april 17, defendants do not explain why the continuance the court ordered to monday, april 23 was inadequate for their investigation and preparation for further cross-examination. as verdugo tells usverdugo, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 282; id. at pp. 281-282 [defendant asserted prepare for cross- not explain what counsel would have done differently if the notes had been the same is true here. defendants cite other instances of late disclosure of evidence: the dna evidence (which was inconclusive); the gunshot residue evidence (which was thoroughly discussed by experts on both sides); the fingerprint report on the knife (there were no fingerprints); f.i. cards showing the victims were gang members (received by the defense 10 days before testimony began); a comment by detective jara in one of the late-disclosed magallanes interviews that she intended to check the crime scene area for bullet strikes (a point on which she was cross-examined extensively); the relocation of raul magallanes a 19 few days before his testimony; still photographs from a youtube video of the cvs gang (which the prosecution discovered online during the trial); and a police report on vandalism at the magallanes home that occurred several months before the crimes. of these, the last mentioned is the only one as to which defendants even attempt to show prejudice, and they do not succeed. defendant zamora complains the police report showed olivia magallanes did not identify anyone in connection with the pre-crime vandalism, and yet she identified mr. zamora in court on april 24 as one of those who mr. the defense, and if counsel had known that olivia magallanes might be able to identify mr. he vandalism incident and found witnesses to show that [mr. but ms. magallanes expressly testified she did not see who was in the black hyundai when they tagged her house, the police report likewise showed she did not identify anyone in that incident, and ms. magallanes discussed the vandalism incident in the recorded interview the defense was given on april 10 (with transcriptions on april 13). in short, contrary to mr. ered by the prosecutor and, as the trial court pointed out, -examine [ms. magallanes] on that issue . . . . in short, defendants have shown no prejudice, and no abuse of discretion, from the ce of remedies for the discovery violations in this case. 2. the aiding and abetting issues defendants virto, zamora and sierra raise several issues relating to aiding and abetting. they contend the instructions on aiding and abetting were not a proper statement of the applicable law; the trial court erred in its answer to a question from the jury on the issue; and the evidence in the magallanes shooting was insufficient to establish aiding and abetting attempted murder. a. s question during their deliberations, the jury 20 after hearing argument, the court answered the question this way: evidence concerning aiding and abetting and jury instructions 400, 401 as to aiding and abetting[.] as to the necessary intent for aiding and abetting review instructions 600 and on appeal, defendants contend the trial court erred in its answer to the jury. they assert the and that when the jury asked its question, the court had a sua sponte duty to give a the attempted murder, and that the duration of attempted murder ended when the shots were fi we disagree on each point. desire to be informed on any point of law arising in the case, . . . the information required must be given . . . .people v. beardslee (1991) 53 cal.3d 68 tells us a primary duty to help the jury understand the legal principles it is asked to applydoes not mean the court must always elaborate on the standard instructions. where the original instructions are themselves full and complete, the court has discretion under section 1138 to determine what additional explanations are sufficient to satisfy the jury's request for information.id. at p. 97.) first, there is no merit in defendant virtothe initial instructions on aiding and abetting were incorrect because they impermissibly allowed jurors to find facilitating the getaway . . . .simply is not so. the crim[] 1. the defendant took at least one direct but ineffective step toward killing another person; [] and [] instructed that, to prove the defendant is guilty based on aiding and abetting the crime, [] 2. the defendant knew that the perpetrator intended to commit the crime; [] 3. before or 21 during the commission of the crime, the defendant intended to aid and abet the perpetrator in committing the crime; [] and [] [] someone aids and abets a intends to, and does in fact, aid, facilitate, promote, encourage, or instigate the (italics added.) thus the instructions plainly required the jury to find that next, defendants understand the duration of the crime of attempted murder,generating a sua sponte duty of murder virto asserts the absence of this clarification freed the jury to convict again, we disagree. as we have just observed, the instructions clearly defined the crime of attempted the timing or duration of the crime of attempted murder. and, defendants did not ask the trial court that is correct in law, . . . . in any event, eiterate the instructions already givenpeople v. beardslee, supra, 53 cal.3d at p. 97). this was not error. properly remained neutral, referring the jury to the applicable instructions which plainly required them to find intent to aid and efore or during the commission of the 22 crime and giving the jury the option of asking for further clarification if answer did not suffice. there was no abuse of discretion here.5 b. sufficiency of the evidence defendant virto contends the evidence was insufficient as a matter of law to prove he aided and abetted attempted murder. the principles governing judicial review of a claim of insufficient evidence have he court must review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidence -- that is, evidence which is reasonable, credible, and of solid value -- such that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.people v. johnson (1980) 26 cal.3d 557, 578federal due process clausespeople v. gonzales and soliz (2011) 52 cal.4th 254, 294 (gonzales) in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce fromthe evidence. [citation.] this standard applies whether direct or circumstantial evidence is involved. [citation.] (people v. prince (2007) 40 cal.4th 1179, 1251.) to prove that a defendant is an accomplice . . . the prosecution must show that with knowledge of the criminal purpose of the perpetrator and with an intent or purpose either of committing, or of encouraging or facilitating commission of, the offense.when the offense charged is a specific intent crime, the 5 defendant zamora also contends the court erred in responding to another question idence for great bodily injury and review jury zamora (the defendant could be held accountable only if the stabbing were a probable consequence of the fight mr. zamora is mistaken. while his counsel did tell the clerk, when he was advised the jury had questions, that he wamore about it when he appeared telephonically before the court to discuss the answers to in any event, whatever it meant had any application to defendant zamora. 23 share the specific intent of the perpetrator; this occurs when the knows the s criminal purpose and gives aid or encouragement with the intent or purpose of facilitating the perpetratorpeople v. mccoy (2001) 25 cal.4th 1111, 1118.) mr. virto points [t]he mere presence of the accused at the scene of the crime does not alone establish that the accused was an abettor people v. joiner (2000) 84 cal.app.4th 946, 967), and asserts the evidence shows only that he was present in the front passenger seat, knew a crime was being committed and did not prevent it. mr. zamora, who was in the back seat next to the shooter (and driver sierra, who slowed the car to allow the shooter to get out), both make a similar argument, each claiming car and shoot, or that he we disagree. mere presence at a crime scene is not enough, but it is a factor the jury may consider along with all the other circumstances. (people v. miranda (2011) 192 cal.app.4th 398, 407 [ [w]hile mere presence at the scene of an offense is not sufficient in itself to sustain a conviction, it is a circumstance which will tend to support a finding that an accused was a principal. people v. joiner, supra, 84 cal.app.4th at p. 967 to be an abettor the accused must have instigated or advised the commission of the crime or been present for the purpose o [c]ompanionship, and conduct before and after the offense are also relevant to determining whether a defemiranda, at p. 407.) here, there was other evidence from which a reasonable jury could have inferred defendants mr. magallanes. the evidence established that all four defendants in the black hyundai on the evening of the shooting were cvs gang members. testimony from raul and olivia magallanes showed that cvs gang members in the past had repeatedly harassed mr. magallanes, who was or had been a member of a rival gang and who lived in cvs gang territory. on one of those occasions, cvs gang members shot at mr. magallanes. on that occasion, the gang members were in the same black hyundai, and 24 mr. magallanes said he had been approached by that same car five or six times. and on the point, deputy klinefelter testified that mr. magallanes told him on the occasion of the magallanes shooting, the four defendants drove to mr. s neighborhood, and found him walking near his home. one of the four gang members in the car (sandoval) was carrying a loaded revolver, and it was either in his waistband or, as mr. magallanes testified, the three defendants remaining in the car fled the scene together after the shooting, but were still in the car in the general area when they were apprehended. in short, the evidence sho at the crime scene. we reject his assertion there was no evidence he participated in or knew of the earlier incidents targeting mr. magallanes, or that he knew mr. sandoval had a gun, on the contrary, from the evidence we have recited, the jurors could reasonably infer that mr. virto, as well as the other defendants in the car, not only knew of, but also shared intent. 3. sufficiency of the evidence of premeditation and deliberation defendants zamora and sierra contend there was insufficient evidence of premeditation and deliberation in the magallanes shooting, and sierra (who inflicted the stab wounds on victim perez) makes the same claim as to the stabbing of mr. perez. both defendants contend there was insufficient evidence of their intent to kill in the perez stabbing. we see no deficiency in the evidence. a. the legal principles we have already recited the principles governing substantial evidence. 25 attempted murder requires the specific intent to kill and the commission of a direct but ineffectual act toward accomplishing the intended killing.people v. lee (2003) 31 cal.4th 613, 623.) s intent is rarely susceptible of direct proof, and may be inferred from the facts and circumstances surrounding the offense.people v. felix (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 1618, 1624.) people v. mayfield (1997) 14 cal.4th 668, 767 (mayfield), disapproved on another point in people v. scott (2015) 61 cal.4th 363, 390, fn. 2), and considerations in forming a course of action . . . (people v. solomon (2010) 49 e process of premeditation and deliberation does not require mayfield, at p. 767 [the true test of premeditation is the great rapidi ibid.) the act of planninginvolving deliberation and premeditationrequires nothing more than a successive thought[] of the mind. [citations.] (people v. san nicolas (2004) 34 cal.4th 614, 658.) courts often use the three factors set forth in people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15 as a guide to analyzing whether there is substantial evidence of premeditation and deliberation. (id. at pp. 26-27.) those three factors are: (1) planning activity (i.e., facts about what defendant did prior to the killing that show he was engaged in activity directed toward s prior relationship with the victim from which the jury could reasonably infer a motive to kill the victim); and (3) method (i.e., facts about the manner of the killing from which the jury could reasonably infer that defendant had a preconceived design to take the victims life in a particular way). (ibid.)people v. shamblin (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 1, 10.) the anderson present in some special combination or . . . be accorded a particular [citation.]id. at p. 10 & fn. 16.) 26 b. the magallanes shooting defendants zamora and sierra contend the evidence was insufficient to support their convictions of attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder in the magallanes shooting. they insist also that the prosecution did not prove their intent to kill. we have already rejected the latter claim (pt. 2.b., ante), to the extent they claim extent is frivolous. the evidence plainly showed mr. sandoval shot at mr. magallanes three times, and indeed pursued mr. magallanes while he was shooting at him. olivia magallanes testified she saw the shooter chasing (see people v. smith (2005) 37 cal.4th tin a manner that could have inflicted a mortal woun is sufficient to support an inference of mr. zamora contends his conviction should be reduced to simple attempted he says there was no evidence of the planning, motive and method factors that anderson used for establishing premeditation and deliberation. mr. sierra makes a similar argument. we do not agree. the evidence established gang rivalry as the motive for the shooting; all four defendants were members of the cvs gang and the victim associated with a rival gang. the evidence likewise supported planning activity directed toward killing mr. magallanes. in the months before the shooting, mr. magallanes had five or six encounters with the black hyundai; someone in the car would always say something disrespectfultestified he feared there would be a fight or a shooting. the evidence showed defendants sierra, zamora, salazar and a fourth person came to 27 mr. name and trying to get mr. magallanes to come outside; when he did not, they hurled insults, leaving when olivia magallanes threatened to call the police. defendant zamora came to mr. other people; mr. magallanes, who was with his cousin, ran inside and the cousin had a loud exchange of words with the people in the car until olivia magallanes told the cousin to come inside. on still another occasion, one or two weeks before the shooting, someone in the same black car tried to shoot magallanes. finally, the evidence described above, along with the evidence of what happened . . . defendant[s] had a preconceived design to take the victims life in a particular waypeople v. shamblin, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at p. 10.) on the evening of the shooting, defendants the black car. they slowed when they saw him, allowing defendant sandoval to get out of the car. defendant sandoval pursued him with the gun, firing multiple shots at him. in short, the facts we have recited provide substantial evidence of premeditation and deliberation. we are in no doubt that a reasonable jury could infer from these facts that defendants planned to kill mr. magallanes, had a motive to do so, and attempted to do so in a manner calculated to result in his death. c. the perez stabbing defendant zamora contends, in a one-paragraph argument, the prosecution failed to show an intent to kill perez. he (defendant zamora) pulled a knife which mr. perez parried; and mr. zamora was about to lose the fight when defendant sierra came to his rescue. that rendition of the facts omits most of the evidence, from which (as discussed below) intent to kill may reasonably be inferred. defendant sierra, who inflicted the knife wound, contends the evidence was insufficient to show intent to kill, premeditation and deliberation. he contends there was 28 no evidence of any of the anderson factors; was ; defendant is mistaken. we have described the evidence in part 1.a. of the facts, ante, and will not repeat it in detail here. that evidence plainly allows the inference that zamora and sierra intended to kill mr. perez, and that mr. sierra acted with premeditation and deliberation in his attempt to do so. defendants, driving in the black hyundai, pulled over and accosted mr. perez, asking about his visible tattoos and gang affiliation. some 20 minutes later, the black hyundai pulled over again; this time, voices in the car said, and then the driver told the backseat passengers to [the victim]that is clear evidence of motive gang animus toward other gangs as well as planning; 20 minutes elapsed before the black hyundai approached the victim for the second time and the driver this is substantial evidence of planning. further, the evidence showed mr. perez tried to run away and mr. zamora pulled him back; it also showed mr. zamora tried to stab the victim in the neck with a knife. the evidence also supported the inference that mr. sierra had a preconceived design to take the victims life with the method he used: when he saw his cohort was not succeeding in the attack on mr. perez, he approached with a knife and stabbed mr. perez in the side a stabbing that resulted in serious injuries requiring surgery and a nine-day hospitalization. and, one of the two said, before they fled in the black hyundai. in short, as with the magallanes shooting, the circumstances surrounding the perez stabbing permit the inference that defendants planned to kill mr. perez, had a motive to do so, and attempted to do so in a manner calculated to result in his death. 29 4. the refusal to instruct on lesser included offenses a. attempted voluntary manslaughter attempted voluntary manslaughter is a lesser included offense of attempted murder. a person who unsuccessfully attempts to kill another, and who does so with the intent to kill which was formed in a heat of passion or which arose out of an honest but unreasonable belief in the necessity of self-defenseguilty of attempted voluntary manslaughter rather than attempted murder. (people v. van ronk (1985) 171 cal.app.3d 818, 820, 824-825.) the trial court has a duty to instruct the jury sua sponte on all lesser included offenses if there is substantial evidence from which a jury can reasonably conclude the defendant committed the lesser, uncharged offense, but not the greater.people v. brothers (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 24, 29.) substantial evidence is evidence sufficient to des that is, evidence that a reasonable jury could find persuasive.people v. barton (1995) 12 cal.4th 186, 201, fn. 8; see people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th any evidence, no matter how this instructional requirement prevents either party, whether by design or inadvertence, from forcing an all-or-nothing choice between conviction of the stated offense on the one hand, or complete acquittal on the other. hence, the rule encourages a verdict, within the charge chosen by thharsher [n]or more lenient than the evidence merits. (brothers, at pp. 29-e review a lesser included offense de novo [citations] considering the evidence in the light most favorable to the defendant [citations]. (id. at p. 30.) defendants sierra and zamora requested an instruction on attempted voluntary manslaughter in connection with the perez stabbing count. they argued that, on cross-attempted voluntary manslaughter: that mr. perez was not afraid of defendants and that zamora got out of the car; the two engaged 30 in a physical fight, exchanging blows, after which zamora pulled out a knife and tried to stab mr. perez; and then defendant sierra came up from behind and stabbed mr. perez. after considerable argument on the point, and taking the matter under consideration, the trial court ultimately refused to instruct on attempted voluntary manslaughter. we find no error. according to defendant sierra, testimony from mr. perez supported the theory that s were in defense of others zamora or upon the heat of passion provoked by the sight of his friend being beaten the mistaken notion that the testimony shows mr. perez challenged the occupants of the car to a fight. it does not. ,[ed] mischaracterization of the testimony. reasonable juror could conclude mutual combat. testimony was consistent throughout that he did nothing more than defend himself after zamora pulled him back when he tried to run away. s used in this state-mutual combat means not merely a reciprocal exchange of blows but one pursuant to mutual intention, consent, or agreement preceding the initiation of hostilities.people v. ross (2007) 155 cal.app.4th 1033, 1045.) moreover, so far as mr. zamora is concerned, imperfect self-defense is not an available defense, because he was the initial aggressor. (see people v. seaton (2001) 26 cal.4th because . . . s testimony showed him to be the initial s response legally justified, defendant could not rely on unreasonable self-defense as a ground for voluntary manslaughter. there is likewise no testimony from which a reasonable juror could conclude that mr. perez did anything inflammatory to provoke anyone in the car, or that sierra acted (see people v. lee (1999) 20 cal.theprovocation must be such that an average, sober 31 person would be so inflamed that he or she would lose reason and judgment. adequate provocation and heat of passion must be affirmatively demonstrated.there was no basis for an instruction on attempted voluntary manslaughter. b. assault with a deadly weapon defendant zamora also argues the court erred in refusing to instruct on assault with a deadly weapon, as to both the magallanes shooting and the perez stabbing, attempted murders . . . . assault with a deadly weapon is not a lesser included offense of attempted murder. (people v. richmond (1991) 2 cal.app.4th 610, 616 [assault with a deadly weapon is not a lesser included offense of attempted murder with the use of a deadly weapon, because attempted murder can be committed without using a deadly weaponallegation of deadly weapon use . . . is not to be considered as part of the accusatory pleading in determining whether assault with a deadly weapon is a lesser included offense of attempted murderpeople v. sloan (2007) 42 cal.4th 110, 114 [referring to the longstanding rule that enhancements may not be considered as part of an accusatory pleading for purposes of identifying lesser included offensespeople v. alarcon (2012) 210 cal.app.4th 432, 439 [t on assault with a and, in effect, that the court must instruct on an offense not charged by the prosecutor if the evidence supports that offense. defendant proffers no authorities supporting his proposition, and accordingly we do not consider it further. 5. the gang-related issues a. counsel for defendants stestimony as a gang expert, arguing she did not qualify as an expert. the trial court denied the motion. 32 a trial court may permit police officers to testify as gang experts, special knowledge, skill, experience, training [and] education (evid. code,  720) related to gangs. (people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 195 (williams).) the trial considerable latitude in determining the qualifications of an expert and its ruling will not be disturbed on appeal unless a manifest abuse of discretion in shown. (people v. bloyd (1987) 43 cal. 3d 333, 357.) there was no abuse of discretion here. detective jara took two semester courses in sociology focusing on gang cultures when she was an undergraduate. in 1999, during her academy training as a custody assistant, she attended a 16-hour course on gang culture in a custodial environment. she worked for five years in the county jails, where she spoke with over 200 gang members on gang culture and their personal experiences in gangs. when she was promoted to deputy sheriff, she attended a 40-hour course of instruction on gang culture. in 2007, she was assigned to patrol at the lakewood station for four years, contacting numerous gang members and investigating gang-related crimes. she trained newly assigned deputies on how to recognize gang-related crimes. she assisted the gang unit in gang-related investigations and search warrants. in march 2011, she was promoted to gang detective. she investigated approximately 50 gang-related crimes. she attended a 40-received weekly briefings on gangs as a member of the california gang investigators association. she also grew up in areas infested with gangs. plainly, detective jara was qualified as a gang expert by her training, education and experience. (see, e.g., people v. montes (2014) 58 cal.4th 809, 861 [police officer had six years of experience, 20 to 30 hours of training in the identification of gang members, and was specifically familiar with the gang in question, but had never before qualified to testify in court; trial court did not abuse its discretion in allowing him to testify as a gang expert]; williams, supra, a member of a special los angeles police department gang unit, had been involved with gangs for seven years and had attended numerous professional seminars regarding gangs 33 e have found qualified, as gang experts, officers with investigative experience similar to that of the officers here b. the gang photographs as noted earlier, the trial court excluded from evidence a youtube video depicting the cvs gang, finding it more prejudicial than probative, but admitted 23 still images from the video, including stills of defendant moniker (sleepy); of joshua garcia (who was identified as allegedly intimidating witnesses) with a tattoo; of an area claimed by the cvs gang; of threatening gang graffiti; of a hat that was the same as the hat in the magallanes shooting incident; and the like. the court also stated it would permit detective jara to testify that she had watched expevideo. the court observed the still photographs would be relevant to corroborate defendants assert the trial court abused its discretion when it admitted the photographs, as the basis of expert opinion, and even if they were admissible, they were more prejudicial than probative. again we disagree. it is settled that an expert witness may base an opinion on matters that would otherwise be inadmissible under the hearsay rule. (people v. gardeley (1996) 14 cal.4th 605, 618.) indeed, experts have been permitted to recite hearsay statements verbatim and at length. (people v. valdez (1997) 58 cal.app.4th 494, 504, 509, 510-511 (valdez) [expert was allowed to read verbatim and explain gang-related portions of letters; nder gardeley, we find s discretion to permit [the expert] to relate in detail the large amount of hearsay upon which he relied.we see no significant difference in the admission of the photographs in this case, and defendant cites no pertinent authority to the contrary. as the trial court observed, the photographs gang members, what monikers they have, what type of clothing they wear, and things of 34 probative value of the photographs outweighed any prejudice to defendants. the valdez the trial court could reasonably conclude that opinions were very relevant to prove the gang enhancement allegation and further that the hearsay upon which he based his opinions was highly probative on his credibility and the weight to be given his opinions. the court could also reasonably find that these factors outweighed any prejudice from the hearsay . . . because [among other reasons] it did not directly name or implicate defendant in any other criminal activity . . . .valdez, supra, 58 cal.app.4th at p. 511.) c. the as we have mentioned, detective jara opined that both crimes were committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang, cvs. on cross-examination, counsel for defendant sierra asked detective jara whether committed by the defendants, and she responded, (those sections govern privileges not to disclose official information and the identity of an informer.) counsel s testimony. the court denied the motion, among other things pointing out that detective jara o other individuals, that she is using that as a basis of her opinion in this case. defendants contend the trial court erred, and should have held an in camera nature of the information, and its importance to the defense these contentions have no merit. 35 evidence code section 1042 governs the procedures that apply when a party informant is a material witness on the issue of guilt . . . id., subd. (d).) the procedures include disclosure during which the prosecutor may request an in camera hearing, so the court sclosure might deprive ibid.) notably, t is incumbent on the defendant to make a prima facie showing for disclosure before an in camera hearing is appropriate. [citation.] [] disclosure is mandated only when the defendant, upon whom the burden falls, produces a reasonable possibility that the anonymous informant whose identity is sought could give evidence on the issue of guilt which might (people v. oppel (1990) 222 cal.app.3d 1146, 1152; people v. fried (1989) 214 cal.app.3d 1309, 1314-1315 [an if an informant is not shown to be in a position to give possible testimony which will aid the defendant on the issue of guilt. the mere assertion that the informant is a material witness on that issue, without any plausible support therefor, does not trigger the requirements of the statute. here, defendants offered no evidence or plausible support for the claim that any cvs gang member with whom detective jara spoke could give evidence on the issue of guilt here, whether the crimes were committed for the benefit of cvs that might result in defendants exoneration on that allegation. indeedtheory (unsupported by any evidence) is that there is a reasonable possibility the informant could further, as the trial court pointed out, detective jara at no time indicated she was relying on information from cvs gang members in forming her opinion that the crimes benefitted the gang, and a review of her testimony does not suggest otherwise. in short, there is no legal basis for the contention the court should have held an in camera hearing. nor do we see any 36 whether she had talked to other gang members on the subject of benefit to the gang. certainly defendants have shown no prejudice from that ruling. 6. defendants contend the trial court erred in admitting into evidence statements they made during the booking process, admitting they were cvs gang members. admission of this evidence was error, but it was not prejudicial. a. the background during the booking process, defendants sierra, sandoval and zamora admitted they were cvs gang members. (defendant virto did not admit gang membership, but admitted that he associated with the cvs gang. he denied having a moniker or gang name.) these admissions were recorded on booking slips showing the three defendants were asked and stated their gang affiliations when they were booked. at trial, the court overruled objections to the admission into evidence of the statements in the booking slips, relying on the booking exception to miranda. at the time of trial, there was case authority for the proposition that routine questions during booking about gang affiliation, posed for security purposes and not designed to elicit an incriminating response, may come within the booking exception. (people v. gomez (2011) 192 cal.app.4th 609, 635, 634 (gomez).) the california supreme court has decided this questin people v. elizalde (2015) 61 cal.4th 523 (elizalde), the court rejected the analysis in gomez and held that questions about gang affiliation exceed the scope of the booking exception. (elizalde, at p. 527, 538 & fn. 9.) b. prejudice as elizalde instructs, [t]obtained in violation of the fifth amendment is reviewed for prejudice under the beyond a reasonable doubt standard of chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18 [(chapman)]. [citations.] that to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that 37 the error complained of did not contribute to the verdict obtained.(chapman, at p. 24.)(elizalde, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 542.) we conclude respondent has met its burden under chapman. without regard to membership of all four defendants, removing any room for doubt on the point. we describe the evidence as to each defendant. i. defendant sierra detective jara opined that defendant sierra was he has numerous tattoos on his body that depict his membership to compton varrio segundo, in he admits to being a gang members from compton varrio segundo. and the night of the incident, he was with defendant virto and defendant zamora, who are compton varrio segundo gang she knew that because he had admitted to that moniker ra and his tattoos, including several tattoos on his right hand. these included one finger. another , meaning, in her opinion, nd still another showed ; detective jara opined that sis for the clique pachucos, which . . . on his right inner forearm and on on his ankle was a tattoo the detective also identified f.i. cards for mr. sierra, dated december 15, 2010, and june 12, 2011 field interview card that law enforcement generally uses to document their the f.i. cards showed that mr. sierra admitted he was a member of cvs. (he gave 38 police the monik) detective jara testified there was a graffiti and the december 15, 2010 card also showed that he was with another cvs gang member. ii. defendant sandoval deputy leticia reyes testified that, when he was booked, defendant sandoval had . . . segundo detective jara testified that, in her opinion, mr. sandoval was a cvs gang member, and described the same bases for that opinion as for the other defendants. she on detective jara also identified two f.i. cards, both dated august 29, 2010. one of them showed mr. sandoval was detained with cvs gang member raymond martinez (stranger), and the other, later in the day, showed he was with martinez and defendant zamora. the cards showed that mr. sandoval admitted his gang affiliation, cvs, and iii. defendant zamora detective jara testified she was familiar with defendant zamora, and opined that he was a cvs gang member, again noting the same bases for her conclusions as for the other defendants. she identified photographs of defendant zamora, who had tattoos on his f.i. cards showing police contacts with mr. zamora on september 2 and september 7, 2010. in each case, the cards indicated that mr. zamora admitted his gang affiliation with 39 of the f.i. zamora was with cvs gang member raymond martinez and another cvs gang member, javier ruiz. iv. defendant virto she wcompton varrio segundo. he has several tattoos depicting his membership to compton [] . . . [] then on his back, he has contacted by law enforcement, not only in this county, but in riverside county where he admits to being a gang member from compton varrio segundo. [] in addition to that, on june 12th he was stopped in that black vehicle with defendant sierra and defendant zamora, who detective jara identified photographs shoand gangs, the region which are hif.i. cards for mr. virto, dated november 27, 2010, february 6, 2011, and june 12, 2011, all of them showing that mr. virto admitted gang affiliation with compton varrio segundo. detective jara testified thwhile mr. virto had never given his moniker to law enforcement personnel, she learned information from the gang unit within the los angeles county jails to corroborate that detective jara also testified about the significance of gang tattoos. she stated: to the 40 ang on your body. victim perez testified that, when the black car approached him the second time, he heard voices inside the black the hospital, perez told the police and, when mr. magallanes testified about his previous encounters with the black car, he said that the c. conclusion as in elizalde, [b]ecause gang affiliation was amply established by independent and uncontradicted evidence, the erroneous admission of [their] challenged statements was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (elizalde, supra, 61 cal.4th p. 542.) 7. s severance motion mr. sandoval contends the trial court erred in denying his motion for severance. we agree, but conclude the error was not prejudicial. under section 1098, [w]hen two or more defendants are jointly charged with any public offense, whether felony or misdemeanor, they must be tried jointly, unless the court orpeople v. ortiz (1978) 22 cal.3d 38, 43 (ortiz), the supreme c a defendant may not be tried with others who are charged with different crimes than those of which he is accused unless he is included in at least one count of the accusatory pleading with all other defendants with whom he is tried.italics added.) in this case, defendant sandoval moved to sever his case from that of his codefendants, based on the principle established in ortiz: mr. sandoval, who was charged only with the magallanes shooting, was tried with defendant noe salazar, who 41 was charged with different crimes (the perez stabbing and the witness dissuasion counts) which did not involve mr. sandoval in any way. thus mr. sandoval was not included ortiz, supra, 22 cal.3d at p. 43.) in this circumstance, ortiz concluded [severance] motion as a matter of law under section 1098 . . . .id. at pp. 42-43; see id. at p. .) on appeal, mr. sandoval renews his contention that the trial court erred in refusing to sever his case. ortiz compels us to agree. however, as in ortizortiz, supra, 22 cal.3d at p. 45.) contention that this case falls within an exception to the ortiz requirement, as found in people v. hernandez (1983) 143 cal.app.3d 936 and people v. wickliffe (1986) 183 cal.app.3d 37. those cases held that the supreme court in ortiz did not intend to extend its ruling to cases . . . where codefendants jointly committed a series of crimes against the same victim at the same time and in the same place.(hernandez, at pp. 939, 938 [all gang rapea party given by the victim]; wickliffe, at p. 41 [victim was injured when one defendant knocked him from a moving truck, and rear wheels of the truck, driven by intoxicated codefendant, crushed his midsection; although charged with different offenses, defendants were properly tried together because the offenses arose from a single set of circumstances against the same victim during the same time and in the same place].) plainly, this case does not come within the hernandez rule the crimes charged here were committed under different circumstances, against different victims, and at a different time and different place. the error in denying severance was not prejudicial. again we are guided by ortiz. the right to a separate trial is not so fundamental that its erroneous denial requires automatic reversal.ortiz, supra, 22 cal.3d at p. 46.) the factors to be applied in determining whether a denial of severance was prejudiciinclude whether a separate 42 trial would have been significantly less prejudicial to defendant than the joint trial, and whether there was clear evidence of defendants guilt.ibid.of a reasonable probability that the defendant would have obtained a more favorable result at a separate trial.ibid.) in this case, the evidence mr. sandoval was guilty of the attempted premeditated murder of mr. magallanes was overwhelming. he was identified as the shooter by both raul and olivia magallanes. he shot at mr. magallanes three times, and indeed pursued mr. magallanes while he was shooting at him. olivia magallanes saw the shooter the police found mr. sandoval hiding underneath a truck not far from the crime scene. he was not wearing the hat and t-shirt mr. magallanes described the assailant as wearing, but the police found those items, along with a revolver with three expended casings, underneath some shrubbery near the crime scene. mr. sandoval tested positive for gunshot residue. on the record in this case, no reasonable juror could have doubted either that mr. sandoval was the shooter or that he intended to kill certainly the facts that he did not hit his target or expend all his bullets do not detract from the evidence of intent to kill. the evidence against mr. sandoval left no doubt of his guilt, and the assertion that the jury must have been affected by the evidence of the intent of the other defendants in the other case is entirely speculative, without support in the record. the jurors were clearly instructed on which defendants were charged with which crimes, and that they must h we have no reason to assume they did not do so. gle reference by the gang expert to the mexican mafia . but the reference to the mexican mafia was stricken from the record, and the jury was instructed during the trial that the jail be considered against defendant salazar, noe salazar in this case. [] it is not to be used or considered in any way or any fashion during your deliberations against defendants virto, sierra, 43 again we have no reason to believe the jury did not follow these instructions. in sum, the record discloses no probability that mr. sandoval would have obtained a more favorable result at a separate trial. (ortiz, supra, 22 cal.3d at p. 46.) 8. cruel and unusual punishment defendant sandoval, who was 15 years old when he committed the offenses, was sentenced to 35 years to life in prison: 15 years to life for attempted willful, deliberate and premeditated murder in the magallanes shooting ( 664, subd. (a) &  186.22, subd. (b)(5)), plus 20 years consecutive for the firearm discharge enhancement ( 12022.53, subd. (c)). defendant zamora, who was 17 years old at the time of the crimes, was sentenced to 43 years to life in prison: 15 years to life for attempted willful, deliberate and premeditated murder in the magallanes shooting, plus 20 years consecutive for the firearm discharge enhancement ( 12022.53, subd. (e)), plus the midterm of seven years consecutive for attempted murder in the perez stabbing ( 664, subd. (a)), plus one year consecutive for personal use of a deadly weapon ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)). both defendants challenge their sentences as cruel and unusual punishment under the eighth amendment. their claims have no merit. their sentences were mandated by law, and fully consonant with constitutional principles established by the high court and our supreme court for the sentencing of juvenile offenders convicted of nonhomicide offenses. a. the facts at the sentencing hearing for defendants sandoval and zamora, the trial court stated it had reviewed all the documents submitted on behalf of defendants (school records, letters from family members and friends, sentencing memoranda, probation reports, and a psycated her understanding that 44 mother and from two psychologists oamenability to rehabilitation. after hearing argument, the court reviewed factors in mitigation and aggravation for mr. sandoval. in mitigation, the court found mr. sandoval was 15; committed the offense with another juvenile and two adults; the victim was not injured; father left the home when mr. sandoval was 10 or 11 years old; his four siblings were never involved in the criminal justice system; he was average or above average when he attended school; and he had no major substance abuse problems. as aggravating circumstances, had been released from an eight-month stay in juvenile camp for less than a week when he committed this offense; and was the actual shooter in a gang confrontation. 35 years to life sentence described abovehat mr. sandoval should be given a parole hearing at the first possible opportunity. recommends he court likewise reviewed factors in mitigation and aggravation. in mitigation, the court found mr. zamora was 17; he was an aider and abettor in the shooting; he had a low intelligence level and suffered from depression. the aggravating factors were his involvement in two violent offenses with other gang members only a week apart; in the second offense he had a knife and attempted to stab the victim, who was actually injured by gang member; and he had been involved in the criminal justice system since the age of 13. the prosecutor sought a sentence of 55 years to life. the court sentenced mr. zamora to 43 years to life as described above. (in addition to imposing the middle term for the perez stabbing, the court found good cause to stay the 10-year gang 45 injuries.) [were] tied by mandatory sentencing structure that gives the court little to no discretion in sentencing mr. zamora, and that considered for paroleum sentence. b. the law the eighth amendment prohibits states from sentencing a juvenile convicted of nonhomicide offenses to life imprisonment without the possibility of parole. (graham v. florida (2010) 560 u.s. 48 (graham).) the eighth amendment also prohibits a mandatory life without parole sentence for juvenile offenders. (miller v. alabama (2012) 567 u.s. ___ [132 s.ct. 2455] (miller).) and the eighth amendment prohibits states from sentencing a juvenile convicted of a nonhomicide offense to a term of years with a parole eligibility date that falls outside the juvenile offender natural life expectancy . . . .people v. caballero (2012) 55 cal.4th 262, 268 (caballero).) none of those things happened here. the sentences imposed complied in full with caballerounder grahams nonhomicide ruling, the sentencing court must consider all mitigating circumstances attendant in s crime and life, including but not limited to his or her chronological age at the time of the crime, whether the juvenile offender was a direct perpetrator or an aider and abettor, and his or her physical and mental development, so that it can impose a time when the juvenile offender will be able to seek parole from the parole board. the board of parole hearings will then determine whether the juvenile offender must be released from prison based on demonstrated maturity and rehabilitation.caballero, supra, 55 cal.4th at pp. 268-269.) mandatory sentence of 35 years to life does not deprive him of parole eligibility date that falls outside [his] natural life expectancy, opportunity to demonstrate [his] rehabilitation and fitness to reenter society in the (caballero, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 268.) on the contrary, as discussed at the sentencing hearing, mr. sandoval will be 45 years old when he is first eligible for parole, well within his life expectancy. under these circumstances, the sentence meets 46 constitutional requirements, and the trial court had no discretion to impose a sentence other than the one mandated by statute. lf his expected life span california or federal authority for this proposition of graham, miller, and their progeny and we are aware of none. (see people v. perez (2013) 214 cal.app.4th 49, 52 (perez) [there is no rule of constitutional jurisprudence that requires discretion to reduce penalties when minors are sentenced for adult crimes to periods which still leave them a substantial life expectancy after release from prison. mr. (and he notes 82.1 yearshispanic). thus, he says, incaperez, mr. zamora []graham-miller-caballero line of jurisprudence to strike down as cruel and unusual any sentence against anyone under the age of 18 where the perpetrator still has substantial life expectancy left at the time of perez, supra, 214 cal.app.4th at p. 57much safely say that in the case before us there is plenty of time left . . . ibid.; id. at p. 58 [defendant eligible for parole at age 47by no stretch of the magination can this case be lwopthe same is true here.6 6 after the sentencing in this case, the legislature addressed juvenile sentencing concerns with new provisions of the penal code, effective january 1, 2014. with certain inapplicable exceptions, section 3051 now provides for parole hearings for prisoners who were under the age of 18 at the time of their offenses, during the 15th, 20th, or 25th year of incarceration (depending on the circumstances). so, at worst, mr. zamora will be eligible for release on parole after 25 years, when he is 42. (court of appeal opinions receive a constitutional sentence at the time of sentencing, and that and related issues are 47 finally, mr. zamora argues his sentence violates the eighth amendment under git is so disproportionate to the crime for which it is inflicted that it shocks the conscience and offends fundamental notions of human dignity.in re lynch (1972) 8 cal.3d 410, 424.) the argument is unsupportable. mr. zamora persists in characterizing his offenses as ,he describes his these assertions do not reflect the facts found by the jury. as perez l [line of jurisprudence] are extremely rare. (perez, supra, 214 cal.app.4th at p. 60.) here, as in perezpresent ibid.) in short, mr. zamora has shown no disproportionality between the sentence and the crimes, and certainly none that shocks the conscience. 9. the restitution fines when defendants committed their crimes in june 2011, section 1202.4 required the court to set a restitution fine of between $200 and $10,000 (former  1202.4, subd. (b)(1), stats. 2010, ch. 107,  1.) the minimum fine increased to $240 starting on january 1, 2012. ( 1202.4, subd. (b).) at the sentencing hearings held in august and november 2012, the court in each case imposed, without comment, a $240 restitution fine (and a corresponding $240 parole revocation restitution fine under section 1202.45, subdivision (a)). a restitution fine under section 1202.4 is subject to the ex post facto clause of the constitution. (see people v. souza (2012) 54 cal.4th 90, 143.) defendants contend the the $200 minimum fines, constituted an pending in the supreme court. (see, e.g., in re alatriste, review granted feb. 19, 2014, s214652.)) 48 unauthorized sentence and violated the ex post facto clause, because the to impose the minimum fine . . . . we disagree. nowhere in the record does the trial court indicate it intended to impose the minimum fine under section 1202.4. the trial court is provided wide latitude under section 1202.4 to impose a fine between $200 to $10,000. defendants do not argue that the trial court abused its discretion in imposing the $240 fines. they have presented no supported reason, beyond conjecture, to reduce these fines. as a result, we decline to do so. 10. cumulative error defendants contend the cumulative effect of the errors they allege deprived them of a fair trial, and requires reversal of the judgment, in whole or in part. they are mistaken. series of trial errors, though independently harmless, may in some people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 844), that is not the case here. and . no fair trial, not a perfect one.people v. mincey (1992) 2 cal.4th 408, 454.) we conclude defendants received a fair trial, and perceive no prejudice, cumulative or otherwise. disposition the judgments are affirmed. grimes, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. flier, j. 