filed 8/6/13 p. v. coney ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. william coney, defendant and appellant. in re william coney, on habeas corpus. b240197 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba375285) b240678, b243237 appeal from the judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. jose j. sandoval, judge. affirmed in part, conditionally reversed and remanded in part. original proceedings; petitions for writ of habeas corpus. petitions denied. katharine eileen greenebaum, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. william coney, in pro. per., for petitioner. 2 kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, roberta l. davis and connie h. kan, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * * * * * defendant william coney was charged by amended information with the sale of a controlled substance (health & saf. code,  11352, subd. (a)), and with various prior conviction allegations (pen. code,  1170.12, subds. (a)-(d),  667.5, subd. (b),  1203, subd. (e)(4); health & saf. code,  11370.2, subd. (a)).1 defendant pled not guilty and denied the allegations. he was granted in pro. per. status on january 7, 2011, and the trial court appointed standby counsel. however, several days after trial started, and after numerous outbursts by defendant, his in pro. per. status was revoked and standby counsel conducted the remainder of the trial. defendant was convicted by the jury, and following a bench trial on his priors, the trial court found he suffered two strike convictions, and had served a prison term. at sentencing, the court struck the prior strike allegations and sentenced defendant to seven years in county jail, under the realignment act of 2011 (stats. 2011, 1st ex. sess. 2011-2012, ch. 12,  1 et seq.). on appeal, defendant contends the trial court erroneously denied his request for pitchess2 discovery, and wrongfully revoked his in pro. per. status. defendant contends any outbursts that led to the revocation of his right to self-representation rulings. defendant has also filed two habeas petitions (case nos. b240678 & b243237), contending the trial court wrongfully denied a number of his motions, he of access to the law library and resources needed for his defense. 1 the amended information also charged codefendant rufus mays with one count drug possession (health & saf. code,  11350, subd. (a)) and one count drug sales ( 11352, subd. (a)). mays and coney were tried together, and mays has not appealed his conviction. 2 pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531 (pitchess). 3 we agree the trial court erred in denying pitchess discovery and, therefore, conditionally reverse and remand the case for the limited purpose of conducting an in camera review and assessing prejudice in the event that responsive documents are therefore we summarily deny them. background 1. pretrial motions faretta3 waiver and election to represent himself, his attorney made a pretrial motion for discovery of the personnel records of los angeles police department officers mejia, and valencia, and of detectives miller, baley and reyes. the trial court denied the motion. after defendant executed a faretta waiver and the court granted his request to represent himself, defendant made a number of motions. he moved to suppress the evidence against him, on the basis police submitted false reports and planted evidence. that motion was denied. next, defendant requested a ruling on a motion for severance which had been filed by his attorney. the motion was denied. when defendant asked there appeared to be some confusion about whether defendant had waived time for trial. on january 31, 2011, the trial court indicated defendant had not waived time for trial, and set trial for february 1, 2011. however, on february 1, 2011, the trial court found good cause to continue the trial so codefendant mays could obtain some lab results. on february 22, 2011, defendant filed a motion to dismiss for violation of the court may have 3 faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806 (faretta). 4 misspoken, as it does not appear defendant waived time, but rather the court continued trial after finding good cause for a continuance.) on february 28, 2011, defendant again sought dismissal for violation of his speedy trial rights. that motion was denied, and the trial court found good cause for another continuance. defendant also filed a motion for disqualification under code of civil procedure sections 170.3 and 170.6, a motion for ancillary funds for his defense, and two motions to dismiss for brady4 violations. the court awarded defendant additional funds for his defense. the court denied the section 170.6 motion as untimely, and issued a written order striking the statement of disqualification under section 170.3 for failing to state sufficient facts. at a later hearing, defendant stated he had not received however, the trial court correctly noted it had ruled on it, and ordered the clerk to provide defendabrady motions, the brady 2. trial evidence on august 25, 2010, officers mejia and valencia were watching the area near the intersection of 6th street and gladys avenue in los angeles for drug activity, working as part of an undercover task force. officer mejia, using binoculars, saw codefendant rufus mays talking to jose ortiz-pena.5 ortiz-pena handed mays money, and the two walked across the street to a gray truck, where mays reached into -ortiz-pena. ortiz-pena then drove away in the truck. officer mejia radioed other task force members, gave them a description of mays and ortiz-pena, and ordered they be detained. officers munoz and marshall 4 brady v. maryland (1963) 373 u.s. 83 (brady). 5 ortiz-pena was not tried with mays and defendant, having entered into a plea agreement. 5 stopped ortiz-pena as he was driving away. when officer marshall asked ortiz-pena -pena, and found an off-white solid resembling cocaine base in his pocket. as detectives miller and baley responded to 6th street and gladys avenue, they saw mays walking along 6th street. they could not stop to detain him, so officer mejia drove to the area, and saw mays hand defendant some money. mays and defendant were on the corner of 6th street and stanford avenue. defendant, who was sitting on the curb, grabbed a cup that was on the sidewalk, removed some off-white solids from a bindle that was in the cup, and handed them to mays. defendant put the bindle back in the cup and put the cup back on the sidewalk. officers gramillo and alvarado, and detective reyes, responded to officer detective reyes saw mays toss some off-white solids onto the sidewalk as the officers walked up to him. detective reyes retrieved the discarded substance and placed it in a ziploc bag. officer gramillo tried to handcuff mays, but mays was uncooperative. officer gramillo told mays to be still, but mays did not comply and reached for his side. officer gramillo struck him in the torso and conducted a patdown search. she found a glass pipe in his pocket. officer mejia told detectives miller and baley to detain defendant. as they approached him, defendant tried to conceal the paper cup between his legs. detective miller searched defendant and recovered the cup. it contained a plastic bindle with a substance resembling cocaine base. detective miller also found two $10 bills, six $1 criminalist buffy miller testified the substances recovered by police were cocaine base. john green, a forensic expert, testified for the defense. green testified he was unable to recover any usable fingerprints from the paper cup found on defendant, or from the glass pipe found on mays. he also attempted to lift prints from the glass pipe and bindle recovered from defendant, but was unable to do so. 6 anne la jeunesse, a private investigator for the defense, also testified. she investigated whether there were any video cameras near the crime scene, and served subpoenas on the sro housing authority to obtain surveillance tapes from the la jolla hotel and the ellis hotel, which are located on the corner of 6th street and stanford avenue. she never received any videos in response to the subpoenas.6 discussion defendant argues the trial court erroneously denied his pitchess motion and wrongfully revoked his in pro. per. status. we agree the trial court abused its pitchess declaration in support of the motion established good cause for discovery of complaints of the fabrication of probable cause, false report writing, false arrest, perjury and evidence planting. we find, however, the trial court did not abuse its -representation, due to his inappropriate and disruptive behavior. lastly, we find defendant has not made a sufficient prima facie showing in support of his habeas petitions, and accordingly, we summarily deny them. 1. pitchess motion pitchess motion must comply with evidence code sections 1043 through 1047. pitchess (evid. code,  discovery or disclosure sought, setting forth the materiality thereof to the subject matter involved in the pending litigation and stating upon reasonable belief that the 6 during cross-examination, some of the responding officers gave inconsistent testimony on this point. officer mejia, detective reyes, and detective baley testified there was a surveillance camera at 6th street and stanford avenue. officer mejia testified it was not a police camera, and he had never used it in his investigations. detective reyes testified there was a police camera on 6th street and stanford detective baley testified he tried to obtain footage from the camera on 6th street and stanford avenue, but did not collect any because there was no relevant footage. 7 id., people v. mooc (2001) 26 cal.4th 1216, 1226.) the affidavits may be on information and belief and need not be based on personal knowledge, but the information sought must be identified with sufficient specificity to preclude the possibility of a defendant simply fishing for helpful information. (city of santa cruz v. municipal court (1989) 49 cal.3d 74, 85-86.) allegation of police misconduct. (city of san jose v. superior court (1998) 67 cal.app.4th 1135, 1146.) the factual allegations must be specific, factual, and unambiguous. (id. at pp. 1147-1148.) plausibility is satisfied if a defendant t the scenario of alleged officer misconduct could or might have (warrick v. superior court (2005) 35 cal.4th 1011, 1016, 1025-1026 (warrick).) events, with or without corroborating collateral evidence, is persuasive -- a task . . . tantamount to determining whether the defendant is probably innocent or id. a showing of good cause is measured by id. at p. 1016.) a motion for discovery of peace officer personnel records is addressed to the abuse of discretion standard of review. (city of san jose v. superior court, supra, 67 cal.app.4th at p. 1145.) a. defendant demonstrated good cause for an in camera review the personnel records of los angeles police officers mejia, and valencia, and detectives miller, baley and rights, fabrication of charges, fabrication of evidence, fabrication of reasonable suspicion and/or probable cause, 8 false arrest, perjury, dishonesty, writing of false police reports, writing of false police reports to cover up the use of excessive force, planting of evidence, false or misleading internal reports including but not limited to false overtime or medical reports, and any other evidence of misconduct amounting to moral turpitude within the meaning of people v. wheeler the attorney declaration in support of the pitchess motion recited the following august 25, 2010, at approximately 1600 hours, he was a passenger in a vehicle with officer valencia driving. upon entering the crosswalk of sixth and stanford, they both saw defendant coney sitting on the southwest corner on the sidewalk. while window and observed defendant mays giving defendant coney a single bill in exchange for an off white sold resembling cocaine that he retrieved from a plastic bindle inside of a paper cup. as officer miller approached defendant coney, he saw him grab the cup and place it in between his legs. officers baley and reyes detained defendant coney while officer miller retrieved the cup. after retrieving the cup, officer miller saw a clear plastic bindle containing numerous off white solids or nickel pieces resembling cocai alleges that officer mejia wrote a false report, made a false arrest, committed perjury by testifying falsely, fabricated probable cause, conspired with officer miller, officer valencia, officer baley and officer reyes to fabricate probable cause to clear the streets of transients. defendant coney was sitting on the sidewalk in the heat when a male approached him, gave him some change, and asked him for a cigarette. defendant coney took the change from that person and gave that person a cigarette that he had behind his ears. defendant coney did not have any narcotics on his person or in a cup next to him and did not hand that person any white solids resembling rock cocaine. officer miller planted the paper cup with the nickel sized cocaine inside the cup. officers baley and reyes watched as officer miller planted the cup on defendant 9 d when officer miller did indeed plant the evidence on defendant coney. officers valencia, mejia, miller, baley, and reyes fabricated the probable cause and evidence against defendant coney. while defendant coney was sitting at the sidewalk and prior to the officers approaching him, several individuals walked by and near him. furthermore, the defense alleges that officer baley lied when he stated there were no additional witnesses other than the two lapd officers that saw the use of force against defendant mays. the defense alleges that there were approximately twenty witnesses, some of the police report appended to the motion set forth additional facts consistent trial as summarized above. the report also stated detective baley had canvassed the area, and was unable to locate any witnesses to the prosecution conceded the pitchess motion established good cause as to officer mejia allegations of the arrest report [without] any alternative specific factual scenario of the other officer plausible . . . alternative scenario that this large group of officers would have conspired respondent contends the trial court did not abuse its discretion, relying on people v. thompson (2006) 141 cal.app.4th 1312, 1318-1319 (thompson). in thompson, the defendant sought discovery of the personnel records of 11 police officers who allegedly conspired to frame him for selling drugs. the defendant in thompson asserted that officers stopped him solely because he happened to be in the area where they were determined he had a criminal record, they all conspired to charge him with possession of drugs, recorded money the police had in their possession from earlier arrests, and 10 fabricated virtually all the events preceding and following his arrest. the court of appeal found the factual basis for the pitchess motion was inconsistent and incomplete, because defendant did not state a nonculpable explanation for his presence in an area where drugs were being sold, or sufficiently present a factual basis for being singled out by the police. defendant simply denied the elements of the offense charged. accordingly, the thompson court found no abuse of discretion in denying pitchess discovery. (thompson, supra, at pp. 1317-1318.) here, in contrast to thompson, defendant alleged the officers planted evidence on his person. detective miller planted the cup with a bindle containing drugs on defendant. in counsel a plausible nonculpable reason for why police singled him out. counsel stated on information and belief the officers and detectives were conspiring to clear the streets of transients. defendant appeared to be transient since he was sitting on the sidewalk in the heat, and his sale of a cigarette could be mistaken for a drug transaction. we are not tasked with determining if this version of events is persuasive or credible. (warrick, supra, 35 cal.4th at pp. 1025-1026.) it is not our job to weigh the evidence, or determine the true source of the drugs in reviewing a pitchess motion. (warrick, at p. 1026.) ration is implausible because he did not seek discovery relating to officers gramillo, alvarado, munoz, and marshall, who arrested ortiz-pena and mays, and because he did not explain why cigarettes were not recovered either from him or from mays. however, officers gramillo, alvarado, munoz, and marshall responded to a call concerning drug activity by officers mejia and valencia, who witnessed a drug transaction between ortiz-pena and mays, and mays and defendant. according to the police report, the transaction between ortiz--pena was arrested by officers munoz and marshall as he drove away from the scene. officers alvarado side of 11 defendant would have no opportunity to observe whether drugs were planted on ortiz-pena, or to know if the report was false concerning the arrests of ortiz-pena and mays. in short, defendant may have had no reason to believe officers marshall, munoz, gramillo and alvarado were involved in the alleged conspiracy. s motion was plausible without having to explain why no cigarettes were booked into evidence. accordingly, the trial court abused its discretion in declining to search the personnel files of officers mejia, and valencia, and detectives miller, baley and reyes for complaints of fabricating evidence, planting evidence, false report writing, false arrest, and perjury. however, we conclude the pitchess motion was overbroad as to the other categories of requested discovery. the declaration failed to establish good cause for discovery of conduct constituting moral turpitude. even though the declaration called into question the truthfulness of the officers and detectives, the meaning of [wheeler, suprawheeler generally holds that nonfelony conduct involving moral turpitude is admissible to impeach a criminal witness, wheeler did not consider the discovery of such evidence in the context of the confidentiality afforded to peace officer personnel records. (wheeler, at p. 295.) cases that have considered the intersection of wheeler and pitchess have concluded wheeler does not abrogate the good cause requirement of the evidence y documentation of past officer misconduct which is similar to the misconduct alleged by defendant in the pending litigation is relevant and therefore california highway patrol v. superior court (2000) 84 cal.app.4th 1010, 1021, 1024 [seeking all wheeler abrogate the good cause requirement . . . by permitting fishing expeditions into the 12 defendant also failed to demonstrate good acts of false or misleading internal reports including but not limited to false overtime or medical reportsfactual scenario or to the proposed warrick, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 1022.) b. proper remedy for pitchess error the remedy for a pitchess error is a conditional reversal and remand of the case to the trial court to conduct an in camera hearing. (people v. gaines (2009) 46 cal.4th 172, 180.) if, after reviewing the confidential material in chambers, it is found the personnel records contain no relevant information, the court is to reinstate the judgment. (id. at p. 181.) if, however, it is found on remand discoverable information exists and should have been disclosed, the trial court must order disclosure of that information, allow the defendant an opportunity to demonstrate prejudice, and order a new trial if there is a reasonable probability the outcome would have been different had the information been disclosed. (ibid.) 2. revocation of in pro. per. status on january 7, 2011, defendant filed a faretta waiver, requesting to proceed in pro. per. that request was granted, and defense counsel was removed and appointed -representation, he repeatedly engaged in inappropriate and disruptive conduct. in the interest of brevity, we will trial, though examples abound in the various pretrial proceedings. (the discussion below by no means includes all the ewe found in the record; indeed, we have omitted reference to some of the most grievous examples.) one pretrial example provides the background to explain some of the problems defendant created unnecessarily at trial. at a march 9, 2011 pretrial hearing to address evidentiary issues, the court admonished defendant not to mention ortiz-pena during 13 trial (defendant was ordered not to imply to the jury ortiz-pena would provide exculpatory testimony). when defendant persisted (he was apparently frustrated ortiz-pena was unavailable as a witness), and the court again repeated its order, exchange, defendant repeatedly interrupted and talked over the court, despite the court telling him not to do so. on march 10, 2011, during jury selection, but out of the presence of the jury, instructions . . . . it was mentioned that there was two co-defendants . . . from my through this more times than i care to remember. in this trial right now there are two defendants, mr. mays and yourself.into what happened t done. you denied it, but -- later on march 10, 2011, defendant inquired about the status of some transcripts he had requested in support of a petition for writ of mandate. he asked to also receive transcripts for march 9 and 10, 2011, in addition to those the court had understand your writ -- ion -- to binding -- when proceedings resumed the next day, the prosecutor made a record 14 remain professional at all times, however, mr. coney made some under his breath comments to the jury, anand his insistence that the da, or prosecution, is some kind of special friend of the court is not only disrespectful to me as an officer of the court, but to the court as well as the judicia when trial commenced, and defendant was making his opening statement, the reminded de . . . . [] . . . [] . . . intended [to rid] be. might as well get the rope -- person important to clearing up some of the quagmire, jose ortiz pena, the third person who was supposed to be alleged to have been in the company of the co-defendant here 15 later in his opening statement, defendant started to argue the law, and the al ll, i think there was an attempt to --freedom --ng rules on voir dire or the general rules -- scope of opening statements. defendant next engaged in a very lengthy cross-examination of officer mejia, which spanned three days of the trial. at one point during his cross-examination, defendant asked mejia to read from a metro bus schedule. in response to the the evidence could be ascertained outside their presence, and defendant blurted out discussing the relevance of the bus schedule, and the prosecutor and court commented with criminal when defendant later asked officer mejia whether he had ever been the objection. when defendant persisted by aski 16 ndant to not make any representing dant protested he thought his questions were proper. the court again restated it had ruled. defendant t ordered it stricken, and -examination of officer mejia, defendant asked whether the court when defendant asked why officer mejia had not detained codefendant mays immediately after witnessing the first drug transaction, both the attorney objected, and the trial court sustained the objections. when the trial court -- ndant to not impugn the 17 -examination of officer mejia, having endured more disdain, disrespect and disruption than was necessary, the patient and long-suffering trial court finally terminat defendant contends his right to self-representation was violated when the trial court revoked his in pro. per. privileges and appointed counsel. according to defendant, his conduct did not amount to deliberate obstructive behavior that trial. (faretta, supraseveral rulings, remarks and mis-statements of fact before the actual trial began that would have frustrated and disturbed a seasoned lawyer. it is, therefore, understandable that [an in pro. per.] defendant would have responded in an inappropriate manner, believing the trial court was not treating him fair -representation by a defendant who faretta, supra, 422 -representation is not a license to abuse the dignity of the courtroom. neither is it a license not to comply with relevant rules of ibid.; people v. watts (2009) 173 cal.app.4th 621, -representation must possess the ability court must undertake the task of deciding whether a defendant is and will remain so disruptive, obstreperous, disobedient, disrespectful or obstructionist in his or her actions or words as to preclude the exercise of the right to self-(people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 735 (welch).) decision to terminate a -representation. (people v. carson (2005) 35 cal.4th 1, 12; welch, supra-representation and the exercise welch, at p. 735.) 18 claim the trial court did not warn him his conduct would lead to a revocation of his in pro. per. status has no merit. the faretta waiver, which defendant signed and understand that the judge may terminate my right to act as my own attorney in the event that i engage in serious misconduct or obstruct the conduct and progress of the by the rules and respect the judicial process. defendant was sufficiently warned yet chose to disrupt the trial at every opportunity. 3. habeas petitions presumptively final criminal judgment, the petitioner bears a heavy burden initially to plead sufficient grounds for relief, and then later to prove people v. duvall (1995) 9 cal.4th 464, 474.) de. (id. at pp. 474-475.) if no prima facie case is made, we will summarily deny the petition. however, if the allegations of the petition, taken as true, establish a claim for relief, we will issue an order to show cause why relief should not be granted. (id. at p. 475.) we find petitioner has not stated a prima facie claim for relief, and therefore summary denial of the petitions is proper. defendant introduced no evidence and alleged no facts outside the appellate record in his petitions which would warrant relief. therefore, the petitions are denied. 19 disposition the judgment is conditionally reversed and remanded. the trial court is directed to conduct an in camera inspection of the personnel records of officer mejia, officer valencia, detective miller, detective baley, and detective reyes for complaints of fabricating evidence, planting evidence, false report writing, false arrest, and perjurythe trial court is directed to reinstate the judgment of conviction and the sentence. if the inspection reveals relevant information, the trial court must order disclosure, allow defendant an opportunity to demonstrate prejudice, and order a new trial if there is a reasonable probability the outcome would have been different had the information been disclosed. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. the petitions for habeas corpus are denied. grimes, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. flier, j. 