filed 9/9/13 p. v. james ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. bryan james, defendant and appellant. b243957 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta117646) the court:* no. ta117646 to one count of driving or taking a motor vehicle in violation of vehicle code section 10851, subdivision (a). defendant admitted the allegation that he had suffered a prior conviction of a serious or violent felony within the meaning of penal code section 667, subdivisions (b) through (i).1 the trial court imposed the midterm of * boren, p.j., chavez, j., ferns, j. ** ** judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 1 all further references to statutes are to the penal code unless stated otherwise. 2 which, during the same proceeding, defendant was sentenced to 180 years to life plus 56 years. we appointed counsel to represent defendant on this appeal. after examination of been unable to find any arguable issues. on april 9, 2013, we advised defendant that he had 30 days within which to personally submit any contentions or issues that he wished us to consider. no response has been received to date. report. los angeles police department officers on patrol observed a dodge charger with paper plates traveling in the opposite direction. when they tried to conduct a traffic stop, defendant kept driving to a gas station. there, he jumped out of the moving car, which collided into a pole. defendant fled and the officers pursued him on foot. defendant disregarded commands to stop and get onto the ground, and he continued to flee. after air and k-9 units were called in, defendant was apprehended. a record check revealed that the car was reported stolen. defendant spontaneously told officers that the car was just a rental he did not return, and he did not want to go to jail on his birthday. the record shows that defendant made no application for a certificate of probable cause before filing an appeal. section 1237.5 providesbe taken by the defendant from a judgment of conviction upon a plea of guilty or nolo contendere . . . except where both of the following are met: [] (a) the defendant has filed with the trial court a written statement, executed under oath or penalty of perjury showing reasonable constitutional, jurisdictional, or other grounds going to the legality of the proceedings. [] (b) the trial court has executed and filed a certificate of probable cause for such appeal . as provided in (4), to appeal from a superior court judgment after a plea of guilty or nolo contendere . . . the defendant must file in that superior court with the notice of appeal required by (a)the statement required by penal code section 1237.5 for issuance of a 3 the statement required by (1) or if the superior court denies a certificate of probable defendant, and send a copy of the marked notice of appeal to the district appellate eed not comply with (1) if the notice of appeal states that the appeal is based on denial of a motion to suppress evidence or grounds that arose after entry of the plea that do not affect the validity of the plea. in people v. mendez (1999) 19 cal.4th 1084, the california supreme court interpreted former rule 31(d), which corresponds to current rule 8.304(b)(1)-(3), and held that (people v. mendez, at p. 1098.) defendant has not claimed that his appeal is based on the denial of a motion to suppress evidence or grounds that arose after entry of the plea that do not affect the validity of the plea. defendant did not raise any objections during his sentencing hearing. certificate of probable cause, his appeal must be dismissed. fully complied with his responsibilities and that no arguable issues exist. (people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, 441.) the appeal is dismissed. not to be published in the official reports. 