filed 10/4/13 p. v. udeh ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. patrick thomas udeh, defendant and appellant. b243930 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya082137) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mark s. arnold, judge. affirmed. tanya dellaca, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, michael r. johnsen and esther p. kim, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 following a jury trial appellant was convicted of mayhem (pen. code,  203) 1 and assault with a deadly weapon ( 245, subd. (a)(1)). the jury also found he personally inflicted great bodily injury on the victim ( 12022.7, subd. (a)). the trial court imposed and stayed a three-year sentence for mayhem pursuant to section 654 and imposed a total of six years in state prison for the assault and related enhancement. appellant contends the prosecutor committed misconduct during closing argument by arguing the jury should make inferences she knew were false. he also claims the trial court erred by: (a) failing to order a supplemental probation report for sentencing; and (b) denying probation or, in the alternative, declining to impose the low term. we affirm the judgment because neither the challenged comments by the prosecutor nor the failure to order a supplemental report were prejudicial, and the trial court acted within its discretion when imposing sentence. i. facts a. prosecution evidence in the early morning hours of august 27, 2011, lamar johnson went to the king henry club to pick up his girlfriend natima montgomery and give her a ride home. montgomery was employed as an exotic dancer at the club. appellant was 2 punched him on the shoulder and called oth men were thrown out of the club by security. lamar went to his car and called his brother antoine johnson. the johnson brothers met outside the club and drove to a nearby gas station to look for appellant and 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 2 lamar johnson and his brother antoine johnson both testified at trial. because they share the same surname we refer to them by their first names. . 3 get a drink. while at the gas station, lamar saw appellant. lamar walked toward appellant and eventually stopped. appellant reached into his vehicle and retrieved a taser fought and, when antoine intervened, appellant attempted to tase antoine as well. eventually the altercation ended. antoine returned to his car and lamar walked to subsequently amputated. the jury watched a video of the altercation captured by a security camera at the gas station. b. defense evidence a police officer who investigated the accident and reviewed the video footage was struck. after the vehicle struck lamar it pushed him another 22 feet before pinning him against a metal post. appellant testified on his own behalf. montgomery was his former girlfriend. on from the club. once lamar exited, appellant was asked to leave as well. appellant left the club and proceeded to a nearby gas station. lamar and antoine arrived at the gas station looking like they wanted to fight appellant. appellant was afraid for his life. he ran to his vehicle and grabbed a taser. as lamar approached, appellant lunged at him with the taser in self-defense. the taser did not affect appellant. he pleaded with the men but they punched him anyway and fractured his jaw. 4 to a gun. again fearing for his life, appellant entered his vehicle and pressed the accelerator in order to exit the gas station. appellant accidently hit lamar in the process. he attempted to assist lamar by tying a tourniquet around his leg. ii. discussion nts 1. background or medical records, anything? there is not a doctor. there is nobody here to support thisgreatguy setting. where is a shred of evidence? [] he totally had injuries to his mouth. you can was overruled. remarks in more detail. the exchange amongst counsel and the court suggests there was a preliminary radiology report that was faxed to defense counsel indicjaw was, in fact, fractured. defense counsel and the prosecutor discussed the report at a adequately lay a foundation for the admissibility of the rep 5 [the prosecutor] is aware of that she received that . . . clearly shows he suffered a courtroom and instru . . . that i want you to disregard and ignore. [] do not give any consideration to [the . . . did not produce medical evidence to confirm that he was injur 2. the absence of prejudice prosecutor commits misconduct when his or her conduct either infects the trial with such unfairness as to render the subsequent conviction a denial of due process, or involves people v. nunez & satele (2013) 57 cal.4th 1, 31.) although the prosecutor did not engage in a pattern of misconduct, the trial court found the prosecutor should not have made the argument that there was a lack of evidence appellant fractured his jaw. even if we were to assume the prosecutor committed misconduct, prejudice is lacking under either the state law, i.e., an evaluation of whether there is a reasonable probability the result of the trial would have been different absent the comments (see people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 (watson)) or the federal constitution, i.e., an analysis of whether the comments were harmless beyond a reasonable doubt (see chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24). regarding the absence of medical records. immediately prior to the arguments of counsel, the trial court instructed the jury that nothing the attorneys say, including remarks made during argument, is evidence. we presume the jury followed the admonishment (people v. mickey (people v. boyette (2002) 29 cal.4th 381, 436). these presumptions were not rebutted. 6 to his defense that he accidently hit lamar while attempting to leave the gas station. depicted in the video irrespective of whether his jaw was injured or actually broken. ases that the court, when acting promptly and speaking clearly and directly on the subject, cannot, by instructing the jury to disregard such matters, correct the impropriety of the act of counsel and remove any effect his conduct or remarks would otherwis(people v. fitzgerald (1972) 29 cal.app.3d 296, 312were not prejudicial to the defense. b. the absence of a supplemental probation report sentencing proceedings that occur a significant period of time after the original report initial probation report was prepared approximately one year prior to the sentencing order a supplemental report but find the error to be harmless under watson. when a trial court errs by failing to order a supplemental probation report, we may only remand for resentencing if it is reasonably probable the defendant would receive a more favorable sentence in the absence of the error. (people v. dobbins (2005) 127 cal.app.4th 176, 182.) we conclude there is no reasonable probability the sentence would have been any different if a supplemental report had been prepared. the trial court conducted a lengthy sentencing hearing, allowing several people to the prosecutor indicated lamar was too angry to address the court at sentencing but that lamar had a 12-year- 7 the facts that appellant was on probation for two misdemeanors when he committed the case, listened to what was said in court and had reviewed the sentencing prosecution argued for the imposition of the high term and appellant argued for a grant of probation, the court selected the middle term of three years for the assault plus the requisite three years for inflicting great bodily injury. was minimal. but, it recommended a state prison sentence based on the violent act the passage of time and were, in fact, the same considerations cited by the trial court in reaching its decision regarding the appropriate sentence. appellant argues his circumstances changed since the first report was made in that he was acquitted of attempted murder and, for one year, he behaved himself in county jail. however, the court was well aware of these changes as it had presided over the trial -page single-spaced letter that not only explained his life and expressed remorse but also (a) identified the classes he took and the certifications he received while in jail and (b) program. nothing in the record suggests the trial court ignored these factorsindeed, by rson, the record reflects quite the opposite is true. already thoughtful consideration of the panoply of circumstances pertaining to appellant and the nature of his offenses. the error in failing to obtain one was harmless. 8 1. denial of probation because the jury determined appellant inflicted great bodily injury on lamar, appellant could not be granted probation unless the trial court found his case was one of granted probation . . . to determine whether a defendant is suitable for probation. [citation.] the determination [citation.] an appellant bears a heavy burden when attempting to show an abuse of such discretion. [citation.] to establish abuse, the defendant must show that, under all the circumstances, the denial of probation was arbitrary, capricious or exceeded the bounds people v. bradley (2012) 208 cal.app.4th 64, 89.) california rules of court, rule 4.413(c) provides a list of factors that may indicate the case is an unusual case warranting a probationary grant. appellant claims the trial 4.413, the existence of any of the listed facts does not necessarily establish an unusual case; rather, may indicate the existence of an unusual people v. stuart (2007) 156 cal.app.4th 165, 178.) in any event, the absence of a record demonstrating consideration of the factors in rule 4.413 may be explained by the facts that those circumstances were not applicable to the great bodily injury suffered by lamar was certainly not less serious than that typical for assault cases. (cal. rules of court, rule 4.413(c)(1)(a).) on probation. (cal. rules of court, rule 4.413(c)(1)(b).) there was inadequate evidence 9 appellant was provoked into committing the crime as the jury rejected his position that he accidently struck lamar as he was exiting the parking lot in fear for his life. (cal. rules of court, rule 4.413(c)(2)(a).) there was no evidence appellant was suffering from a mental condition. (cal. rules of court, rule 4.413(c)(2)(b).) appellant was not if anything made this case unusual, it was the severity of the injury suffered as a result of the assault. this did not weigh in favor of probation. the sentencing hearing history agremorse. the decision was far from arbitrary or capricious. there was no abuse of discretion. 2. the middle term d of time warranted was improperly denied. we reject the claim for two reasons. first, it is not adequately developed. (interinsurance exchange v. collins (1994) 30 cal.app.4th 1445, 1448 dills v. redwoods associates, ltd. (1994) 28 cal.app.4th cal. rules of court, rule 8.204(a)(1)(b) [each point in a brief must be supported by second, like the decision to grant or deny probation, the selection of the determinate term from a sentencing triad is reviewed for an abuse of discretion. (see 10 people v. sandoval (2007) 41 cal.4th 825, 847.) reversal is allowed only if there is a clear showing the sentence is arbitrary or irrational. (ibid.) based on the previously identified myriad of factors considered by the trial court, the decision to impose the pirit people v. sandoval, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 847.) there was no abuse of discretion in imposing the middle term. iii. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports kumar, j.* we concur: turner, p. j. kriegler, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 