filed 9/8/14 p. v. cervantes ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. michael anthony cervantes, defendant and appellant. b244992 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba377894) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. james n. bianco, judge. affirmed. orly ahrony and christopher w. blaylock for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters and mary sanchez, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________ 2 introduction a jury convicted michael anthony cervantes of attempted robbery, carjacking, related gang and firearm allegations. the trial court sentenced cervantes to state prison for a term of 15 years to life plus 10 years. cervantes appeals, challenging the sufficiency of factual and procedural summary september 19, 2010.1 at about 3:20 a.m. on september 19, 2010, cesar bugarin was leaving work in his red 2003 dodge ram truck when a silver avalanche with four passengers inside pulled up in front of bugarin and blocked his path. two bald hispanic males between the ages of 17 and 19 wearing big loose shirts got out of the avalanche and approached bugarin. based on their appearance, bugarin believed they were gang members. one pointed a september 24, 2010. at about 8:30 a.m. on september 24, 2010, christopher hall was listening to music on his ipod while sitting at a bus stop in front of the animal hospital where his cousin worked. a red dodge ram truck with two male hispanic teenagers inside pulled up beside hall. cervantesthe driverwore an atlanta braves baseball cap with an 1 at trial, cervantes was acquitted of robbery and carjacking counts relating to these events involving bugarin (counts 7 and 8), but because these facts are relevant to a subsequent crime for which cervantes was convicted (joyriding, count 4), we briefly summarize them here. 3 2 passenger had trouble getting out of the truck for some reason so hall was able to run to the animal hospital. a woman inside the animal hospital (veronica aparicio) heard the commotion, around the block. as she spoke with the 9-1-1 operator to report what had happened, one i know where you work at[, september 25, 2010. the following day, at about 11:50 a.m., michael murillo and his two friends juan went inside his house to grab a screwdriver, but as he walked back out, he saw two hispanic males with guns had approached cazares and gomez and were asking where they were from, which they understood to mean a request for their gang affiliation. they 3 -and his friends to empty their pockets. that man and the other one with a revolver then tol 2 on september 30, 2010, when a police officer showed hall a six-pack photographic lineup, hall identified cervantes as the driver of the truck. at trial (two years later), he initially testified cervantes was the passenger but then acknowledged his memory of the incident was better on september 30, 2010 than at the time of trial. 3 at trial, cazares and gomez explained highland park and avenues are rival gangs 4 his face. the same gunman directed murillo and his friends to put the speakers in the and drove off. murillo called 9-1-1 (twice), and two officers arrived at his home about 40 minutes later. murillo told officer gabriel rivas and his partner the person with the september 27, 2010. at about 1:20 a.m. on september 27, 2010, los angeles police department officers fernando salcedo and francisco serrano were on patrol when a red dodge truck dodge truck tait was the same truck (belonging to cesar bugarin) involved in the prior carjacking. officer serrano requested additional units to assist with a traffic stop while officer salcedo drove, following the red truck. after a few blocks, the red truck sped up and then turned onto a smaller street where it stopped at an angle, blocking all traffic. cervantes and a female passenger jumped out of the truck and ran in different directions. cervantes looked directly at officer serrano. the female passenger was found hiding in a yard nearby and taken into custody, but the officers were unable to find cervantes that night. ecovered a cervantes was later taken into custody and charged with the following crimes: count 1, the attempted robbery of christopher hall on september 24, 2010 (pen. code,  5 664 & 211 [all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code]); count 2, the carjacking of michael murillo on september 25, 2010 ( 215, subd. (a)); count 4, dodge ram truck on september 27, 2010 (veh. code,  10851, subd. (a)); and count 5, the second degree robbery of michael murillo on september 25, 2010 ( 211).4 except as to counts 2 and 4, it was further alleged cervantes had committed all of the offenses for the benefit of a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)); that cervantes personally used a firearm during the commission of count 2 ( 12022.53, subd. (b)) and count 6 ( 12022.53, subd. (b), 12022.5, subds. (a) & (d)) and that a principal personally used a firearm in the commission of counts 2 and 5 through 8 ( 12022.53, subds. (b) & (e)(1)). two 9-1-1 calls were played for the jury. los angeles police department officer juan aguilar, assigned to the gang enforcement detail in northeast division, testified regarding his investigation of the crimes involving bugarin, hall and murillo, gomez and cazares. on october 4, 2010, about a week after the crimes involving murillo, officer -pack photographic lineup and asked murillo whether he saw one of the men who had pointed a gun at him and his friends in the lineup. murillo grabbed it, pointed to cerv 4 cervantes was also charged with exhibiting a deadly weapon to a peace officer to resist arrest (count 3,  417.8); and assault with a firearm on a peace officer (count 6,  245, subd. (d)(1)), relating to events before he was taken into custody on november 7, 2010; in addition, he was charged with the september 24, 2010 robbery (count 7,  211) and carjacking (count 8,  215, subd. (a)) of cesar bugarin. however, at trial, the jury found cervantes not guilty of counts 3, 7 and 8, and the trial court dismissed count 6 in the interest of justice ( 1385). 6 said he was afraid for his safety and the safety of his family. friend) a six- . . . . [w]ell[,] it looks like this guy, but . . . 5 officer aguilar was unable to interview cazares because cazares had provided at the time of the initial investigation, he had given the police the information on his identification, but he had already moved from that address at the time of the events at officer aguilar testified he had known cervantes for five or six years and had interacted with him about 20 times. cervantes had told aguilar he (cervantes) was an avenues gang mechanged their monikers. he also testified that in his 8- to 10-with avenues ganremained an active avenues gang member. based on a hypothetical tracking the evidence presented to the jury, officer aguilar opined the attempted robbery, robberies, carjackings and joyriding were committed for the benefit of, in association with or at the direction of the avenues gang members. he testified avenues gang members would often steal cars in order to commit 5 7 other crimes without being detected and commit robberies so the gang is more feared in the community, enabling them to commit further crimes without being reported. percent . . . [because] at some point the intimidation factor takes [e]ffect . . . the fear of them being victims of another crime [--] being shot and prison at the time of trial) was a member. he had cervantes testified he had gotten all of his gang tattoos at once, when he was 17, late 2009 when he had a baby girl so he was no longer active in the gang at the time of the 2010 crimes with which he was charged. he said he got shot in 2009 when he told and denied involvement in any crimes after 2009, he acknowledged on cross-examination trying to take that vehicle on may 19, 2010four months before the crime involving bugarin and his truck. cervantes denied involvement in the carjacking involving bugarin; he said he was of his friends brought the truck to him a few days later, saying someone had left the keys in it, and others had driven the truck too. cervantes admitted he had taken pictures in the truck and knew it was stolen. 8 he denied involvement in the attempted robbery of hall as well as the carjacking and robbery of murillo. property were taken at about 3:20 a.m. on september 19, 2010.) lopez testified cervantes spent the night in his room at her house that night and never left. asked have to be behind him. . . . granddaughter, and ce the jury found cervantes guilty as charged in counts 1 (attempted robbery of (robbery of murillo).6 the trial court sentenced cervantes to state prison as follows: on count 2 (carjacking (involving murillo);  215, subd. (a)), a term of 15 years to life, plus 10 years for personal firearm use ( 12022.53, subd. (b)); count 1 (attempted robbery (hall);  664 & 211), a concurrent term of 12 years, comprised of the 2-year midterm for attempted robbery plus 10 years for the related gang finding; count 4 (unlawful driving or -year midterm; and count 5 (robbery (of murillo);  211), a 23-year term comprised of the 3-year midterm for 6 the jury found cervantes not guilty of count 3 (exhibiting a deadly weapon to a peace officer to resist arrest), 7 (robbery of bugarin) and 8 (carjacking of bugarin). at justice ( 1385). 9 robbery plus 10 years each for the related gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)) and firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (b)) findings, stayed pursuant to section 654. cervantes appeals. discussion s convictions for the carjacking and robbery of michael murillo. beyond a reasonable doubt for the crimes committed against m first, as cervantes acknowledges, in considering his challenge to the sufficiency we review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt.people v. jones (2013) 57 cal.4th 899, 960, quoting people v. abilez (2007) 41 cal.4th 472, 504, further citations omitted.) mainly on circumstantial evidence. [citation.] acquit a defendant if it finds that circumstantial evidence is susceptible of two interpretations, one of which suggests guilt and the other innocence [citations], it is the jury, not the appellate court which muss guilt beyond a rcumstances reasos findings, the opinion of the reviewing court that the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding does not warra [citation.] crime and to prove his guil (people v. jones, supra, 57 cal.4th at pp. 960-961, quoting people v. abilez, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 504.) that upon no hypothesis whatever is there sufficient substantial evidenpeople v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 331.) 10 a carjacking conviction requires proof that (1) the defendant took a vehicle that was not his or hers (2) from the immediate presence of a person who possessed the vehicle or was a passenger in the s will (4) by using force or fear and (5) with the intent of temporarily or permanently depriving the person of possession of the vehicle.people v. magallanes (2009) 173 cal.app.4th 529, 534, citing  215, subd. (a); people v. hill (2000) 23 cal.4th 853, 858859.) citing people v. coleman (2007) 146 cal.app.4th 1363, 1365, but conceding that it is not on point (as he says the carjacking conviction was reversed in that case because s not a proper identification, or not entified cervantes on the day of the crimes against him. both murillo and gomez spoke on the calls to 9-1-1 on september 25, 2010. when murillo spoke with officer rivas about 40 minutes after calling 9-1-1 to report what had occurred that day (september 25, 2010), he said he -also heard, murillo refused to fill out the form regarding his identification, expressing his tated he did not want to go to court, murillo also aguilar also testified that murillo had told him that people had come to his house, and he (murillo) was afraid they woul when gomez first viewed the six-pack lineup, he expressed his certainty that the other five men were not involved, then indicated had testified his brother was a highland park 11 gang member . . . the jury also heard that although murillo and gomez had been subpoenaed to information he knew was no longer up to date and when he was located and called upon to testify, he volunteered that he did not remember anything before the prosecutor even asked her first question. in people v. cuevas (1995) 12 cal.4th 252, many varied circumstances . . . may attend an out-of-court identification and affect its probative value. these circumstances include, for example: (1) the identifying witns prior familiarity with the defendant; (2) the witns opportunity to observe the perpetrator during the commission of the crime; (3) whether the witness has a motive to falsely implicate the defendant; and (4) the level of detail given by the witness in the out-of-court identification and any accompanying description of the crime.id. at p. 267, citation omitted.) the jury received calcrim no. 315 so they received express instructions regarding the factors to be considered in evaluating eyewitness testimony, including whether, for example, the eyewitness knew or had contact with the defendant before the crimes occurred. evidence of these circumstances can bolster the probative value of the out-of-court identification by corroborating both that the witness actually made the out-of-court identification (e.g., testimony by the police officer or other person to whom the statement was made) and that the identification was reliable (e.g., evidence that the witness was present at the scene of the crime and in a position to observe the perpetrator, evidence that the witness had a prior familiarity with the defendant, or evidence that the witness had no self-serving motive to implicate the defendant).(people v. cuevas, supra, 12 cal.4th at p. 267.) 12 -whole. the jury heard testimony that cervantes was not a stranger to murillo at the time of thbrother and was certain of his identification at the time of the crimes because he immediately recognized cervantes based on this prior knowledge. although murillo attempted at trial to deny and distance himself from his prior identification(s) of cervantes (people v. jackson deviates testimony regarding the fear murillo, gomez and cazares all exhibited in coming to court s home, one of the gunmen said he knew a highland park member (avenues) as a highland park rival in the neighborhood. the jury had the opportunity to assescazares all tried to claim at trial they could not identify cervantes, the jury heard both police officerstimony. their efforts not to identify cervantes when it came time to testify at trial cannot be viewed in isolation, and it was up to the jury to determine the truth notwithstanding the is the exclusive province of the trier of fact to determine credibility and the truth or falsity of the facts people v. allen (1985) 165 cal.app.3d 616, 623.) on this record, the jury could reasonably conclude that murillo knew cervantes to be one of the gunmen involved in the carjacking and robberyas evidenced by his unequivocal identifications initially provided to the police on more than one occasionand gomez did not hesitate to eliminate the five other photographs in the six-pack lineup he was shown and acknowledged that one of the gunmen looked like the photograph of 13 cervantes, but when it was time to testify against cervantes at trial, murillo (as well as his friends gomez and cazares) were too afraid to identify cervantes in court.7 (people v. lindbergh (2008) 45 cal.4th 1, 27.) it follows that substantial evidence lating to murillo and his honda accord. (people v. bolin, supra, 18 cal.4th at p. 331 [reversal is unwarranted people v. allen, supra, 165 cal.app.3d at p. 623 cervantes forfeited his claim of error in the admission of testimony regarding when he viewed the photographic lineup. cervantes also contends initial statement about the six-pack photographic lineup he was shown shortly after the crimes.8 we agree with the attorney general that cervantes forfeited this claim by failing to raise such an objection in the trial court. cervantes says he did so, but we have reviewed the transcript, and he is incorrect. in the cited passage, the prosecutor had shown gomez the six-pack lineup. during questioning, gomez acknowledged that he had written the statement . . . signature written below the statement he wrote when he was originally asked whether he 7 testifying against cervantes at trial. 8 es relating to the murillo incident should have because he has failed to provide legal argument or citations to the record in support of discussion to the challenged testimony from gomez. 14 testified he had not circled cervante; he said officer aguilar had. gomez testified he had not recognized anyone in the lineup, and he had only written the statement because officer aguilar told him to do so. never seen this guy before, but it kind of looks like him. does that make sense, mr. gomez, you never seen it [sic, him] before, but he kinda looks like him. statement regarding the photographic lineup on the ground officer aguilar had obtained this prior statement from gomez through coercion. people v. kennedy (2005) 36 cal.4th 595, 612, disapproved on another ground in people v. williams (2010) 49 cal.4th 405, 459.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. woods, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. zelon, j. 