filed 7/25/14 p. v. luna ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. nestor luna et al., defendants and appellants. b244722 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta119342) appeal from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, arthur m. lew and paul a. bacigalupo, judges. ffirmed. domingo valerie g. wass, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant nestor luna. randy s. kravis, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant domingo pena. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii, supervising deputy attorney general, marc kohm, steve mercer, and william h. shin deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction defendants and appellants nestor luna (luna) and domingo pena (pena) were first degree murder. (pen. code, 187, subd. (a)1.) ( 187, subd. (a)), found true personal and principal firearm use and discharge allegations ( 12022.53, subds. (b), (c), (d), & (e)(1)), and found true the allegation that pena committed the murder for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in criminal conduct by gang members ( 186.22, (b)(1)(c)). the trial court sentenced luna to 25 years to life and pena to 50 years to life in state prison. on appeal, defendants contend the trial court violated their right to confront a testimony; and the trial court erred in failing to instruct their respective juries on the lesser included offense of voluntary manslaughter based on a sudden quarrel or heat of passion. luna also contends that his first degree murder conviction is not supported by sufficient evidence; the trial court erred in allowing his jury to deliberate before it answered a jury question; the trial court violated his right to due process by failing to instruct his jury sua sponte that the prosecution had to prove the absence of heat of passion as an element of murder; and the trial court abused its discretion in denying his motion to reduce his conviction to voluntary manslaughter or, alternatively, in failing to reduce his conviction from first to second degree murder because his sentence of 25 years to life was cruel and unusual punishment. pena also contends that the trial court erred in refusing his request to instruct his jury with calcrim no. 522 that provocation may reduce murder from first degree to second degree; in instructing his jury with calcrim no. 371 on consciousness of guilt; and in awarding him one day too few of actual custody credit. to the extent that they benefit pena 1 all statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 3 preliminary hearing testimony violated his right to confrontation; the trial court erred in failing to instruct the jury on the lesser included offense of voluntary manslaughter based on heat of passion; and the trial court erred in failing to instruct the jury sua sponte that the prosecution had to prove the absence of heat of passion. an award of 428 days of actual custody credit, and otherwise affirm his judgment. background i. evidence presented to both juries in february 2010, luna and his brother juan pablo luna (juan pablo)2 lived in their girlfriend, lived with the luna family. there were three houses on the property at 1815 east 109th streeta house closest to the street, a middle house, and a back house. the luna family lived in the house closest to the street. maria peralta and wendy reyes lived in the middle house. l (irma), her sister, silvia guizar (silvia),3 and viviana jimenez4 lived in the back house. 5 uncle, worked as an armed security guard. peralta was good friends with juan pablo and got along with luna. peralta visited juan pablo often and sometimes slept maria peralta said that her uncle i.e., become aggressivewhen he was drunk. people did not take 2 because luna and juan pablo share a last name, we will refer to defendant by his last name and juan pablo by his first and middle names. 3 because irma and silvia guizar share a last name, we will refer to each by her first name. 4 l court found that the prosecution had exercised due diligence to secure her presence at trial. 5 because maria peralta shares a last name with jesus peralta and a first name with maria toro, we will refer to her by her full name. 4 peralta seriously when he flipped outhe according to maria peralta, her uncle although luna and peralta got along, there were times when they had conflicts. would throw out peralta when peralta was out of control. one time, peralta poured a beer on luna and tried to force him out of his seat by pulling him by a chain around his neck. luna pulled a gun, an incident about which peralta told welcome. that incident also caused bad feelings between pena and peralta. on december 12, 2009, peralta was at the 1815 east 109th street property. augustin tried to stop the argument because luna was a minor and peralta was older than luna. maria peralta tried to get her uncle to leave. peralta did not want to leave. he wanted to wait for pena, who was still at work, so he could fight him. as peralta argued with augustin, luna retrieved a gun, pointed it at peralta, and told him to leave. about three weeks prior to the shooting, in january 2010, peralta and pena had a disagreement of some kind and pushed each other. according to reyes, who witnessed the disagreement, they were engaged in a heated exchange. when they were about to fight, stepped in and asked pena to leave. apparently describing the same incident, maria peralta testified that the altercation went beyond just pushing, with her uncle and pena punching each other. after someone broke up the fight, peralta and pena both left. during the late afternoon or early evening on february 20, 2010, silvia was at a family party luna who said that he and pena would pick her up. at approximately 7:00 p.m. or 8:00 p.m., luna and pena arrived at the party mry. pena was driving. after silvia got into the car, either pena or luna asked her to buy bullets for them because they did not have identification and toro did not want to buy the bullets for them. silvia agreed to do so. pena drove to a big five store. pena and luna told silvia 5 to buy one box of .45-caliber bullets. pena gave silvia the money to pay for the bullets. pena, luna, and silvia entered the store, and silvia purchased a box of .45-caliber bullets. they then drove to silvia after they arrived at silviasilvia left to buy beer and cigarettes. when she returned, she saw luna pull a .45-caliber gun from his waistband area and load its clip with the bullets she had purchased. when luna finished loading the clip, he gave it to penaluna also was armed with a .40-caliber gun. that night, the maravilla family was having a birthday party and family reunion. the maravilla family lived near the intersection of 92nd street and graham avenue. manuel maravilla (maravilla) and augustin, who was related to the maravilla family by marriage, were present at the party. at some point that night, augustin. pena put the call on speaker. silvia heard augustin say that peralta was at augustin and that pena should augustin all right, and hung up. at some point pena and luna left the house. silvia acknowledged that she told los angeles police department detective mark hahn that augustin y come over here, [peralta] is over here. come she also acknowledged that she told detective hahn that augustin jimenez home from the party at her () house. while irma, silvia, and jimenez were at the house, silvia answered a call from luna . silvia put the call on speaker. silvia heard guys laughing and recognized the voices of augustin, luna, and pena. luna told silvia to stay on the phone. silvia heard peralta tell pena to not do anything because he was his brother and pena said, ,and luna saidthen, silvia heard five gunshots. next, silvia heard sounds that indicated to her that pena and luna were driving in a car, and 6 she heard pena tell luna to slow down because he was driving too fast. pena and luna returned to silvia around 9:30 p.m. on february 20, 2010, shaqwetta turner was at baby shower at an apartment complex near 9226 south graham avenue in los angeles. she heard several gunshots and went out to the balcony to check on her two young children who were downstairs. turner heard an additional shot and saw a man shoot peralta from a distance of three and a half to four feet. she saw two persons in hoodies, one of whom was armed with a black gun. the person with the black gun shot peralta. after peralta was shot, the two persons ran away. turner called 911. carolyn williams lived in an apartment building at 9226 south graham avenue. about 9:30 p.m., she was outside of her building when she heard voices that sounded as if they might be arguing. she saw three persons across the street walking down the sidewalkmaravilla, peralta, and a third person. williams heard a gunshot and saw the person other than maravilla fire a shot at peralta. peralta ran and the shooter followed. the shooter fired additional shots. after the shooting, the shooter got into a red or burgundy car and drove away, turning on 92nd street. there was another person in the car. evelyn mejia also lived in the apartment building at 9226 south graham avenue. she heard three to four gunshots and dropped to the floor. when the shooting stopped, she looked out her window and saw a man running to a red car. mejia identified pena in a six-pack photographic lineup as the man she saw running to the car. a peralta suffered three gunshot woundstwo to his back, and one to his head. one of the gunshot wounds to his back was fatal. that another shot was fired at peralta that did not hit him, but only hit his clothes. when pena and luna returned to silviaoff. jimenez heard pena say to luna that he did not regret shooting peralta and he would do it again if necessary. pena asked jimenez to show him how to cross the border to 7 silvia, who was planning to visit her grand,them. that night, pena made arrangements for his brother to drive him, luna, silvia, and jimenez part of the way to . during part of the trip, pena told his brother that he had a problem with someone who wanted to kill him, and he shot and killed that person. at a gas station near the 91 freeway in los angeles and drove them to a restaurant near the border with tijuana, mexico. pena, luna, silvia, and jimenez crossed the border into tijuana. jimenez returned home after about two weeks, and luna and silvia returned home after about three weeks. when irma next saw luna, about one month after the shooting, he told her that he was the shooter. because luna always lied, she did not believe him. pena took a leave of absence from his work at liberty glass in corona from february 19, 2010, his last day of work, to april 15, 2010. on june 10, 2010, detective hahn went to liberty glass. pena was a suspect and detective hahn had information that pena was working at liberty glass. that same day, pena quit his job at liberty glass, stating that he had an emergency and needed to leave the country. body was searched at the scene, and no weapons were found on him. a car registered to ii. silvia testified that luna and pena returned to her home after she heard five gunshots on her cell phone. once there, pena said to her, detective hahn testified that pena was a member of the watts varrio grape street gang. ommitted for the benefit of the watts varrio grape gang. 8 detective hahn and his partner interviewed pena when pena was arrested. pena said that he drove burgundy toyota camry. after initially denying that he knew peralta, pena said that they had been that they were not getting along prior to the shooting. pena related examples of prior conflict, including an incident during which pena struck peralta, causing peralta to fall to the ground. in that incident, pena thought that peralta, who was a security guard, was reaching for a gun. peralta left and came back, saying that he was going to get pena. peralta pulled out a .9 millimeter handgun with which he begana told the officers that he had heard that peralta wanted to kill him. pena said that augustin, a grape street gang member, called him and told him to go to the party on graham avenue and that peralta was going to be there. augustin and peralta did not get along. pena had his phone on speaker, and augustin spoke to pena and luna. according to pena, peralta was not a grape street member. when peralta was drunk, he claimed that he was a member of the east coast crips. the and his partner interviewed pena again. a video recording of the interview was played for the jury. pena said that he and augustin called. pena put the call on speaker. augustin said to went to his house at the front of the property. luna returned with .40- and .45-caliber guns. luna loaded one of the guns. pena initially picked up the .40-caliber gun, but then put it down. according to pena, luna always carried the .45-caliber gun. pena said that luna drove them to graham street in a toyota camry. peralta arrived about 30 minutes later. when peralta got out of his car, people at the party expressed their belief that there would be a fight between peralta and pena. peralta shook to push augustin and maravilla tried to get pena to fight with peralta. pena walked to his car. pena heard 9 five or six gunshots. he turned and saw that luna had shot peralta. peralta tried to run to his car. luna chased after him and continued to shoot. peralta fell to the ground. pena and luna left the scene. pena drove . had been informed of the shooting by the time pena and luna arriv and that he had just pena, luna, silviawhen they reached a hotel in silvia and her friend that he had shot peralta. toro of the guns. , and luna remained three or four months. pena did not come forward and tell the police what had happened because he was afraid. iii. evidence presented on silvia between peralta and luna or pena. there was an incident between november 2009, and february 2010, when luna and peralta were at a gathering outside silviahouse when peralta, who was drunk, on a couch by pulling luna off the couch by his chain. na. on august 17, 2011, luna was arrested. luna was taken to a police station where detective hahn and his partner interviewed him. a video recording of the interview was played for the jury. luna told the detectives that he always got along with peralta and did not have a problem with him. they never had an argument or a fight. he did not know what happened to peralta. he denied that he was friends with pena. luna denied that he or involved in the shooting. luna also denied that he had ever touched or loaded a .45, or that he had loaded bullets into a magazine or clip. said he had left by the time of the shooting. luna said that he went to tijuana right after the shooting because irma invited him; he did not know that peralta had been killed. when 10 to mean that he shot somebody. luna returned home the next day. detective hahn played for luna a video recording of pena in which pena said that ot present when peralta was shot. he was told that pena shot peralta. as the interview was ending, luna asked where pena was at that moment. detective hahn told luna that he would not so i could beat the luna hat motherfucker should take responsibility for his own a video recording of a second interview of luna was played for the jury. luna said that he was at the maravilla house for a family get together. at some point, peralta and pena arrived and started arguing in the middle of the street. peralta and pena pointed at and pushed each other as if they were about to fight. peralta tried to hit pena, and pena grabbed peralta and shot him. peralta tried to run, and pena kept shooting at him. pena ran away. luna heard about eight shots. o over to the supposed to wait for luna and take him home, but she left. luna spent the night and returned home the next day. iv. defense pena, who was 31 years old at the time of trial, testified that he joined the grape street gang when he was 14 years old and left the gang when he was 24 years old. pena testified that he and peralta peralta became morbad words to pena. pena punched peralta, 11 knocking him to the floor. property. peralta told pena to come outside and that he was going to kill pena. waiting for pena. the call made pena nervous. pena heard from others about threats from peralta that he pena did not go to the police and report that he was afraid when pena and luna went to the party at the maravilla residence, peralta argued with luna. pena told peralta, who appeared to be drunk, to leave luna alone. augustin, who also was present, told luna to go to the car. pena and luna began walking to their car. peralta followed, screaming. peralta grabbed pena and threw him against a fence. peralta was on top of pena and pena could not push peralta off. peralta called pena a ntwice. peralta was in his work uniform, and pena thought that peralta was armed and was going to pull his gun and kill pena. the first shot hit peralta in the head, the second in nd. pena tried to get up, but peralta grabbed him again. pena thought that peralta was going to kill v. at the time of the shooting, luna was 15 years old and was in eighth grade. luna was friends with pena and peralta. when peralta drank a lot, he became violenthe luna never had any real problems with peralta. he denied there was an incident when peralta pulled on his chain or that he ever pulled a gun on peralta. the incident when peralta snatched seeds from his hand occurred four to five months prior to the shooting. according to luna, peralta was drunk and snatched sunflower seeds from his hand. juan pablo and pena tried to calm peralta. peralta called pena names and cursed at 12 him. peralta, who was armed with a gun, returned and called for pena to come outside. peralta remained outside for an hour or an hour and a half. pena stayed in the house. luna had seen peralta armed with a .9 millimeter gun many times. between the sunflower seed incident and shooting, peralta returned to the luna house on a number of occasions. luna did not harbor ill-will for peralta based on the incident, . luna was aware that there was bad blood between pena and peralta. on the night of the shooting, luna was hanging out with pena and silvia in the back house. luna did not go with pena and silvia to buy bullets. luna did not take a .45-caliber gun to silviaaugustin. augustin invited pena to a family gathering or party at the maravilla residence. luna did not hear his brother tell pena to come over to take care of some shit because peralta was there and to bring the .45. luna accompanied pena to the maravilla after they parked, and as luna approached the maravilla residence, peralta started screaming at luna and called him a bitch. peralta appeared to have been drinking and was very angry. pena pulled luna away, and augustin told luna to go to the car. luna walked to the car. at the car, luna saw peralta and pena exchange words. peralta then slammed pena into a view of the incident was obscured by parked cars. next, luna heard five gunshots and saw peralta fall. pena returned to the car. luna did not see pena with a gun. pena house. there, pena told luna that he shot peralta and asked luna to go with him to tijuana. later that night, luna, pena, silvia, and jimenez went to tijuana. luna went to there was never a plan for pena to kill peralta. luna denied that he did or said anything to encourage pena to shoot peralta, or that he loaded or provided pena with a gun on the night of the shooting. 13 luna denied that he shot peralta or that he told irma that he shot peralta. he admitted that he initially lied to detective hahn in the taped interview when he said the shooting had nothing to do with him. he lied because he was scared. r marijuana. discussion i. luna contends that his murder conviction must be reversed because there is on, he asserts, was based primarily on the largely uncorroborated testimony of silvia, an unreliable witness. a. standard of review conviction, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable d (people v. avila (2009) 46 cal.4th 680, 701.) fact that the trier of fact could reasonably deduce from the evidence. (people v. medina (2009) 46 cal.4th 913, 919.) insufficient evidence s verdict. (people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357.) (people v. ugalino (2009) 174 cal.app.4th 1060, 1064.) drawn from the circumstantial evidence. (people v. zamudio, supra, 43 cal.4th at pp. 357-358.) in determining whether substantial evidence supports 14 inferences contrary to (people v. little (2004) 115 cal.app.4th 766, 771, citing people v. jones (1990) 51 cal.3d 294, 314.) b. application of relevant principles luna contends that silvia testimony is insufficient evidence to support his murder conviction because it conflicted number of areas: pena testified that he owned and loaded the .45-caliber gun; he did not hear luna say, him to shoot peralta; and luna did not give him the gun, load the gun, drive the car, or shoot peralta. further, silvia testimony was untrustworthy because she admitted that she lied to the police during their investigation, she was drinking and smoking marijuana on the day of the shooting, she used a had been violent to her sister irma on two occasions, and she had a motive to implicate luna because she could have been considered an accomplice by her purchase of the .45-caliber bullets. moreover, luna contends, only jimenez corroborated silvia testimony that luna said that peralta was near a pole in his call to silvia that she put on speaker, and irma, who was also present for the speaker call, did not hear tell luna to slow down. in his argument, luna asks this court to resolve conflicts in the evidence adduced at trial and to make a determination about silviaas stated above, we do not reweigh the evidence, resolve conflicts in the evidence, draw in determining whether substantial evidence supports a conviction. (people v. little, supra, 115 cal.app.4th at p. 771, citing people v. jones, supra, 51 cal.3d at p. 314.) 15 ii. deliberations and verdict while a jury question was still pending before the trial court luna argues that the trial court violated section 1138 when it permitted the jury to continue deliberations and reach a verdict before it answered a jury question.6 because luna did not object in the trial court, he has forfeited review of this issue. a. background during jury deliberations, judge paul a. bacigalupo sat in for judge arthur m. lew, who presided over the trial. at 9:15 a.m. on august 10, 2012, the jury submitted the following question to judge bacigalupowith defendant domingo pena, w[of] the prosecutor nor defense counsel was present in the courtroomeach was represented by substitute counsel. judge bacigalupo stated that he had just spoken with trial prosecutor judge bacigalupo stated that it was difficult for him to answer the question as he was not the trflight instruction, and the defense lawyer was indicating that she believed the quoted language was coming specifically from the aiding and abetting instruction. neither of them had any direct discussion on how to answer it, to the extent neither could agree on input before answering the question. judge lew would be available that morning. the at 11:30 a.m., the jury informed the bailiff that it had reached a verdict and no longer needed an answer to its question. the parties were contacted and ordered to 6 respondent did not address this issue in its brief. luna contends that we should construe the omission as a concession of the merits of his argument. instead, we construe the omission as an oversight. 16 appear at 1:30 p.m. when the trial reconvened before judge bacigalupo, the trial prosecutor and defense counsel were represented by substitute counsel. judge bacigalupo asked the foreperson if the jury still needed a response to its question. the verdict. b. application of relevant principles section 1138 provides: after the jury have retired for deliberation, if there be any disagreement between them as to the testimony, or if they desire to be informed on any point of law arising in the case, they must require the officer to conduct them into court. upon being brought into court, the information required must be given in the presence of, or after notice to, the prosecuting attorney, and the defendant or his counsel, or after they have been called. a defendant may forfeit an objection to the courts response to a jury inquiry through counsels consent, or invitation or tacit approval of, that response. (see people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 1193 [36 cal.rptr.2d 235, 885 p.2d 1] [inasmuch as defendant both suggested and consented to the responses given by the court, the claim of error has been waived.]; people v. hughes (2002) 27 cal.4th 287, 402 [116 cal.rptr.2d 401, 39 p.3d 432] [claim of error was waived by defense counsels agreement with the trial court that informing the jury of the consequences of a deadlock would have been improper]; people v. bohana (2000) 84 cal.app.4th 360, 373 [100 cal.rptr.2d 845] [counsel invited and consented to failure to instruct on lesser offenses in response to jury inquiry]; people v. thoi (1989) 213 cal.app.3d 689, 698 [261 cal.rptr. 789] [error invited or waived, where counsel actively and vigorously lobbied against further instruction]; people v. kageler (1973) 32 cal.app.3d 738, 746 [108 cal.rptr. 235] [where clarification would have adversely affected defense, failure to object had possible tactical motive and could be viewed as ].) but this rule obviously cannot apply unless it appears that counsel was aware of the courts response at or before the time it was effected. tacit approval of the courts response, or lack of response, 17 may be found where the court makes clear its intended response and defense counsel, with ample opportunity to object, fails to do so. (see people v. boyette (2002) 29 cal.4th 381, 430 [127 cal.rptr.2d 544, 58 p.3d 391].) at its furthest reach the rule has been held to justify a forfeiture where defense counsel sat mute while the court provided a response later challenged on appeal. (people v. roldan (2005) 35 cal.4th 646, 729 [27 cal.rptr.3d 360, 110 p.3d 289], disapproved on another ground in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22.)people v. ross (2007) 155 cal.app.4th 1033, 1048.) substitute dduring the period before judge bacigalupo was able to confer with judge lew. substitute defense counsel did not object. when the jury returned its verdict and the foreperson informed the bailiff and judge bacigalupo that the jury did not need an answer to its question, substitute defense counsel again did not object. accordingly, lunclaim that the trial court violated section 1138 was forfeited by substitute defense people v. ross, supra, 155 cal.app.4th at p. 1048.) c. ineffective assistance of counsel luna argues that if this issue has been forfeited, then defense counsel7 provided ineffective assistance of counsel. luna contends that reasonably competent defense counsel question about whether lunarendering a verdict before receiving that answer. ineffective assistance is made on direct appeal, and the record does not show the reason for counsels challenged actions or omissions, the conviction 7 substitute trial and substitute defense counsel. 18 must be affirmed unless there could be no satisfactory explanation. (people v. anderson (2001) 25 cal.4th 543, 569.) ffective assistance in such a (people v. mendoza tello (1997) 15 cal.4th 264, 266-267.) the record on appeal does not reveal the reason why defense counsel failed to object to the jury continuing deliberations while judge bacigalupo waited to confer with judge lew. it may be that defense counsel did not object because section 1138 does not to stop jury deliberations while the court determines what definition or further explanation of a point of law is appropriate in response to a question it has exercised its discretion to answer [citation] people v. mccleod (1997) 55 cal.app.4th 1205, 1220.) defense counsel may not have objected when the jury informed the trial court that it had reached a verdict before judge bacigalupo answered its question because defense counsel believed that an objection was unnecessary as the jury had informed the bailiff and the trial court that it did not need an answer to its questionthat is, that the jury had resolved the question. there is no way of determining why defense counsel failed to object. accordingly, any claim of ineffective assistance with respect to the claimed deficiencies is better suited to a petition for writ of habeas corpus. (people v. anderson, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 569; people v. mendoza tello, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 267.) iii. defendants contend that the trial court violated their federal and state constitutional rights to confront a witness against them when it permitted the prosecution nce at trial. the trial court did not err. a. background at the trial in this case, the juries were sworn on july 19, 2012, and the first witness testified on july 20, 2012. on monday, july 30, 2012, the prosecutor informed 19 the trial court that detective hahn had personally served jimenez with a subpoena and home, home, the prosecutor requested, and the trial court issued, a $50,000 body attachment for jimenez. on july 31, 2012, the trial court held a due diligence hearing concerning the detective hahn testified that ohim that she did not have a phone number for jimenez and did not know where she was staying. on july 4, jimenez told detective hidentified the street the friend lived on, but she did not have the exact address and did not want to phone number jimenez did not want her friend to know she had been on july 5, detective hahn left a trial subpoena for jimenez at . the subpoena required jimenez to appear on july 10. previously, detective hahn had jimenez appeared and testified at the preliminary hearing. on july 6, detectives hahn and gutierrez met with jimenez at broadway and gage, where they personally served her with a copy of the trial subpoena. detective hahn explained to jimenez that she did not have to appear on july 10, but would be on call for the duration of the trial. jimenez said that she would be staying the trial ended. detective hahn told her that he would contact her there when she was needed. he said that he would let her know the day before she was needed in court. on july 23, detective hahn home to speak to jimenez. he located her outside of home. he reminded her that she was on call, that the case was proceeding in court, and that he would let her know when she was needed. 20 at noon on friday, july 27, detective roberto bourbois home to try to locate jimenez. morales told the detective that jimenez had not been home and that she did not know when she would be home. at 5:00 p.m. that evening, detective bourbois returned with detective hahn. morales told the detectives that jimenez had not been home after detective bodetective hahn left a business card that told jimenez that she would be picked up at 8:00 a.m. the following monday. when detective hahn arrived at the morales home on monday morning, july 30, jimenez was not there. morales told detective hahn that jimenez had been there on saturday, and that jimenez was aware of the business card he left indicating that she was needed for testimony on july 30. morales did not know where jimenez had gone. detective hahn waited for 45 minutes for jimenez to show up. he then drove around the neighborhood looking for her. he was unsuccessful. he contacted a fellow detective who conducted a computer search to determine if jimenez was in custody, if she had changed her address with the dmv or on her california i.d. card (which listed , or if she had recently had received a ticket or reported a crime. the computer search was unsuccessful. detective hahn had information from jimenez, obtained on july 6, that she had a boyfriend who lived in the area of 112th and compton avenue. at that time, jimenez did , but only the intersection where he lived. detective hahn did not later attempt to find out the exact address. detective hahn searched the area of 112th and compton avenue for jimenez without success. detective hahn also had information that jimenez pr home. he checked that location, but the residents said that jimenez no longer lived there. detective hahn had a cell phone number for jimenez that she had given him on july 6. the number, however, was no longer in service. detective hahn explained jimenez had said that her mother had obtained the phone from the government, she believed the phone had minutes on it, and she would attempt to charge it. about 6:10 p.m., after the trial court issued the body attachment order for jimenez, home. jimenez was not there, but morales 21 informed the detective that her daughter had been there between 2:00 and 3:00 p.m. that afternoon. morales said that jimenez had been made aware that she was needed in court. she said that she gave jimenez detective bo, which included his cell phone number. morales agreeable to call detective bourbois without about 7:40 a.m. on july 31, the morning of the due diligence hearing, detective bourbois called morales. morales said that jimenez had not come home and morales had not seen or spoken with jimenez since the previous day. an hour later, after searching for jimenez in neighborhood without success, detective bourbois and another detective spoke with morales. morales said that jimenez had not contacted her in the hour since detective bourbois earlier phone call. detective hahn conducted a computer search for his testimony at the due diligence hearing, detective hahn had not received information from morales that she had seen jimenez. detective hahn testified that he put jimenez on call even though he did not have a out to her in the past through her mother, she would call him, and she did not show an unwillingness to testify. the trial court ruled that the prosecution had used reasonable due diligence to testimony was read to the jury.8 b. standard of review when, as here, the facts concerning the prosecutions efforts to locate an absent witness s determination that the prosecutions failed efforts to locate [the] absent witness are sufficient to justify an 8 the prosecution did not read to the jury preliminary hearing testimony to which objections had been sustained. 22 exception to the defendants constitutionally guaranteed right of confrontation (people v. cromer (2001) 24 cal.4th 889, 901.) c. application of relevant principles the confrontation clauses of both the federal and state constitutions guarantee a criminal defendant the right to confront the prosecutions witnesses. (u.s. const., 6th amend.; cal. const. art. i,  15.) that right is not absolute, however. an exception exists when a witness is unavailable and, at a previous court proceeding against the same defendant, has given testimony that was subject to cross-examination. under federal constitutional law, such testimony is admissible if the prosecution shows it made a good-faith effort to obtain the presence of the witness at trial. (barber v. page (1968) 390 u.s. 719, 725 [88 s.ct. 1318, 1322, 20 l.ed.2d 255]; accord, ohio v. roberts (1980) 448 u.s. 56, 74 [100 s.ct. 2531, 2543, 65 l.ed.2d 597], overruled on other grounds by crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36.) california allows introduction of the witnesss prior recorded testimony if the prosecution has used reasonable diligence (often referred to as due diligence) in its unsuccessful efforts to locate the missing witness. (evid. code,  240, sub9 (people v. cromer, supra, 24 cal.4th at p. 892.) rconnotes persevering application, untiring efforts in good earnest, efforts of a substantial character. (people v. cromer, supra, 24 cal.4th at p. 904.) whether a prosecutor has exercised due diligence to secure a witnesss presence at trial depends on the facts of the case. (people v. sanders (1995) 11 cal.4th 475, 523.) we consider the totality . (ibid.) we take into consideration such factors as whether the prosecutor began the 9 evidence code section 240, subdivision (a)(5) provides that a declarant is bsent from the hearing and the proponent of his or her statement has exercised reasonable diligence but has been unable to procure his or her attendance by the courts process. 23 prosecutor had exercised reasonable diligence. (ibid.) the prosecution is not required to keep periodic tabs on every material witness in a criminal case . . . .also, the prosecution is not required, absent knowledge of a substantial risk that this important witness would flee, to take adequate preventative measures to stop the witness from disappearing. people v. wilson (2005) 36 cal.4th 309, 342.) nce at trial. prior to trial, the prosecution subpoenaed jimenez for the preliminary hearing by home. jimenez testified at the preliminary hearing, thus demonstrating her willingness to testify despite any reluctance. on july 5, personally served jimenez with a copy the next day and told her she would be on call until the end of the trial. jimenez told the detective that she would be staying at her jimenez that she was on call and she appeared to understand and agree to her on-call status. twice tried card informing her that she would be picked up at 8:00 a.m. on monday. when detective hahn went to the morales home on monday and determined that jimenez was not there, he first waited 45 minutes for her to show up and then began a search for her. he drove around neighborhood looking for jimenez, checked an old address jimenez neighborhood. he also caused another detective to perform a computer search for possible leads to detective hahn also checked a cell phone number jimenez had given him. home after court on monday. although jimenez was not there, detective hahn learned that morales had been in touch with jimenez and that jimenez had been made aware that she was needed in court. morales apparently agreed to call detective bourbois without e if 24 the next morning, detective bourbois called morales in an effort to find jimenez. he then conducted another search for jimenez in . another computer search was conducted. because jimenez was not a flight risk, she had given detective hahn the address where she would be staying during the trialher homethe place where detective hahn served her preliminary hearing subpoena, the prosecution launched a reasonable search for her after detective hahn allowed for a short period45 minuteshome, and the prosecution continued to search for her up to the time of the due diligence hearing, the trial court did not err in determining that the prosecution used due diligence to secure her presence at trial. (people v. sanders, supra, 11 cal.4th at p. 523.) and until she provided a valid address and phone number of the location where she was . she told detective hahn that she would be staying with her mother until the trial was over. pena claims that because jimenez was an important witness, the prosecution should have conducted a surveillance of her in the week before she was needed to testify or taken other, unidentified, steps to secure her presence at trial. call from the scene of the shooting was largely cumulative of silvia testimony about that call. the prosecution was not required to keep tabs on jimenez simply because she was a material witness in this case. (people v. wilson, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 342.) similarly, because there was no evidence that there enez would not appear, the prosecution was not required to take steps to prevent jimenez from disappearing. (ibid.) 25 iv. calcrim no. 570voluntary manslaughter based on a sudden quarrel or heat of passion defendants contend that the trial court erred in failing to instruct their respective juries with calcrim no. 57010 on voluntary manslaughter based on a sudden quarrel or heat of passion because substantial evidence supported the instruction. the trial court did not err. 10 unmodified, calcrim no. 570 provides: a killing that would otherwise be murder is reduced to voluntary manslaughter if the defendant killed someone because of a sudden quarrel or in the heat of passion. the defendant killed someone because of a sudden quarrel or in the heat of passion if: 1 the defendant was provoked; 2 as a result of the provocation, the defendant acted rashly and under the influence of intense emotion that obscured (his/her) reasoning or judgment; and 3 the provocation would have caused a person of average disposition to act rashly and without due deliberation, that is, from passion rather than from judgment. heat of passion does not require anger, rage, or any specific emotion. it can be any violent or intense emotion that causes a person to act without due deliberation and reflection. in order for heat of passion to reduce a murder to voluntary manslaughter, the defendant must have acted under the direct and immediate influence of provocation as i have defined it. while no specific type of provocation is required, slight or remote provocation is not sufficient. sufficient provocation may occur over a short or long period of time. it is not enough that the defendant simply was provoked. the defendant is not allowed to set up (his/her) own standard of conduct. you must decide whether the defendant was provoked and whether the provocation was sufficient. in deciding whether the provocation was sufficient, consider whether a person of average disposition, in the same situation and knowing the same facts, would have reacted from passion rather than from judgment. [if enough time passed between the provocation and the killing for a person of average disposition to cool off and regain his or her clear reasoning and judgment, then the killing is not reduced to voluntary manslaughter on this basis.] the people have the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant did not kill as the result of a sudden quarrel or in the heat of passion. if the people have not met this burden, you must find the defendant not guilty of murder. 26 a. background defendants requested the trial court to instruct their respective juries with calcrim no. 570 on voluntary manslaughter based on a sudden quarrel or heat of passion. the trial court denied request because pena testified that he shot peralta in self-defense, not because he was faced with a sudden quarrel or was in the heat of passion.11 it is unclear from the record whether the trial court instruct his jury with calcrim no. 570 or whether it granted his request but failed to so instruct his jury. in any event, the trial court did not instruct jury with calcrim no. 570. b. application of relevant principles s duty to instruct the jury not only on the crime with which the defendant is charged, but also on any lesser offense that is both included in the offense (people v. gutierrez (2009) 45 cal.4th 789, 826 [89 cal.rptr.3d 225, 200 p.3d 847]; see beck v. alabama (1980) 447 u.s. 625, 637 [65 l.ed.2d 392, 100 s.ct. 2382].) substantial evidence to support suc ([people v.] cole [(2004)] 33 cal.4th [1158,] 1215.) any evidence . . . no reasonable [persons] could . . . was committed. [citations.] (people v. cruz (2008) 44 cal.4th 636, 664 [80 cal.rptr.3d 126, 187 p.3d 970].) 11 the trial court instruct the jury with calcrim no. 570 and calcrim no. 522 522. in context, it is clear that the trial court alsrequest that the trial court instruct his jury with calcrim no. 522. 27 whether the court failed to instr (people v. avila (people v. castaneda (2011) 51 cal.4th 1292, 1327-1328.) ssion requires a showing of adequate provocation, which has both a subjective and an objective component. (people v. steele (2002) 27 cal.4th 1230, 1252 [120 cal.rptr.2d 432, 47 p.3d 225].) the defendant must actually and subjectively kill under the heat of passion, but the circumstances giving rise to the heat of passion are also viewed objectively to (id. at pp. 1252-1253 (people v. gonzales and solis (2011) 52 cal.4th 254, 301.) 1. pena augustin called pena and told him that he should come to the maravilla party because peralta was there and he (pena) should augustin advised speaker call from the maravilla party, peralta was heard telling pena to not do anything said he loved pena. pena responded, . this nigga,and five gunshots were fired. such by a person subjectively influenced by a sudden quarrel or heat of passion. (people v. steele, supra, 27 cal.4th at p. 1252.) pena testified that he interceded in the argument between peralta and luna at the maravilla party. peralta threw him against a fence and got on top of him. pena shot peralta twice because pena thought that peralta was armed and was going to pull his gun and kill pena. when peralta grabbed pena again, pena again thought that peralta was going to kill him, so he shot peralta twice more. that is, pena testified that he shot peralta in self-defense, which is not based on heat of passion. thus, conclusively negated the subjective component of the sudden 28 quarrel or heat of passion theory of voluntary manslaughteri.e., one who acts in self-defense does not actually and subjectively act under the heat of passion. (see people v. steele, supra, 27 cal.4th at p. 1252.) there was not substantial evidence from which a reasonable juror could have concluded that pena committed voluntary manslaughter based on a sudden quarrel or heat of passion and not murder. thus, thinstruct his jury with calcrim no. 570. (people v. castaneda, supra, 51 cal.4th at pp. 1327-1328; people v. gonzales and solis, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 301.) 2. luna luna contends that if we hold that there was sufficient evidence to support his murder conviction on an aiding and abetting theory (see part i, above), then there was substantial evidence that pena was provoked into shooting peralta and he (luna) was provoked into aiding and abetting pena. in support of this argument, luna recounts the history of conflict between peralta and pena and luna and the circumstances surrounding peralta started screaming at him and called him a bitch. peralta appeared to have been drinking and was very angry. pena and augustin interceded, and augustin told luna to go to the car. from his vantage point at the car, luna saw peralta and pena exchange words and peralta slam pena into a gate. luna did not see what happened next as his view of the incident was obscured by parked cars. luna denied that he did or said anything to encourage pena to shoot peralta. peralta and the component of sudden quarrel/heat of passion voluntary manslaughteri.e., the circumstances were sufficient to arouse the passion of the ordinarily reasonable man, there was no evidence from which a reasonable juror would have found the subjective componentthat either pena or luna actually and subjectively acted under the heat of passion in shooting peralta or in aiding and abetting in that shooting. luna effectively 29 he assisted pena in shooting peralta due to passion he felt as a result of altercation with peralta. rather, he denied that he did or said anything to encourage pena to shoot peralta. because there was not substantial evidence from which a reasonable juror could have concluded that luna committed voluntary manslaughter based on a sudden quarrel or heat of passion and not murder, the trial court did not err in failing to (people v. castaneda, supra, 51 cal.4th at pp. 1327-1328; people v. gonzales and solis, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 301.) moreover, with calcrim no. 570, they did not (see people v. mccoy (2001) 25 c guilt is determined by the combined acts of all the participants as well as that persons own mens rea. if that persons mens rea is more culpable than anothers, that persons guilt may be greater even if the other might be deemed the actual perpetrator.) c. harmless error even if the trial court had erred in failing to instruct the juries on sudden quarrel/heat of passion voluntary manslaughter, any such factual question posed by the omitted instruction was necessarily resolved adversely to the defendant under other, properly given instrucpeople v. sedeno (1974) 10 cal.3d 703, 721, disapproved on other grounds in people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 165.) the trial court instructed the juries with calcrim no. 521 on first degree murder. calcrim no. 521 told the juries, in part, that a decision to kill made rashly, by finding premeditated and deliberate, the jury necessarily decided that the shooting was not based on a sudden quarrel or a heat of passion. (people v. wharton murder, the jury necessarily found defendant premeditated and deliberated the killing. this state of mind, involving planning and deliberate action, is manifestly inconsistent 30 with having acted under the heat of passioneven if that state of mind was achieved after a considerable period of provocatory conductand clearly demonstrates that defendant was not prejudiced by ; people v. sedeno, supra, 10 cal.3d at p. 721.) v. calcrim no. 522provocation may reduce murder from first to second degree pena claims that the trial court erred in denying his request that it instruct his jury with calcrim no. 522 that provocation may reduce murder from first to second degree. the trial court did not err. pena requested the trial court to instruct his jury with calcrm no. 522 that provocation may reduce murder from first to second degree. the trial court denied the request, finding that pena testified he shot peralta in self-defense and not due to provocation. calcrim no. 522 provides: reduce a murder to manslaughter]. the weight and significance of the provocation, if any, are for you to decide. the provocation in deciding whether the crime was first or second degree murder. [also, consider the provocation in deciding whether the defendant committed murder or manslaughter.] first degree murder is an unlawful killing with malice aforethought, premeditation, and deliberation. (people v. chun (2009) 45 cal.4th 1172, 1181 [91 cal.rptr.3d 106, 203 p.3d 425].) malice may be express (intent to kill) or implied (intentional commission of life-threatening act with conscious disregard for life). (ibid.) second degree murder is an unlawful killing with malice, but without the elements of premeditation and deliberation which elevate the killing to first degree murder. (ibid.) 31 to reduce a murder to second degree murder, premeditation and deliberation may be negated by heat of passion arising from provocation. (people v. fitzpatrick (1992) 2 cal.app.4th 1285, 1295-1296 [3 cal.rptr.2d 808].) if the provocation would not cause an average person to experience deadly passion but it precludes the defendant from subjectively deliberating or premeditating, the crime is second degree murder. (ibid.)(people v. hernandez (2010) 183 cal.app.4th 1327, 1332.) the test of whether provocation or heat of passion can negate malice so as to mitigate murder to voluntary manslaughter is objective. [citations.] . . . the test of whether provocation or heat of passion can negate deliberation and premeditation so as to reduce first degree murder to second degree murder, on the other hand, is subjective. (people v. padilla (2002) 103 cal.app.4th 675, 678.) pena states that even if there was insufficient evidence to instruct on sudden quarrel/heat of passion voluntary manslaughter because the evidence did not show that a reasonable person objectively woulsubjectively was provoked into killing peralta, even if that provocation was not prior to the shooting could have been seen as the tipping point that cause pena to thus, pena contends, the jury could have rejected his testimony that he shot peralta in self-provoked him into shooting peralta. as pena states, the test for provocation is subjective. (people v. padilla, supra, 103 cal.app.4th at p. 678.) the only evidence concerning the believed peralta was going to kill himi.e., he shot peralta in self-defense and not in the heat of passion. there is no evidence that pena shot peralta due to any provocative act by peralta. adequate provocation as an element of voluntary manslaughter must be affirmatively demonstrated; it cannot be left to speculation.(people v. williams (1969) 71 cal.2d 614, 624.) passion voluntary manslaughter, any error in failing to instruct pena 32 degree murderi.e., that he murdered peralta with premeditation and deliberation. in so finding, the jury necessarily decided that the shooting was not based on provocation. (people v. earp (1999) 20 cal.4th 826, 886-887 [people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836-837 standard applies to a psee people v. sedeno, supra, 10 cal.3d 703, 721; people v. wharton, supra, 53 cal.3d at p. 572.) vi. constitutional right to a jury instruction that the prosecution had to prove the absence of heat of passion as an element of murder luna argues that the trial court violated his constitutional right to due process when it failed to instruct his jury, sua sponte, that the prosecution was required to prove beyond a reasonable doubt the absence of heat of passion as an element of murder. he contends that neither calcrim no. 52012 that a killing induced by heat of passion caused by adequate provocation would mean that the defendant had no maliceexpress or impliedand that therefor [he] could only be err. 12 the defendant is charged in count 1 with murder, in violation of penal code section 187. to prove that the defendant is guilty of this crime, the people must prove that, one, the defendant committed an act that caused the death of another person; and, two, when the defendant acted, he had a state of mind called malice aforethought; and, three, he killed without lawful excuse or justification. proof of either is sufficient to establish the state of mind required for murder. act; two, the natural-and-probable consequences of the act were dangerous to human life; three, at the time he acted, he knew his act was dangerous to human life; and, four, he deliberately acted with conscious disregard for human life. e victim. it is a mental state that must be formed before the act that causes death is committed. it does not require deliberation or the passage of any particular period of time. 33 due process clause requires the prosecution to prove beyond a reasonable doubt the absence of the heat of passion on sudden provocation when the issue is properly presented in a homicide case.mullaney v. wilbur (1975) 421 u.s. 684, 703.) under mullaney v. wilbur, the prosecution is not required to prove the absence of heat of passion in every homicide case, only in those cases in which the issue presented. in people v. rios (2000) 23 cal.4th 450, the court explained that the issue is when the defendant made a (id. at pp. 461-462.) case. as explained above, pena testified that he shot peralta in self-defense and there was no evidence that either pena or luna actually and subjectively acted under the heat of passion caused by sufficient provocation in shooting peralta or in aiding and abetting . accordingly, the prosecution was not required to prove beyond a reasonable doubt the absence of heat of passion as an element of murder, and the trial court did not err by failing sua sponte to so instruct the jury. (people v. rios, supra, 23 cal.4th at pp. 461-462.) vii. calcrim no. 371 pena contends that the trial court erred in instructing his jury with a modified version of calcrim no. 371 (consciousness of guilt: suppression and fabrication of evidence) that it could consider his conduct, if any, in hiding evidence as showing an awareness of guilt. pena contends that substantial evidence did not support the instructionthis issue on appeal. when discussing instructions, the prosecutor stated that he wanted the trial court 34 371.13 the prosecutor requested the trial court to instruct with the part of the instruction o hide evidence based on [section 187 defines murder] he requested the trial court to strike from the instruction the part that concerned discouraging someone from testifying. the proposed version of calcrim no. 371 the trial court instructed pdefendant tried to hide evidence, that conduct may show that he was aware of his guilt. if you conclude that the defendant made such an attempt, it is up to you to decide its meaning and importance. however, evidence of such an attempt cannot prove guilt by the failure to object to an instruction in the trial court forfeits the claim on appeal. (people v. virgil proposed instruction and, in fact, specifically approved the instruction as modified. accordingly, he has forfeited this issue on appeal. defendant argues that if failure to object to the proposed instruction in the trial court forfeited review of this issue, then defense counsel provided ineffective assistance of counsel. as explained above, [w]hen a claim of ineffective assistance is made on direct appeal, and the record does not show the reason for counsels challenged actions or omissions, the conviction must be affirmed unless there could be no satisfactory explanation. (people v. anderson, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 569.) such a claim is more appropriately resolved in a habeas corpus proceeding. (people v. mendoza tello, supra, 15 cal.4th at pp. 266-267.) the record on appeal does not reveal 13 [if the defendant tried to hide evidence or discourage someone from testifying against (him/her), that conduct may show that (he/she) was aware of (his/her) guilt. if you conclude that the defendant made such an attempt, it is up to you to decide its meaning and importance. however, evidence of such an attempt cannot prove guilt by itself.] 35 the reason defense counsel failed to object to the proposed instruction. defense counsel may have concluded that the instruction was appropriate because there was substantial evidence thainterview. or, defense counsel may have concluded that the instruction was beneficial to the defense because it required the jury to first conclude there e pena did not correwhich might reflect his affiliation with the 18th street gang. any claim of ineffective assistance of counsel with respect to the claimed deficiency is better suited to a petition for writ of habeas corpus. (people v. anderson, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 569; people v. mendoza tello, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 267.) viii. was not cruel or unusual punishment luna filed a motion in the trial court to reduce his conviction from first degree murder to voluntary manslaughter, arguing that a sentence of 25 years to life would constitute cruel and unusual punishment. the trial court denied the motion and imposed a sentence of 25 years to life. luna contends that the trial court abused its discretion in denying his motion or, alternatively, in failing to reduce his conviction to second degree murder. he claims that his sentence was cruel and unusual punishment in violation of the california constitution because he was 15 years old at the time of the murder, he had no criminal history, and he was not the shooter.14 or unusual. the california constitution prohibits the imposition of cruel or unusual punishment. (cal. const., art. i,  17.) a sentence is cruel or unusual when it is disproportionate to the crime for which it is inflicted that it shocks the conscience and 14 a sentence is invalid under the california constitution if it constitutes cruel or unusual punishment (cal. const., art. i,  17) and is invalid under the united states constitution if it is cruel and unusual (u.s. const., 8th amend.). although luna characterizes his argument in the conjunctivecruel and unusualwe will analyze it in the disjunctivecruel or unusualas the argument is made solely under the california constitution. 36 (in re lynch (1972) 8 cal.3d 410, 424, fn. omitted (lynch).) successful challenges to the proportionality of particular sentences have been very rare. (people v. weddle disproportionality have occurred with exquisite rarit the california supreme court has instructed that, when reviewing a claim of cruel or unusual punishment, courts should examine (1) the nature of the offense and offender, (2) compare the punishment with the penalty for more serious crimes in the same jurisdiction, and (3) measure the punishment to the penalty for the same offense in different jurisdictions. (lynch, supra, 8 cal.3d at pp. 425-427, 431, 436; people v. dennis (1998) 17 cal.4th 468, 511.) any one of these three factors can be sufficient to demonstrate that a particular punishment is cruel or unusual. (in re nunez (2009) 173 cal.app.4th 709, 725, citing people v. dillon (1983) 34 cal.3d 441, 487, fn. 38.) luna makes his claim of disproportionality under the first factor in lynch, supra, 8 cal.3d at page 425the nature of the offense and the offender. regarding the nature of the offense and the offender, we evaluate the totality of the circumstances surrounding the commission of the current offense, including the defendants motive, the manner of commission of the crime, the extent of the defendants involvement, the consequences of his acts, and his individual culpability, including factors such as the defendants age, prior criminality, personal characteristics, and state of mind. (people v. martinez (1999) 71 cal.app.4th 1502, 1510.) notwithstanding the factors identified in lynchhe sole test remains . . . whether the punishment shocks the conscience and offends fundamental notions of human dignity. (lynch, 8 cal.3d at p. 424.)people v. dillon, supra, 34 cal.3d at p. 441, fn. 38.) the nature of the offense and the offender in this case are sufficient to justify the 25 years to life sentence the trial court imposed on luna. the evidence adduced at trial sat silvia-caliber bullets, luna pulled a .45-caliber gun from his waistband area and loaded its clip with the bullets. after loading the clip, luna gave the clip to pena who put the clip in the gun and put the 37 augustin called pena and said, on speaker, stin told pena to pena agreed, and he and luna went to the maravilla party. thus, luna knew that augustin had summoned pena to the maravilla party n, with a .45- from the maravilla party, luna called silvia answered put the call on speaker. luna was heard laughing with augustin and pena. during that call, peralta was heard begging pena to not do anything because pena then shot peralta. thereafter, silvia heard pena tell luna to slow down because he was driving too fastindicating that luna was driving the getaway car. although luna was not the shooter, he was 15 years old at the time of the murder, and he had no criminal record, his sentence of 25 years to life does not shock the conscience and offend fundamental notions of human dignity. (lynch, 8 cal.3d at p. 424; people v. gonzales while jimenezs youth [14 years old] and incidental criminal history are factors in his favor, they are substantially outweighed by the seriousness of the crime [first degree murder] and the circumstances surrounding its commission . . . . the lack of a significant prior criminal record is not determinative in a cruel and unusual punishment analysis. this is not one of those rare cases in which sentence should be reduced as cruel or unusual. (people v. weddle, supra, 1 cal.app.4th at p. 1196.) ix. pena contends that the trial court erred in awarding him one too few days of custody credit. respondent agrees as do we. the trial court awarded pena 427 days of actual custody credit. under section 2900.5, a defendant convicted of murder is entitled to credit for actual days spent in custody from the date of arrest to the date of sentencing. (people v. taylor (2004) 119 38 cal.app.4th 628, 645.) pena was arrested on august 16, 2011, and sentenced on october 16, 2012, a period of 428 days. because the trial court erred in awarding pena 427 days of actual custody credit, we order the abstract of judgment modified to reflect 428 of actual custody credit. disposition reflect an award of 428 days of actual custody credit. s otherwise affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. mosk, j. we concur: turner, p. j. mink, j. retired judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 