filed 4/21/14 p. v. delgado ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose jesus delgado, defendant and appellant. b244391 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa064403) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of the county of los angeles, daniel b. feldstern, judge. affirmed. kathy moreno, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle, supervising deputy attorney general, stacy s. schwartz, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury found defendant and appellant jose jesus delgado guilty of second degree murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)), and found true the allegation that he personally and intentionally discharged a handgun causing great bodily injury and death (pen. code,  12022.53, subd. (d)). the trial court sentenced defendant to 40 years to life in state prison. on appeal, defendant contends that the trial court erred in admitting expert gang testimony, restricting cross examination of witnesses, and making we affirm. background in march 2009, edgar moreira and keyri martinez were dating and had a young son together. moreira did not live with martinez and their son. he lived in a house he rented with miguel contreras. moreira and defendant were good friends. martinez also knew defendant martinez had known defendant for about six years, and they once lived in the same neighborhood. during the afternoon on march 25, 2009, moreira, martinez, and their son went to a swap meet. on the way to the swap meet, moreira received a number of telephone calls from at the swap meet, moreira received another phone call from bones. in a second conversation with bones, moreira identified the specific aisle he was in at the swap meet, and martinez saw bones approaching from the end of the aisle. moreira and bones spoke for about five minutes. martinez was within 10 feet of the men during the conversation. moreira and bones demeanors suggested to martinez that the men were arguing. moreira appeared to martinez a condition martinez had seen bones in five to seven times previously. martinez approached moreira and bones to retrieve her son, and heard moreira say to defendantdefendant 3 as defendant spoke, he put his arm around moreira and rubbed the top of his head. moreira appeared to calm down. bones started walking towards the martinez, moreira, and their son returned to mo after returning home, moreira received 14 phone calls, five of which he answered. according to martinez, all five conversations took place inside, and not outside, the house. martinez asked moreira why the phone was ringing so much. moreira responded, moreira, martinez, and their son about 6:30 a.m. the next morning, martinez heard knocking on the bedroom window followed by someone outside the window saying, when he was younger, martinez then heard the person outside say, chunky. do me a favor. early. the person outside , the person again me, bonesthe prosecutor asked martinez if she prosecutor asked her how she recognized the voice. martinez respondedmartinez never saw bones that morning, she only heard his voice. moreira walked out of the bedroom and martinez followed him. moreira told martinez to stay. moreira walked into the living room, and martinez heard him open the front door and metal screen door. after moreira opened the doors, martinez heard bones shout, . martinez then heard five to seven consecutive gunshots. martinez checked on her son and then went into the living room where she saw moreira in a pool of blood on the floor. 4 both doors were still open, and martinez walked outside. martinez looked around, but did not see anyone. neck for a pulse. martinez did not feel a pulse.1 martinez did not know what to do, and walked in and out of the house for about five minutes. -year-old son was crying and contreras appeared to be having a panic attack. martinez told contreras that bones had killed chunky.2 contreras and his son left. after contreras and his son left, martinez searched the house for a phone and called her friend sandra guerreroand asked her to pick up son.3 guerrero arrived about 10 minutes later. martinez called the police. martinez called guerrero before she called 911 because she was concerned for her sonpolice arrived. martinez believed that moreira was dead when she called guerrero and the police. after the shooting and before the police arrived, martinez did not move anything in the residence. martinez was not sure if she told the 911 operator who killed moreira. she told jose, and nicknamebones. later that morning, about 9:00 a.m., los angeles police department detective humberto farjardo interviewed martinez. martinez told the detective that bones killed chunky. she identified defendant from a six-pack photographic lineup, and wrote next to his photograph, ant and moreira to be members of the bryant street gang. detective farjardo had martinez 1 the los angeles department of coroner determined that was multiple gunshot wounds. 2 contreras testified that martinez told him that moreira had been shot and was dead. he did not testify that she told him that bones had killed chunky. 3 guerrero testified that martinez told say that bones shot moreira. 5 about 11:30 a.m. on the morning moreira was shot, defendant entered the burger crave restaurant. defendant was shaking, mumbling, and sweating profusely. he reentering the restaurant and ordering an orange drink. as his drink was being prepared, defendant dropped to the floor and began doing pushups. s. the window shattered. defendant walked out of the restaurantthe corner where he got down on his hands and knees a-butt[ed] four or five times. defendant got up and started to walk back towards the restaurant. customers locked the door. defendant walked across the street to a fire station. when he reached the fire station, two police cars pulled up. the firemen sat defendant down and tried to treat him. defendant was fidgety and combative and would not allow the firemen to treat his injuries. defendant had to be held down. los angeles police department sergeant stephen gomez testified that he came into contact with defendant on august 20, 2008ascertained that defendant was a member of the bryant street gang. defendant told sergeant gomez that his moniker was sergeant gomez was familiar with the bryant street gang. defendant was not gang-related. los angeles police department detective john sawada testified as the on the bryant street gang. according to detective sawada, moreira was a bryant street gang member and had the and or the detective knew that defendant was a member of the bryant street gang and that his moniker was no other bryant street gang member had the same 6 moniker. defendant had been a bryant street gang member since 1993, when he was 16 years old. defendant was older than moreira and a more senior member of the bryant street gang. according to detective sawada, if one gang member disrespected another gang member, it would be seen as an act of defiance. an act could range from -to murder. seniority in a gang was determined by the length of time a person was a member of the gang. an older gang member received or deserved more respect than a younger member. if a younger gang member challenged a senior member, the challenge would be seen as an act of defiance and disrespect and follow an order from a senior member would not be tolerated. it would be a sign of disrespect if a younger gang member said to a senior gang me. the consequences could be anything from a beat-down to murder. , veronica delgadobrother a bryant sher, discussion i. admission of expert gang testimony defendant contends that the trial court erred in admitting detecexpert witness testimony about gangs because there was no evidence independent of his -related. defendant further contends the trial significance of the phrase because it was not properly the subject of expert witness testimony. finally, defendant 7 people v. kelly (1976) 17 cal.3d 24 (kelly). a. admission of gang evidence admission of evidence of a criminal defendants gang membership creates a risk the jury will improperly infer the defendant has a criminal disposition and is therefore guilty of the offense charged. (people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 193ven where gang membership is relevant, because it may have a highly inflammatory impact on the jury trial courts should carefully scrutinize such evidence before admitting it. ibid.evidence of the defendants gang affiliationincluding evidence of the gangs territory, membership, signs, symbols, beliefs and practices, criminal enterprises, rivalries, and the likecan help prove identity, motive, modus operandi, specific intent, means of applying force or fear, or other issues pertinenpeople v. hernandez (2004) 33 n a gang-related case, gang evidence is admissible if relevant to motive or identity, so long as its probative value is not outweighed by its prejudicial effect. people v. williams, supra, 16 cal.4th at p. 193.) a trial courts admission of evidence, including gang testimony, is reviewed for abuse of discretion. [citations.] the trial courts ruling will not be disturbed in the absence of a showing it exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that resulted in a miscarriage of justice. people v. avitia (2005) 127 cal.app.4th 185, 193.) gang evidence was relevant to prove the identity and motive of the shooter in this case. martinez testified that she recognized the voice of the person outside the bedroom window martinez testified that moreira identified the person who spoke outside the bedroom window thus was relevant to proving the identity of the shooter. (people v. hernandez, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 1049.) testimony that a gang 8 member would punish a subordinate gang member for disrespect was relevant to proving d moreira argued at the swap meet. moreira, a member of the bryant street gang junior to defendant, said to defendant according to detective sawada, such an utterance to a senior gang member would be a sign of disrespect. - that a junior member of a gang could be murdered for showing disrespect to a senior member ibid.) the trial court did not abuse its discretion in expert gang testimony as it was relevant to provide identity and motive. (people v. avitia, supra, 127 cal.app.4th at p. 193.) b. evidence code section 801 me4 were not the proper subject of expert witness testimony under evidence code section 801. according to defendant, such commonly used phrases needed no explanation evidence code section 801, subdivision (a) permits expert testimony on subjects we review the admission of expert witness testimony under evidence code section 801 for an abuse of discretion. (people v. kovacich (2011) 201 cal.app.4th 863, 902.) detective sawada did not testify to the meaning of the phrase outside. ,the detective testified that the phrase was an ultimatum to either go along with the program or suffer the 4 the phrase about which detective sawada testified was, in full, without 9 s testimony was not the translation of either phrase as if it were some type of special gang terminology. instead, the signmember uttered such a disrespectful phrase or defied such an ultimatum the consequence could be murdera consequence likely beyond the common experience with either phrase. accordingly, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the testimony. (people v. kovacich, supra, 201 cal.app.4th at p. 902.) c. people v. kelly that a particular form of behavior by a younger gang member (disrespect, as interpreted again by sawada) would lead to a particular violent consequence or punishment meted efendant contends, was inadmissible under kelly, supra, 17 cal.3d 24. in kelly, supra, 17 cal.3d 24, the california supreme court held that evidence obtained through a new scientific technique may be admitted only after its reliability has been established under a three-pronged test. the first prong requires proof that the technique is generally accepted as reliable in the relevant scientific community. (id. at p. 30].) the second prong requires proof that the witness testifying about the technique and its application is a properly qualified expert on the subject. (ibid.) the third prong requires proof that the person performing the test in the particular case used correct scientific procedures. (ibid. (people v. bolden (2002) 29 cal.4th 515, 544.) technique may be deemed scientific for purposes of kelly/frye[5] if the unproven technique or procedure appears in both name and description to provide some definitive 5 frye v. united states (d.c. cir. 1923) 293 f. 1013 (frye). 10 truth which the expert need only accurately recognize and relay to the jury. 6 (people v. leahy (1994) 8 cal.4th 587, 606.) expert gang testimony was not and did not purport to be scientific evidence. accordingly, it was not subject to the kelly test. moreover, the california supreme court has held that a gang expecriminal street gang. (people v. gardeley (1996) 14 cal.4th 605, 617.) ii. cross-examination of sergeant gomez sergeant gomez testified that he ascertained from a field interview of defendant that defendant was a member of the bryant street gang, that his moniker was , and that he had a bryant street tattoo on the back of his neck. defendant contends that the trial court violated his constitutional rights of confrontation and due process by improperly restricting his cross-examination of sergeant gomez concerning the circumstances of that field interview, testimony. any error by the trial court was harmless. the sixth amendment to the united states constitution guarantees criminal prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right . . . to be confronted with the (u.s. const., 6th amend.; pointer v. texas (1965) 380 u.s. 400 [extending sixth amendment to state proceedings through fourteenth amendment].) to effectuate this guarantee, the trial court must afford a criminal defendant the opportunity for effective cross-examination of adverse witnesses. (delaware v. fensterer (1985) 474 u.s. 15, 19-20; people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1114, 1172.) cross-examiner is not only permitted to . . . test the witness[s] perceptions and memory, but the cross-examiner has traditionally been allowed to impeach, i.e., discredit, the (davis v. alaska (1974) 415 u.s. 308, 316.) accordingly, a criminal 6 in 1993, the united states supreme court held that the federal rules of evidence had superseded frye (daubert v. merrell dow pharmaceuticals, inc. (1993) 509 u.s. 579, 587 [113 s.ct. 2786, 125 l.ed.2d 469]), and our state law rule is now referred to simply as the kelly test or rule. (people v. bolden, supra, 29 cal.4th at p. 545.) 11 defendant states a violation of the confrontation clause by showing that he was prohibited from engaging in otherwise appropriate cross-examination designed to show a prototypical form of bias on the part of the witness, and thereby to expose to the jury the facts from which jurors . . . could appropriately draw inferences relating to the reliability of the witness.delaware v. van arsdall (1986) 475 u.s. 673, 680.) confrontation clause violations are subject to federal harmless-error analysis under chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 [17 l.ed.2d 705, 87 s.ct. 824]. [citation.] we ask whether it is clear beyond a reasonable doubt that a rational jury would have reached the same verdict absent the error (people v. livingston (2012) 53 cal.4th 1145, 1159.) during her cross-examination of sergeant gomez, defense counsel began to ask the officer ascertained defense counsel asked sergeant gomezthat time he told you that he was jumping offquestion called for hearsay. the trial court sustained the objection, and then addressed the m at sidebar, defense counsel stated that she intended to use the evidence, in part, to that is, as phrased by the trial get the personal information from [defendant] if he was defense counsel represented that the contact between sergeant gomez and defendant resulted in defendant being placed under a mental health hold pursuant to welfare and institutions code section 5150. identification card apparently reflected statements scared, cocaine, voices going to kill hthe prosecutor stated that the sole purpose of a moniker. the trial court again sustained the objection. even assuming that the trial court erred in excluding the proffered evidence, any such error was harmless under chapman v. california, supra, 386 u.s. at page 24. that 12 is, even if the proffered evidence had been admitted and had been entirely impeached, merely cumulative of other unimpeached testimony that showed that defendant was an active bryant street gang all testified that defendant was a member of the bryant street gang and that his moniker iii. cross-examination of martinez defendant contends that the trial court violated his constitutional rights of confrontation and to present a defense7 when it restricted his cross-examination and impeachment of martinez by excluding evidence that martinez made statements to a police officer the morning of the shooting that were inconsistent with her trial testimony. the trial court did not err. to be relevant, evidence must have some tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action. (evid. code,  210.) this definition includes evidence relevant to the credibility of a witness. (ibid.; see evid. code,  780 [the fact finder may consider matters relevant to the truthfulness of the witnesss testimony].) [] conversely, a matter is collateral if it has no logical bearing on any material, disputed issue. [citation.] a fact may bear on the credibility of a witness and still be collateral to the case. [citations.] (people v. contreras (2013) 58 cal.4th 123, 152 (contreras).) a trial court has wide latitude under state law to exclude evidence offered for impeachment that is collateral and has no relevance to the action. [citations.] this exercise of discretion necessarily encompasses a determination that the probative value of such evidence is substantially outweighed by its prejudicial, confusing, or time-consuming nature. (evid. code,  352; see people v. lewis (2001) 26 cal.4th 334, 374-375 [110 cal.rptr.2d 272, 28 p.3d 34] [noting that evid. code,  352 gives trial court 7 defendant does not develop his claim that the trial court violated his right to present a defense. 13 broad power to prevent nitpicking over collateral credibility issues].)(contreras, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 152.) also, as long as the excluded evidence would not have produced a significantly different impression of the witnesss credibility, the confrontation clause and related constitutional guarantees do not limit the trial courts discretion in this regard. ([people v.] dement (2011) 53 cal.4th 1, 52 [the ordinary rules of evidence do not impermissibly infringe on the accuseds right to present a defense]; see [people v.] harris (2008) 43 cal.4th 1269, 1292 [within the confines of the confrontation clause, the trial court retains wide latitude in restricting cross-examination that is repetitive, prejudicial, confusing of the issues, or of marginal relevance.]; accord, people v. mendoza (2011) 52 cal.4th 1056, 1090 [132 cal.rptr.3d 808, 263 p.3d 1].)contreras, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 152.) was shot, she heard the phone ring 14 times, and that moreira answered five of the calls and ignored the other nine. in a sidebar discussion, defense counsel stated that she credibility with statement to a police officer the morning of the shooting that on the prior night the victim was on the phone constantly outside, and that he was busy storing guns in the top shelves of his bedroom, along with victim was on the phone constantly outside is inconsistent with her testimony here in court. the statement that the night before the victim was busy sorting out his drugs is inconsistent with her testimony that she removed nothing from the scene but the child. . . . [n]o drugs were found in the residence.8 the trial court excluded the evidence. 8 defendant does not provide a testimony that she did not remove anything from the house following the shooting. as set forth above, the record does reflect that martinez testified that she did not move anything inside the residence after the shooting and before the police arrived, although statements to the police. defendant may have been anticipating testimony based on testimony martinez gave in de 14 later, defendant called officer luis rodarte. prior to his testimony, defense storing guns in the top shelves of his he trial court ruled that defense counsel could ask the officer the shooting. during officer efense counsel elicited testimony from him that martinez told him that shooting. thus, although the trial court did not permit defense counsel to ask martinez about her statement to the police during her cross-examination, her statement ultimately accordingly, any restriction on -examine martinez was harmless under california v. chapman, supra, 386 u.s. at page 24. (people v. livingston, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 1159.) the trial court did not permit defense counsel to examine officer rodarte about officer rodarte that moreira was sorting out drugs the night before the shooting. it ruled that theither as a matter of proof or as i the evidence was not relevant and the trial court did not err. residence between the shooting and the arrival of the police was not inconsistent with her statement to the police that moreira was sorting out drugs the night before the shooting. assuming that moreira had drugs in his house the night before the shooting, moreira or martinez may have consumed, sold, or otherwise disposed of them prior to the shooting. to officer rodarte suggested that martinez removed any drugs from the residence between the shooting and the arrival of the police. confrontation rights . (contreras, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 152.) 15 iv. evidentiary rulings defendant contends that the trial court made certain evidentiary rulings that d on appeal forfeited appellate review of the issue. constituted asymmetrical evidentiary rulings in violation of the process forfeits appellate review of that issue. (people v. blacksher (2011) 52 cal.4th 769, 842 [defendant forfeited his claim of asymmetrical application of the rules of evidence in violation of his due process rights for appellate purposes by failing to raise it below]; people v. halvorsen we concluded above that defendant preserved his related claim of state evidentiary error, but because the constitutional claims defendant now asserts do not simply restate his evidentiary claim on alternative legal principles, but instead require consideration of different circumstancesnamely, the courts assertedly asymmetrical treatment of the parties use of hypothetical questionshe has forfeited the cons].) defendant contends that the trial court made erroneous and inconsistent rulings on his and the objections to the admission of certain evidence. those rulings, defendant claims, evidentiary rulings in violation of his federal due prfollows: 1. to proffered testimony, the trial court ruled that martinez would be permitted to testify that moreira told her that defendant was the person who made several phone calls to moreira that moreira did not answer. the trial court ruled that the evidence was admissible under the state of mind exception to the hearsay rule in evidence code section 1250 r the hearsay exception in evidence code section 1241. 2. the prosecutor asked martinez why she did not want to look at a transcript 16 [w] defense counsel objected on relevance grounds. the trial court overruled the time i come herelike i seen him covered in blood in the defense counsel overruled the objection, and denied the motion to strike. 3. [a]s you sit here today, do you know who, in your opinion, who you heard through the window and later on shot edgar defense counsel objected that the question called for an improper conclusion. the trial court overruled the objection. bones, his official name is the defen 4. the prosecutor asked detective sawada the following hypothetical questionin, is that hypothetical question and called for speculation. the trial court overruled the objection. uld be a sign of 5. defense counsel asked detective sawada the following hypothetical and lular number . . . and thereafter calls 911 at approximately 7:57 a.m. [] would you, as the gang expert, be objected that the question was argumentative. the trial court sustained the objection on relevance grounds. defendant s challenged evidentiary rulings constitute reversible error on state law grounds. instead, defendant argues that the 17 rulings constituted asymmetrical evidentiary rulings in violation of his federal right to due process. because defendant did not object in the trial court on that ground, he has forfeited appellate review of this issue. (people v. blacksher, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 842; people v. halvorsen, supra, 42 cal.4th at p. 414.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. mosk, j. we concur: turner, p. j. mink, j. retired judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 