filed 10/7/13 p. v. giles ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. robert thomas giles, defendant and appellant. b244724 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa073718) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. dalila c. lyons, judge. affirmed. armand tinkerian, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, eric e. reynolds and ana r. durate, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________________ 2 appellant robert thomas giles appeals from the judgment upon his conviction for grand theft after he pled no contest to the charge. appellant argues that he did not receive effective assistance of counsel during the negotiation phase of his plea deal. more specifically, appellant contends that his counsel: (1) failed to challenge the sufficiency of the charges; (2) failed to present evidence that could have mitigated his sentence and could have possibly resulted in a reduction of the charges against him; (3) did not file a written discovery motion; and (4) failed to file a motion to exclude e in the record on appeal as to why counsel acted (or failed to act) in the manner which appellant complains about on appeal. appellant has thus failed to carry his burden to prove ineffectiveness of his trial counsel. accordingly, we affirm the judgment. facts and procedural history the crime. in 2012 appellant was arrested for theft of copper wire from the los angeles department of water and power (dwp) and damage to dwp power lines located near san francisquito road. dwp estimated that the total value of damage to the power lines, on the low end, was approximately $687,700 $354,000 for labor and equipment to repair all the damage; $182,400 to replace the copper wire; $6,800 to replace the insulators; and $13,000 for megawatt hours lost due to relays on the circuit. appellant was charged with grand theft of personal property in violation of penal code section 487, subdivision (a) in count (1), vandalism causing damaging over $400 in violation of penal code section 594, subdivision (a) in count (2), and cutting a utility line in violation of penal code section 591, in count 3. prior to the preliminary hearing the prosecutor made a plea offer to appellant for a five-year term (to the charge in count 1) with victim restitution to be determined based on the evidence at that point it appeared that it would be close to $1 million dollars. 3 to a term of three years with no restituthe prosecution at the beginning of the preliminary hearing, but was not accepted. is interview with detective marino as violating his rights under miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. counsel argued that appellant invoked his right to counsel while making his incriminating statements to the detective, and thus the statements should be suppressed. the court denied the motion statements, and therefore the admission of his statement would not violate miranda. at the end of the preliminary hearingthereof, to wit, robert thomas giles, count one, violation of penal code section 487 subsection (a) . . . [and] held to answer on the penal code section 12022.6(a)(2) . . . as to count two, violation of 594(a) and also special allegation penal code section 12022.6(a); at a hearing on september 5, 2012, the prosecutor offered another plea deal to appellant, which the parties discussed in court. appellant was offered five years: consisting of a guilty plea to count 1 for a high term of three years, plus two years (one year each) for admitting two of the prison term enhancements, and a $60,000 cap on victim restitution. the prosecutor offered to dismiss the remaining charges and allegations. this offer would be five years with 50 percent time and local custody time, and would be served in county jail as opposed to state prison. the prosecutor also noted in the present case his maximum exposure was approximately 12 years in state prison. stated that it belicounsel pointed out that he had made two counter offers to the people which had been -year residential live-to counappellant had an extensive criminal record, his priors were not serious nor involved a 4 counsel argued that appellant would benefit from some type of residential drug treatment program. the court asked appellant if he wanted to speak to his attorney more about the bargain, so that he would understand the consequences of not accepting the plea offer. the court reminded appellant of his criminal history and his possible maximum 12 year sentence if he were to go to trial and be convicted. appellant asked if it would be possible for the term to go down to four years, but the prosecutor said based on the court again asked appellant if he wanted to speak to his attorney to make sure that he understood the matter and had sufficient time to speak with him about the consequences and benefits of accepting the plea. the court continued the proceedings so that appellant could consult with his attorney. l expressed a concern about whether local facility. counsel stated that if he were sent to state prison he would withdraw his agreement to the plea. the court and the prosecutor agreed that it appeared that none of the priors excluded appellant from serving his time in county jail. the court then asked appellant if he understood the terms of the agreement, and if he had sufficient time to speak to counsel about the case, and the terms of the agreement. appellant responded affirmatively, and proceeded to plead no contest to the grand theft count, and sign a felony advisement of rights, waiver and plea forms. appellant filed a timely notice of appeal and sought a certificate of probable cause, which was granted by the trial court. discussion in this court appellant asserts that the judgment should be reversed because he received ineffective assistance of counsel. appellant argues that counsel was ineffective during the plea negotiations. 5 i. appellant failed to establish ineffectiveness of counsel by evidence demonstrated in the record. both the sixth amendment of the united states constitution and article i, section 15, of the california constitution guarantee the right of a criminal defendant to the assistance of counsel. (people v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.app.3d 171, 215.) these rights grant a defendant effective assistance rather than bare assistance. (ibid.) e assistance of counsel in entering a plea of guilty, he is entitled to reversal and an opportunity to withdraw his plea if he so people v. hunt f the relevant circumstances and the likely ibid.) performance fell below an objective level of reasonableness. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 686-people v. pope (1979) 23 cal.3d 412, 424-425 (popeo investigate (ibid. quoting in re williams (1969) 1 cal.3d 168, 175.) second, appellant must show that the deficient performance by counsel prejudiced the defenshill v. lockhart (1985) 474 u.s. 52, 57 quoting strickland, 466 u.s. at p. 694.) in order to demonstrate prejudice stemming from inadequate representation in advising a defendant to enter a plea, the defendant must establish a reasonable probability that but for the improper advice, he or she would not have pled guilty. (in re resendiz (2001) 25 cal.4th 230, 253) or that he could have negotiated a more favorable plea deal. (people v. martinez the test for prejudice considers what the defendant would have done, not what the effect of that decision would have been, a court . . . may not deny relief simply by finding it not 6 reasonably probable the defendant by rejecting the plea would have obtained a more omissions adversely affect plea of people v. hunt, supra, 174 cal.app.3d at p. 105.) entering a plea under the influence of ibid. quoting people v. mccary (1985) 166 cal.app.3d 1, 10.) appellant has the burden of proving inadequate trial assistance. (pope, supra, 23 that the conviction or death sentence resulted from a breakdown in the adversary process ibid.) appellant claims he did not receive effective assistance of trial counsel. appellant e to present him eligible for alternative sentencing or residential treatment; (2) failure to challenge the evidence supporting the charge of grand theft and failure to argue that he should have been charged with a lesser offense; (3) failure to file a formal discovery motion; and (4) the record before this court on appeal does not demoncounsel did not take the complained of actions. when an appellant seeks to establish a claim of ineffectiveness of counsel on matters not disclosed by the record on appeal, a petition for writ of habeas corpus is the appropriate procedure. (people v. pope, supra, 23 cal.3d at p. 426, fn. 17, see also ledesma, supra, 43 cal.app.3d at pp. 218-219 [holding that although the record raised ineffective assistance, however, a consolidated habeas corpus petition did reveal inadequate performance.]) a petition for habeas corpus extends far beyond the record on appeal, while an appeal is limited to the four corners of the underlying record. (people v. 7 waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 749, fn. 1.) in habeas proceedings the defendant has an opportunity to obtain and present evidence from trial counsel outside of the record to d people v. pope, supra, 23 cal.3d at p. 426.) permitting the trial attorney an ibid.) (ibid.iled to provide appeal. (ibid.) in people v. mendoza tello (1997) 15 cal.4th 264, 266, mendoza tello was convicted for possession of cocaine. a deputy pulled mendoza tello over when he saw him light a marijuana cigarette. (ibid.) he consented to a search of the car, and the officer proceeded to do a pat down as he felt this was necessary for officer safety. (ibid.) before the pat down began, a vile of cocaine ibid.) on appeal, he argued that his counsel was ineffective for not making a motion to suppress the evidence. (ibid.) the court found nothing in the record to suggest why counsel failed to move to suppress the eviden(ibid. quoting people v. cudjo appellate court should not declare that a police officer acted unlawfully, suppress relevant evidence, set aside a jury verdict, and brand a defense attorney incompetent unless it can be truly confident all the relevant facts have been developed and the police and prosecution had a full opppeople v. mendoza tello, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 268.) similar to the mendoza tello case, there is nothing in the record on appeal to show why counsel did or did not act in the manner appellant complains about on appeal. the 8 for appellant by arguing that his prior criminal record was not serious and that his prior criminal conduct was the result of his drug abuse. he also sought to ensure that appellant would not serve time in state prison.1 nonetheless, the record is silent about the alleged failings of counsel at issue on appeal. perhaps his counsel took the actions at issue, or perhaps as a matter of trial strategy counsel decided against pursuing such actions. maybe counsel acted without good reason. because the record on appeal is silent, we simply do not have sufficient evidence before us to determine these matters one way or the other, and thereforassistance of counsel claim is more appropriately presented in a habeas corpus proceeding in which appellant could present any additional evidence outside the record to establish his claim.2 1 in addition, as noted elsewhere, at least with respect to the motion to suppress the effort to have that evidence deemed inadmissible. the matter was argued during the preliminary hearing, and the court rejected appobtained in violation of his constitutional rights. appellant has not presented any convincing argument as to why his counsel was incompetent for failing to raise the issue again, as it is not likely he would have obtained a more favorable result as to that matter. 2 subsequent to filing the present appeal, appellant filed a separate petition for a writ of habeas corpus in this court asserting his counsel was ineffective on the same grounds as asserted on appeal. this court summarily denied the petition because appellant failed to present any evidence from his trial counsel about his representation of appellant in the trial court, nor did appellant indicate that he made any effort to contact his trial counsel to obtain an explanation of his conduct. moreover, the only evidence that he did present in support of the petition, specifically his declaration and that of his girlfriend, did not shed light on why counsel acted or failed to act in the manner challenged. 9 disposition the judgment is affirmed. woods, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. segal, j.* *judge of the los angeles county superior court assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 