 filed 6/8/15 p. v. byrd ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. louis byrd et al., defendants and appellants. b244162 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta090186) appeal from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, eleanor j. hunter, judge. affirmed. ralph h. goldsen, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant, louis byrd. leonard j. klaif, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant, fernando pedroza. kamala d. harris, attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and linda c. johnson, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendants and appellants, louis byrd (byrd) and fernando pedroza (pedroza), appeal their convictions, following a jury trial, for misappropriation of public money with excessive taking enhancements (more than $65,000 [both defendants] and more than $200,000 [byrd only]). (pen. code,  424(a)(1), 12022.6, subd. (a)(1) & (2).)1 the trial court sentenced both defendants to state prison for terms of four years. the judgments are affirmed. background viewed in accordance with the usual rule of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established the following. 1. prosecution evidence. ty (gov. code,  34102) whose powers include . . expressly conferred upon it by the legislature, together with such object and purposes of the muna power is [citations.] g. l. mezzetta, inc. v. city of american canyon (2000) 78 cal.app.4th 1087, 1092; accord, city of orange v. san diego county employees retirement assn. (2002) 103 cal.app.4th 45, 52.) the lynwood city council consists of a mayor, a mayor pro tem and three council members, all of whom hold part-time positions. the mayor and the mayor pro tem are selected from among the council members. a city manager, who is appointed by the city council, oversees day-to-day operations of the city. lynwood also employs a city attorney. byrd was a member of the lynwood city council for 15 years, from 1992 until 2007. during that time, he served terms as both mayor and mayor pro tem. pedroza was a lynwood city council member for six years, from 2002 until 2007, during which time he also served terms as mayor and mayor pro tem. 1 all further statutory references will be to the penal code, unless otherwise indicated. 3 government code section 36516, subdivision (a), establishes the maximum salary that city council members in a general law city may receive. the maximum salary is justed in five-percent increments by the city council, or more drastically by the electorate.2 based on members were legally entitled to receive a salary of $804.07 per month. lynwood city council members are also the sole members of several other governmental agencies, including the lynwood redevelopment agency (lra), the lynwood public finance authority (lpfa), and the lynwood information, inc. (lii). meetings for these agencies were generally held during regular city council meetings. in december 1998, the lpfa and lii both passed resolutions asking the city council to compensate their members $450 per meeting for sitting on these agencies because of the granted these requests, the city council members were nevertheless each paid $450 every time they met as either the lpfa or the lii.3 as to the lra, the city council members 2 government code section 36516, subdivision council members may be increased beyond the amount provided in this subdivision by an ordinance or by an amendment to an ordinance, but the amount of the increase shall not exceed an amount equal to 5 percent for each calendar year from the operative date of the last adjustment of the salary in effect when the ordinance or amendment is enacted. no subdivision (b) of government code section subdivision (a), at any municipal election, the question of whether city council members shall receive a salary for services, and the amount of that salary, may be submitted to the electors. if a majority of the electors voting at the election favor it, all of the council members shall receive the salary specified in the election call. the salary of council members may be increased beyond the amount provided in this section or decreased below the amount in the s 3 actually, only the lpfa resolution asked for each member of the agency to be compensated in the amount of $450. the lii resolution merely asked the city council to ained, post, although the lynwood city council never officially granted either of these requests, 4 received $30 for every lra meeting they attended, up to a maximum of four lra meetings per month, as prescribed by state law. in addition to this compensation, lynwood city council members received several monthly allowances: $300 for attending up to four meetings per month of an enumerated list of municipal organizations (e.g., the county sanitation district), a $500 automobile allowance, and an electronic media allowance. jane ngo was a supervising investigative auditor for the los angeles district attorne 2004, she participated in the execution of a search warrant at lynwood city hall during which 46 boxes of materials were seized. ngo examined this material, which consisted of thousands of documents, over a period of six months to a year. based on this material, she prepared a series of charts detailing payments made to 125, entitled forth 100 instances between march 1997 and october 2003 in which byrd submitted, and 126, set forth 15 similar instances for pedroza which occurred between may 2002 and november 2003. the defendants had used their city-issued credit cards on the same day that they were paid byrd and pedroza had received per diem payments for restaurant meals that had also been charged to their city credit cards. the records showed byrd had done this 42 times between february 1998 and march 2003, and pedroza had done it 10 times between february 2002 and march 2003. payments were subsequently made to each member of both agencies in the amount of $450 for each meeting attended. 5 base salary (based on his authorized monthly salary of $804.07) of approximately $83,600. during that same period of time, byrd had been paid an additional $166,500 for attending lii meetings, and another $166,250 for attending lpfa meetings. from 2002 through 2007, pedroza had been paid a base salary of approximately $56,285. during that same period of time, pedroza had been paid an additional $74,700 for attending lii meetings and $73,000 for attending lpfa meetings. office working in the public integrity unit. miranda testified he examined all the lynwood city council minutes from december 1998 through 2003, and could not find any documentation showing the city council had ever granted the requests to pay council members $450 for attending lii and lpfa meetings. miranda prepared charts documenting the number and length of lii and lpfa meetings the defendants had been paid to attend. during 1999 byrd attended 84 lii and lpfa meetings, of which 36 lasted for 10 minutes or less, and 31 lasted five minutes or less. in 2004, pedroza attended 53 lii and lpfa meetings, of which 32 lasted 10 minutes or less, and 25 lasted five minutes or less. in 2002, byrd and pedroza attended 94 lii and lpfa meetings, of which 56 lasted 10 minutes or less, 38 lasted two minutes or less, and 19 lasted one minute or less. arturo reyes, who served on the lynwood city council between 1997 and 2003, had originally been charged as a defendant in this case. he pled guilty to felony grand theft and was awaiting sentencing at the time of trial. reyes testified the lpfa, lra and lii meetings were conducted in the following manner. the mayor would open the regular lynwood city council meeting and the city clerk would take roll call. at a certain point, the mayor would recess the city council meeting and immediately convene, one after the other, the lpfa, lra and lii meetings. after completing the business of these three agencies, the mayor would reconvene the regular city council meeting. reyes testified that in may 2002 he traveled to guadalajara, mexico, for a conference of sister cities. byrd, pedroza and city manager faustin gonzales also 6 attended. reyes testified pedroza invited him to come to a strip club to which he had also taken byrd and gonzales. pedroza told reyes that he and gonzales had been entertained by two women in a private room and engaged in sex acts. byrd told reyes that he had also gone to this club with pedroza. reyes testified that he subsequently overheard pedroza and gonzales discussing how to pay for their bill at the club, and deciding to claim they had been entertaining sister city delegations. gonzales apparently paid the bill of about $1,700 on his city-issued credit card. 2. defense evidence. neither pedroza nor byrd testified in their own defense, although they each put on a defense witness and entered defense exhibits into evidence. contentions on, and the jury was instructed on, invalid legal theories. 2. the trial court misinstructed the jury regarding the mental element of section 424 (misappropriation of public monies). discussion 1. the jury was not instructed on any invalid theories. defendants contend the jury was presented with both valid and invalid theories of guilt and, because it cannot be determined if the jury ultimately relied on an invalid theory, their convictions must be reversed. there is no merit to this claim. a. legal principles. the defendants were each convicted on one count of violating section 424, subdivision (a) town, or district of this state, and every other person charged with the receipt, safekeeping, transfer, or disbursement of public moneys, who . . . [] . . . [w]ithout authority of law, appropriates the same, or any portion thereof, to his or her own use . . . [] . . . [] [i]s punishable by imprisonment in the state prison for two, three, or four years, and is disqualif 7 our supreme court recently analyzed section 424 in stark v. superior court appropriation of public money, or the failure to transfer or disburse public funds,4 that is criminalized. criminal liability attaches when those particular actions or omissions are contrary to laws governing the handling of public money. unlike many statutory provisions, these provisions make the presence or absence of legal authority part of the definition of the offense. the people must prove that legal authority was present or id. at pp. 395-396, italics added.) 424 . . . is an unusual statute, in which the definition of some of the offenses incorporates a legal element derived from other noncriminal legal provisions. . . section 424 is the authorizing law, which is extraneous to the penal statute. liability under section 424 arises when the officer or custodian, bound by these authorizing laws, acts without authority [citation] or fails to act as required. [citation.] [] as we have explained, presence or absence of legal authorization is an essential element of each of the offenses at issue. it is in order to act with wrongful intent. thus, the people must prove, as a matter of fact, both that legal authority was present or absent, and that the defendant knew of its presence or absence. [] the people do not have to prove that the defendant knew chapter and verse of the nonpenal law. it is sufficient that the defendant knew generally that a nonpenal law required or prohibited his conduct. as with any mental state, the people may prove this knowledge by reference to the facts and circumstances of the stark v. superior court, supra, 52 cal.4th at pp. 397-398, fn. omitted.) stark 24(a) specifically enumerated behavior, it prohibits any behavior which has not been 4 subdivision (a) 7 of section 424, for instance, pertains to someone who receive the same, any money received by him or her under any duty imposed by law so to 8 previously approved by statute or ordinancecircumstances, it may be that no lawful authority sanc(stark v. superior court, supra, 52 cal.4th at 397, fn. 9, italics added.) ilt, one of which was legally correct and one legally incorrect, reversal is required unless there is a basis in the record to find that the verdict was based on a valid ground. (people v. guiton (1993) 4 cal.4th 1116, 1128-1129; people v. green (1980) 27 cal.3d 1, 69-people v. chiu (2014) 59 cal.4th 155, 167.) b. discussion. (1) necessary travel and per diem reimbursement. defendants could not lawfully be paid $450 for attending lii and lpfa meetings, was legally valid. (as will be discussed, post, pedroza does not make the same concession.) however, byrd contends the prosecution additionally relied on at least two other legally invalid theories: (a) that any reimbursement to city council members for travel expenses facially illegal because state law allows cities to reimburse officials and employees only 5 pedroza joins these contentions. 5 in footnotes, byrd asserts there were additional legally invalid theories put forth day, travel that lacked prior approval of the city council, and receiving reimbursement for the expense of attenddeclines to address them because the two contentions fully presented here are sufficient to reverse his conviction. byrd has thereby forfeited these other contentions because the failure to properly develop an argument is fatal on appeal. (see jones v. superior court (1994) raised or supported by argument or citation to authority, we consider the issues 9 (a) necessary travel. byrd contends that at trial the prosecution set forth a theory asserting the defendants y by telling the jury that to be properly reimbursable a travel expense had to be ember attends an event must have a direct connection with the fulfillment of his or her official duties as a council member. that such attendance [might] be beneficial to the city which the council member serves is not sufficient to establish that it constitutes performance of expenditure of public monies is permitted only where it appears that the welfare of the community and its inhabitants is involved and benefit results to the public. the benefit to jury to convict the defendants merely upon finding they had been reimbursed for travel expenses. nor did the prosecution invite the jury to find the defendants guilty on the theory that city council members are never entitled to travel expenses. the prosecution did not tell the jury there was no travel event imaginable that could have been necessary argument that byrd cites to support this claim demonstrate just the opposite. they show the prosecutor accusing the defendants of essentially having stolen public money by multiple per diem reimbursements for the same event; using city-issued credit cards to 10 pay for restaurant meals that were also covered by per diem reimbursement; and using city-issued credit cards to pay for purely personal expenditures.6 although the prosecution argued that some particular travel events had no discernable direct connection to the official duties of a city council member (e.g., going to a beauty pageant, or attending a conference which another lynwood city council member was attending as the official delegate), this legitimately raised an issue for the jury to decide. in people v. bradley (2012) 208 cal.app.4th 64, several compton city council members had been convicted of misappropriating public money in violation of section bradley whether a particular expenditure was a personal rather than a municipal expenditure was a question of fact to be determined by the juryid. at p. 78, italics added; see also people v. vallerga 424(a) 1 conviction nburg was not for the purpose of conducting official business as the assessor of orange county but, rather, was for the purpose of rendering private consulting services to spartanburg pursuing an argument that all the travel expenses must have been lawful because other city officials reimbursed him for them,7 byrd directs us to county of yolo v. joyce 6 to cite just a few examples, the prosecutor argued to the jury: on a trip to to be used for traveling expenses, including meals. and instead he went and charged this on the credit card. [] he also had breakfast while he was there, and you can see that it in there that will show you just all the double-dipping, where they get the $300, the $100. . . . [w]e line these up for you where it shows multiple per diems per day. right? byrd had one day where he . . . when 11 serts joyce dictionaoffends too many people, a recall or electoral challenge is available. the california joyce is misplaced. in the first place, the question of o attorney even though the trial judge also had the power to authorize payment. as joyce not even seriously claimed that the transcription was not a necessary expense[was] that the transcript could only be ordered by the joyce rejected. (county of yolo v. joyce, supra, 156 cal. at p. 433, italics added.) moreover, a later supreme court case held that joyce supervisors that the county has incurred an indebtedness in a reasonable amount for goods or services has been held to be final if the claim shows on its face that the amount is clearly chargeable to the county, and within the jurisdiction of the board to accept or reject (county of yolo v. joyce, 156 cal. 429 . . .), this rule has no application in a people v. knott (1940) 15 cal.2d 628, 632.) the prosecution claim that defendants were improperly reimbursed for unnecessary travel expenses was a legally valid theory. 7 defendants assert that some of the double-billing events were merely bookkeeping mistakes. 12 (b) per diem reimbursement. position that a per diem reimbursement made. moreover, the jury instructions would not have caused a reasonable juror to believe that any per diem method of reimbursement whatsoever was illegal. necessary expenses incurred in the performance of official duties. otherwise, instruction went on to say member has either paid or [became] legally liable to pay. it must be real and verifiable, byrd argues these instructions meant that any reimbursement [must therefore be illegal because it] is not tethered to actual expenses, but r we disagree. the first sentence of the instruction is taken directly from government code section and nthis statutory language does not necessarily prohibit a system which limits reimbursements to a flat amount per diem so long as expenses were actually incurred. defendants do not cite any case law suggesting this statutory language could be reasonably misunderstood as proscribing every kind of per diem reimbursement scheme. interpretation. the prosecution chareimbursements only where there had been some overt impropriety, which the prosecutor reasons; credit cards used when you already had a per diem for food; and just expenses 13 the prosecutor went on to remind the jury of the kind of expense reimbursements 124, mr. conference. . . time. he also puts in for being on the 21st in south gate and gets $100 for being in from the 26th to the 28th to san jose. he also books the 26th in whittier. 26th again in whittier. multiple per diems and puerto rico, from 6/13 to 6/18, [1998]. per d the prosecution did not claim that all per diem schemes were unlawful. (2) compensation for attending lii and lpfa meetings. unlike byrd, pedroza contests the validity of the prosecution theory that and lpfa meetings were unlawful. that theory rested on the following series of jury instructions. the trial court instructed the jurors that in order to find a violation of section 424 . . . alaw of the state of california or a valid law enacted by a city council. a law enacted by a jury was told . . as is authorized by law. without such authorization, compensation cannot be legally paid for services rendered to a city . . . regardless of how beneficial the services performed . . the permissible salaries of city council members based on sets the salaries of city council members for the city of lynwood based on the population in 1995 at 14 to a joint exercise of powers agreement is governed by state law. state law does not authorize any additional compensation for a city council member for serving on the governing body of a financing authority where all of the members of the city council comprise the governing body. therefore, a city council cannot lawfully provide that city council members may be paid additional compensation in such a situation. [] state law does not authorize the payment of additional salary to city council members for serving on the governing body of a non-profit public benefit corporation where all the members pedroza argues the $450 payments for attending lii and lpfa meetings had been lawful until 2006 when an amendment to government code section 36516 became effective. this amendment, which added subdivision (c) to the present statute, provides in pertinent part: not enact an ordinance providing for compensation to city council members in excess of that authorized by the procedures described in [this section]. for purposes of this section, compensation includes payment for service by a city council member on a commission, committee, board, authority, or similar body on which the city council member serves8 we agree with pedroza that the legislature intended the italicized language to close a gap in the statutory scheme which had apparently encouraged various cities to sidestep lawful salary limits by compensating city council members for sitting on various municipal boards and agencies. a california bill analysis of this legislation stated: unregulated compensation to city council members. . . . [] . . . [s]ome city councils 8 pedroza also asserts this amendment never applied to him because by the time it was enacted he was no longer on the city council. however, the record indicates pedroza remained on the city council until he was recalled in a 2007 election. in any event, resolution of this factual question does not ultimately matter because we agree with the attorney general that the amendment to government code section 36516 did not alter 15 have compensated their members with hundreds, or even thousands of dollars per month for serving on a cdc [community development commission]. the author points to the city of huntington park, which awards its city council members $1,950 per month for serving on the cdc, as a prime example of this abuse. [] [additionally, t]he authoroffice has provided . . . information regarding the city of compton, where council members may receive: [] a) $600 per month for serving the council; [] b) $1,000 ($1,600 for the mayor) per month for serving on the urban community development commission; [] c) $1,000 per month for serving on the public finance authority; [] d) $1,000 per month for serving on the housing development commission; and [] e) $400 per month for serving on the gaming commission. [] none of these offices have a compensation amount prescribed in statute, and only the urban community development commission is actually authorized by statute. the remainder are created under the general powers of the city. [] . . . the state provides cities with a broad base of authority to exercise powers in order to do the work of the people. however, the committee may wish to consider whether paying some council members in excess of $4,500 per month over and above their salaries for the performance of official duties is an abuse of this authority, especially given the fact that a majority of the council members also have full time jobs outside government, rep. on assem. bill no. 11 (2005-2006 reg. sess.) as amended april 11, 2005, pp. 2-4, italics added.) was not closed until 2006 does not mean that before then pedroza was authorized to receive $450 every time he attended lii or how section 424 operates. as stark the officer . . . acts without authorityit may be , was expressly prohibited by particular lawful authoritystark v. superior court, supra, 52 cal.4th, at p. 397 & fn. 9, italics added.) the fact the legislature enacted assembly bill no. 11 to close this loophole by expressly prohibiting the kind of excess 16 compensation pedroza and byrd were being paid for attending lii and lpfa meetings is different from there having previously been lawful authority allowing these payments.9 as stark this form of compensation was received, then the defendant was in violation of section 424 (if the required mental element existed). (see id. at p. 397, fn. 9.) on these agencies was [sic] illegal as lynwood was a general law city [that] could not t by implicitly saying the same thing about the lpfa. what the prosecution did argue to the jury was a different theory: that the defendants had not been authorized to receive $450 for attending lii and lpfa meetings. the prosecution noted, for example, that the lii and lpfa founding documents prohibited serving city council members from receiving compensation,10 and that in any event the lynwood city council never authorized the 1998 requests for compensation. on appeal, the attorney general has argued that pedroza failed to cite 9 it is clear that assembly bill no. 11 was intended to close this loophole only prospectively, and that it was not intended to retroactively authorize past payments or establish that such compensation had been authorized in the past. 10 the record shows that the very documents creating the lii and the lpfa provided that there was to be no compensation paid to city council members who served on these agencies. lii was created in 1981 as a nonprofit public benefit corporation, and its articles of incorporation (at section 4.1992 as a result of a joint exercise of powers agreement between the city of lynwood and the lynwood redevelopment agency. the agreement states (at section [lpfa], which shall be the city council as provi 17 compensation by serving on boards such as the lii and lpfa when the only reason they were on such boards was because of their status as a city counof the agencies themselves was never in question. pedroza has simply misconstrued the valid. in sum, we conclude the jury was not instructed on any invalid theory. 2. the jury was not misinstructed on the mental element of section 424. the defendants contend their convictions must be reversed because the trial court misinstructed the jury on the mental element required to find there had been a violation of section 424. there is no merit to this claim. the given instructions were derived from settled case law. defendants object to an instruction that stated, act in strict compliance with the law and must take reasonable steps to determine the appropriateness of their conduct. public officials who are authorized to direct the expenditure of public monies bear a peculiar public responsibility to use or disburse them only in strict compliance with the law. it although challenged by defendants, this language comes almost verbatim from the ision in stark[citation.] they are expected to take reasonably necessary steps to determine the appropriatepeople v. stark, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 402.) stark hedged in by legislation most strict and severe in its exactitudes. it has continuously been the policy of the law that the custodians of public moneys or funds should hold and keep id. at pp. 399, 403.) 18 defendants also object to an instruction stating however, as stark public interest served by [section 424] it has been construed very broadly. [citation.] it people v. groat [(1993) 19 cal.app.4th 1228], department who had authority to certify her own time record was a person charged with disbursement of public funds]; people v. evans (1980) 112 cal.app.3d 607 . . . [county aid worker with authority to complete emergency check requisitions for clients was a person charged with disbursement of public money].) thus, while the criminal negligence standard remains the same, its application will necessarily be measured by what is objectively reasonable for the (people v. stark, supra, 52 cal.4th at pp. 400-401, italics added.) defendants also generally that a law prohibited his conduct. the people do not have to prove that the defendant knew his conduct was a crime. nor do the people have to prove the defendant defendants apparently contend this relieved the prosecution of the burden of proving knowledge or criminal negligence. but, again, this language comes directly from starkcommitted by a public officer when he uses public funds in a manner forbidden by law even though he may have no frauhave to prove that the defendant knew chapter and verse of the nonpenal law. it is sufficient that the defendant knew generally that a nonpenal law required or prohibited people v. stark, supra, 52 cal.4th at pp. 391, 398.) managers and city attorneys to advise him of the requirements of the law, and a good faith belief in authorization arising from the consistent approval of his claims by the city 1, defendant subjectively believed that his actions were authorized 19 by law; [] and, 2, this belief was objectively reasonable position and not the result of criminal negligence, then you must find the defendant not language wron consider what was reasonable under the circumstances, one of which was the fact that the defendants were city council members.11 as stark a formulation in light of the purpose of section 424. the statute applies to public officers funds. [citation.] because the legislature intended that such persons fulfill their and indeed embrace the duties the law imposes upon them. it would be antithetical to the intent of the legislature that those entrusted with control of public funds could evade an actual knowledge requirement by failing to conduct the research that would inform them of their duties, or by failing to seek the advice of persons who could provide that information. limiting the requirement to actual knowledge would operate to shield those whose efforts at determining their duties does not comport with the significant public responsibility these individuals bear. [] . . . it would defy the exacting nature of the statute if one could escape criminal liability by claiming lack of subjective knowledge in circumstances that are objectively unreasonable. consequently, we agree with the people that we should construe the applicable subdivisions of section 424 to require actual knowledge or criminal negligencepeople v. stark, supra, 52 cal.4th at pp. 399-400, italics added.) 11 the prosecutor argued to the jury that, as lawmakers, the defendants were aware that lawful authorization was to be found in city ordinances and state law. the prosecutor also pointed out there was no evidence that either defendant had ever sought legal advice regarding their taking of excessive compensation for attending lii and lpfa meetings. (apparently only reyes sought legal advice.) 20 entitled to assume his greatly increased salary for attending lii and lpfa meetings was lawful because other city council members were receiving the same compensation, the attorney hat council members were receiving these $450 payments before he was a council member. he had a duty to investigate the legality of these payments because it is not objectively reasonable for a city councilman to believe that he could legally more than double his monthly salary by sitting in a one-minute meeting of the lii and a one-minute meeting of the lpfa, where they merely approved and filed reports prepared by city staff. as the prosecutor pointed out to the jury, appellant pedroza made more than $100,000 merely through the byrd argues the trial court was wrong to rely on stark scienter element because stark in jury instructions, and so its language concerning mental state is at least partially instruction that included language drawn from dictum in stark even if dictum, is entitled to great weight. (see people v. mayo (1986) 185 cal.app.3d 389, 395.) argument is based on a misreading of stark. robert stark was the auditor-controller of sutter county and he was trying to set aside a grand jury indictment charging him, in part, with having violated section 424. our supreme court granted review to decide, a . . on the ground that grand jurors were misinstructed on the scienter required to establish an element of the charged people v. stark, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 376.) stark concluded that, where 21 law or legal criminally negligent in failing to know, the legal requirements that governed the act or omission. (id. at p. 377.) stark was indeed deciding what mental elements were required to sustain a section 424 conviction. and this is why the supreme court subsequently remanded such section 424 cases as people v. aldana (2012) 206 cal.app.4th 1247, and people v. bradley, supra, 208 cal.app.4th 64, to the appellate court for reconsideration in light of its decision in stark. in sum, we conclude the trial court did not misinstruct the jury on the proper mental element required to sustain a section 424 conviction. disposition the judgments are affirmed. not to be published in the official reports edmon, p. j. we concur: kitching, j. aldrich, j. 