filed 3/3/14 p. v. mitchell ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jadon mitchell, defendant and appellant. b244990 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na078788) appeal from an order of the superior court of the county of los angeles, judith meyer, judge. affirmed. boyce & schaefer, laura g. schaefer, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., supervising deputy attorney general, allison h. chung, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction on appeal, defendant and appellant jadon mitchell (defendant) contends that the sentencing order and abstract of judgment in a case in which he pleaded nolo contendere to committing grand theft of an automobile should be amended to state that his term of in a subsequent case in which he was sentenced for committing second degree robbery ( 212.5, subd. (c)). we affirm the order. procedural background defendant pleaded nolo contendere to grand theft of an automobile ( 487, subd. (d)(1)) in los angeles county superior court case number na07878auto case. the trial court suspended imposition of sentence; defendant was placed on three years of formal probation with several terms and conditions, including serving 21 days in county jail. thereafter, defendant was subsequently charged with three counts of second degree robbery ( 212.5, subd. (c)) in orange county superior court case number . the trial court in the grand theft auto case revoked . then, in the robbery case, defendant was sentenced to five years in state prison. defendant filed, in propria persona, in the grand theft auto case, a request for disposition of probation pursuant to section 1203.2a.,1 and a motion for imposition of 1 section 1203.2a, provided on probation is committed to a prison in this state or another state for another offense, the court which released him or her on probation shall have jurisdiction to impose sentence, if no sentence has previously been imposed for the offense for which he or she was granted probation, in the absence of the defendant, on the request of the defendant made through his or her counsel, or by himself or herself in writing . . . . [] . . . [] . . . if sentence has not been previously imposed and if the defendant has requested the court through counsel or in writing in the manner herein provided to impose sentence in the case in which he or she was released on probation in his or her absence and without the presence of counsel to represent him or her, the court shall impose sentence and issue its 3 sentence in absence of defendant under section 1203.2a, stating that he was serving a five-year sentence in state prison the robbery case and requesting that his probation be revoked in the grand theft auto case. on february 29, 2012, the trial court held a hearing at which defendant was not present or represented by counsel. at the hearing, the trial court probation in the grand theft auto case, sentenced defendant to the upper term of three years, awarded defendant 21 days of custody credits, and the minute order of the hearing states that the abstract of judgment sconcurrently with any other case on october 4, 2012, defendant filed, in propria persona, in the grand theft auto case a motion pursuant to section 1237.1,2 to correct presentence credits arguing that because his sentence in the grand theft auto case was ordered by the trial court to be concurrent with his sentence in the robbery case, he was entitled to presentence credits for being in custody for the robbery case, referring to section 1203.2a and people v. como (1975) 49 cal.app.3d 604. on that same date, the trial court denied the motion to correct presentence credits. commitment, or shall make other final order terminating its jurisdiction over the defendant in the case in which the order of probation was made. . . . [] upon imposition of sentence hereunder the commitment shall be dated as of the date upon which probation was granted. if the defendant is then in a state prison for an offense committed subsequent to the one upon which he or she has been on probation, the term of imprisonment of such defendant under a commitment issued hereunder shall commence upon the date upon which defendant was delivered to prison under commitment for his or her subsequent offense. any terms ordered to be served consecutively shall be served as 2 section 1237.1, stjudgment of conviction on the ground of an error in the calculation of presentence custody credits, unless the defendant first presents the claim in the trial court at the time of sentencing, or if the error is not discovered until after sentencing, the defendant first 4 on november 7, 2012, defendant filed a notice of appeal the date the trial court denied to correct presentence credits discussion the attorney general contends that defendants appeal is untimely because he should have appealed from the original sentence imposed on february 29, 2012. we disagree. the denial of defendants motion to correct presentence credits affects his substantial rights. (people v. hyde the propriety of an order denying [a motion for credit for presentence jail time] is obviously an order which affects the substantial rights of the appealable under section 1237an appeal may be taken by the defendant . . . (b) from any order made after judgment, affecting the substantial rights of the party defendant contends that pursuant to section 1203.2a and people v. como, supra, 49 cal.app.3d 604, the february 29, 2012, sentencing order and the abstract of judgment in the grand theft auto case should be amended to state that his term of imprisonment in the robbery case. modification of the sentencing order and the abstract of judgment are unnecessary. who has been imprisoned for another offense can obtain a disposition of the offense for which he or she was granted probation. [citation.] the underlying purpose of section 1203.2a is to permit persons who have been committed to prison for offenses committed being placed on probation to ask the court to exercise discretion in determining whether to order the suspended sentence to run concurrently with the current one. [citations.] that is, it is to prevent inadvertent consecutive sentences which would deprive the probationer of his right to apply for concurrent sentencing. people v. bethea (1990) 223 cal.app.3d 917, 922.) unless the trial court orders consecutive sentences, the term of the 5 offense for which probation was granted upon the date upon which defendant was delivered to prison under commitment for his or her subsequent offense.1203.2a.) the february 29, 2012, sentencing order states that is, the term of the offense in the grand theft he date upon which defendant reliance on people v. como, supra, 49 cal.app.3d 604 is misplaced. in that case, como, the defendant, was sentenced to state prison on a robbery conviction, and execution of the sentence was suspended and probation granted . (id. at p. 607.) in two subsequent cases, como pleaded guilty to two charges of grand theft and was sentenced to state prison for those offenses . (id. at pp. 607-608.) revoked probation and issued a bench warrant for arrest. when como appeared before the trial court in his robbery case, he explained that he had been in jail based on his grand theft cases, and requested credit on his sentence in his robbery case commencing with the first date of his incarceration in his grand theft cases. the trial court in gave como credit on his sentence and ordered the sentence into execution. (id. at p. 608.) como contended that the trial court failed to give full credit for the time he had spent in custody. (id. at p. 610.) in affirming a modified order sentencing como, the court held that section 1203.2a applied to comoa consecutive sentence. the order d is ordered 669.) [] to avoid misunderstanding [therefore], that order should recite that pursuant to section 1203.2a the term of imprisonment shall commence upon the date [como] was sentence(people v. como, supra, 49 cal.app.3d at p. 612.) 6 here the sentencing order and abstract of judgment do not create the misunderstanding that was present in people v. como, supra, 49 cal.app.3d 604. the trial court expressly ordered that grand theft auto sentence be served concurrently withhis sentence in the robbery case. the february 29, 2012, sentencing order, and the abstract of judgment, accurately reflect the sentence imposed by the trial court in the grand theft auto case. accordingly, rm of imprisonment in the grand theft auto case commences upon the date on which he was delivered to prison under commitment in the robbery case. defendant therefore is unnecessary to the abstract of judgment. disposition the order is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. mosk, j. we concur: turner, p. j. kriegler, j. 