filed 12/30/13 p. v. hernandez ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. giovanni hernandez, defendant and appellant. b244259 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sa061371) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, michael e. pastor, judge. affirmed. john steinberg, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and eric j. kohm, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________________ 2 a jury convicted giovanni hernandez of first degree murder (count 1; pen. code,  187, subd. (a));1 four counts of attempted premeditated murder (counts 2-5;  664 & 187, subd. (a)); and shooting at an occupied motor vehicle (count 6;  246). as to each count, the jury found that hernandez personally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury or death ( 12022.53, subd. (d)) and committed the crime for the benefit of a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)). the trial court sentenced hernandez to a total term of 50 years to life in state prison.2 we affirm. facts the underlying shooting in 2006, the culver city boys gang and sotel 13 gang were rivals. in the months leading up to july 2006, hernandez began saying to people, including his friend edy hernandez,3 and a gang unit police officer, that he was a member of the sotel 13 gang. in the early morning hours of july 30, 2006, los angeles police department (lapd) officer irene castro and her partner responded to the area around sawtelle and national boulevards after receiving a radio call regarding shots fired. on arriving at the scene, officer castro saw a green mustang with a shattered rear window and a bullet hole in the front windshield. other officers at the scene stated that the victim, jon carillo, had already been transported to the hospital. officer castro and her partner went to the hospital to ask carillo if he knew who shot him. carillo was being treated and conscious and talking to doctors and hospital staff, but hospital staff informed officer castro that carillo had sustained gunshot wounds to the knee, forearm and the back. carillo was a member of the sotel 13 gang. in the opinion of a police gang expert who testified was a shotcaller 1 all section references are to the penal code except where noted otherwise. 2 hernandez was 21 years old on the date of sentencing. 3 not meaning any disrespect, but for easy reference, we refer to edy hernandez as edy. 3 . he was probably also gang. an other members. the shooting incident by hernandez felicia p. lived with her uncle and other relatives in an apartment on mclaughlin street.4 the murder victim, gary o., was and he sometimes stayed at the apartment. felicia knew gary o. and robert c. to be members of the culver city boys gang. felix p., jr., associated with members of the sotel 13 gang. felicia and hernandez were friends. felicia did not know whether hernandez was a gang member. felicia was also friends with shooting victims carillo, jose z., and oscar m. she knew all three to be sotel 13 gang members. on july 30, 2006, felicia woke up to a phone call from her friend . christine told felicia that carillo had been shot. one of felicia thoughts was that a rival gang member must have shot sotel 13 gang. later, felicia received phone calls from both oscar m. and jose z. in one call, oscar casually asked felicia who else was in the apartment with her. felicia told oscar that gary and robert were in the apartment. in other calls, jose and oscar both wanted to know what robert and gary would be doing that day, and felicia told jose and oscar that robert and gary would be leaving the apartment soon to go to the beach. at about 11:20 a.m. on july 30, 2006, vanessa g., her sister sophia g., and their friends victor g. and rudy d. drove to felicia papartment where gary o. and robert c. were staying. rudy was driving. vanessa and the others parked and waited outside of the apartment, and vanessa used her phone to call gary and let him know that they had arrived. tfor about 10 minutes before gary headed down from the apartment. 4 felicia testified at a first trial in late 2010. she did not testify at a second trial at which hernandez was convicted. her testimony from the first trial was read to the jury at the second trial. 4 gary got into the car in the rear passenger seat behind rudy d. sophia told gary to call robert c. and tell him to hurry. at about that same moment, a four-door car drove up from behind and stopped alongside in which vanessa and the others were waiting.5 vanessa believed there were four males in the other car; she saw hernandez seated in the rear passenger seat and heard him ask, understood the question to be gang-related. sophia saw and heard hernandez vanessa and sophia immediately told rudy to drive away. as rudy tried to drive away, hernandez began shooting at the car. he fired the gun at least five times. vanessa ducked until she heard the other car drive away from the scene. rudy was shot and crashed the car into a parked car. once gary said he had been shot. vanessa got out of the car, , and opened the door. rudy had been shot in the head and appeared to be dead. vanessa tried to speak to rudy, but he did not respond. his head was resting on the steering wheel. gary was clutching his own stomach, and vanessa dragged him out of the car to the curb. sophia tried to speak to gary, but he only made noises in pain. victor g. had also been shot, but was able to get out of the car on his own. by then, robert c. had come outside, and vanessa told him to call the police. sophia began shouting out for someone to call an ambulance. at trial, vanessa and sophia both identified hernandez as the shooter. both testified they were that hernandez was the shooter. william k. was returning to his home on mclaughlin street and saw a light green car blocking where he wanted to pull in. william parked his vehicle, approached the car and asked the driver to pull forward. three men who looked hispanic and had short hair were in the car. two were seated in the front and one in the rear; the doors appeared to be ajar. the driver nodded in response to williams request, but made no eye contact. as soon as the car pulled forward and william pulled his car into park, he heard what he 5 i want to say blue gray tarnished like old car . . . 5 thought might be firecrackers. william looked down the street and saw a man standing on the street. the man fired two gunshots into a car. the man jumped back into the car that william had approached seconds earlier, and the car drove off. theodore r. and his friend were apartment building on mclaughlin street when he heard sounds that at first sounded like they are shooting over theodore looked in the direction his friend had indicated and saw a car, which he thought was a] late , early mazda or toyota or something like that. theodore heard four or five more gunshots, and saw an arm extending from the front passenger side window of the car; he was about 150 feet from the car and was not sure exactly which window. immediately after the shots were fired, the car came speeding towards the area where theodore and his friend friend said they should both duck, and they both did. as they were down, it sounded like the car stopped next to them. when they heard neighbors outside on the street, they thought it was safe to sit up and get out of the truck. theodore walked in the direction of the shooting. he told one of the victims that help was on the way. theodore walked toward a car that was still running and pressed up against a parked car. he saw gunshot wounds to the head. theodore figured the driver was dead and tried to help the other victims. blake h. lived in the area and heard the gunshots. he ran outside to see what had happened and saw a four-door maroon toyota or honda speeding away from the scene. blake thought he saw three men in the car, as well as a puff of smoke coming from where the car seemed to have sped away. he believed the first two characters on the license blake provided this information to the police. police responded to the scene. an ambulance transported gary o., victor g., and rudy d. to the hospital. vanessa tried to speak with the police and tell them what had transpired, but she was so upset that she could barely get out any words. sophia also spoke to the police. gary died as a result of internal injuries caused by the gunshot wound to his abdomen. rudy suffered permanent brain injuries which cause seizures. 6 after the shooting, hernandez called his friend edy. he told edy to turn on the television because the news was covering something that had just happened in the neighborhood. edy turned on the news and saw the coverage of the shooting, which included information that gary o. had died.6 about two weeks after the shooting (august 14, 2006), vanessa g. and sophia g. -pack arrays. in march 2008, vanessa g. identified hernandez from a live lineup. the criminal case in november 2006, the people filed an information charging hernandez with murder (count 1;  187, subd. (a)); four counts of attempted premeditated murder (counts 2-5;  664 & 187, subd. (a)); and shooting at an occupied motor vehicle (count 6;  246). as to all counts, the information alleged that hernandez personally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury or death ( 12022.53, subd. (d)) and that he committed the offense for the benefit of a criminal street gang ( 186.22). at a first trial in late 2010 into 2011, a jury was unable to reach verdicts. the case was tried to a jury a second time in spring 2012. in june 2012, the jury returned verdicts finding hernandez guilty on all counts as stated at the outset of this opinion. the trial court sentenced hernandez to a total aggregate term of 50 years to life as follows: on count 1 (first degree murder) a term of 25 years to life, plus a consecutive term of 25-years-to-life for the personal firearm use enhancement; on counts 2 through 5 (four counts of attempted premeditated murder) concurrent terms of 15 years to life with 25 years to life for the personal firearm use enhancements; and on count 6 (shooting at a motor vehicle) a concurrent term of 15-years to life with 25 years to life for the personal firearm use enhancement. 6 police arrested hernandez on august 24, 2006, and seized a cell phone in his possession. at trial, evidence from the cell phone showed that 30 calls were made to or from the phone between midnight and 7:54 a.m. on july 30, 2006. other phone records july 30, 2006 (the time of the shooting); all four calls went to voicemail. 7 hernandez filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion i. gang evidence despite the fact that he was charged with a gang allegation, hernandez contends his convictions must be reversed because the trial court allowed the prosecution to admit photographs of him with firearms and to question a number of witnesses regarding his gang status. hernandez argues this was inadmissible on several grounds and that its repeated use at trial violated his due process rights under federal and state constitutional standards. we are not persuaded. the evidence 1. prosecution witness edy hernandez the prosecution first sought to introduce gang-related photographs of hernandez during the testimony of edy. as noted above, edy testified that hernandez made statements suggesting that he had been involved in the shooting. edy further testified that he and hernandez were friends. edy admitted he was associated with the sotel 13 gang, but was not a member of the gang. when the prosecutor asked edy whether or not hernandez , edy answered that, in 2006, he had told detectives that hernandez claimed sotel. in this vein, edy identified a photograph of hernandez with other gang members in mar vista park. on cross-examination, edy testified that, in 2006, neither he nor hernandez had actually been jumped into the sotel 13 gang. on redirect examination, edy reiterated his testimony that, in 2006, hernandez edy explained: he was from [sotel 13]. i remember. showed edy a photograph of hernandez with others whom edy recognized as sotel 13 gang members. hernandez was throwing a sotel 13 gang sign in the photograph. the prosecutor also asked edy if he had ever seen hernandez with a gun? edy answered, did, would that change edy answered, 8 2. the gang expert t lapd officer agustin lopez, testified about his familiarity with hispanic gangs, their hierarchy, how one becomes a member of a gang, and the strong likelihood of retaliation by violence in the event of violence perpetrated against their own gang by a rival. officer lopez testified the primary activities of sotel 13, about which he is an expert, include murder, attempted murder, robbery, grand theft auto, vandalism and gun possession. he indicated that hernandez admitted he had been he opined the culver city boys were rivals of sotel 13 and that based on a hypothetical arising from the facts of the shooting in this case, that it was committed on behalf of a gang in retaliation against rivals. the prosecutor questioned officer lopez about the photographs of hernandez and other sotel 13 gang members with firearms and throwing gang signs. during the course of these exchanges, officer lopez testified that hernandez was a 3. defense witness j.h. sister, j.h., testified as a defense alibi witness. on direct examination, she testified that of 2006 that he was hanging out in the park with sotel 13 gang members. she testified that hernandez participated in soccer tournaments and was enrolled in a confirmation program at their church. she did not offer an opinion whether he was a gang member. on cross-examination, j.h. reiterated that hernandez gang members a lot that summer when t think your j.h. answered, . the prosecutor proceeded to show j.h. the photographs of hernandez firing a weapon, holding a weapon in the presence of other gang members and throwing gang signs. the prosecutor asked j.h. if the photographs changed her opinion whether hernandez was a gang member. j.h. 9 4. other defense witnesses the prosecutor used the photographs again during the father, mother, and brother, all who testified as defense alibi witnesses. the scenario was largely the same as to all three witnesses all testified that hernandez had been hanging out with gang members leading up to the time of the shooting, but none offered an opinion as to whether hernandez, in fact, was a gang member. then, on cross-gang membership, and showed them the photographs, and asked whether the photographs hernandeztestified on direct examination that hernandez was hanging out with people his father did not approve of in stoner park. he did not offer an opinion whether hernandez was a gang member. on cross-examination, mr. hernandez testified that he often went to stoner park to pick up hernandez. he told detective lumbreras that hernandez was hanging out with gang members. the prosecutor asked if he had ever seen hernandez with a gun. n the prosecutor then asked if he believed hernandez was a gang member. no, i the prosecutor showed him a photograph of hernandez holding a gun and asked whether it changed his opinion. knew he was hanging out with those guys. but i know him, and he lived at home. wed him a photograph of hernandez shooting a gun you react to seeing your son practicing shooting a weapon like that? does that change your mind at all that maybe he he responded, n hernandez testified on direct examination that she told hernandez not to hang out in the park because a police officer told her gang members congregated there. she saw him in the park with gang members. she testified that hernandez was involved in soccer and confirmation classes. she did not offer an opinion whether hernandez was a gang member. 10 on cross-examination, mrs. hernandez testified that hernandez went to the park every day in the summer of 2006. she threw away some of his clothes because he was dressing like a gang member. the prosecutor asked if the police officer who warned her not to allow hernandez to go to the park also told her that hernandez was a gang member. mrs. hernandez responded that the officer did not assert hernandez was a gang member, but counseled her. the prosecutor showed mrs. hernandez a photograph of hernandez with other gang members throwing gang signs a little bit like a gang photograph of hernandez holding a gun and asked whether he was allowed to go shooting. she responded that he was not. the prosecutor asked if the photograph changed her opinion whether hernandez was a gang member. hernandez.h., jr. testified on direct examination, that hernandez with people . . . that might have been just the wrong crowd . . . i offer an opinion whether hernandez was a gang member. on cross-examination, the prosecutor showed the witness photographs of hernandez throwing gang signs , and asked whether the photographs changed his opinion responded, prosecutor then showed the witness photographs of hernandez holding a gun and shooting a gun , and asked if the photographs changed his opinion. . it is something i aware h analysis hernandez argues the prosecution established his relationship with the sotel 13 gang with evidence independent of the photographs of him holding and shooting firearms. he contends the prosecution overused the gang evidence to ,constitutional right to due process. his arguments rely on cases addressing claims that 11 trial courts erred in admitting gang evidence (see, e.g., people v. albarran (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 214, 223-232 (albarran)), or in admitting cumulative evidence (see, e.g., people v. williams (2009) 170 cal.app.4th 587, 611 (williams)). to prevail on a claim that he was denied a fair trial or due process of law by the erroneous, and that the error was so prejudicial that it rendered his trial fundamentally unfair. people v. garcia (2008) 168 cal.app.4th 261, 275.) only if there are no permissible inferences the jury may draw from the evidence can its admission sarily dispositive issue is . . . whether the trial court committed an error which rendered the trial (albarran, supra,149 cal.app.4th at pp. 229-230, fn. omitted.) as has been noted, the information charged hernandez with counts for murder, attempted murder, and shooting at a motor vehicle, and included allegations as to all of the counts that he personally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury or death ( 12022.53, subd. (d)) and that he committed the crimes for the benefit of a criminal street gang ( 186.22). the prosecution had the burden of proving the elements of the substantive offenses, and the ancillary allegations, beyond a reasonable doubt. it follows, that the prosecution was allowed to introduce evidence to satisfy its burden of proof as to all aspects of the case, including the gang allegations. in order to prove the gang allegation, the prosecution must prove that the felonious conduct was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang members. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1).) in addition, the prosecution must prove that the gang (1) is an ongoing association of three or more persons with a common name or common identifying sign or symbol; (2) has as one of its primary activities the commission of one or more of the criminal acts enumerated in the statute; and 12 (3) includes members who either individually or collectively have engaged in a pattern of criminal gang activity by committing, attempting to commit, or soliciting two or more of the enumerated offenses (the so-called predicate offenses) during the statutorily defined period. ( 186.22, subds. (e) and (f).) (people v. gardeley [(1996)] 14 cal.4th [605,] 616-617.) (people v. hernandez (2004) 33 cal.4th 1040, 1047 (hernandez).) given the burden of proving this allegation, the trial court did not err in allowing the introduction of gang photographs. in addition, evidence of gang membership is admissible to help prove identity, motive, specific intent or other issues pertinent to a charged crime. (hernandez, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 1049.) hernandezthe gang expert could not be questioned about the basis for his opinions, including being questioned about photographs gang-related activities, are simply not persuasive. appropriate. there is no rule that limits the proof of a gang allegation to the testimony of insubstantial. the testimony from defense witnesses that hernandez was not a gang member was properly rebutted by the evidence presented by the prosecutor. the evidence was also properly admitted to impeach the civilian witnesses. evidence that bears on the credibility of a testimony is relevant and admissible (evid. code,  785; people v. abel (2012) 53 cal.4th 891, 924-925) and afforded that goes to credibility (people v. winston (1956) 46 cal.2d 151, 157). a trial court has discretion to admit or exclude relevant impeachment evidence under evidence code section 352. (people v. clark (2011) 52 cal.4th 856, 932.) bgreat variety of factual situations in which the issue ariseseded to deal with each such situation, and is ordinarily upheld. (ibid.) a court abuses its discretion when its ruling is arbitrary or capricious or unreasonable, all circumstances considered. (people v. branch (2001) 91 cal.app.4th 274, 282.) 13 during cross examination, edy testified that neither he nor hernandez had actually been jumped into the sotel 13 gang. this was plainly a tactical decision by defense counsel trial court accurately observed, the shooting had earmarks of a gang shooting), as well as to challenge the gang enhancement allegations. as for the family member defense witnesses, they all testified that they had known hernandez was hanging around with the the shooting, but did not acknowledge nor deny that he was a gang member. having made the tactical decision to attack the gang aspects of the case against hernandez, the prosecutor was permitted to present evidence attacking the credibility of those witnesses for impeachment purposes. (evid. code,  785.) the trial court did not act unreasonably in allowing the prosecutor to examine witness edy and to cross-examine membership, and, in doing so, using the photographs showing his gang activities, subject to the protections of evidence code section 352. and such rulings under evidence code people v. falsetta (1999) 21 cal.4th 903, 919-922.) the cases cited by hernandez do not support the proposition that a defendant has a due process right to shield a witness from gang evidence that impeaches his or her credibility, where, as here, the evidence is relevant to two of the defense witnesses went further testified that he was involved in soccer, and was enrolled in a confirmation program at their church. this too was plainly a tactical decision designed to show hernandezto implicitly suggest he would not have been involved in a gang shooting. challenge that characterization. (evid. code,  1102, subd. (b).) with regard to hernandez claims the evidence was only offered to show propensity to commit crimes. not so. as we have noted, the evidence was 14 relevant to prove the gang allegation; it was also relevant to the motive and identity of the shooter. we agree with hernandez that the use of gang evidence to show criminal propensity may be problematic. (see albarran, supra, 149 cal.app.4th at p. 228.) but albarran in support of his position on this case is misplaced in this case. albarran was found guilty of attempted murder, shooting at an inhabited dwelling and attempted kidnapping for carjacking. as to each count, a gang enhancement allegation was found true. thereafter, a motion for new trial was granted as to the gang allegations, but the trial court found sufficient evidence to support each of the underlying convictions. on appeal, division seven of this court determined that the trial court should have granted a new trial as to the underlying convictions as well because the gang evidence, properly admitted to prove the gang allegations which were subsequently subject to the new trial order, prejudiced his trial on the underlying charges. (albarran, supra, at pp. 230-231.) obviously, this case is different because the gang allegations were not subject to order for new trial. hernandez also argues the repeated use of the gang evidence created a problem of cumulative evidence. but his trial did not involve a situation where a prosecutor -proveda problem of cumulative, prejudicial evidence. (see williams, supra, 170 cal.app.4th at pp. 610-611.) the prosecutor did not call a list of witnesses, each of whom presented in turn a of previous id. at p. 610.) sheer volume of evidence extended the trial and the burden on the judicial system and the jurors beyond reasonable limits . . . id. at p. 611.) here, the prosecutor did no more than challenge the credibility of defense witnesses as they testified, as is the right of every party at trial. s on appeal do not persuade us to find a constitutional due process error. the gang evidence was properly admitted for a purpose other than showing criminal propensity. in summaryunlike albarran, supra, 149 cal.app.4th 214, where irrelevant, prejudicial gang evidence regarding such 15 matters as the mexican mafia was admitted to no discernible end other than to poison the unlike williams, supra, 170 cal.app.4th 587, where there was continuous drumbeat of gang evidence to no discernible end other a legitimate purpose other than causing the jury to convict based on gang animus rather than the evidence.7 finally, hernandez contends his convictions must be reversed because the trial court erred in allowing the prosecutor to use gang evidence to impeach the testimony of the defense lay witnesses. specifically, he argues that the use of gang evidence to impeach a witness should not be allowed when the evidence is more prejudicial than probative. he cites cases such as united states v. tsosie (10th cir. 2008) 288 fed. appx. 496, 499 (tsosie). we are not persuaded to reverse. in tsosie, the defendant was convicted of assault offenses on lands within, in the language of the federal statutes, indian country. the government cross examined three defense witnesses with regard to their gang affiliation.tsosie, supra, 288 fed. appx. at p. 499.) the 10th circuit court of appeals affirmed, applying this rule: evidence of gang affiliation is admissible for proving a witnesss bias when a proper foundation is laid and the evidence is not more prejudicial to the defendant than probative to an issue at trial. (ibid.) the court of appeals explainedthe district court was within its discretion in allowing [the] questioning [on gang affiliation]. first, the government met its burden of laying a proper foundation by showing tsosie and the three defense witnesses (derrick ross, adrian beletso, and elton beletso) were members of the same gang- viz., the west 7 in so far as hernandez contends his convictions must be reversed because the opinions of lay witnesses as to whether he was a member of the sotel gang were improperly admitted at trial, his argument falters. if a lay witness, without any personal knowledge, offered an opinion that a defendant was a gang member, and the lay witness opinion was used to prove a gang aspect or gang enhancement involved in a case, we might potentially see an issue. but this is simply not the context for the use of the lay 16 side crips. . . . [] nor was the gang evidence unduly prejudicial under [federal rules of evidence,] rule 403. evidence that the defense witnesses were biased in favor of their fellow gang member was highly probative. [see u.s. v. keys (10th cir. 1990)] 899 f.2d at 987-88; [u.s. v. abel (1984) ] 469 u.s. at 52 . . . ( and a partys common membership in an organization . . . is certainly probative of bias.) . . . . although gang membership can be prejudicial, the district court mitigated this problem by giving the jury a limiting instruction which said, evidence of possible gang membership may be considered by you for the sole purpose of evaluating the credibility of witnesses derrick ross, elton beletso, and adrian beletso and not for any other purpose. . . . this limiting instruction diminished any prejudicial effect of the evidence. [(abel, 469 u.s. at p. 55 . . . (noting courts offer to give limiting instruction ensure[d] that the admission of this highly probative evidence did not unduly prejudice defendant).)] redibility. it provided a basis for the jurors to assess testimony that hernandez was a soccer-playing, church-attending kid. we do not find it unduly prejudicial. the tsosie opinion is largely a discussion of the rules of federal evidence, which mostly correspond with an evidence code section 352 analysis under state process claim on appeal. for all the reasons discussed above, we do not view entally unfair based on the presentation of the gang evidence in the context of impeachment. for all of the reasons stated above, we do not find that the gang evidence, viewed as a cumulative matter, resulted in a denial of due process. the evidence was properly ii. prosecutorial misconduct hernandez contends his convictions must be reversed based upon prosecutorial misconduct. specifically, hernandez argues the prosecutor engaged in wrongful cross-examinations of defense witnesses for the sole purpose of presenting inflammatory evidence of his gang membership and activities. 17 for the reasons explained above in addressing and approving of the use of gang evidence, gang evidence at trial. although a prosecutor may be found to have engaged in misconduct by intentionally eliciting inadmissible evidence (see people v. smithey (1999) explained above, the gang evidence was admitted for a proper purpose. assuming that misconduct occurred in the use of some limited portion of the gang evidence, we are not persuaded to reverse. commits reversible misconduct only if the conducas to make the resulting conviction a denial of due process. [citation.] by contrast, our reprehensible methods to persuade either the courmore favorable to the defendant woul [citation].(people v. davis (2009) 46 cal.4th 539, 612.) in applying those standards, neither dictate reversal here. iii. the excluded defense evidence issue hernandez contends his convictions must be reversed because the trial court erred -graph in a six-pack array as the shooter. we disagree. after the shooting, lapd detective joe lumbreras prepared a six-pack array of photographs to show to victim rudy d. the six-pack lineup included a photograph of hernandez and a photograph of luis c. at the hospital, detective lumbreras showed the six-pack to rudy, and started asking him as to the photographs something to the effect, luis8 8 the context of the out-of-court identification from the six-pack was shown by statements from the lawyers. there was no evidentiary hearing. 18 during a break shortly before detective lumbreras took the stand to testify, ndicated to the court that the defense intended to question the detective another person as the shooter as described above. -of-court identification was inadmissible hearsay, and that the evidence should be excluded under evidence code section 352 because delving into the matter would be more prejudicial, time consuming and confusing than probative. the trial court ruled that the evidence inadmissible.9 the governing law hearsay evidence has two elements. it is evidence of a statement that was made 1200, subd. (a).) evidenc 1200, subd. (b).) hernandez acknowledges the hospital in response to detective was made other than by a witness while tamounted to a statement to also agrees -of-court statement was offered to prove the truth of the matter stated. as hernandez states in his oidentification of luis c[.] was relevant evidence of third-party culpability, capable of raising a reasonable doubt of . . . guilt . . . -of- -of-court statement was admissible as a spontaneous statement under evidence code section 1240. section 1240 reads: evidence of a statement is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule if the statement: [] (a) purports to narrate, describe, or explain an act, condition, or event perceived by the declarant; and [] (b) was made 9 the trial court had disqualified rudy from testifying at trial after his neurologist testified that rudy had suffered brain damage in the shooting, that he had recurrent seizures, and that testifying would create a risk of causing a seizure. 19 spontaneously while the declarant was under the stress of excitement caused by such perception. deliberation or reflection. [citation.] determining whether a declaration is sufficiently reliable to be admissible under this exception to the hearsay rule is . . . the mental state of the speaker. the nature of the utterance how long it was made after the startling incident and whether the speaker blurted it out, for example may be important, but solely as an indicator of the mental state of (people v. raley (1992) 2 cal.4th 870, 892-893 (raley).) whether a statement was a spontaneous statement admissible under evidence code section 1240 is a question of fact. (people v. poggi (1988) 45 cal.3d 306, 318.) the determination of the question for purposes of admissibility is vested in the trial court, not the jury. (ibid.)10 the trial court necessarily exercises an element of discretion in determining the facts. (ibid.) it or exclude evidence as a spontaneous statement is reviewed for abuse of discretion. (people v. phillips (2000) 22 cal.4th 226, 236.) a court abuses its discretion when its decision is arbitrary or beyond the bounds of reason; a factual determinations that is not supported by substantial evidence falls within this framework. (ibid.) out-of-court identification statement was not spontaneous. first, he made the statement well after the shooting. although we do not see specific times stated in the record, we know that a period of time had passed since the shooting to allow for rudy to be transported to the hospital, and for detective lumbreras to have prepared a six-pack. a measureable period of time ensued between the shooting and the statement. although it is true that no mechanically applied time-link required between an event and statement for a statement to qualify as spontaneous under the evidence code (see, e.g., raley, supra, 2 cal.4th at pp. 892-893 [victim statement almost 20 hours after rape, but made immediately after 10 the credibility of the statement ultimately remains with the jury or other trier of fact. 20 victim found in ravine, essentially to first rescuers she encountered after the attack]), there is no indication that rudy spoke when he was first able to do so. this brings us to second, rudy did not spontaneously make his statement. photograph on a wanted poster, and begin pointing and identifying. on the contrary, he lumbreras who pointed to photographs in the six-a thought-about, out-of-court identification, not subject to testing by cross-examination in court. as a result, the evidence was inadmissible hearsay, not subject to the spontaneous statement exception. iv. the defense closing argument issue hernandez contends his convictions must be reversed because the trial court abused its discretion in limiting the defense closing argument. we disagree. before closing argument, hernandezcounsel requested to argue in his closing about famous cases of misidentification. hat he did not want a disruption during argument, and requested an opportunity to provide case authority to the trial court before argument, supporting his intention to discuss other criminal cases where there had been misidentifications. the court agreed to review any materials submitted before argument began. defense counsel sought to make reference to cases such as and the ry. defense counsel also wanted to make reference to comments by united states supreme court justice felix frankfurther on the subject of eyewitness identification, and to news stories in general about people in prison being exonerated by dna evidence later developed by the the trial court directed defense counsel not to e reference to so-called notorious cases by name or by issue. . . . the court ruled that counsel could argue about misidentification [generally]. . . . but we are not going to get into discussions about notorious cases which involve hearsay and . . . undue time consumption. . . . 21 the governing law is a basic element of the adversary factfinding the complete denial of an opportunity to make a closing argument is a violation of the constitutional right to counsel. (herring v. new york (1975) 422 u.s. 853, 858-859, 863 (herring).) in the same vein, right to counsel is denied when a trial court seriously limits defense closing argument, as by precluding reference to an entire theory of defense (conde v. henry (9th cir. 1999) 198 f.3d 734, 739) or by not allowing counsel to argue the significance of evidence critical to a theory of the defense (u.s. v. kellington (9th cir. 2000) 217 f.3d 1084, 1099-1100). at the same time, a trial court is not wholly precluded from governing closing the presiding judge must be and is given great latitude in controlling the duration and limiting the scope of closing summations. he [or she] may limit counsel to a reasonable time and may terminate argument when continuation would be repetitive or redundant. he [or she] may ensure that argument does not stray unduly from the mark, or otherwise impede the fair and orderly conduct of the trial. in all these respects he [or she] must have broad discretion. (herring, supra, 422 u.s. at p. 862; and see also people v. holloway (2004) 33 cal.4th 96, 137.) ury matters of fact of which evidence has already been introduced or of which no evidence need ever be introduced because of their notoriety as judicially [citations.] he may state matters not in evidence that are common knowledge, or are illustrations drawn from common experience, history, or literature. (people v. love (1961) 56 cal.2d 720, 730, disapproved on other grounds in people v. morse (1964) 60 cal.2d 631, 637, fn. 2.) but the trial court retains discretion pursuant to section 104411 argument under the circumstances of each case. (see people v. london (1988) 206 11 section 1044 provides: all proceedings during the trial, and to limit the introduction of evidence and the argument of counsel to relevant and material matters, with a view to the expeditious and effective ascertainment of the truth regarding the 22 cal.app.3d 896, 909.) counsel unsubstantiated (people v. mendoza (1974) 37 cal.app.3d 717, 725 [trial court properly precluded defen counsel from reading newspaper clipping about unrelated crimes, which constituted hearsay material that could only confuse jury with irrelevant facts]; see also people v. sanders (1995) 11 cal.4th 475, 554-555 [trial court properly precluded references to the charles manson case, but allowed defense counsel to argue in general terms that tdefenda victims and nature of crime]; people v. pelayo (1999) 69 cal.app.4th 115, argument by prohibiting references to newspaper articles about individual who was acquitted of sex crimes against children when it discovered children fabricated their stories].) analysis we find the trial court did not abuse its discretion nor improperly impede ly guaranteed fair trial and assistance of counsel rights by restricting closing argument in the manner the court did. as the cases teach, a defendant does not have an absolute constitutional right to present closing argument of the kind and scope that the defendant desires. athe court precluded defense counsel from referring to certain historical cases of misidentification during closing argument. in so doing, the court had concerns about counsel engaging in a continuous loop of presentations concerning unrelated cases of proper identification cases and misidentification cases that would confuse the jury and cause undue delay by requiring discussion of the specific facts of each. the court also did not want to create trials within a trial that would result because the which hernandez wanted to discuss might well not have been within the common knowledge of the jurors.12 it is difficult to make meaningful comparisons with other crimes and cases, even when well publicized, without knowing 12 to be frank, we confess no memory of the pagano and jeeter cases. 23 the specific circumstances of such cases. (people v. roybal (1998) 19 cal.4th 481, 529; people v. marshall (1996) 13 cal.4th 799, 854-855.) all of these concerns expressed by the trial court were legitimate. in addition, the court did not come close to foreclosing defense counsel from arguing misidentification. the court permitted defense counsel to argue the witnesses misidentified hernandez by any other lawful manner apart from reference to other cases. defense counsel did so by arguing that eyewitnesses are , after considering all circumstances, we find no abuse of discretion or denial of the right to counsel or to present a defense but, even assuming the court erred in limiting closing argument, we would not reverse even under the heightened standard of chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24would not have been any different had his defense counsel been allowed to refer to the pagano and jeeter cases. we are amply satisfied that the jury would not any differently had the jurors heard mention of issue based on the v. sentence hernandez contends his sentence of 50 years to life violates the ban on cruel and or unusual punishment under the state and federal constitutions. his arguments implicate the factor of his age at the time he committed his crimes (14 years 11 months). we find no state or federal con article i, section 17 of the california constitution prohibits cruel or unusual punishment. in in re lynch (1972) 8 cal.3d 410 (lynch), our supreme court held a punishment may violate the california its method, it is so disproportionate to the crime for which it is inflicted that it shocks the consc (id. at p. 424.) under lynch, there are three separate prongs of analysis: (1) the nature of the offense and/or the offender, with particular regard to the degree of danger both present to society; (2) a 24 comparison of the challenged penalty with punishments prescribed in the same jurisdiction for different, more serious offenses; and (3) a comparison of the challenged penalty with punishments prescribed for the same offense in other jurisdictions. (id. at pp. 425-427, fn. omitted.) the federal constitutional standard is similar to the state constitutional standard. the eighth amendment to the united states constitution, applicable to the states by the fourteenth amendment, prohibits cruel and unusual punishment. under the federal constitutional examination, a sentence may be cruel and unusual when it is grossly disproportionate to the rime. (see, e.g., solem v. helm (1983) 463 u.s. 277 (solem); harmelin v. michigan (1991) 501 u.s. 957.) in determining whether crime and sentence are unconstitutionally disproportionate, courts are required to must evaluate certain objective criteria including the seriousness of the offense, the penalty imposed, the sentences imposed on others who have committed the same or similar offenses in the same jurisdiction, and the sentences imposed in other jurisdictions for the same or similar offenses. (solem, supra, 463 u.s. at p.292.) issues concerning juvenile offenders and lengthy sentences have been the subject of a number of recent state and federal court decisions. the united states supreme court in graham v. florida (2010) __ u.s. __ [130 s.ct. 2011], held that a sentence of life in prison without the possibility of parole cannot be imposed upon a juvenile defendant for a nonhomicide offense without violating the eighth amendment. in miller v. alabama (2012) __ u.s. __ [132 s.ct. 2455], the united states supreme court held that the eighth amendment prohibits mandatory sentencing schemes that require a term of life in prison without the possibility of parole for juvenile defendants convicted of homicide, without permitting the sentencing court any discretion to consider -related characteristics, and the nature of the crime. (miller, supra, 132 s.ct. at p. 2465.) in people v. caballero (2012) 55 cal.4th 262 (caballero), our supreme court considered graham and miller sentence violated the eighth amendment to the united states constitution. in caballero, the defendant was sentenced to 110 years to life for three counts of attempted murder; he had been 16 years 25 old when he committed his crimes. (id. at p. 265.) our supreme court noted that, in graham, the united states supreme court ruled that the eighth amendment requires state courts to afford juvenile offenders a meaningful opportunity to be released based on demonstrated growth and maturity. in clarifying this standard, graham relied on studies showing the fundamental differences between juvenile and adult minds, including behavior control, which continues to mature through late adolescence, and that juveniles are more capable of change than adults. (caballero, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 266.) as the our supreme court further observed in caballero: graham likened a life without parole sentence for nonhomicide offenders to the death penalty itself, given their youth and the prospect that, as the years progress, juveniles can reform their deficiencies and become contributing members of soci (ibid.) in caballero, our supreme court also noted that miller reiterated grahamfocus them applicable even in a robbery turned homicide situation. (see caballero, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 267.) our supreme court found that miller clarified grahamon life-without-parole sentences in nonhomicide cases involving juvenile defendants, including sentences that amount to the functional equivalent of a term of life-without-parole sentence, as had been imposed in caballero. (caballero, supra, at pp. 267-268.) based on its analysis of miller and graham, our supreme court held in caballero that sentencing a juvenile offender for a nonhomicide offense to a specified term of years, with a parole eligibility date that falls outside the own natural life expectancy, constitutes cruel and unusual punishment. (caballero, supra, at p. 268.) the court reversed and remanded for resentencing in light of these principles. here, we consider the constitutionality of a sentence of 50 years to life on a defendant 14 years old on the day of his crimes who is convicted of first degree murder, four counts of attempted murder, and shooting at an occupied motor vehicle. while caballero did not involve a juvenile who had been convicted of murder, our supreme court there did discuss the possibility of a murder sentence violating the eighth 26 amendment as follows: although miller concluded that graham life without parole sentences applies only to all nonhomicide offenses, the court emphasized that in homicide cases, states are forbidden from imposing a [m]andatory life without parole for a juvenile. (caballero, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 291, fn. 4.) our supreme court noted that mandatory sentences preclude consideration of a juvenilechronological age and its hallmark featuresamong them, immaturity, impetuosity, and failure to appreciate risks and consequences. such sentences also prevent taking into account the family and home environment that surround the juvenileno matter how brutal or dysfunctional. our supreme court concluded: in miller the high court did not foreclose a sentencto determine whether it was dealing with homicide cases and the rare juvenile offender whose crime r [citations.] the court requires sentencers in homicide cases to take into account how children are different, and how those differences counsel against irrevocably sentencing them to a lifetime in prison. [citation.] we leave miller (caballero, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 268, fn. 4.) this is such a case, and we find the punishment imposed on hernandez is not unconstitutional, notwithstanding his age on the day he committed his crimes. the sentencing judge was familiar with the cases we have outlined above. the record makes clear that the court was diligent and thoughtful about their holdings, as well as their import and application to the facts of this case. actions. specifically, hernandez murdered gary. he also shot rudy, destroying his quality of life and causing him to suffer from seizures that put his life in jeopardy. hernandez also shot victor g., and shot at still others, all to benefit a criminal street gang. the gravity of the offenses cannot be ignored. moresentence is not the functional equivalent of life without the possibility of parole; he will be eligible for parole in his expected lifetime. 27 hernandez faced a potential sentence far beyond the one imposed by the sentencing court, who expressly stated he was constrained by eighth amendment issues. indeed, on each of counts 2 through 5, hernandez could have been sentencing to an additional and consecutive 15 years to life, for an additional 75 years to life. consecutive firearm enhancements of 25 years to life on counts 2 through 5 could also have been imposed, for an additional 100 years to life. as a result, hernawas 275 years to life. the able sentencing court knew he was required to impose a ectancy, because, as he noted, it sentence the defendant as to counts 2, 3, and 4, expounding, because of [the] separate acts of violence committed against completely innocent people. tutionally especially as regards to [rudy], and that has we acknowledge youth at the time he committed the offenses, but his total sentence of 50 years to life is substantially less severe than the sentences in graham, miller, and caballero. offenses were substantially more severe. sentence will not keep him in prison until he dies, without an opportunity to demonstrate his growth, maturity, and rehabilitation entitle him to release on parole. the trial court considered these factors. his sentence is not cruel and or unusual punishment under either the federal or state constitutions. vi. cumulative error because we have found no reversible errors as discussed above, we reject herpeople v. watson (2008) 43 cal.4th 652, 705; people v. abilez (2007) 41 cal.4th 472, 523.) 28 disposition the judgment is affirmed. bigelow, p. j. we concur: rubin, j. grimes, j. 