filed 10/31/14 p. v. clarke ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. daniel ricardo clarke, defendant and appellant. b244775 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma035466) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. kelly chung, judge. reversed. fay arfa, a law corporation and fay arfa for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and pamela c. hamanaka, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________________ 2 a jury convicted daniel ricardo clarke on charges of rape, burglary, and related (people v. clarke (june 30, 2011, b203220, b228831) [nonpub. opn.].) the people elected to retry him, and a jury again convicted him on all charges. clarke moved for a new trial on the basis of newly discovered evidence, among other grounds. the newly discovered evidence was a report from the county coroner, commissioned by the prosecution but not introduced at trial, which strongly supported the defense. the trial motion should have been granted. background i. procedural history the amended information charged clarke with one count of forcible rape in violation of subdivision (a)(2) of penal code section 2611 (count 1), one count of attempted forcible oral copulation in violation of section 664 and subdivision (c)(2) of section 288a (count 2), one count of first degree burglary in violation of section 459 (count 3), one count of criminal threats in violation of section 422 (count 4), one count of false imprisonment by violence in violation of section 236 (count 5), one count of inflicting corporal injury upon a spouse, cohabitant, or childs parent in violation of subdivision (a) of section 273.5 (count 6), and one count of dissuading a witness by force or threat in violation of subdivision (c)(1) of section 136.1 (count 7). it further alleged as to counts 1 and 2 that, within the meaning of section 667.61, subdivisions (a), (b), and (e), clarke committed the offense during the commission of a burglary of an inhabited dwelling and personally used a deadly or dangerous weapon. it additionally alleged as to counts 1 and 2 that clarke used a firearm and a deadly weapon (a knife) within the meaning of section 12022.3, subdivision (a), and as to counts 3 through 7 1 unless otherwise indicated, all subsequent statutory references are to the penal code. 3 that clarke used a deadly and dangerous weapon (a knife) within the meaning of section 12022, subdivision (b)(1). clarke pleaded not guilty and denied the allegations. a jury found clarke guilty on all counts and found all but one of the allegations true. the court sentenced clarke to 32 years to life in prison. clarke timely appealed and also filed a petition for writ of habeas corpus, contending that his trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance by failing to present people to show cause in the superior court why relief should not be granted on that claim, and we directed the superior court to conduct an evidentiary hearing. the court conducted the clarke then filed a new habeas petition in this court. we issued an order to show -pending appeal, and ultimately granted the petition. (see people v. clarke (june 30, 2011, b203220, b228831) [nonpub. opn.].) we agreed with clarke that his trial counsel had rendered ineffective assistance by failing to investigate the physical evidence and consult with medical experts who could have testified at trial. on remand, the people elected to retry clarke. at retrial, the defense presented testimony from the same medical experts who had testified at the habeas hearing. their en the victim said they were (because some of the wounds were too old), and were self-inflicted. the prosecution initially indicated that it intended to call its own medical expert in rebuttal but ultimately declined to present any medical expert evidence. the jury again convicted clarke on all counts and found all allegations true except the allegation that he committed count 1 during the commission of a burglary of an inhabited dwelling within the meaning of section 667.61, subdivisions (a) and (d). af 4 request, but the report supported the defense. clarke moved for a new trial and to dismiss discovered evidence. to life in prison. clarke timely appealed. ii. prosecution evidence at trial the charges arise from two alleged incidents in 2005 involving the same victim, t.g. clarke and t.g. began dating in 2000. they had two children together: k., born in 2003, and z., born in 2005 after the events in this case. t.g. had two other sons from former relationships. during their relationship, t.g. and clarke each maintained separate residences. clarke lived in an apartment in los angeles. in 2004, t.g. moved from her apartment in los angeles to a house in palmdale, but clarke did not have a key to her house. a. incident of february 13, 2005 (uncharged) in february 2005, t.g. and clarke had broken up, but she was pregnant with his child and had told him so. on february 13, 2005, at approximately 11:00 p.m. or midnight, clarke arrived at her house in palmdale. t.g. was in bed when she heard him in, and clarke said he wanted to see his son. t.g. said that it was too late because down on the couch. t.g. threatened to call the police. t.g. then used the kitchen telephohanded the phone to clarke to speak with her, and then took the phone back to speak with hardly breathe he then 5 clarke said he was going to take k. and leave. t.g. did not want him to, so she clarke had driven to her house. clarke came outside, saw the tire, and started cursing. s house and asked them to call the police. when the police arrived, clarke was gone. clarke returned the next morning and entered the house. when t.g. confronted her, 911 using a telephone she had borrowed from the neighbor the previous night. when the officers arrived, she rushed outside with the children, and the officers arrested clarke. t.g. did not see clarke again until may, but he phoned her frequently and left her f i catch b. the custody dispute on april 14, 2005, clarke filed a petition seeking legal and physical custody of k. a mediation was scheduled for may 20, 2005, and a custody hearing was scheduled for be c. incident of may 19, 2005 (corporal injury to dissuading a witness by force) on may 19, 2005 (the day before the scheduled mediation) at about 11:00 p.m., t.g. was doing laundry in her garage. when she returned to the house, she found clarke inside. he said that he had come to see his son and had brought diapers. t.g. and clarke began to argue, and clarke said that he was going to get custody of k. and that t.g. was a terrible mother. when t.g. was looking in the refrigerator, clarke came up 6 behind her, pressed a knife againrke then punched t.g. in the stomach three times; she was about seven months pregnant with his child at the time. eventually, t.g. said she would not go to court. clarke told her not to go to the police and then left, still carrying the knife, which did not belong to t.g. after this incident, t.g. began keeping a knife under a pillow on her bed. nd 11:00 a.m. the following morning and made a report against clarke. picture was taken at the police station on the morning after the attack. t.g. telephoned the mediator at the time of the mediation, but she asked the mediator not to tell clarke that she had called. no agreement was reached as a result of the mediation. d. incident of may 21-22, 2005 (forcible rape and other crimes) in the evening of may 21, 2005, t.g. went to bed at 10:00 p.m. and was awakened around 11:00 p.m. by a touch on the side of her face. she found clarke sitting on the side did not need her and that he (clarke) was going to make her suffer. he undressed and clarke lay on top of t.g., who was on her back. he sucked her breasts, touched 7 going to try to kill me, bitch? . . cut with the knifng to neck. when asked about the manner in which she was fighting and resisting, t.g. testified that she at she was not t.g. kicked him in the chin. clarke then picked up the knife, which was on the side of the bed, and put it between her legs. he , she was [her] body clarke then again lay on top of t.g. (who was still on her back) and penetrated her again, although she continued to resist and to tell him to stop. he continued until he ejaculated inside her. later, clarke was lying on his back and told t.g. to get on top of 8 straddled clarke, who again inserted his penis in her vagina and continued until he again ejaculated inside of her. when clarke got up to go to the bathroom, t.g. ran to another bathroom, pretending that she was going to vomit. she turned on the light and the faucet so that clarke would think she was in the bathroom, and then she went to the kitchen to use the phone to call 911. she told the 911 operator that clarke was raping her and was going to kill her. she hung up, returned to the bathroom and turned off the lights and the water, and emerged from the bathroom to find clarke coming down the hallway with the knife in his hand. he motioned for her to go back on the bed, and she complied. later, t.g. heard sirens and a loud voice calling for those in the house to come for her, and he missed. she grabbed her pajama shirt and ran out of the house naked. clarke eventually came out of the house and was arrested. the police took t.g. to the hospital, where she was examined and photographed. police found a knife under a pforced entry into the house; they also retrieved the sheets but did not recall seeing any blood. while in custody, clarke sent t.g. cards and love letters and also sent cards to her children. e. medical examination evidence joshua ireland was employed by the antelope valley hospital emergency sexual assault response services team. on may 22, 2005, ireland performed a sexual assault examination on t.g. and documented her injuries. he found linear abrasions on hown the photographs during his testimony, ireland stated that some of the neck injuries appeared to be older than others, but he could that the wounds on the right inner thigh and the chest, as well as some of the neck 9 hich ireland said could of the examination did not say anything about the age of any of the injuries or whether they were in the inflammatory stage. ireland also found intercourse. ireland explained that an abrasion is abrasions did not go through the epidermis and did not require stitches. iii. defense evidence at trial a. version of events testifying on his own behalf, clarke stated that he met t.g. in 1999 or 2000 and they were together until he was taken into custody on may 22, 2005. they had two children together, k. and z. clarke had not seen k. since may 22, 2005, and he had never seen z. as to the incident of february 13, 2005, clarke testified that he came to see t.g. that day because she had called him. he admitted breaking the window but said he neighbor to whom t.g. had run for a phone to call 911, testified for choked or threatened her. clarke testified that after february 2005 incident, t.g. would not let him see k. that was the third time she had cut off contact between him and k. as a result, he 10 to forget abo as to the incident of may 19, 2005, clarke denied that he visited t.g. on that day. he said he spent the evening at his home with his friends dennis smith and gina anderson. smith and anderson testified to the same effect. as regards the custody mediation, clarke testified that t.g. did not attend the parenting class in preparation for the mediation and received a certificate. as to the incident of may 21-22, 2005, clarke testified that on the morning of him over and repeatedly called him later in the day, encouraging him to come. a friend drove clarke to her house, and he arrived around 10:30 or 11:00 p.m. t.g. let him in and y, and they eventually had her neck and asked about them, and t.g. said she had recently been robbed at an automated teller machine. clarke eventually fell asleep but later woke to find k. in bed next to him. he tried to go back to sleep but then heard police calling him out of the house. he got up, went outside, and was arrested. b. medical expert evidence the defense called two medical expert witnesses. dr. paul bronston has been an emergency room physician for over 20 years and has examined tens of thousands of patients. as part of his training in emergency medicine, he was taught how to determine whether wounds were self-inflicted. self- to be very [s]o when you see these multiple type of very superficial, long, linear, very superficial self-victim can easily access by hand. wounds inflicted in a struggle are differentthey are 11 wounds, he testified that all of them appeared to be self-inflicted it was possible that some could be one day and some could be three days old. dr. paul sinkhorn has been a practicing obstetrician and gynecologist for 30 years. he examined the photographs of t.g. and found no injuries to her genitalia other than a quarter or third of an inch tear in the posterior forchette. such a teahappens when a patient . . . . . sprealso be caused by consensual or nonconsensual intercourse. sinkhorn stated that it would be possible to cause such a tear with the knife that t.g. testified was used in the attack, would have required t.g. to be perfectly labia. discussion i. the new trial motion clarke argues that the superior court abused its discretion by denying his motion for new trial. we agree. d let counsel know when office examine the photographic evidence in [this case] and testify to any opinions based 12 of the request or the order. trial began on august 28, 2012. on that day, the prosecutor stated on the record, ess that is reviewing the wounds to the victim in this case . . . . i defense counsel, on or about that date, the prosecutor gave defense counsel an oral report of the not self-inflicted. d and that the testimony would not constitute proper rebuttal evidence. the court denied the motion. t.g. finished testifying on september 4, 2012. on september 6, 2012, because of witness scheduling issues the defense began presenting its case, even though the prosecution had not yet rested. on the same day, the prosecutor informed defense examine the photos in this case. she gave me her preliminary impressions of the case, but said she will not be able to have a final report until september 12, 2012. she stated that preliminarily, it appears possible that the wounds could be self-inflicted based on their placement on the body. she stated that the wounds on the thighs appear to be healed injuries. she said the wounds on the chest appear to be a couple of days old. the wound on the breast appear[s] to be a day or two old. the wounds on the right side of the neck appear to be a couple of days old. the newer wound on the neck appears to be anywhere from 12 hours to a day old. it appears that the wound[s] on the neck have a double contour. she opined that this is not consistent with a knife unless the knife has a blade of a width of at least 1/32 inch. she opined that the wounds are consistent with self-infliction because they are superficial, of the same depth, and of varying age. [] i spoke to doctor rauch. he said this is not his area of expertise and would defer to the 13 medical examiner. he said that having several linear, parallel lines is consistent with self- on september 10, 2012, the prosecution rested, having presented no medical rested on the same day. also on september 10, 2012, but unknown to the defense at that time, scheinin with a summary of the police report, conclusions generally supported the defense. -ns extend from a single area of confluence indicates a deliberately repetitive action that is very consistent with self-infliction. (infliction by another person is not exclu wounds of the anterior neck exhibited a had a thickness of between 1/32 and 1/16 inch. this suggests something other than a kitchen knife or pocket knife; such knives usually have much narrower cutting edges and leave a single mark, even if the blade is serrated. the relatively wide marks in this area suggest something like a the orientation and other characteristics of the anterior necrepeated onsistent with self-some of which are elongated, and multiple directions of travel, it is inconsistent with a the report al very faint pink (slightly erythematous) lines and a very rare short, hairline 14 uries that could easily have been self-inflicted, but infliction by another person is not abrasions with mild edema (swelling) and erythema (reddening), most likely inflicted may have been caused by raking the dull edge of [a] blade across the skin. these are very minimal injuries that could easily have been self-re was also a -inflictedlocations of the wounds on the body are consistent with either self-infliction or infliction by another person. specifically regarding the wounds of the inner thighs, a pregnant woman early in her third trimester consistent with self-infliction, implying that the person did not wish to cause him/herself serious injury. they are also of approximately the same depth, suggesting that the person was controlling the pressure applied. injuries inflicted by an angry attacker would be expected to be deeper and to have more varying depths. the varying ages of the wounds is also inconsistent with a single attack; if the person receiving the injuries were the victim of a single attack, all of the wounds would appear to be approximately the same inflicted within the time of the repor on september 12, 2012, the jury convicted clarke. on september 20, 2012, defense counsel spoke to scheinin, who told defense counsel that the wounds had characteristics of self- the 15 time and manner in which she was injured. scheinin also advised defense counsel that she had prepared a report setting forth her findings. defense counsel then contacted the chief coroner, who had the report but said he ssion before releasing it. defense counsel asked the prosecutor to authorize release of the report, the prosecutor did so, and defense counsel received a copy of the report on september 27, 2012. clarke moved for a new trial on several grounds, including constituted newly discovered evidence. the superior court denied the motion. in ruling on a motion for new trial based on newly discovered evidence, the trial court considers the following factors: 1. that the evidence, and not merely its materiality, be newly discovered; 2. that the evidence be not cumulative merely; 3. that it be such as to render a different result probable on a retrial of the cause; 4. that the party could not with reasonable diligence have discovered and produced it at the trial; and 5. that these facts be shown by the best evidence of which the case admits. [citations.] (people v. delgado (1993) 5 cal.4th 312, 328.) the determination of a motion for a new trial rests so completely within the courts discretion that its action will not be disturbed unless a manifest and unmistakable abuse of discretion clearly appears. (ibid.) is newly discovered. it did not exist until september 10, 2012, the day the defense rested.2 the defense did not learn of the existence of the report assurances on the recsoon as possible. even after defense counsel learned of the existence of the report, she was unable to obtain a copy without first seeking authorization from the prosecutor. 2 the handwritten date on the signature line of the final page of the report is september 10, 2012. that is the basis on which we have determined that the report did not exist until september 10. the record contains no evidence as to when the contents of the report were written. 16 second, the evidence is not merely cumulative. both in cross-examination and in on the ground that he was being paid by the defense and consequently was going to say whatever the defense needed him to say. absolutely anything to ed for vulnerable to any such attackscommissioned by the prosecution. under these circumstances, the report was not merely cumulative. sult probable upon retrial. we have already explained why it would be impervious to the credibility arguments that the the substance of were at least two weeks old when photographed on may 22, 2005. but t.g. testified in detail that those wounds were inflicted on may 21-22, 2005, when clarke held the knife between her legs, rubbed the blade back and forth, and so on. also, according to t.g., all but one of the wounds on her neck were inflicted on may 21-22 with a knife. but given the strongly enhanced result upon retrial. fourth, for the reasons already given, the defense could not with reasonable diligence have obtained and introduced the report at trial. the report did not exist until the day the defense rested. fifth, clarke showed all of these facts by the best evidence possible, namely, 17 s report different result upon retrial. for the reasons we have already given, neither conclusion was reasonable. an opinion commissioned by the prosecution from the county coroner defense than even the opinions of the experts clarke presented at trial. for those reasons, the newly discovered evidence would make a more favorable result probable upon retrial. ed evidence because clarke evidence in question is the report, which did not exist until september 10, 2012, the day that the defense rested. it is irrelevant that clarke knew that the prosecution was consulting an expert, and it is likewise irrelevant that clarke was given a summary of the accompanied by the caveat that the final report would not be available until september 12. for similar reasons, we reject discovered in time for presentation at trial. secon been cumulative to other for the reasons we have already given, we disagree. third and finally, respondent argues that s-inflicted did not exclude the possibility scheinof the wounds was consistent with either self-se age of an injury from viewing a 18 its enhanced credibility, undercuts cannot be excluded and that the precise ages of wounds cannot be determined from photographs. but the report opines, for example, consistent with self-superficial depth of the injuries makes it unlprecisely dated, the wounds on the inner thighs appeared to be at least two weeks old, so they could not have been inflicted when t.g. said they were. we note that both in cross-examination of bronston and in closing argument, the was not otherwise supported by the evidence in the record. as we noted earlier, t.g. repeatedly testified that her wounds were inflicted while she fought, kicked, struggled, m3 but in cross-examining bronston, the prosecutor asked [e]verybody 3 meant only that when the knife was on her upper body she was trying to reduce the movement of her upper body and was not trying to sit up. it is consistent with her repeated and emphatic testimony that she received the wounds to her upper body (and elsewhere) while she struggled, fought, wiggled, kicked her legs, and so forth. 19 agrees that these wounds did not come from a struggle. wounds from a struggle are deep. they are of various depths. they are careless. they would be all over the body. idence (i.e., not struggle) and that that the medical evidence introduced at trial forced the prosecutor himself to reject such a reportconcluding, for example, that the thigh wounds were at least two weeks old credibility. for all of the foregoing reasons, we conclude that the superior court abused its ii. brady claim clarke argues that the prosecutor violated his rights under brady v. maryland (1963) 373 u.s. 83 (bradyreport. the remedy for a brady violation is ordinarily a reversal permitting retrial. (see generally sons v. superior court (2004) 125 cal.app.4th 110.) because we are reversing brady claim. clarke argues, however, that the brady violation was willful and constituted prosecutorial misconduct of such a character as to require dismissal of the charges against him. (see sons v. superior court, supra, 125 cal.app.4th at pp. 115-121; people v. batts (2003) 30 cal.4th 660, 692-696.) we conclude that the present record is inadequate for determination of the merits of such a claim. clarke remains free to pursue the claim on remand, including the introduction of evidence to support it. 20 iii. sufficiency of the evidence our resolution of the foregoing issues makes it unnecessary for us to address all but one of the remaining arguments that clarke raises on appeal. clarke argues that the convictions are not supported by substantial evidence and that the charges against him must therefore be dismissed. we disagree. in reviewing the sufficiency of the evidence, we must determine whether, after viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] (people v. davis (1995) 10 cal.4th 463, 509, italics omitted.) we do not resolve credibility issues or evidentiary conflicts, and the testimony of a single witness is sufficient to support a conviction unless the testimony is physically impossible or inherently improbable. (people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181.) at the same ubstantial evidence . . . is not synonymous with any evidence, but is evidence which is of ponderable legal significance. it must be reasonable in nature, credible, and of solid value . . . toyota motor sales u.s.a., inc. v. superior court (1990) 220 cal.app.3d 864, 871.) moreover, substantial evidence review must be based isolated evidence supporting the judgment.people v. johnson (1980) 26 cal.3d 557, 577-578.) although it is a very close case, we conclude that viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, a rational trier of fact could have found the elements of the charged crimes beyond a reasonable doubt. t.g. testified that on may 19 clarke assaulted her and attempted to dissuade her from participating in the mediation, and that on may 21-22 he raped her at knife point and committed the other charged offenses. we note, however, that the trial record does not contain scpress no opinion as to whether, considered in light of the whole record, the evidence supporting been admitted. 21 t his convictions are not supported by substantial evidence. we express no opinion on any of the remaining arguments that clarke raises on appeal. disposition the convictions are reversed. not to be published. rothschild, p. j. we concur: johnson, j. miller, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 