filed 11/22/13 p. v. walker and dizadare ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. emmanuel ulysses walker and norvin dermarcus dizadare, defendants and appellants. b244140 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na089007) appeals from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county. mark c. kim, judge. affirmed. leslie conrad, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant walker. sharon m. jones, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant dizadare. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews, supervising deputy attorney general, and david e. madeo, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 defendants emmanuel ulysses walker and norvin dermarcus dizadare appeal from the judgments entered following a jury trial in which they were convicted of second degree murder. they contend the trial court erred by failing to instruct on voluntary and involuntary manslaughter as lesser included offenses. we affirm. background in may of 2011, denise w. lived in a house in long beach with her 13-year-old son d.w., her three younger children, steven brown, and her brother, defendant walker. (date references pertain to 2011.) brown was the father of denisedenise and brown had maintained a,relationship for about 13 years. denise and brown argued from time to time and a few times this had resulted in violence between them. brown was usually the aggressor. brown was also disrespectful and verbally abusive toward denise. d.w. testified he had previously seen brown hit his mother. a week or two before may 16, denise and brown had argued and walker made brown leave the house. brown resisted and tried to push his way back inside. brown stayed at his godby may 16, denise missed him and wanted him to come home. denise testified that walker had known brown for about as long as she had, and they got along. walker testified that brown was like a brother to him, and they had a good relationship. denise testified that on the night of may 16, she, her children, brown, and walker were home. dizadare, whom denise arrived around 8:00 p.m. before that night, denise had just said hello to dizadare a few times, and brown had not met him. the four adults sat around in the living room, drinking brandy and talking. when the brandy was gone, they went out and bought another bottle and resumed drinking. brown and walker left to attempt to buy marijuana for everyone, but they failed to find any. upon their return, brown stood beside denise he did not say anything. he did not look upset and was not being violent. denise thought he was 3 trying to get her attention. denise drank three or four more cups of brandy, then went to bed around midnight. she testified that before she went to sleep, there had been no problems between herself and brown, brown and defendants, or herself and defendants. had been talking and drinking, and no one was arguing. she denied that brown had been violent to her on may 16 or the day before, and denied that she and brown had argued on the night of may 16 or the early morning hours of may 17. d.w. testified that he went to bed about 11:00 p.m. on may 16. before that, he they all seemed to be getting along well and were not arguing or having any problems with one another. sometime before dawn on may 17, d.w. woke up to use the bathroom. he heard oor to see what was going on. by his feet from the front porch or patio out to the front yard gate. then, as brown lay on his back by the gate, walker and dizadare punched brown in the face several times while walker kicked brown twice in the chest and once or twice in the head. walker also and face. d.w. initially testified walker stomped on bros chest once or twice and on increased the number each time he was asked how many times walker stomped on brown, ultimately testifying walker stomped on face or head three times and between five and ten times. during the beating d.w. heard one of the defendantshe thought it was walkertwice say, but not yell, whoever said it sounded angry. brown was just trying to get up during this beating. he did not kick or take a swing at defendants. d.w. testified that defendants beat brown for five or ten minutes, then dragged him by his legs toward the alley specifically, walker hit brown twice more in thhim a few times. d.w. thought he heard walker refer to brown having no money. 4 brown got up and walked toward seventh street, and defendants came back inside denise about 10 to 15 minutes later, d.w. heard someone knocking at the front door of the house. he went to answer the door, but walker and dizadare stopped him. walker walker and dizadare went outside and walker pushed brown off the front porch. brown fell over some bushes onto the grass. walker and dizadare dragged brown toward the driveway, then each defendant kicked brown a few more times.on redirect examination, d.w. testified that walker and dizadare were also this time. this went on for three to five minutes. brown was trying to get up but was not fighting back. defendants came back inside the house, and brown limped slowly toward seventh street. d.w. went back to bed and slept until he awakened to the police knocking on the front door. brown was observed by one neighbor sitting on the front porch of deniseabout 4:15 a.m. on may 17, and by another neighbor leaning against the wall in the alley about 5:00 a.m., then lying on the ground in the alley about 5:05 a.m. paramedics arrived before 7:00 a.m. and found brown lying unconscious in the driveway. he was taken to the hospital and treated for various injuries, including a subdural hematoma, but never regained consciousness. after four days he was removed from life support and died. the deputy medical examiner who performed an autopsy on brown testified that the cause of death was brown had bruises on his chest, shoulders, lower back, arms, legs, hips, and head. he also had a broken nose. there were abrasions on bconsistent with him striking someone with a fist. blood drawn at the hospital on the -alcohol level to be 0.20. a 5 autopsy testified that the the left cerebral hemisphere, which in turn led to compression of the brain stem, which caused the neuropathologist the subdural hematoma was consistent with blunt force trauma to the head. it could take anywhere from minutes to days before such a subdural hematoma manifested. repeated kicks and punches to the head could cause a subdural hematoma. the neuropathologist [t]he presence of alcohol may aggravate the presence of subdural long beach police officer felipa baccari knocked on the door of deniseabout 8:15 a.m. on may 17, and d.w. answered the door. while d.w. went to get his mother, walker came to the door. when baccari asked if walker knew anything about a man found in the driveway, walker said he did not live there, he had just arrived at 8:00 a.m., and baccari should talk to the person who lived there. walker claimed he did not have any identification, told baccari his name was manuel, and gave a date of birth that differed from that on the identification card baccari later recovered from walk. baccari noted that there was a small, splatter-type, reddish, shiny stain jacket that looked like blood. when d.w. woke denise, he told her the police were at the door and that he had seen walker and dizadare beating brown during the night. baccari told denise that a man had been found on the driveway, and denise began screaming and asking, here baccari askedho is denise boyfriend. a sergeant and baccari spoke to d.w. at the house. d.w. described the beating and told baccari that brown was not fighting back, just trying to get up, and when he attempted to get up he after the police interviewed d.w., they detained walker. police officers collecphotographed him to document any injuries. detective hugo cortes testified walker had no injuries except to his left hand, which had swollen knuckles and small lacerations on his index finger and thumb. there were red stains on his jacket and shoes. dizadare was 6 arrested two days later, after denise and d.w. each identified him from a photographic array. he walked with a limp, the knuckles on his left hand were red and swollen, and he had a small laceration on one finger but was otherwise uninjured. at the scene, officers found drops of blood and blood spatter in the alley. they also found blood on the porch, window frames near the porch, the walkway near the gate, a bedroom door and surrounding door frame, and the kitchen sink, dish tray, and some dishes. they found some pants in the dryer that appeared to have blood stains, as well. d.w. was interviewed by detective mcguire on may 17. the interview was recorded and played at trial. d.w. told mcguire he was awakened by loud voices, he tried to go back to sleep, but the noise continued, so he went to look out the front door. from there, chest and his face walker also hit and kicked brown. did not know, just dragged brown toward the alley. they stopped by the gate, patted brown down, remarked that he had no money, and returned to the house. brown then resumed beating brown. brown tried to sit up, back into the house, the other guy left, and brown walked away. d.w. said that he at no time saw the other guy hit or kick brown. the other guy only dragged brown toward the alley, while walker did all the hitting and kicking. walker testified that he had been living at denisemay 16. he did not see brown at all on may 16 and did not beat him. walker went to bed around sundown and did not drink with anyone that night or at all. only denise and the children were in the house when walker went to bed, and he did not know if anyone else arrived later. walker did not know dizadare, but he knew dizadare lived next door to denise. walker recalled hearing people arguing outside the house later in the night, 7 but he did not get up and did not see anything. and hand while ironing clothes. walker testified he gave baccari his correct name and birth date and showed her his identification. dizadare did not testify or call any witnesses. a single jury convicted each defendant of second degree murder. dizadare admitted he had served two prior prison terms within the scope of penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b). (undesignated statutory references are to the penal code.) the court sentenced walker to 15 years to life in prison. it sentenced dizadare to 17 years to life in prison, which included two one-year section 667.5, subdivision (b) enhancements. discussion 1. refusal to instruct on voluntary manslaughter on heat of passion theory both defendants asked the court to instruct upon voluntary manslaughter based upon sudden quarrel or heat of passion. they argued sudden quarrel or heat of passion was shown by evidence that d.w. heard one of the defendants repeatedly and angrily tell ing to treat women with respect; dizadare told d.w., going to hurt your mom anymore; you out; on one or more prior occasions brown had been asked to leave the house; brown and denise had a love-hate relationship and fought; and brown had previously been violent toward denise. the court refused to so instruct that denise testified that on the night of may 16 everything was fine, the group was having a good time while drinking, then she went to bed. the court further noted that walker testified that nothing happened and he did not even see brown or dizadare. walker contends that the court erred by refusing to instruct upon voluntary manslaughter based upon sudden quarrel or heat of passion. dizadare joins in this contention. 8 a trial court must give a requested instruction only if it is supported by substantial evidence, that is, evidence sufficient to deserve jury consideration. (people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 39.) a trial court must instruct on lesser included offenses whenever substantial evidence raises a question as to whether all of the elements of the charged offense are present. (people v. avila (2009) 46 cal.4th 680, 705.) in this context, substantial evidence means evidence from which a reasonable jury could conclude that the lesser offense, but not the greater, was committed. (ibid.) the substantial evidence requirement is not satisfied by any evidence, no matter how weak. (ibid.) voluntary manslaughter consists of an unlawful killing upon sudden quarrel or heat of passion or in an actual, but unreasonable, belief in the need to defend against imminent death or great bodily injury. ( 192, subd. (a); people v. bryant (2013) 56 cal.4th 959, 969 (bryant).) a defendant charged with murder has the burden of producing sufficient evidence on heat of passion or unreasonable self-defense to raise a one of these mitigating theories. (people v. rios (2000) 23 cal.4th 450, 461462.) if neither theory applies, voluntary manslaughter is unavailable as a lesser included offense to murder. (people v. ochoa (1998) 19 cal.4th 353, 423.) where an intentional and unlawful killing occuupon a sudden quarrel or heat of passion ( 192, subd. (a)), the malice aforethought required for murder is negated, and the offense is reduced to voluntary manslaughtera lesser included offense of murder.(people v. carasi (2008) 44 cal.4th 1263, 1306 (carasi)he passion aroused need not be anger or rage, but can be any [v]iolent, intense, high-wrought or enthusiastic [citations] other than revengepeople v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 163.) heat of passion has both objective and subjective components. (people v. moye (2009) 47 cal.4th 537, 549.) to satisfy the objective component, the claimed provocation must be sufficient to cause an ordinary person of average disposition to act rashly or without due deliberation and reflection, from passion rather than from judgment. (id. at 9 pp. 549550; carasi, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 1306.) to be adequate, the provocation must be one that would cause an emotion so intense that an ordinary person would simply react, without reflection. . . . [t]he anger or other passion must be so strong that the defendants reaction bypassed his thought process to such an extent that judgment could not and did not intervene.people v. beltran (2013) 56 cal.4th 935, 949.) a defendant may nofact his passions were aroused . . . people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 12151216.) provocation . . . must be caused by the victim [citation], or be conduct reasonably believed by the defendant to have been engaged in by the victimmoye, at pp. 549550.) the provocative conduct may be physical or verbal, and it may comprise a single incident or numerous incidents over a period of time.people v. le (2007) 158 cal.app.4th 516, 528.) but f sufficient time has elapsed between the provocation and the fatal blow for passion to subside and reason to return, the killing is not voluntary manslaughterthe assailant must act under the smart of that sudden quarrel or heat of (beltran, at p. 951.) to satisfy the subjective element of this form of voluntary manslaughter, the accused must be shthe actual influence of a strong induced by such provocation. (moye, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 550.) absent the reason of the accused was obscured or disturbed by passion to such an extent as would cause the ordinarily reasonable person of average disposition to act rashly and without deliberation and reflection, and from such passion rather than from judgment (people v. barton (1995) 12 cal.4th 186, 201), heat of passion is inapplicable. at most, the evidence of statements by defendants regarding treating women with other any more supported an inference that defendants were angry at brown regarding his prior treatment of denise. but there was no substantial evidence of any provocation by brown, let alone provocation sufficient to cause an emotion so intense that an ordinary person would simply react, without reflection,so strong that the defendants reaction bypassed his thought process to 10 such an extent that judgment could not and did not intervene. (beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 949.) no one testified that brown did or said anything on may 16 or 17 that could be deemed to constitute adequate provocation. indeed, denise testified that everyone was getting along well as they socialized on the night of may 16, and d.w. testified that all four adults seemed to be getting along well and were not arguing or experiencing any problems with one another. although denise and d.w. testified that brown had historically been disrespectful and verbally abusive toward denise, brown and denise argued from time to time, and there had been a few incidents of violence between brown and denise, with brown usually being the aggressor, the evidence provided no basis for inferring that such an incident happened at anytime on may 16 or 17, or anytime during the week or two prior to may 16 when brown had been living with his godmother. in addition, the evidence provided no basis for inferring that dizadare knew anything about the relationship between denise and brown. walker was not asked, and did not testify to any knowledge of brown mistreating denise or even arguing with her. he insisted he had a good relationship with brown, who was like a brother to him. the evidence at most tended to show that walker knew about a single incident in which he forced brown to leave the house after denise and brown argued, and that incident occurred one or two weeks before defendants fatally beat brown. although the evidence indicated brown had resisted leaving the house during that incident, nothing indicated brown had been violent toward denise or anyone else during that incident or the events that precipitated his ejection from the house. that incident could not constitute the provocation for the fatal beating one or two weeks later because sufficient time had elapsed for passion to subside and reason to return. accordingly, the absence of evidence of adequate provocation precluded the application of sudden quarrel or heat of passion, and the trial court did not err by refusing to instruct upon voluntary manslaughter based upon that theory. statement made while defendants were beating him does not constitute evidence of provocation for the attack that was already under 11 way. nothing in the record indicated brown challenged defendants to a fight or otherwise instigated the physical confrontation. we further note that defendants did not mention brown of denise as provocation in the trial court, and they do not argue this matter on appeal. denise testified this was not violent behavior and nothing in the record indicates either defendant saw the poke. in addition, such a poke, without more, cannot cause anger or passion so intense that an ordinary person would simply react, without reflection.beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 949.) 2. failure to instruct, sua sponte, on garcia theory of voluntary manslaughter walker contends that the trial court also erred by failing to instruct, sua sponte, assaultive felony, as articulated in people v. garcia (2008) 162 cal.app.4th 18dizadare joins in this contention. the california supreme court rejected the validity of this theory of manslaughter and overruled garcia in bryant, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 970. accordingly, we reject contention without further discussion. 3. refusal to instruct, sua sponte, on involuntary manslaughter dizadare contends that the trial court erred by failing to instruct, sua sponte, on involuntary manslaughter based upon his commission or aiding and abetting the commission of misdemeanor battery, as opposed to murder or assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury. he argues[t]here was substantial evidence that [dizadare] may have hit brown only once, or not at all, and that he did not possess the intent to either personally inflict or to aid and abet co-defendant walker in inflicting great walker joins in this contention, although it is inherently inapplicable to him. discussion of jury instructions with counsel, dizadare asked the court to instruct upon battery as the target offense to be identified in the instruction upon . the court agreed to include battery, along with assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily 12 injury, but dizadare withdrew his request to include battery when the court refused to exclude assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury. non-vehicular involuntary manslaughter is a unlawful act, not amounting to felony; or in the commission of a lawful act which might produce death, in an unlawful manner, or without ( 192, subd. (b)), or noninherently dangerous felony . . . committed without due caution and circumspectionpeople v. burroughs (1984) 35 cal.3d 824, 835, disapproved on other grounds in people v. blakeley (2000) 23 cal.4th 82, 89). because neither defendant expressed his intent regarding the attack on brown, their intent must be inferred from their conduct, which was a brutal beating of brown over the course of two incidents, resulting in fatal injuries. eintent was to commit or aid and abet walker in committing a mere misdemeanor battery on brown by simply striking him a few times, without using force likely to produce great bodily injury, he continued to participate and assist in the beating after walker used force likely to produce great bodily injury. accordingly, there was no evidentiary basis for viewing the target offense as misdemeanor battery, and thus no basis for instructing upon involuntary manslaughter. the trial court was not required to instruct, sua sponte or upon request, upon involuntary manslaughter. dizadare did not hit or kick brown at all, but merely aided and abetted walker by dragging brown after walker hit, kicked, and stomped him, there was no evidence that [dizadare] may have hit brown only oncestatement to the detective, d.w. testified that dizadare the initial part of the first incident, the alley, and, after dragging brown to the driveway near the beginning of the second incident, dizadare and punched him. under either version provided by d.w., conductwhether assaultive or merely 13 draggingcontinued or resumed after walker had punched, kicked, and stomped brown aid and abet an assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury. disposition the judgments are affirmed. not to be published. mallano, p. j. we concur: rothschild, j. chaney, j. 