filed 9/16/13 p. v. rayford ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. reginald lamar rayford, defendant and appellant. b244230 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya083080) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mark s. arnold, judge. affirmed. alex coolman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, and paul m. roadarmel, jr., deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury found defendant and appellant reginald lamar rayford guilty of second degree robbery and of attempted second degree robbery. on appeal, he contends that the trial court failed, sua sponte, to instruct the jury on the lesser included offense of attempted grand theft to attempted second degree robbery. he also contends that the trial marsden1 motion. we disagree with both contentions and affirm the judgment. factual and procedural background i. factual background. on the evening of friday, december 16, 2011, ofelia bravo and maritza reyes were working at bates fish market, located on el segundo boulevard in gardena. also earlier that day at 8:30 p.m. most sales occurred on fridays, when the store took in $1,500 to $1,600. because the market had been robbed in the past, mama changed the way in which money was put away. instead of storing all money in the cash register, money was kept in a bag or envelope behind a box underneath the register where salt and pepper and catsup were stored. at about 10:45 p.m., mama took all of the money to her office to count it. while 2 bravo testified that she was heating water when the door to the market was thrown open. a man wearing a black jacket and a black bandanna over his face pointed a gun at bravo and then at reyes and demanded that bravo give him money. bravo identified defendant at trial as the man with a gun. 1 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 (marsden). 2 during these events, mama remained in her office. 3 a second, younger man, also wearing a bandanna over his face, came in. he jumped over the counter, yelled at bravo to give him money or whatever she had, and, running his hands over her clothes and grabbing her buttocks, he took her cell phone and bus pass. the same man began to take bravo to the back, but when he noticed that someone was in the bathroom, he pushed bravo to the floor and tried to open the 3 the two men then ran away. reyes testified she was washing her hands at the sink when she heard someone tell her coworker to give him money. turning, reyes saw a man, who she identified at trial as defendant, pointing a gun at her. defendant was on the other side of the high counter, where customers would be. another man had jumped over the counter to bravo.4 when about 13 feet from reyes, when his bandanna slipped. the men never approached reyes or asked anything from her. she never moved from the sink. at about this time, officers conducted a traffic stop of a car driven by wallace, the employee who had left work early that day. inside the car were two blue bandannas and gloves. reyes and bravo identified wallace at a field show-up. city of gardena police officer raul alarcon was also driving near the market that night when he saw two black men running with their hands in the front pockets of their jackets or hoodies.5 the men wore beanies and white and blue bandannas below their 3 slipped to reveal his face. 4 contrary to bravo, reyes testified that the man who jumped over the counter came into the store first. 5 franklyn ikemefuna, who lived near bates market, was getting something from his car when he saw two men coming from the direction of the strip mall in which the market was located. he heard an officer give a command to the two men, and then he heard the sound of something hard 4 w., complied, but the other man ran. nearby, officers recovered an unloaded gun, black sweatshirt, beanie, and two gloves. from a photographic six-pack, alarcon identified defendant as the man who ran. dna swabs were obtained from some of the physical evidence. the samples from the gloves and hoodie were a mixture of two contributors, and the profile for the major mixture of at least three contributors, and defendant was included as a possible contributor to the mixture. ii. procedural background. on august 3, 2012, a jury found defendant guilty of count 1, the second degree robbery of bravo (pen. code,  211),6 and of count 2, the attempted second degree robbery of reyes ( 211, 664). as to both counts, the jury found true gun use allegations ( 12022.53, subd. (b)). on september 7, 2012,7 the trial court sentenced defendant, on count 1, to the upper term of five years plus a consecutive 10 years for the gun allegation. on count 2, the court sentenced him to a consecutive eight months plus three years four months for discussion i. there was insufficient evidence to warrant instructing the jury on the lesser included offense of attempted grand theft. defendant contends that the trial court prejudicially erred by failing to instruct the jury on attempted grand theft on count 2. we disagree. general principles of law that are commonly or closely and openly connected to the facts people 6 all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 7 after a court trial on a prior strike allegation, the court found it not true. 5 v. montoya (1994) 7 cal.4th 1027, 1047; see also people v. moye (2009) 47 cal.4th 537, 548; people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 154.) instructions on a lesser included offense must be given when there is substantial evidence from which the jury could conclude the defendant is guilty of only the lesser offense. (people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 584; people v. cook (2006) 39 cal.4th 566, 596.) substantial evidence is evidence from which a reasonable jury could conclude that the lesser offense, but not the greater, was committed. (manriquez, at p. 584; people v. barton (1995) 12 cal.4th 186, 201, fn. 8.) in determining whether substantial evidence exists to support instruction on a lesser included offense, we do not evaluate the credibility of witnesses. (manriquez, at p. 585.) we independently review whether the trial court erred by failing to instruct on a lesser included offense. (id. at p. 584; people v. oropeza (2007) 151 cal.app.4th 73, 78.) from his person or immediate presence, and against his will, accomplished by means of robbery, which includes the additional elements of a taking from the person or presence of another by force or fear. (see people v. depriest (2007) 42 cal.4th 1, 50; people v. bordelon (2008) 162 cal.app.4th 1311, 1319; people v. gomez (2008) 43 cal.4th 249, 254 & fn. 2; people v. ramkeesoon (1985) 39 cal.3d 346, 351.) defendant argues that the trial court should have instructed on attempted grand theft because the jury could have concluded that defendant and his accomplice did not try observation or control, that he could, if not overcome by violence or prevented by fear, people v. hayes (1990) 52 cal.3d 577, 626-627.) the id. at p. 627; see also people v. webster 6 a spatial relationship, but it can include property located in another room of the house or building. (people v. gomez, supra, 43 cal.4th at pp. 257-258; hayes, at p. 627.) in hayes, for example, the victim, the manager of a motel, was killed in one of the people v. hayes, supra, 52 cal.3d at pp. 628-629.) items were stolen from the motel office, located 107 feet from where the victim was murdered. under those circumstances, hayes rol and protection, or id. at p. 629.) because the jury could have decided the immediate presence element either way, instructional error on that element was not harmless. this case is very different from hayes. the money or property defendant and his accomplice were attempting to take were in the same room as reyes. the distance from reyes to the cash register is unclear, but defendant concedes it was probably not more than about 15 feet from where reyes stood at the sink. although defendant asserts that avo and at reyes, rendering reyes immobile and unable to move from the sink. had reyes not been overcome by fear, she reasonably could be expected to exercise physical control over property located just feet away in the same room as she. (see, e.g., people v. webster, supra, 54 cal.3d at we therefore conclude that no substantial evidence established that defendant committed only attempted grand theft and not attempted second degree robbery. if defendant was guilty of anything, it was attempted second degree robbery. ii. the trial court did not fail to conduct a marsden hearing. next, defendant contends that the trial court failed to conduct an inquiry into his marsden motion. we reject this contention. the need for a marsden hearing arises when a defendant seeks to discharge his appointed counsel and substitute another and asserts inadequate representation. a 7 defendant must clearly indicate he wants substitute counsel to trigger a marsden hearing. (people v. sanchez (2011) 53 cal.4th 80, 87-90 & fn. 3; see also people v. lucky (1988) er and formal legal motion, but at least some clear indication by defendant that he wants a substitute marsden inquiry. (people v. leonard (2000) 78 cal.app.4th 776, 787.) defendant here did not clearly indicate he wanted substitute counsel. rather, this is what occurred at the outset of the sentencing hearing: . my sixth amendment right, i believe, was very much violated. the people and everybody that was supposed to be involved with this case was not here. initial property report brandon scott was not here. he was the main person who supposedly pointed me out. here that i was entitled to a fair and impartial trial on that, the situation. i believe that is my right as well as my 14th as well. code of law to deprive a person of rights protected by the constitution of the law of the came to court and testified against me, talking about the mask falling off, nothing. there reports in my police report of that. and [the] fact that, like i said, one of the main witnesses was not called. faretta granted this. 8 defendant has stated qualifies as grounds for granting a motion for new trial. so the defendant thus merely said he wanted a retrial and to represent himself. at no time did defendant express dissatisfaction with his appointed counsel, impliedly or otherwise, and he did not ask for substitute counsel. nor did defense counsel indicate that her client had expressed any problems with her representation. this contrasts with people v. washington (1994) 27 cal.app.4th 940, 942-marsden motion led the trial court to conclude that a marsden hearing was necessary. notably, washington conclusion. (washington, at p. 943, fn. 3.) here, the trial court clearly concluded that defendant was asking for a new trial and not a marsden hearing. given the absence of a clear indication in the record that defendant was asking for such a hearing, that conclusion was proper. defendant did, however, raise an issue with certain events at trial, for example, that one of the employees present during the robbery did not testify. but defendant did not link this omission to his defense counsel as opposed to the prosecutor. nor is it clear whether defendant was complaining that the witness should have been called or that the burden of proof. in any event, to the extent defendant expressed a difference of opinion about trial tactics, this does not place a trial court under a duty to hold a marsden hearing. (people v. lucky, supra, 45 cal.3d at p. 281.) we therefore find that defendant did not clearly indicate he wanted substitute counsel. 9 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports aldrich, j. we concur: klein, p. j. croskey, j. 