filed 10/20/14 p. v. johnson ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. clarence b. johnson, defendant and appellant. b245924 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma056784) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, hayden a. zacky, judge. affirmed as modified. gordon b. scott, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and j. michael lehmann, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________________ 2 introduction clarence b. johnson appeals from the judgment on his conviction of criminal threats. on appeal he raises four separate grounds. first, appellant argues it was an - second, appellant asserts the trial court erred in lim- third, appellant contends it was prosecutorial misconduct for the prosecutor to repeatedly and improperly use leading questions during his direct examination of the alleged victim. finally, appellant asserts the judgment could not order compliance with a protective order as we shall explain, only the claim with respect to the protective order has merit. consequently, we strike the protective order and affirm the modified judgment. we order the abstract of judgment to be corrected accordingly. factual background i. on july 10, 2012, at around 3:00 a.m., adam christenson placed a 9-1-1 call after in the apartment next door. clarence b. johnson (appellant) and traci tidmore allen (allen) were together in the dating for a week. another women, also named traci,1 was at the apartment with appellant and allen. earlier that night, at around 9:00 p.m., the three of them were using crack cocaine. at around 3:00 a.m., an altercation occurred between allen and appellant. allen was in bed. appellant told allen to turn around and face the wall. when allen asked why, appellant jumped on top of her and began to hit her. appellant swore at allen and said he would kill her. allen said she already had a brother in prison and appellant replied that allen might not live to see him again. appellant told traci to get a knife and 1 traci did not testify at the preliminary hearing or trial. 3 while appellant was on top of allen, the knife fell off the bed and became stuck between the bed and the wall. after the knife fell, allen got up from the bed. godson, josh,2 entered the apartment. allen attempted to leave, but appellant told josh to not let allen out. josh held the door and refused to let allen leave. allen screamed that she wanted to be let out of the apartment. 3 drive up in ified that i want to go home. help me. going to kill me. ii. allen testified josh let her out of the apartment and appellant followed her outside. allen got into the passenger seat of the car. appellant stood outside the car on the so she grabbed them out of the ignition and ran out of the car. appellant chased her down the alley. appellant caught up with allen and grabbed her hair. allen fell and the . he was on top of her, swearing and threatening to kill her. allen threw the keys towards malveaux. appellant stood up. allen retrieved the seat. appellant made threatening statements to allen while she drove. she asked him to get out of the car, but he refused. she drove toward while she drove, appellant was hitting her in the face with the back flashing her lights. she told them she needed help; they directed her to pullover. 2 josh did not testify at the preliminary hearing or the trial. 3 4 ppellant said he never threatened allen. the deputies arrested appellant. appellant was charged with three crimes: criminal threats, in violation of penal code section 422; false imprisonment, in violation of penal code section 236; and assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury, in violation of penal code section 245, subdivision (a)(4). iii. procedural background at trial, appellant was convicted of making unlawful threats in violation of penal code section 422. he was acquitted of false imprisonment and assault with force likely to produce great bodily injury. appellant timely filed this appeal. discussion i. abuse of discretion standard s 350 and 352, this court applies the abuse of discretion standard. (people v. duff (2014) 58 cal.4th 527, 558; people v. montes (2014) 58 cal. 4th 809, 869.) the california supreme court has a court has wide discretion to exclude evidence as substantially more prejudicial than probative. its ruling therefore will be sustained on review unless it falls outside the bounds of reason. (people v. desantis (1992) 2 cal.4th 1198, 1226.) unless the defendant shows that the court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner which resulted in a manifest miscarriage of justice. (evid. code,  353, subd. (b); people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 9-10.) ii. the trial court did not err in excluding evidence of history of self-cutting appellant asserts the trial court abused its discretion by restricting defense counsel -cutting. appellant argues self-cutting is a condition that commonly coexists with mental health disorders. appellant believes the 5 and subsequently convict appellant. appellant suggests that had the jury known of -cutting and mental health history, the jury would have questioned her a. the evidence code section 402 hearing during the trial, the prosecution notified the court and defense counsel that malveaux had scars from cutting herself when she was younger.4 defense counsel -examine the witness on her mental health issues. the trial court ordered a hearing pursuant to evidence code section 402. 5 the court observed, i am not a mental health expert. a person is bipolar or schizophrenic, i think any layman would know that may affect a [] however, cutting is something different. cutting is a physical manifestation that somebody does to their body in reaction to know. health issue. a person may cut because they are frustrated. they may cut because they [] so we can have a 402 with her, but . . . but when she gets here we will do a quick hearing. at the section 402 hearing, malveaux stated she told the prosecutor and two deputies she used to cut herself when she lived in a group home. she testified that she had seen a psychiatrist earlier in the year and was diagnosed with some kind of mental 4 malveaux was 19 years old at the time of the trial. 5 the court may hear and determine the question of the admissibility of evidence out of the presence or hearing of the jury; but in a criminal action, the court shall hear and determine the question of the admissibility of a confession or admission of the defendant (evid. code,  402, subd. (b).) 6 illness. when asked which mental illnesses she had, malveaux responded that she did not remember and would have to look at her records. the court then interjected: let me stop for one second here. [] you know, i dont want to go into your own personal private medical history, but i think the question is this. do you have any type of mental disease or disorder that would affect your ability to perceive or recall anything that happened? malveaux]: no. the court: so your cutting is a physical manifestation of some kind of mental trauma or as a result of things that you have gone through in your life? malveaux]: yes. the court: and is that what you were treated for? malveaux]: yes. defense counsel then asked malveaux if she was currently seeing a doctor on a regular basis; whether she was on medication; whether she was on medication in july; . b. analysis we assume from the record that the trial court excluded evidence of self-cutting on the basis of evidence code section 350.6 under evidence code section (evid. code,  350.) evidence code section 210 defines relevant evidence as evidence relevant to the 6 when the prosecutor first informed the court of history of self-cutting, he stated, position is that it is just not after the evidence code section 402 hearing, the trial court concluded, fact that [malveaux] may have engaged in cutting in the past is irrelevant and we are not going to get into 7 credibility of a witness or hearsay declarant, having any tendency in reason to prove or (evid. code,  210.) witnesses cannot be examined on matters that are irrelevant to the (people v. mayfield (1997) 14 cal.4th 668, 755.) we review trial court decisions regarding evidence code section 350 for abuse of discretion. (people v. duff, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 558.) under evidence code section 780, the court or jury may consider in determining a truthfulness of her testimony at trial. (evid. code,  780.) this includes the extent of the ve, to recollect, or to communicate any matter about which she testifies. (evid. code,  780, subd. (c).) or recall events. appellant relies on people v. newton to argue psychiatric testimony (people v. newton (1966) 244 cal.app.2d 82.) mental health history is subject to scrutiny at trial. in people v. anderson (2001) 25 cal.4th 543many people experience emotional problems, undergo therapy, and take medications for their conditionsa persons credibility is not in question merely because he or she is receiving treatment for a mental health problem. (id. at p. 579.)7 7 the federal courts apply similar standards to the admission of mental health evidence. for example, in united states v. moore (1st cir. 1991) 923 f.2d 910, the first -exams condition of mental instability. (id. at p. 913.) in united states v. bari (2d cir. 1984) 750 f.2d 1169, the second circuit found the trial court did not abuse its discretion by restricting cross-examination on a witnesss prior hospitalization for schizophrenia. (id. at pp. 1178-1179.) in united states v. smith (d.c. cir. 1996) 77 f.3d 511, the d.c. (id. at p. 516.) 8 -examined on that subject, if such illness affects the witnesss ability to perceive, recall or people v. gurule (2002) 28 cal.4th 557, 591-592; people v. herring (2005) 36 cal.4th 96, 116-117; people v. anderson, supra, 25 cal.4th at pp. 608-609 (conc. opn. of kennard, j.).) here, the trial court did not arbitrarily restrict -cutting. first, the nature of self-cutting does not necessarily reflect a diminished or questionable ability to perceive and recall events. delusions [as] generally more probative of credibility than a condition causing only (people v. anderson, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 609 (kennard, j., concurring).) s veracity may be impaired by lack of capacity to observe, correlate or recollect actual events. a paranoid person may interpret a reality skewed by suspicions, antipathies or fantasies. a schizophrenic may have difficulty distinguishing fact from fantasy and may have his memory distorted by delusions, hallucinations and paranoid thinking. a paranoid schizophrenic, though he may appear normal and his judgment on matters outside his delusional system may remain intact, may harbor delusions of grandeur or persecution (united states v. lindstrom (11th cir. 1983) 698 f.2d 1154, 1160.) defense counsel asked malveaux whether she has ever been diagnosed with malveaux said she had not. -cutting as an adolescent may indicate she had depression or anxiety, or as the court explained, the self-cutting could have been entirely unrelated to any mental health disorders. the fact that a witness has depression or anxiety is not enough to question her credibility and capacity to perceive and recall events. (people v. anderson, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 579; see also united states v. butt (1st cir. 1992) 955 f.2d 77, 82.) on appeal, appellant relies on the american psychiatric -iv-tr) to argue self-cutting is a condition that commonly co-exists with certain mental health disorders. however, appellant did not raise this argument at the evidence code section 9 402 hearing. even if we assume this argument is not waived on appeal, appellant did not provide evidence or argue that self-ability to communicate. in anderson, the fact that the witne, standing alone, require the trial court to permit defense counsel to inquire into her mental health history in front of the jury. (see people v. anderson, supra, 25 cal.4th at pp. 578-579.) here, malveaux testified that she did not have bipolar disorder or schizophrenia. the court asked malveaux if she had any disorders that affected her ability to perceive and nefficient to ask the subject of an inquiry whether he or she has a mental condition that inhibits the argue this issue during the evidence code section 402 hearing. he did not. moreover, in people v. pack (1988) 201 cal.app.3d 679, defense counsel sought to inquire about a (id. at p. 686, disapproved on other grounds by people v. hammon (1997) 14 cal.4th 1117.) the court held this minimal showing some mental health fy an inquiry into a wrecords. (ibid.) furthermore, courts find when -frame of the events testified to, the witness exhibited a pronounced disposition to lie or hallucinate, or suffered from a severe illness, such as schizophrenia, that dramatical (united states v. butt, supra, 955 f.2d at pp. 82-83.) there is nothing in the record to indicate that malveaux had such a disposition when she witnessed appellant threaten allen or when she testified at trial. moreover, appellant did not make such a showing or raise this argument at trial during the section 402 hearing. finally, in conducting the 402 hearing, the court also assessed soundness during her testimony. the record affirmatively shows the trial court balanced 10 -cutting with the prejudicial effect such evidence could have had on the jury. we conclude there was no abuse of discretion. iii. the cross- a. in july 2012, allen was addicted to crack cocaine. six hours before the july 10th incident between allen and appellant, allen smoked crack. at trial, allen admitted that when she smoked crack, she was prone to having hallucinations or delusions, including paranoia. allen testified she was not hallucinating on july 10, 2012. before september 2009, allen was diagnosed with bipolar disorder. in 2012, she was taking prozac but ran out of the medication a couple of days before the incident. at the time of the trial, allen was sober and receiving treatment for her bipolar disorder, depression and substance addiction. b. the evidence code section 352 ruling house. at trial, defense counsel wanted to question allen on five areas of underlying facts concerning the vandalism conviction: (1) allen broke into the house; (2) one of (3) allen locked all the doors, preventing anyone else from entering; (4) when a detective tried to talk to allen, allen said she wanted to talk to a real detective, not an actor; and (5) allen told the police her cousin was going to shoot her. the trial court allowed defense counsel to inquire as to some of the facts but not the five specific areas defense counsel wanted to address. the court explained, typically, when it comes to impeaching a witness based on a prior felony conviction involving moral turpitude, the witness is confronted with the case number, the date of conviction and asked, were you convicted of a violation of felony vandalism in violation of 594(a) of the penal code? yes or no. 11 because the trial court allowed the prosecutor to inquire into some of the the trial court permitted defense counsel to do the same. the court provided a list in writing to the attorneys indicating which facts could be asked of allen regarding her vandalism conviction. the court allowed questions of whether allen was experiencing mental health issues the day of the . . . the entire incident to be re- section] 352. undue consumption of time. the probative value is substantially outweighed by prejudice, appellant contends that happellant as a product of drug-induced paranoia. the attorney general argues the trial court acted within its discretion and any possible error was harmless. c. analysis we review trial court decisions regarding evidence code section 352 for abuse of discretion. (people v. montes (2014) 58 cal.4th 809, 869.) in criminal proceedings, any prior felony conviction of any person can be used for the purposes of impeachment. (cal. const., art. i,  28.) under evidence code section 788, prior felony convictions can be 8 (evid. code,  788.) however, using evidence of 8 the four evidence code section 788 conviction cannot (a) a pardon based on [her] innocence has been granted to the witness by the jurisdiction in which [she] was convicted. [] (b) a certificate of rehabilitation and pardon has been granted to the witness under the provisions of chapter 3.5 (commencing with section 4852.01) of 12 prior felony convictions for impeachment purposes is still subject to limitation by evidence code section 352. (people v. castro (1985) 38 cal. 3d 301, 307.) because the trial court allowed in evidence of aissue concerns whether the trial court erred in restricting defense counsel from inquiring into additional underlying facts of that conviction such as allen telling the police her cousin was going to shoot her or that one against allen. turpitude. (people v. castro (1985) 38 cal.3d only admissible for people v. lang (1989) 49 cal.3d 991, 1009.) without delving into the specific circumstances and the moral turpitude requirement. (see people v. campbell (1994) 23 cal.app.4th 1488, 1496 [holding that felony vandalism involves moral turpitude].) the latitude [evidence code] section 352 allows for exclusion of impeachment evidence in individual cases is (people v. clark (2011) 52 cal. 4th 856, 931.) because the courts discretion to (people v. collins (1986) 42 cal.3d 378, 389), a reviewing court ordinarily will uphold the trial courts exercise of discretion. (people v. hinton (2006) 37 cal.4th 839, 888.) appellant relies on people v. wheeler (1992) 4 cal.4th 284 to argue pursuant to article i, section 28 of the california constitution, statutory prohibitions on impeachment title 6 of part 3 of the penal code. [] (c) the accusatory pleading against the witness has been dismissed under the provisions of penal code section 1203.4 , . . . [] (d) the conviction was under the laws of another jurisdiction and the witness has been relieved of the penalties and disabilities arising from the conviction pursuant to a procedure (evid. code  788.) 13 with conduct evidence other than felony convictions no longer apply in criminal cases. we disagree. in wheeler, the issue was whether evidence of prior misdemeanor convictions not underlying facts of the convictionsshould be allowed in for impeachment purposes. (id. at p. 288.) the california supreme court specifically requires the admission in criminal cases of all privilege or hearsay, or evidence code, [s]ections 352, 782 or 1103,-thirds of each hou (id., at p. 292, italics omitted.) evidence code section 352. the trial court explicitly stated . . . the entire [vandalism] incident to be re-we conclude the trial court did not abuse its discretion in limiting defense - appellant asserts further - defense counsel was not barred from drawing such an inference for the jury. during the vandalism incident, allen was experiencing mental health issues, was not on her prescribed medication and was under the influence of drugs. those three factors were also present when allen claimed appellant threatened her. the trial court did not preclude defense counsel from eliciting testimony of these three factors. not only did the trial court allow defense counsel to cross-examine allen on the fact that she was convicted of felony vandalism, but the trial court also permitted defense counsel to ask allen about her drug use, mental health issues and medication during the vandalism incident. defense counsel -induced paranoia and (2) allen was suffering from a similar drug-induced paranoia on the night she accused appellant of threatening her. defense counsel had ample opportunity to draw this inference and make this argument. the trial court only barred defense counsel from asking about five 14 (2) one preventing anyone else from entering; (4) when a detective tried to talk to allen, allen allen told the police her cousin was going to shoot her. in addition to the three factors connecting the vandalism appellantrowing plates and shattering windows argued her drug-was irrational. in view of the evidence appellant was allowed to present and argument to the jury, appellant has not shown that the trial court erred in limiting defense - e value or even expressly state that it has done so, if the record as a whole shows the court was aware of (people v. edwards (2013) 57 cal.4th 658, 724.) the record reflects the trial court expressly referred to the weighing process in exercising its discretion to limit the cross-examination. even if the trial court erred, the error was harmless and the judgment should be affirmed. ence is reviewed under the watson standard, which states an error is harmless if it does not appear reasonably probable a result more favorable to the defendant would have been reached absent the error.9 (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 837.) 9 -examination constitutes a confrontation clause violation and the chapman standard should be used. (chapman v. california [b]efore a federal constitutional error can be held harmless, the court must be able to declare a belief that it was harmless beyond a guarantees the right of an accused in a criminal prosecution to be confronted with the witnesses against 15 main objective in asking allen about the circumstances of her vandalism conviction was to discredit her testimony. yet of the three charged crimes, appellant was only convicted of criminal threats. testimony was not the sole basis of evidence. this conviction was also corroborated by . towards allen. malveaux also witnessed appellant threaten allen. malveaux testified malveaux testified that appellant a police they were driving. thus, because defense counsel was able to connect her paranoia eyewitness, we hold the error was harmless. iv. appellant claims the prosecutor committed misconduct when he repeatedly asked leading questions during his direct examination of allen. the attorney general argues the opponent the opportunity of cross- (davis v. alaska (1974) 415 u.s. 308, 315.) the confrontation claus-examination that is (delaware v. fensterer judge from imposing any limitprosecution witness. on the contrary, trial judges retain wide latitude insofar as the confrontation clause is concerned to impose reasonable limits on such cross-examination based on concerns about, among other things, harassment, prejudice, confusion of the (delaware v. van arsdall (1986) 475 u.s. 673, 678-defense -examination did not violate the confrontation clause because appellant was given and exercised his opportunity to confront and cross-examine allen. thus, the chapman standard should not be applied. 16 appellant forfeited his claim of prosecutorial misconduct because defense counsel failed to make such an objection at trial and did not request an appropriate admonition. a. appellant did not preserve his prosecutorial misconduct claim for appeal generally, a defendant preserves a prosecutorial misconduct claim for appeal admonish the jury to disregard the impropriety unless doing so would be futile or an admonition would not cure the (people v. whalen (2013) 56 cal.4th 1.) defense counsel did not make a timely and specific objection to the repeated use of leading nor did she object to the entire direct examination. for the objections defense counsel did make, she did not request an admonition. moreover, appellant does not claim that any objection or any request for admonition would have been futile. as a result, appellant did not preserve his claim of prosecutorial misconduct for appeal. b. claim of ineffective assistance of counsel to overcome forfeiture, appellant asserts his claim is preserved for appeal because constitutes ineffective assistance of counsel. with respect to ineffective assistance of counsel claims, the california supreme court has established, sheds no light on why counsel acted or failed to act in the manner challenged[,] . . . unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or unless there simply could be no satisfactory explanation, the claim on appeal must be rejected. (people v. vines (2011) 51 cal. 4th 830, 876 citing people v. mendoza tello (1997) 15 cal.4th 264, 266-267.) the california supreme court explained that it is inappropriate for an appellate court to speculate as to the existence or nonexistence of a tactical basis for a defense attorneys course of conduct when the record on appeal does not illuminate the basis for the attorneys challenged acts or omissions, a claim of ineffective assistance is more appropriately made in a habeas 17 corpus proceeding, in which the attorney has the opportunity to explain the reasons for (people v. wilson (1992) 3 cal.4th 926, 936.) a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel is shown when the defendant establishes both of the following: (standard of reasonableness; and (2) there is a reasonable probability that, but for resulted. (people v. huggins (2006) 38 cal.4th 175, 205-206; strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687-688, 694.) judging attorney performance is that of reasonably effective assistance, considering all the circumstances. . . . judicial scrutiny of counsels performance must be highly deferential, and a fair assessment of attorney performance requires that every effort be made to eliminate the distorting effects of hindsight, to reconstruct the circumstances of counsels challenged conduct, and to evaluate the conduct from counsels perspective at the time. a court must indulge a strong presumption that counsels conduct falls within (strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 669.) discloses that counsel had no rational tactical purpose (people v. fosselman (1983) 33 cal.3d 572, 581-582.) 1. objecting more frequently to the prosecuquestions with respect to whether defense counsel should have objected more frequently does not indicate incompetency; rather it sometimes is considered good trial technique (people v. chavez (1968) 262 cal.app.2d 422.) because defense counsel did 18 on appeal that defense counsel might have had a rational tactical purpose to not repeatedly and frequently object to leading questions -examination. 2. as for whether there was a rational tactical purpose for not objecting to the entire direct examination as prosecutorial misconduct, appellant points out that defense counsel stated on the record facts of [the prosecutor] mentioned that i repeatedly objected based on leading, i really believe that [the prosecutor] appreciate it. and i repeatedly objected. and i really hope that [the prosecutor] follows in response, oth parties are well aware of the california evidence code and the rules contained therein. whoever has a witness on direct cannot ask leading questions. [] . . . you objected at the appropriate time and i sustained your objections when appropriate. witness, do not ask leadi-examination of allen.10 appellant is not arguing that this exchange was enough to preserve his claim of prosecutorial misconduct. recognizing the issue and raising it with the trial court while failing to make the appropriate objection or legal argument is proof that her omissions lacked a rational tactical purpose. ineffective lega (people v. boyette (2002) 29 cal.4th 381, 424.) leading questions and voicing it to the court does not indicate that her representation was objectively deficient. 10 this discussion was held outside the presence of the jury. 19 she may have thought it was more strategic to object during the direct examination rather than afterwards. objecting to the entire direct examination and asking for certain portions to be stricken may have resulted in the prosecutor going back and reasking questions. this could have given the prosecutor a better opportunity to emphasize certain or it could have irritated the jury. even assuming defense counsel should have objected, appellant failed to demonstrate defense resulted in prejudice. the california supreme for counsels unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would have been different. a reasonable probability is a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in (people v. lucas (1995) 12 cal.4th 415, 436, citing in re harris (1993) 5 cal.4th 813, 832-833.) appellant has not shown there was a reasonable probability that but for those favorable result. (strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 695.) appellant was convicted of criminal threats. direct examination, it is unlikely that appellant would have obtained a better result malveaux testified she witnessed appellant say to allen, against appellant, appellant was only convicted of the charge where there was an independent witness. the prosecutor did not ask leading questions on the direct examination of this separate witness. the sixth amendment guarantee to effective assistance of counsel ensure[s] that (strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 689.) examination rendered his trial fundamentally unfair. nor has appellant established the o undermined the proper functioning of the adversarial process that (id. at p. 686.) 20 v. error in the judgment appellant argues the abstract of judgment should not order compliance with a the attorney general does not contest this and states the abstract of judgment should be amended to reflect the actual sentence imposed. we agree. owever, the record does not indicate that the trial judgment, the oral pronouncement controls. (people v. mitchell (2001) 26 cal.4th 181, 185-186.) these minor, clerical errors are easily and appropriately corrected by order of this court. (id. at pp. 185-188.) disposition the judgment is modified to strike the protective order. as modified, the judgment is affirmed. the superior court is directed to prepare an amended abstract of judgment and to forward a certified copy to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. woods, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. segal, j.* *judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 