filed 9/8/14 p. v. johnson ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jeffery l. johnson, defendant and appellant. b245460 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma054704) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, kathleen blanchard, judge. affirmed. robert bryzman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, linda c. johnson and robert m. snider, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________ 2 jeffery l. johnson appeals from the judgment on his conviction and sentence of seven counts of second degree robbery in violation of penal code section 211 and two counts of being a felon in possession of a firearm in violation of penal code section 12021, subdivision (a)(1). on appeal, johnson contends that: (1) the trial court abused its discretion in failing to conduct a marsden hearing (people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 (hereafter marsden)), and (2) the trial court erred in denying faretta request (faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806, 95 s.ct. 2525, 45 l.ed.2d 562 (hereafter faretta) as untimely. as we shall explain, the court did not abuse its discretion in failing to conduct a marsden hearing because the record does not establish that johnson clearly indicated he wished to replace counsel. moreover, the court did not err in denying faretta request as untimely because discretion to deny a faretta request made on the eve of trial. accordingly, we affirm the judgment. factual and procedural background i. the crimes four incidents make up the seven counts of second degree robbery alleged in the information and amended information. during the first incident, johnson entered a service station with a female accomplice on east avenue k, and pulled out a gun while his accomplice took money from the cash register. ten days later, johnson and his female accomplice grabbed all the cash out of the register of a sex shop after demanding money from an employee. nearly a week later, johnson returned to the sex shop with his female accomplice, pulled out a gun, and retrieved more than $400 from the cash register. the fourth incident took place two nights later when johnson and his female accomplice entered a smoke shop in palmdale. johnson held a gun to an employee and took money from the cash registers. the twosome then fled the scene in their car. during the robbery, witness brittney birkmeyer ran out of the store with several other customers. she got into a car with two friends and chased car for a mile or so until they 3 the information further charged johnson with two counts of being a felon in possession of a firearm. following the final robbery, led over johnson. as johnson exited his car, he knocked a handgun that was in his waistband onto the ground. deputies then arrested johnson. later, when officers searched bedroom, they found a tec 9 semi-automatic pistol, ammunition for the tec 9, and a case for the handgun johnson discarded when arrested. ii. in court behavior the court admonished johnson for his disruptive behavior several times over the course of the proceedings. at a pretrial proceeding on may 30, 2012, the court admonished johnson for raising his voice and interrupting the court. a few months later at another pretrial proceeding, the court ordered johnson removed from the courtroom when he continued to interrupt and speak over the court after being admonished by the court for this behavior. handwritten motion that johnson had prepared himself. but i understand it has something to with [sic] inaccuraciesmarsden nadler proceeded to inform the court that although he was not exactly sure what the motion contained, he understood it to have something to do with inaccuracies in the preliminary hearing transcript. procedures been violated, my due process, my 6th amendment right. court then admonished johnson not to speak out in court or interrupt his attorney. nadler requested permission from the court to review the motion that evening. the court then gave nadler permission to review the motion and if he felt it was appropriate, to submit it before trial began.1 1 nadler did not file the handwritten motion and the motion is not included in the record on appeal. 4 the court then asked nadler if he was ready for trial, and as nadler was replying that he could be ready, the court admonished johnson to stop talking over the court and over his attorney. johnson again interrupted and the following exchange ensued: johnson]: trial court]: yes, he is your attorney. johnson]: -per. torney. the court told johnson that all motions must go through his attorney and, if the court were to consider a motion for johnson to represent himself, johnson needed to understand that he would be held to the same standard of conduct as an attorney. the court noted that it doubted johnson could conduct himself properly because throughout this proceeding he had continued to interrupt the proceedings. after nadler and the deputy district attorney announced they were ready for trial, the court asked johnson if he would be ready to go to trial within the next three days if granted pro-per status. johnson replied that he would not be ready. the court then for self-representation as untimely, saying: we are absolutely on the eve of trial. my supervising judge is here to assign this out as master calendar. this case is extremely old, as i said. the request is now made at 3:35 on the day the trial is going out and it is coupled with an absolute request to continue the case. and therefore, i find it untimely. the case was promptly assigned to the same judge for trial, and jury selection began the following day. opening statements began on the afternoon of september 26, 2012, two days after johnson asserted his faretta motion and purported marsden motion. one week later, a jury convicted johnson on all seven counts of robbery and both counts of being a felon in possession of a firearm. this appeal followed. discussion i. marsden motion johnson contends the trial court abused its discretion by failing to conduct a marsden hearing after johnson attempted to submit his handwritten motion. he argues 5 that the court improperly delegated the determination of the merits of the motion to defense counsel. we conclude the court did not abuse its discretion in failing to conduct a marsden hearing because johnson did not make a sufficiently clear marsden request. we review the failure to conduct a marsden hearing for an abuse of the trial (people v. berryman (1993) 6 cal.4th 1048, 1070; people v. earp (1999) 20 cal.4th 826, 876.) a marsden hearing is an informal hearing where the court subsequent appointed attorney. (people v. alfaro (2007) 41 cal.4th 1277, 1320.) a trial clear indication by defendant that he wants a substitute attorney directly or by (people v. lucky (1988) 45 cal.3d 259, 281, fn. 8; people v. leonard (2000) 78 cal.app.4th 776, 787 quoting people v. molina (1977) 74 cal.app.3d 544, 549.) an attempted marsden request is not sufficiently clear when the defendant uses marsdenan altogether different motion. for example, in people v. carter (2010) 183 cal.app.4th 522, 525-526, marsden however, after a bit more discussion, the defendant clarified that he was actually seeking to represent himself. (ibid.) the court held that under these circumstances, the trial court was not required to hold a marsden hearing. (id. at p. 528.) like the defendant in carter, johnson also marsdensurrounding circumstances suggested he was not in fact making a marsden motion. although johnson interrupted his attorney and claimed the document he was submitting was a marsden t the document, informed the court he understood the document to be a motion to correct inaccuracies in the preliminary hearing transcript. moreover, johnson had an opportunity 6 to correct his attorney and explain the contents of the handwritten motion his attorney was submitting. 6th amendment right. in addition, the surrounding circumstances in this case further indicate that johnson did not intend to make a marsden motion but instead intended to make a faretta motion for self-representation. johnson made his faretta motion for self-representation purported marsden motion. in this marsdenotherwise suggest that the motion was instead to correct inaccuracies in the preliminary hearing transcript or, alternatively, a motion for self-representation, the trial court was not required to hold a marsden hearing. ii. faretta motion johnson argues that the trial court erred in denying his faretta motion as untimely, and further, that the court abused its discretion by denying the motion without considering the factors set forth in people v. windham (1977) 19 cal.3d 121. we conclude the trial court did not err in faretta motion because it was faretta motion made on the eve of trial. moreover, the record contains sufficient evidence to support an inference that the trial court considered the windham factors. the court in faretta held that a criminal defendant has a constitutional right to self-representation if the decision to do so is made voluntarily and intelligently. however, the law requires that requests for self-representation be made within a reasonable time prior to the commencement of trial. (people v windham, supra, 19 cal.3d at p. 128 & fn. 5.) thus, requests for self-representation made after this time are subject to the discretion of the court. (id. at p. 129 [the denial of an untimely faretta ) tprocess right to counsel must then (people v. strozier (1993) 20 cal.app.4th 55, 61.) 7 (people v. scott (2001) 91 cal.app.4th 1197, 1205.) for example, people v. scott held that the trial court faretta motion as untimely when it was made four days prior to the start of trial. (ibid.) (see also people v. hill (1983) 148 cal.app.3d 744, 757 [faretta motion made five days before trial was untimely and within trial ; people v. ruiz (1983) 142 cal.app.3d 780, 791 [faretta motion made six days before trial was untimely].) faretta motion was similarly untimely when it was made two days prior to the start of trial and on the same day the supervising judge was going to assign the case to a courtroom. moreover, at a time closer to the start of trial than the four, five, and six days that courts have determined are still an unreasonable time to move for self-representation prior to trial. although in scott, hill, and ruiz the cases had already been assigned to a courtroom, the record here indicates that the trial judge knew that trial would begin within a period of three days. (people v. scott, supra, 91 cal.app.4th at p. 1204; people v. hill, supra, 148 cal.app.3d at pp. 750-752; people v. ruiz, supra, 142 cal.app.3d at pp. 783-784.) accordingly, the trial court did not err by ruling the motion untimely. failing to consider the windham factors is without merit. there is no requirement that the court must explicitly cite the windham factors or state its reasons for denying an untimely request for self-representation. (people v. windham, supra, 19 cal.3d at p. 129, fn. 6; people v. bradford (2010) 187 cal.app.4th 1345, 1354.) all that is required is that the record reflect . . . to constitute an implicit consideration of these factors. (people v. scott, supra, 91 cal.app.4th at p. 1206.) under windham, the trial court considers a number of factors when exercising its discretion to grant a request for self-representation that is not made within a reasonable time prior to trial, including: (1) the quality of cou of defendant; (substitute counsel; (3) the reasons for the request; (4) the length and stage of the 8 proceedings; and (5) the disruption or delay which might reasonably be expected to follow the granting of the motion. (people v. windham, supra, 19 cal.3d at p. 128.) here, the record reflects sufficient evidence of each of these factors. first, it only complaint about nadlerrepresentation was that he failed to show up to a pretrial proceeding and sent another attorney in his place. furthermore, there is no showing that nadler was incompetent in any respect. in fact, romero motion (people v. romero (1996) 13 cal.4th 497) with the court. thus, it does not appear that the quality of s th moreover, although johnson had not shown a prior proclivity to substitute counsel, unjustifiably delay trial or obstruct the ord (people v. burton (1989) 48 cal.3d 843, 854.) the court further explicitly considered that the trial was set to be immediately sent out for assignment to a courtroom; the case was very old; that it was doubtful johnson could comport himself appropriately acting in propria persona as a result of his prior outbursts; and that johnson would require a continuance if the faretta motion was granted which would certainly have delayed the upcoming trial. considering the facts in represent himself was made for the purpose of delaying trial when it was made for the first time just a few days before trial was to begin and when it was coupled with a request for a continuance. accordingly, sufficient evidence exists to support an inference that the trial court considered the windham factors and therefore did not abuse its discretion. in light of the foregoing, the court faretta motion. 9 disposition the judgment is affirmed. woods, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. segal, j.* *judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 