filed 7/9/13 p. v. mcpherson ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. rickey mcpherson, defendant and appellant. b245542 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba387815) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, jose i. sandoval, judge. affirmed. vanessa place, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant and appellant, rickey mcpherson, appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial which resulted in his conviction of two counts of willfully and lewdly committing a lewd or lascivious act upon a 14- or 15-year-old child (pen. code,  288, subd. (c)(1))1 and one count of unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor who was more than three years younger than he ( 261.5, subd. (c)). the trial court sentenced mcpherson to three years four months in prison. we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. facts. a. k.j., who was 19 years old at the time of trial, testified that mcpherson married her m-bedroom apartment. k.j. shared a room with her sister. one afternoon when k.j. was 11 years old, she, her sister and mcpherson were all uncomfortable and she asked him why he was doing it. mcpherson did not answer. closer to k.j. and began to touch her upper thigh and vaginal area with his hand. and although it was washing her vagina with soap and a wash cloth, she noticed she was bleeding. after . . 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 2 what had happened because she was out late that evening and did not get home until after k.j. was asleep. k.j. also abuse, paris might hurt mcpherson and she and her sister would be taken from her. k.j. 3 k.j. did not tell her sister what had happened mcpherson continued to have sex with k.j. approximately every other week. he in a closet. on one occasion when he had sex with k.j. in her room, mcpherson told her to get on top of him. mcpherson held k.j. by the waist until he had finished. as he then left the room, mcpherson told k.j. not to tell anyone what had happened. k.j. did not on at least one occasion, mcpherson asked k.j. to get his shoes from the closet in the living room where he kept his clothes. k.j. found one shoe and, as she was looking er vagina. he then removed her pants and underwear, as well as his him different articles of clothing and would then follow her into the closet and sexually assault her. like to make $5. mcpherson would sometimes pay k.j. and her sister $5 to iron his 2 ot out of any disrespect, but to avoid confusion. 3 touched them inappropriately. 4 clothes and, believing that that was what he wanted, k.j. said she would like to make the began to touch k.j. on her vagina and ultimately had sexual intercourse with her while she was lying on her stomach on the bed. after he had finished, mcpherson gave k.j. $5. when mcpherson first began to have sexual intercourse with k.j., he did so approhad sex with k.j. approximately every other week until she was 15 years old. at that sex with her approximately once a month. when k.j. turned 17, she went to missouri, where she stayed for one year. although mcpherson also went to missouri, he did not approach k.j. there. at some point, k.j. realized that what mcpherson had been doing to her was . . . to go told them . . . d read some comments that he had not. then, a short time later, k.j. began t mother that she did not know why she had not told her. iately mcpherson had been molesting her and what had happened. k.j., however, did not tell bloodshot 5 her bedroom, where mcpherson was getting dressed. there, she took out a gun. she did not, however, have the clip and k.j. could see mcpherson and her moth police officers interviewed k.j. and her mother separately. k.j. told an officer what had happened and, at a later time, spoke about the incidents in detail with an officer bowser. she told the officer the truth to the best of her recollection. when questioned about dates and times these incidents had occurred, k.j. could 24, 2011, the day k.j. disclosed that mc17th birthday. that evening, z.j. heard her mother ask k.j. a question and k.j. respond . . dad [get] into and her sister cry. z.j. believed mcpherson had been a good stepfather and had treated the two girls equally. on july 24, 2011, z.j. spoke to police officers, then later spoke with an officer bowser. when bowser asked z.j. if she had ever observed anything unusual, she told the . . . neighborhood kids and i tried to go in the house . . . , the door would be lo[c]ked . . . was in the 7th or 8th grade, she was in his closet looking for his shoes when he 6 at the time of trial, z.j. and k.j. were speaking with each other almost every day. they did not, however, ever talk about what mcpherson had done to k.j. los angeles police department officer paul bowser was the investigating officer during his interview with k.j., she told the officer that mcpherson had begun to sexually abuse her when she was 11 years old and that the abuse occurred in bowser spoke with mcpherson4 twice on august 15, 2011.5 the officer first interviewed mcpherson in his office at the police station and, after advising mcpherson of his miranda6 rights, asked him questions regarding the allegations which had been made by k.j. in response, mcpherson denied having had sexual intercourse with k.j. . . . bed and [z.j.] . . . was outside the house and he said there was something that [k.j.] was do about it. and they had this back and forth, and he got up and . . . put his penis in her vagina for a very short amount of time. . . . [z.j. then] called him on his phone because she was outside trying to get inside of the house. . . . [a]t that point . . . [mcpherson told k.j.] to go and let [z.j.] into the house and so they stoppalso during the first interview, mcpherson told the officer that his wife, paris, had told the second interview occurred several hours later at a different police station. before questioning mcpherson, bowser again advised him of his miranda rights. 4 it had been stipulated mcpherson was born on december 21, 1958. 5 jury. between the interviews, mcpherson took a polygraph test. the fact that he took the test and its results were not admitted into evidence. 6 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 7 approximately two times, and from the age of 13 or 14 to 16, he had sex with her six into memory for tpreviously testified as an expert in the area of memory with regard to child sexual abuse. eisen had not interviewed k.j. or any of the other witnesses in this case. he was there to thild] will abuser is a close family figure, many children will delay disclosing abusive behavior. a child does not know what goes on outside of his or her family and will assume that what common for kids to be delayed and inconsistent in their disclosing and [then] outright b. defense evidence. n and would not lie for her daughter or her husband. 8 although she had told her two daughters that it had happened, she had never gone into detail regarding the incident because she felt that it was not appropriate to do so. however, she had frequently asked her daughters if they had been inappropriately in the several months before she graduated from high school, k.j. had been extremely difficult. she had frequently complained about mcpherson and, according to what she would do if she discovered that k.j. and mcpherson had been having sexual . she told her stepmother that she would kill them when paris came home from work on july 24, 2011, k.j. began to complain to her about mcpherson. to speak to k.j. about the postings, but felt herself getting angry. she decided to instead go into the living room and send k.j. a text message asking her what was wrong with her. in the meantime, mcpherson came home. paris asked him if he knew what was going on with k.j. and he indicated he did not. paris then sent k.j. a text message in which she ed me earlier[?] . . what mcpherson had done to her. k.j., who was sitting on the floor just repeatedly told paris she was sorry. paris responded mcpherson had been touching her since she was 11 years old, paris stated she was going 9 to kill him. when mcpherson then her gun. mcpherson followed paris and, as she was attempting to place the clip in her gun, she could catch up with him, a neighbor, who had heard the commotion, came into the ce. when paris called the police, she told the individual who answered the phone her several days later paris, based on the information she had at the time, concluded mcpherson and k.j. had not had sex until k.j. was 18 years old. paris did not believe had told police he had sex with k.j. when she was 13, she believed him when he told her that he and k.j. did not have sex until k.j. was 18. paris believed when mcpherson told police he had 10 -year-old] son ethel rasdale is a support services manager at kedren community mental health that month. the 6:00 a.m. to 2:30 p.m. however, he frequently worked up to four additional hours. this pattern of working overtime continued until 2008, when the center hired additional regular eight-hour shift. c. rebuttal. on the day officer bowser first met paris, k.j. and z.j., paris told bowser that [the officer] thought it was a good idea for her to move out there [to get] some separation 2. procedural history. following a preliminary hearing, on february 3, 2012 an information was filed in which mcpherson was charged in the first count with the continuous sexual abuse of a child under the age of 14 years, a serious felony ( 288.5, subd. (a), 1192.7, subd. (c), 11 1203.066, subd. (a)(8)); in the second and third counts with committing a lewd act upon a child who was at least 10 years younger than mcpherson, a felony ( 288, subd. (c)(1)); and in the fourth count with committing unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor, not his spouse, who was more than three years younger than mcpherson, a felony ( 261.5, subd. (c)). at arraignment, mcpherson entered pleas of not guilty to each of the alleged counts and denied all the special allegations. at proceedings held on july 30, 2012, the prosecutor indicated mcpherson faced a term of 18 years in prison. the prosecution had offered him a term of 12 years in exchange for a plea, however mcpherson had rejected the offer and made no counter-offer. the trial court determined it would allow the testimony. the court indicated, although the victim was 19 years old at the time of trial and the alleged incidents began when she was either 11 or 14 years old, such an expert might assist the jury in understanding why the [the expert] . . . a hypothetical question, but [the expert is] not going to opine on the ultimate issue, but simply give the jury some expert testimony that may aid them in their defense counsel next indicated the prosecution might attempt to present evidence that mcpherson had some sexual contact with this victim when she was 18 years old, she was an adult. . . during her opening statement, the prosecutor indicated that during an interview with an officer mcpherson had denied any improper conduct with the victim, then said 12 thand . . for a mistrial. the prosecutor indicated, although defense counsel had given her the discussion of the sexual allegations with the officer] to come in, then it [all should] the trial court stated it would give defense counsel a final ruling on her motion the following day, after it had reviewed evidence code section 356.7 in the meantime, the sex with the victim after she had turned 18] for the rest o after k.j. completed her direct testimony, the trial court again considered defense determined the comment made by the prosecutor during her opening statement, that mcpherson had sex with the victim when she was 18 years old, was not so prejudicial that the only remedy would be to declare a mistrial. instead, the court indicated it would will be no evidence admitted concerning that issue, there will be no testimony concerning that issue 7 declaration, conversation, or writing is given in evidence by one party, the whole on the s 13 jury to ignore that and not to consider it for any purpose in this after the prosecution presented all of its evidence, defense counsel made a motion for dismissal of the action pursuant to section 1118.1, arguing the evidence presented by the people had been insufficient to show mcpherson committed the alleged crimes. the after the evidence was presented, the trial court instructed the jury. one of the instructions a limited purpose. . . had sex with the [victim, k.j.], when she was 18, the age of majority. that sexual contact, if you believe that it occurred, is not at issue in this case and the defendant is not being charged with any crime arising from that contact. do not draw any inference about his guilt or innocence regarding the charges in this case based on any contact he on november 2, 2012, after the trial court had concluded its instructions and the parties had given their arguments, the jury retired to deliberate. mcpherson then waived his right to be present for any readback of testimony or questions submitted by the jury, indicating he wished to be present only for the reading of the verdicts. later that day, in the presence of both defense counsel and the prosecutor, the trial court indicated the jury had requested a copy ogoing to ask them [if they] want direct examination, cross-examination or both and see want[ed] both direct and the cross-court reporter to prepare the testimony and, as previously agreed to by the parties, go the following monday, november 5, 2012, the trial court indicated the court 14 opportunity to review it. the court reporter then read the testimony to the jury in the jury room. on the afternoon of november 5, the jury indicated it had reached verdicts. the foreperson handed the verdict forms to the bailiff who, in turn, handed them to the trial court. after the trial court reviewed the forms, it addressed the foreperson and stated, your instructions, we filled out the forms, [for the counts for which] we did reach count 1 because you were hung on that count? [] [the foreperson]: hung, meaning? [] the court: unable to reach a unanimousthe 12 of you could not agree on one verdict or the other? [] [the foreperson]: that is correct. [] the court: i know that were i to give you additional time, do you think that [with] further consideration by you as a jury, you might be able to reach a verdict on count 1? [] [the foreperson]: as the foreperson you want me to speak for the jury? [] the court: exactly. [] [the foreperson]: i do not think so. [] the court: okay. is there anythingi know that you asked for readback, is there anything the court can do in aidin facilitating [the] . . . reaching [of] a verdict either way on count 1? [] [the foreperson]: i think the jury feels that we have all the evidence that we needed . . . to come to a verdict. [] the court: . . . [d]o the other jurors feel the same way about that? okay. everyone appearing to nod in agreement. [] i do note that we have verdicts on counts 2, 3 and 4. let me hand those verdicts to the clerk who will read of a lewd act upon a child on or between february 22nd, 2007 and february 21st, 2008, in violation of . . . section 288[, subdivision] (c)(1), a felony as charged in count 2 of the upon a child on or between february 22nd, 2008 and february 21st, 2009, in violation 15 of . . . section 288[, subdivision] (c)(1), a felony as charged in count 3 of the intercourse on or between february 22nd, 2009 and february 21st, 2010, in violation of . . . section 261.5[, subdivision] (c), . . jurors then each indicated that those were their verdicts. o ask you for the ratio on the voting of count 1, without telling me [how many were] for guilty or not guilty, if you can just give me the numbers the last time you voted . . . been fairly evenly split each of the approximately five times the jury had voted. the trial court then, after indicating it was unlikely further deliberations would result in a verdict, declared a mistrial as to count 1. although defense counsel argued mcpherson, who had been free on bail throughout the proceedings, should remain so until sentencing, the trial court indicated it was its practice to remand defendants once they had been found guilty of felony crimes. sentencing was then set for november 21, 2012, or within 20 days of that date. at proceedings held on november 21, 2012, the prosecutor indicated the people did not intend to retry mcpherson on count 1, the continuous sexual abuse of a child under the age of 14 years, a serious felony. the trial court, accordingly, dismissed the count. paris mcpherson, and grandmother, lorene galbert, the trial court indicated that, with regard to elements in aggravation, it had found the victim was vulnerable and the voluntarily acknowledge[d] wrongdoing during the interview at the police station . . . the court then denied probation and sentenced mcpherson to the mid-term of two years in prison for committing a lewd act upon a child at least 10 years younger than he as alleged in count 2. for his conviction of count 3, committing a lewd act upon a child at 16 least 10 years younger than he, the trial court sentenced mcpherson to a consecutive term of one-third the mid-term, or 8 months in state prison. with regard to count 4, g unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor more than three years younger than he, a felony, the trial court imposed a consecutive sentence of one-third the mid-term, or 8 months in prison.8 in total, mcpherson was sentenced to three years four months in prison. after awarding mcpherson presentence custody credit for 27 days actually served and 4 days of good time/work time, or 31 days, the trial court imposed a $240 restitution fine ( 1202.4, subd. (b)), a stayed $240 parole revocation restitution fine ( 1202.45), a $120 court operations assessment ( 1465.8, subd. (a)(1)), a $90 conviction assessment court ordered mcpherson to register as a sex offender within five days of his release from prison. mcpherson filed a timely notice of appeal on november 21, 2012. contentions after examination of the record, appointed appellate counsel filed an opening brief which raised no issues and requested this court to conduct an independent review of the record. by notice filed april 12, 2013, the clerk of this court advised mcpherson to submit within 30 days any contentions, grounds of appeal or arguments he wished this court to consider. no response has been received to date. review on appeal we have examined the entire record and are satisfied counsel has complied fully smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 278-284; people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, 443.) 8 although in this case the prosecutor charged the violation of section 261.5, subdivision (c) as a felony, the offense is a wobbler and may be charged as either a felony or misdemeanor. the trial court noted that the sentence for count 4 could be served in county jail. 17 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports aldrich, j. we concur: klein, p. j. croskey, j. 