filed 6/17/13 p. v. buchanan ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. terry buchanan, defendant and appellant. b245156 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sa073573) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, scott t. millington, judge. dismissed. jerome j. haig, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant and appellant, terry buchanan, appeals from the judgment entered following revocation of probation previously granted after his pleas of no contest to presenting a forged prescription (bus. & prof. code,  4324, subd. (a)), and second degree commercial burglary (pen. code,  459),1 and his admissions that he previously suffered a conviction for a serious or violent felony, first degree burglary ( 459), within the meaning of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)) and had served nine separate prison terms for various felony convictions ( 667.5, subd. (b)). the trial court sentenced buchanan to 12 years in prison. although buchanan filed a timely notice of appeal, he failed to obtain from the trial court a certificate of probable cause. accordingly, the appeal must be dismissed. factual and procedual history 1. facts.2 on february 10, 2010, lead pharmacy technician nicole vance was working at the prescription counter at the cvs pharmacy at 8601 south sepulveda boulevard in los angeles. buchanan and a woman, genetta kilpatrick, were in line to drop off prescriptions. vance had seen buchanan and kilpatrick approximately three weeks earlier, when they also dropped off and picked up prescriptions. vance remembered buchanan and kilpatrick because, although they had acted as though they were not together, they had prescriptions for the same medicine from the same doctor. at that informed one of the pharmacists. on february 10, 2010, buchanan and kilpatrick were again acting as though they were not together, but were dropping off prescriptions from the same doctor for the same medication. buchanan approached vance while kilpatrick was being assisted by another pharmacy clerk. when vance looked at one of the prescriptions buchanan had given her, 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 the facts have been taken from the transcript of the preliminary hearing. 3 both buchanan and kilpatrick decided to sit in the waiting area while their prescriptions were being filled. shauna samuel was the pharmacy manager at the cvs pharmacy on february 10, [which indicated the presc . . . when samuel then looked up the doctor on the cvs central file, it doctor. moreover, the medication for which the prescriptions had been written was -psychotic 3 after samuel had reviewed the prescriptions and been unsuccessful in her attempts at reaching the prescribing physician, she had called the police. officers arrived at the pharmacy approximately 15 minutes later. los angeles police department officer william perez and his partner, officer kilpatrick as the individuals who had requested they be filled. 3 the anti-psychotic medication on the prescription buchanan had submitted was abilify. 4 while perez spoke with kilpatrick, officer hershey spoke to buchanan. when kilpatrick spoke with perez, she paused for a moment, then told him she knew the given to her by a womboulevard. buchanan initially told officer hershey that a doctor in north hollywood had prescribed the medications. he then recanted and told hershey he had obtained the prescriptions from a woman would take the prescriptions to the pharmacy, get them filled and take the medications woman gave to buchanan and kilpatrick $75. 2. procedural history. a preliminary hearing was held in this matter on march 29, 2010. after the prosecutor presented evidence, which included the statements buchanan had made to the police officer at the pharmacy, counsel for buchanan statements stricken from the record because they had been given in violation of miranda.4 counsel then moved that the charges against buchanan be dismissed as the prosecutor had failed to prove the prescriptions buchanan had presented to the pharmacy clerk had been forged documents. with regard to the miranda issue, the trial court indicated the contact at the he evidence presented that it had been a oof that [the prescriptions were] forged is, [initially], the observations of the pharmacist who indicated . . . there were unusual aspects to each of [them]. [] . . . [] and then you have the admission of the 4 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 5 defendant[], that [he] did not receive [thnot . . . patients at a fast on april 12, 2010, an information was filed alleging buchanan committed the crime of presenting a forged prescription in violation of business and professions code section 4324, subdivision (a), a felony (count 1), and committed second degree commercial burglary in violation of section 459, a felony (count 2). it was further alleged buchanan had suffered a prior serious or violent felony conviction for first degree burglary ( 459) within the provisions of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)), and had served nine separate prison terms for felony convictions ( 667.5, subd. (b)). at arraignment, held the same day, buchanan pled not guilty to counts 1 and 2 and denied the remaining allegations. pursuant to section 995. counsel argued the evidence at the preliminary hearing failed to establish reasonable or probable cause buchanan had committed the alleged offenses of presenting a forged prescription and commercial burglary. counsel asserted, although preliminary hearing . . . the prescriptions [he] presented were forged. . . . [s]ince the felony of forgery was not proven, the crime of burglary was not proven as it required the trial court, however, determined the transcript of the preliminary hearing established probable cause the crimes has been committed and, accordingly, denied the motion. at proceedings held on august 17, 2010, the trial court indicated the people had offered buchanan a sentence of 32 months in jail. the court then addressed buchanan e to stay out of trouble for three years. and you have not been able to do that up to now. 6 you and i both know that you have not been able to do that . . . [a]nd if you desert your understanding of the facts, they would merge, so the maximum exposure would not court has] so much time to hang over his head, that for the facts of this case, even with the high term of three years, plus nine state record making it very clear to mr. buchanan . . . this is his one and only chance at after buchanan waived his right to a jury trial, his right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses against him, his right to present evidence on his own behalf, which included the use of the subpoena power of the court at no expense to him, his right to testify on his own behalf and his right against self-incrimination, or his right to remain silent, the trial court indicated buchanan would be pleading open to the court by admitting all the counts and allegations. the court would then impose the high term of three years for count 1 plus nine years for the prior prison terms, suspend execution of 7 subdivision (a) and second degree burglary in violation of section 459. with regard to counts 1 and 2, buchanan admitted he previously had been convicted of first degree burglary ( 459) for purposes of section 667, subdivisions (b) to (i) and 1170.12, subdivisions (a) to (d), the three strikes law. with regard to the allegations he had suffered felony convictions for which he served nine prison terms within the meaning of section voluntarily made with an understanding of the nature and consequences thereof, and . . . . . . for . . . with regard to count 1, the trial court sentenced buchanan to the upper term of sentenced buchanan to 12 years in state prison, then suspended execution of the sentence and granted buchanan three years probation. the court ordered buchanan to pay a $200 restitution fine ( 1202.4, subd. (b)), a stayed $200 parole revocation restitution fine ( 1202.45), a $60 court security assessment ( 1465.8, subd. (a)(1)), a $60 criminal conviction assessment (gov. code,  70373), and a $10 crime prevention fee ( 1202.5). at a hearing held on february 3, 2011, it was determined buchanan had violated the terms of his probation. however, both baddressed by going into an alcohol treatment program rather than . . . just sending [him] here were apparently extenuating circumstances which 8 would order him to do residential treatment facility. after buchanan indicated he understood he had a right to a formal hearing to determine whether he was in violation of any of the terms or conditions of his probation, terms and conditions with the following modifications: [he was] to be released only to acton to do a 120-day program. [he was] to be held in county [jail] until a bed g the proceedings, the trial court gave buchanan credit for 31 days served in custody. when buchanan failed to appear at proceedings held on march 16, 2012, the trial court revoked his probation and issued a bench warrant for his arrest with no bail. at proceedings held on may 4, 2012, the trial court indicated buchanan had meantime, buchanan had been sent back to the court in los angeles because he had indicated he wished to make a motion to withdraw the plea he had entered on august 17, -day time period provided for by section 1018 for a motion to withdraw a plea had lapsed and the motion wa petition for writ of habeas corpus, denied his motion and transferred the matter back to the court in torrance. on october 17, 2012, buchanan was again in the los angeles superior court for a hearing regarding an alleged violation of probation. it was agreed to by both defense counsel and the prosecutor that the trial court could consider the testimony given at the april 2, 2012 preliminary hearing in the new case which had been brought against buchanan. in addition, defense counsel presented the testimony of deshaun sims. nd 9 asked him if he wanted to accompany him to the auto zone store. buchanan agreed to , and sims obliged. the store was not yet open, so the two men waited in the car until the doors to the store opened. sims, who was on the phone, then waited for buchanan, who got out of the car and went into the store. at some point that morning, sims n . . attention. after buchanan had come out of the did not know whether buchanan was un was followed by store security officers. when sims heard one of the security officers tell he saw buchanan take a watch out of his pocket and throw it at a store security officer, he the medications, he had had some brandy and, approximately 24 hours before he had drunk the brandy, buchanan had used cocaine. buchanan recalled going into the although he had not paid for it, buchanan had not placed the watch in his pocket. he an got out of the car, walked toward the security 10 guards and handed the watch to one of them. although he had been told he had done so, buchanan did not remember threatening the store security guard. buchanan indicated, during the time he has been on probation in this case, he has struggled with his sobriety. on cross examination, buchanan indicated, since having been placed on probation in august 2010, he had probably used cocaine three or four times. he had also used marijuana and alcohol. after hearing the testimony and argument by the parties, the trial court determined buchanan had willfully violated a term of his probation. he had admitted going into the burlington coat factory and stealing a watch. when defense counsel indicated buchanan was willthe trial imposed, then stayed, on august 17, 2010. the court stated, for his conviction of presenting a forged prescription, buchanan was to be imprisoned for the high term of three years. for his conviction of second degree burglary, the trial court imposed a concurrent term of three years, the term to be served in state prison. for each of was sentenced to 12 years in prison. the court awarded buchanan presentence custody credit for 699 days actually served and 399 days of good time/work time, for a total of 1,038 days. buchanan filed a timely notice of appeal on october 18, 2012, in which he appears to be challenging the relief of his counsel of record and the denial of his motion to withdraw his plea. buchanan, however, failed to obtain from the trial court a certificate of probable cause. (see  1237.5; cal. rules of court, rule 8.304(b).) 5 5 judgment of conviction upon a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, or a revocation of probation following an admission of violation, except where both of the following are met: [] (a) the defendant has filed with the trial court a written statement, executed 11 in an order filed november 16, 2012, the administrative presiding justice of this on october 18, 2012, does not comply with rule 8.304(b) of the california rules of court and with . . . section 1237.5. unless it is shown that the appeal complies with these contentions after examination of the record, appointed appellate counsel filed an opening brief which raised no issues and requested this court to conduct an independent review of the record. by notice filed march 20, 2013, the clerk of this court advised buchanan to submit within 30 days any contentions, grounds of appeal or arguments he wished this court to consider. no response has been received to date. review on appeal we have examined the entire record and are satisfied appellate counsel has smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 278-284; people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, 443.) moreover, examination of the record indicates buchanan failed to obtain from the trial court a certificate of probable cause ( 1237.5; cal. rules of court, rule 8.304(b).) accordingly, in compliance with the november 16, 2012 order issued by the administrative presiding justice of this court, the appeal must be dismissed. under oath or penalty of perjury showing reasonable constitutional, jurisdictional, or other grounds going to the legality of the proceedings. [] (b) the trial court has executed and filed a certificate of probable cause for such appeal with the clerk of the except as provided in (4), to appeal from a superior court judgment after a plea of guilty or nolo contendere or after an admission of probation violation, the defendant must file in that superior court with the notice of appeal required by (a)the statement required by . . . section 1237.5 for issuance of a certificate of probable cause. [] . . . [] (4) the defendant need not comply with (1) if the notice of appeal states that the appeal is based on: [] (a) the denial of a motion to suppress evidence under . . . section 1538.5; or [] (b) grounds that arose after entry of t 12 disposition the appeal is dismissed. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: kitching, j. aldrich, j. 