 filed 6/9/14 p. v. mcgruder ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. derick tyrone mcgruder, defendant and appellant. b245785 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta123817) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, laura r. walton, judge. affirmed. alexander paul green, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii and peggy z. huang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 appellant derick tyrone mcgruder appeals from the judgment entered following his convictions by jury on count 1 first degree burglary with a person present (pen. code,  459, 667.5, subd. (c)(21)) and count 2 assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(4)) with admissions he suffered a prior felony conviction (pen. code,  667, subd. (d)), a prior serious felony conviction (pen. code,  667, subd. (a)(1)), and prior prison terms (pen. code,  667.5, subd. (b)). the court sentenced appellant to prison for 13 years. we affirm. factual summary 1. viewed in accordance with the usual rules on appeal (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established on june 27, 2012, oscar casillas lived in his house house had two doors, i.e., a wooden front door (hereafter, front door) and a screen door. the screen door opened to the right of a person exiting the house. casillas testified as follows. about 1:15 p.m., casillas was at home with his the front door was open because it was a hot day, but the screen door was closed. casillas and his children were playing in the living room. the nephew was asleep. around his eyes and he began looking through the screen door. casillas greeted appellant and asked, looked through the screen door for a total of about five seconds, casillas went to the front door. casillas opened the screen door, erroneously thinking appellant was a neighbor. appellant, whom casillas did not know, asked who else lived with casillas. casillas thought the question was strange but replied his family and nephew lived with casillas. 3 appellant grabbed the screen door with his left hand.1 casillas said he had to go and needed to take a bath because he was going to work. appellant, using his open right hand, grabbed the doorframe where the front door normally closed (hereafter, doorframe). (that doorframe apparently was on the left of a person exiting the house.) right hand was extended and his fingers were bent. casillas testified the fingertips of he casillas felt he needed to close the screen door, in part because he did not want his children frightened. foot was at the screen door. he positioned his right foot as if he wanted to enter. appellant took a step his right foot was aand eet in the appellant was telling casillas to give appellant water. casillas started pulling on the screen door and appellant was pulling the other way. casillas yelled to his daughter to call the police. appellant grabbed the screen door with both hands. casillas, grasping the handle of the screen door, was trying to exit so the screen door would close and lock behind him. children were most important to him. appellant released the screen door and 1 t or right foot. however, where the record, fairly read, indicates which hand or foot casillas was referring to, we identify it below. 4 casillas later testified the first few times appellant hit casillas, casillas was inside his house and appellant was outside. appellant hit casillas about three times in the head. when appellant was inflicting the first blows, a wall. casillas exited and the screen door closed and locked. appellant hit casillas perhaps four more times in the head. appellant was quickly hitting casillas with both fists as if appellant wanted to knock casillas out. because of the blows, casillas felt dizzy and fell into nearby bushes. casillas never pushed or struck appellant. after appellant struck casillas the third or fourth time outside, casillas yelled to his daughter to call the police. after casillas yelled the third time to his daughter to call the . appellant walked around ta house, its backyard house as if appellant was trying to see something or wanted to jump over something. this house, called for appellant and he went to his se. bled profusely from his nose and mouth, his face and remained perhaps four days. casillas did not seek medical treatment because he could not afford it. during cross-examination, casillas testified as follows. when appellant initially later, aright casillas was trying to close the screen door, he thought that, based on what appellant was doing, appellant might have been under the influence of narcotics or alcohol. however, appellant did not need assistance to stand. 5 e to appellant appellant was uninjured. garcia appellant previously had used methamphetamine. however, garcia opined at trial appellant was not under the influence when garcia contacted him. according to garcia, some methamphetamine users used methamphetamine two or three days at a time. such users might be dehydrated and want water. 2. defense evidence. in defense, casillas testified that, at the preliminary hearing, the magistrate asked 2 casillas denied that, after the preliminary hearing, he had any contact with prosecutors or investigators in this case. at trial, during cross-examination by the prosecutor, casillas testified that when the magistrate asked the above question, magistrate] was referring to like part of the body, maybe the whole body, maybe half the e above issue, elicited testimony from casillas at trial that, at the preliminary hearing, he testified . the following exchange also occurred at trial between the prosecutor and casillas: again, page 6 of the prelimina 2 exchange occurred between counsel and casillas: before the defendant started hitting? [] [a.] thank god, yes, i was able to close it. if not, i [appe 6 [] a. yes. [] q. do you remember saying (sic.) at trial, casillas testified during redirect examination by appellant at trial, casillas testified that when he was asked (by the magistrate) , indicated the right ing uncertainty . casillas was saying that day of the incident and two days before. she gave officers information regarding appellant being under the influence. issues appellant claims (1) there is insufficient evidence supporting his burglary conviction, (2) the trial court erroneously failed to instruct sua sponte on attempted burglary as a lesser included offense of burglary, and (3) appellant was denied effective assistance of counsel by his trial counsels failure to ask the trial court for such an instruction. discussion 1. sufficient evidence supported appellants burglary conviction. appellant claims there is insufficient evidence supporting his burglary conviction. house, and insufficient evidence of burglarious intent at the time of any entry.3 we in magness v. superior court (2012) 54 cal.4th 270, 273 (magness), our supreme court stated a person who enters any house with intent to commit larceny or any felony is guilty of burglary, and it has long been settled the slightest entry by any part of the body is 3 the trial court, using calcrim no. 1700, instructed the jury that to prove appellant house, he intended to commit a theft 7 sufficient. quoting blackstone, magness . . . the least degree of it, with any part of the body, . . . is sufficient: as, to step over the threshold, [and other examples], . . . all of them [are] burglarious entries. (fn. magness, at p. 273.) in order for an entry to occur, a part of the body must penetrate the outer boundary of the building. (magness, supra, 54 [i]n general, . . . doors . . . outer boundary, the penetration of which is sufficient for entry. id. at p. 274.) i]t no longer matters whether a person entering a house with larcenous or felonious intent does so through a closed door . . . [or] an open door . . . . the entry with the requisite intent constitutes the burglary.people v. gauze [(1975)] 15 cal.3d [709,] 712-people v. nunley (1985) 168 cal.app.3d 225, 231.) doorway. house and, during that struggle, appellant, using his right hand, was reaching inside within the meaning of penal code section 459. 8 there was sufficient evidence to convince a rational trier of fact, beyond a reasonable section 459. finally, at one point casillas started pulling on the screen door and appellant was pulling tfew times appellant hit casillas, casillas was inside the house and appellant was outside. appellant hit casillas about three times in the head and when appellant inflicted the first after casillas exited his house appellant quickly struck him multiple times with both fists as if he wanted to knock casillas out. casillas felt dizzy and fell. casillas bled profusely from his nose and mouth, his face and mouth were swollen, and cuts on his lip lasted perhaps four days. we conclude there was sufficient evidence to convince a rational trier of fact, beyond a reasonable doubt, when appellant repeatedly struck casillas the first the house within the meaning of penal code section 459. upon the entries, in people v. kwok (1998) 63 cal.app.4th 1236, 1245, the court statinferred from all the facts and circumstances disclosed by the evidence. a above mentioned entries house as were nonconsensual and unlawful. burglarious intent reasonably may be inferred from an unlawful entry alone. (people v. martin (1969) 275 cal.app.2d 334, 339; people v. wolfe (1967) 257 cal.app.2d 420, 425.) for this independent entries house were accompanied by burglarious intent. moreover, casillas testified awhile casillas was inside house, causing casillashead to strike the wall. appellant continued the assault after casillas stepped outside, with 9 (a), is directed at the force used, and it is immaterial whether the force actually results in any injury. the focus is on force likely (people v. parrish (1985) 170 cal.app.3d 336, 343, italics added.) we conclude there was sufficient evidence to convince a rational trier of fact, beyond a reasonable doubt, when appellant entered the house with his right hand and right foot as previously discussed, and when appellant entered by repeatedly striking casillas lant entered with intent to commit upon casillas assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury. further, the taking of any item of personal property of even slight intrinsic value people v. martinez (2002) 95 cal.app.4th 581, 586 (martinez).)4 casillas, by trying to close the screen door, indicated to appellant that began pulling the screen door the other way, resistinappellant later entered the house by striking casillas while casillas was still inside. we conclude based on all the evidence there was sufficient evidence to convince a rational trier of fact, beyond a reasonable doubt, when appellant committed the above discussed entries into house, appellant intended to commit larceny by stealing water inside.5 (count 1).6 4 martinez concluded the intent of the defendant in that case to take a shower in a intended without authorizshampoo, and water. (martinez, supra, 95 cal.app.4th at pp. 584-586.) martinez rejected the sufficient valid. at p. 585.) 5 to the extent appellant argues there was insufficient evidence he intended to commit larceny because he was voluntarily intoxicated, we note that even if there was substantial evidence appellant was voluntarily intoxicated, there was no substantial evidence he was intoxicated to the point he failed to formulate an intent to commit larceny. (cf. people v. marshall (1996) 13 cal.4th 799, 848; people v. ivans (1992) 2 cal.app.4th 1654, 1661-1662.) 10 2. the trial court did not err by failing to instruct on attempted burglary. appellant claims the trial court erred by failing to instruct sua sponte on attempted burglary as a lesser included offense of burglary.7 he argues there was substantial evidence (1) he did not enter the house, (2) he lacked intent to commit assault with force at any entry because he was under the influence of drugs. we m. if, as appellant suggests, the evidence established only that appellant attempted to bodily injury entry,8 was under the influence of drugs, then there was no evidence he committed attempted burglary because there was no evidence of burglarious intent. to that extent, there was no need for the trial 6 to the extent appellant argues the trial court erroneously denied his motion for a our analysis applies to that argument as well since our analysis relies only on the peoevidence. (see people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1212-1213.) accordingly, the trial appellant argues as an independent issue there was insufficient evidence supporting his conviction on count 2, he waived the issue by raising it for the first time in his reply brief. (cf. people v. jackson (1981) 121 cal.app.3d 862, 873.) moreover, in light of the evidence recited in our factual summary, including the evidence appellant delivered multiple blows to using both of his fists in an effort to knock casillas unconscious, and casillas fell, there was substantial evidepeople v. aguilar (1997) 16 cal.4th 1023, 1028; ochoa, supra, 6 cal.4th at p. 1206; people v. armstrong (1992) 8 cal.app.4th 1060, 1065-1066; in re nirran w. (1989) 207 cal.app.3d 1157, 1161-1162.) 7 people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 148-149 (breverman).) we review error on this issue for prejudice under the standard enunciated in people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836. (breverman, at p. 149.) 8 close his front door before appellant started hitting him (see fn. 2, ante) was substantial evidence appellant lacked intent to commit assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury. 11 court to instruct on attempted burglary because there was no substantial evidence to support that instruction. likely to produce great bodily injury, and lacked intent to commit a felony, his instructional claim the trial court erred by failing to instruct on attempted burglary implicitly concedes preliminahouse, argues there was substantial evidence he did not enter; therefore, there was substantial evidence he only attempted to enter with intent to commit larceny. we assume without deciding that, as argued by appellant, there was substantial evidence he erred by failing to instruct sua sponte on attempted burglary as a lesser included offense of burglary. however, we must review the matter for prejudice. as mentioned, the sole evidence on which appellant relies to argue he did not enter denial testimony. however, casillas substantially qualified that denial. he testified as a defense witness he like part of the body, maybe the whole body, maybe half the body, not like just the hands that testimony, reasonably understood, was casillas thought the magistrate was . casillas did not think the magistrate was referring merely to a hand, foot, or fingertip. as a matter of the credibility of this qualifying testimony, the jury essentially had only to decide whether it was true or a fabrication. the jury, having convicted appellant of burglary, implicitly found true this qualifying testimony. moreover, the prosecutor at trial elicited clarifying testimony from casillas that, at the preliminary hearing, he testified about (1) (2) the fact appellant was trying to enter, and (3) the middle of the door, denial was qualified. ing had 12 preliminary hearing testimony. during redirect examination by appellant at trial, casillas made clear he was certain any uncertainty related , right foot, and fist , and, at the time of the entries, appellant intended to commit assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury,9 and intended to steal. in sum, even if there was substantial evidence appellant only attempted to enter with intent to steal, the rest of the evidence in this case provided such ample evidence appellant entered with intent to commit assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury, and with intent to steal, it is not reasonably probable a different result would have occurred if the court had instructed on attempted burglary as a lesser included offense of burglary.10 the alleged instructional error was not prejudicial. (see breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 149.) 9 ante) concerning whether he was able to close the front door before appellant started hitting him was equivocal, and casillas testified at trial to the effect said preliminary hearing testimony did not reflect what had happened and appellant had begun hitting casillas before casillas clowas less focused on whether he was able to close the door before appellant started hitting him and more focused and thankful he was able to close it to protect his children. even if lacked intent to commit assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury, there was, as we previously have discussed, ample evidence of that intent. 10 we realize, as appellant observes, the jury requested a readback of testimony and later indicated it was deadlocked on the burglary charge, and the jury reached a verdict on that charge only after the court told the jury to continue deliberating. however, the jury requested focusing on whether appellant entered with a single blow, and not on the ample and previously discussed evidence: (1) appellant when he gr appellant, at the time of the entries, intended to commit assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury, and intended to steal. moreover, the court observed the jury had deliberated for a total of less than two hours before it requested the readback, the court then excused the jury 13 3. istance of counsel. appellant claims his trial counsel provided ineffective assistance of counsel by failing to request an instruction on attempted burglary as a lesser included offense of burglary. we disagree. the record sheds no light on why appellans trial counsel failed to act in the manner challenged, the record does not reflect said counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, and we cannot say there simply could have been no satisfactory explanation. we reject appellants ineffective assistance claim. (see people v. slaughter (2002) 27 cal.4th 1187, 1219; people v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d 171, 216-217.) moreover, our analysis in parts 1 and 2 of our discussion provides satisfactory explanations why appellants trial counsel did not request an attempted burglary present the jury with an all-or-nothing choice of convicting or acquitting appellant of burglary. aly could have concluded the jury would not have convicted appellant merely of attempted burglary by relying on the evidence appellant now argues would have supported such a conviction. for the day, the jury heard the 10-minute readback the next morning and resumed deliberations, and within 15 minutes told the court the jury was deadlocked. that is, the court ordered the jury to continue deliberating because the court felt the jury had not spent sufficient time deliberating. 14 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. kitching, j. we concur: klein, p. j. aldrich, j. 