filed 4/22/15 p. v. meraz ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. juan ramon meraz et al., defendants and appellants. b245657 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa065446) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, daniel b. feldstern, judge. affirmed as modified. jennifer a. mannix, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant juan ramon meraz. derek k. kowata, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant juan m. chambasis. robert e. boyce, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant victor bibiano. * * * * * * 2 codefendants juan ramon meraz, juan m. chambasis, and victor bibiano separately appeal their convictions and sentences for murder, attempted murder, and discharging a firearm at an inhabited dwelling following a gang-related shooting that killed two victims and seriously injured a third. we correct certain errors in their judgments and affirm the judgments as modified. procedural history appellants were jointly charged with the murders of javier zamora and justin curiel (pen. code,  187, subd. (a); counts 1 & 2),1 the attempted premeditated murder of jose santa ana ( 187, subd. (a), 664; count 3), and discharging a firearm at an inhabited dwelling ( 246; count 4). for the murder counts, multiple-murder and gang-murder special circumstances were alleged. ( 190.2, subd. (a)(3), (22).) a variety of firearm and gang enhancements were also alleged.2 a first trial ended in a mistrial after the jury deadlocked. on retrial, the jury found appellants guilty on all counts and found all special circumstances and enhancements true. at separate sentencing hearings, the trial court sentenced each appellant to life without the possibility of parole, a consecutive life sentence, and an additional 50 years to life in state prison as follows: life without the possibility of parole for count 1, plus 25 years to life pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (d); and a consecutive life sentence on count 3, plus 25 years to life pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (d). the court imposed concurrent sentences on counts 2 and 4 and stayed the remaining enhancements for counts 1 and 3.3 the court imposed various fines, fees, and custody credits discussed further, post, as necessary. appellants separately appealed. statement of facts the shooting in this case was part of a long-standing rivalry between two gangs in pacoima: pacoima terra bella (terra bella) and the pacoima project boys (project boys). 1 undesignated statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 2 it was alleged chambasis had a prior strike conviction, which the trial court ultimately found not to be true. 3 the court struck the firearm enhancements for count 4 on dual-use grounds. 3 the rivalry reached a heated point on may 5, 2008, when project boys member jose avila shot and killed terra bella member alejandro villa. avila was convicted of the murder. the shooting by appellants hereall terra bella memberswas viewed as retaliation for on september 20, 2009, the day of the shooting, 16-year-old project boys member santa ana lived at the san fernando gardens housing project, which was in project boys gang territory. santa ana and fellow project boys member zamora were on the porch of hen curiel joined them. curiel was not a gang member and had just moved into san fernando gardens. about five minutes after curiel arrived, three males approached, carrying firearms. santa ana recognized them and identified them at trial as bibiano, also known as also known as chambasis, also known as santa ana knew was gang parlance asking which gang they were from. curiel tried to say one of the appellants said they were from terra bella. meraz the children left, appellants began shooting. before the shooting, 12-year-old s.b. was playing near the porch where the shooting took place. she noticed three males approaching the victims on the porch. one of the approaching males had a gun in his hand, and s.b. identified him at trial as chambasis. as the shooting began, she grabbed her younger brother and carried him inside her house. zamora was shot seven times, three of which were fatal. curiel was shot four times, two of which were fatal. santa ana was shot five times, and although he survived, he acted like he was dead. after appellants fled back the way they had come, santa ana saw his friends were dead, so he tried to walk toward a nearby fire station but collapsed on the way. hurtado heard the gunshots, emerged from her apartment to investigate, and saw santa ana and the other two victims. as she checked on her children, santa ana walked t him. 4 several los angeles police officers arrived at the scene. one officer approached santa ana and s4 at the hospital, santa ana was shown a series of photographs and he identified all three appellants as the shooters. thirteen shell casings, eight bullets, and two partial bullets were recovered from the scene. a ballistics expert linked one of the casings to a gun used by timothy jenkins in a shooting eight days earlier. jenkins was a member of the pacoima pirus gang, which had a friendly relationship with terra bella. he told police he traded the gun to chambasis for marijuana on the day before the shooting at san fernando gardens. all three appellants were arrested the day after the shooting. when officers contacted meraz, he briefly attempted to flee but was apprehended. officers recovered a re arrested when officers stopped the car they were riding in together. bibiano gave officers a false s residence yielded two pittsburgh pirates baseball caps with nd other items with his name on them. while in custody, bibiano and meraz were placed in a cell together and their he claimed he did not know anything . said he did not know bash. bibiano . 4 5 you get to the big house, they doing. and i told him thatife in . . . [a]when during an interview about the murders, bibiano began to cry. he denied knowing chambasis. at an interview with the police after appellants were arrested, luis e. orozco said orozco was with appellants at a park three to five miles away from the san fernando gardens at around 5:00 p.m. the day of the shooting. he let bibiano borrow his cell phone and bibiano left the park around 5:20 p.m. after bibiano left the park, he called orozco later at home point, bibiano returned to say goodbye to his girlfriend and gave orozco his phone back. bibiano began to watch the news, which orozco found suspicious. in response to a story ed nervous and said, peace, javierpeace, a search of the phone orozco said he lent bibiano and the phone recovered from p.m. 6 at 1:27 [?] p.m. on on the run. officer tyler adams testified as a gang expert for the prosecution. he was assigned to monitor terra bella and he gathered information by talking to gang members, both in and out of custody, as well as interviewing them as part of conducting probation and parole servicesconcealed firearms, assault with firearms, assault likely to cause great bodily injury, and felony vandalism. officer adams identified convictions of several terra bella gang members for those types of crimes. he confirmed the rivalry between terra bella and project boys, which became heated after avila murdered villa in may 2008. officer adams confirmed all three appellants were terra bella gang members. meraz had previously admitted he was a terra bella gang member and when officer adams had previously stopped him, he had been with other gang members, had been wearing gang tattoos and when officer adams previously stopped him, he had been with other gang members. officer adams had also obtained a photograph showing bibiano throwing gang hand signals. chambasis also had gang tattoos and officer adams had previously stopped him in the presence of other terra bella gang members. since his arrest, chambasis had added tattoos to his face and neck. by typically committing crimes to move up in the gang. he believed the shooting in this case was bold within terra bella, given it occurred during the day in rival gang territory. when given a hypothetical question tracking the facts of the shooting, officer adams opined the shooting was retaliatory for villas murder. he also opined the murders were associated with, committed for, and likely committed at the direction of terra bella. 7 appellants did not testify. in his defense, chambasis offered evidence that no fingerprint analysis was done on the casings recovered at the scene of the shooting. he elicited testimony that when police interviewed s.b. at the police station after the shooting, she said the gunman she remembered was shorter than the officer interviewing her, who was about five feet 10 inches tall, and had hair. she said the other men did not have guns. when she was shown two books of photographs, she pointed to someone who was not no. 11 . . . testimony that at the scene of the shooting and later in the hospital, santa ana claimed he did not know one of the assailants. in his defense, bibiano elicited testimony that santa ana initially said at the scene of the shooting that he did not know from which direction the gunmen had come. he also said appellants all wore black and meraz was the one who said, . discussion5 1. santa ana impeachment evidence parties and the court discussed four : a prior sustained juvenile petition for being a minor in possession of a firearm (former  12101, subd. (a)(1), now  29610); a sustained petition for contempt of court relating to a gang injunction ( 166, subd. (a)(4)); a sustained petition for identity theft ( 530.5); and a recent arrest for battery of a cohabitant and criminal threats ( 243, subd. (e), 422). after hearing argument from 5 recently, our supreme court has condemned the common practice of codefendants of the others, to the extent that the claims are not in some manner adverse to their own interpeople v. bryant (2014) 60 cal.4th 335, 363.) here, in their opening briefs filed before bryant, bibiano and chambasis made the blanket joinder statements condemned in bryanted a pre-bryant brief filed after bryant did not further address joinder in his reply brief or any other filing. because some of the briefing in this case predated bryant, we will consider whether any argument raised by one appellant would benefit the others. 8 the parties, the court admitted the identity theft petition for impeachment purposes, but excluded the contempt and firearm possession petitions because they were not crimes of moral turpitude. the court postponed ruling on the domestic violence incident, but eventually excluded it as discussed more fully below. appellants argue the trial court abused its discretion and violated their due process rights to confront witnesses and present defenses by excluding evidence of the juvenile firearm possession and the domestic violence incident. we disagree. a. juvenile petition for firearm possession crime of moral turpitude, so the court erred and violated their constitutional rights by excluding it for impeachment purposes. respondent assumes state law error and argues and any state law error was harmless. we will also assume state law error because we find no constitutional violation and find any state law error harmless. limitations to -examination of a witness does not violate the confrontation clause -examination (people v. smith (2007) 40 cal.4th 483, 513.) similarly, the ordinary rules of evidence . . [citations.] although completely excludtheoretically could rise to this level, excluding defense evidence on a minor or subsidiary [citation.] if the trial court missteppedrefusal to allow [defendant] to present a defense, but only a rejection of some evidence people v. fudge (1994) 7 cal.4th 1075, 1102-1103.) if the trial court erred under state law only, we review the record to determine whether a more favorable outcome was reasonably probable in the absence of the error. (id. at pp. 1103-1104.) 9 not deprive appellants of their confrontation and due process rights because the jury heard significant other evidence calling into doubt. the trial court admitted , and he was questioned about it in front of the jury. santa ana also admitted he had been a gang member and had placed gang graffiti on a bench at the scene of the shooting, and he admitted he had previously lied under oath that he was not a gang member and he had not done the graffiti. juvenile petition for firearm possession was therefore only a subsidiary point that would not have given the jury a significantly different impression of his credibility. further, any state law error was harmless because other evidence testimony overwhelmingly demonstrated appellants. s.b. identified chambasis as one of the gunmen and ballistics and other evidence linked chambasis to one of the guns used in the shooting. meraz and bibiano were caught on a jail recording making incriminating statements, including meraz telling we court properly admitted against bibiano as an adoptive admission as we discuss below. meraz sent text messages after [o]n [?]briefly fled from police before he was arrested. when bibiano watched a news story on the shooting, he said havenge the shooting death of a fellow gang member. b. domestic violence incident two days after trial began, santa ana was arrested for domestic violence and criminal threats. santa ana, the prosecutor objected to the admission of the incident under evidence code section 352, arguing the evidence would be too time consuming and confusing because there that e lady so that we can have a little minitrial 10 postponed ruling. the following day the prosecution turned over the police report for the incident to defense counsel. at a later hearing, he was living a crime-. the court questioned how the incident involving domestic violence related to santa ana distancing himself from being a gang member, but postponed ruling pending further investigation. later, to testify consistent with the police report. mproffered that she would testify santa ana went to her home, jumped out at her from the bushes, and punched her multiple times in the face, head, and body, causing her to fall to the ground. he grabbed her by the hair and pulled her across the concrete several feet until she screamed for help and ran away. anta ana as well. the court noted the police report indicated she had bruising around her eye that looked healed and possibly predated the incident, and she had no other injuries indicating the incident occurred. the report also contained statements from santa ana that he was home at the time, the victim had threatened to have him arrested if he did not take care of his children, and she was intoxicated. r reports involving the victim domestic violence incident. on one occasion, the victim claimed santa ana threw her to the floor and began strangling her, but she was able to get away. she told the police at the time she was able to breathe and did not lose consciousness, but later changed her story. santa ana denied the incident and according to his mother, the victim jumped over a six-foot-high 11 fence to argue with santa ana, and the confrontation did not become physical. finally, there was a report claiming santa ana threatened the victim over the phone, which santa ana denied. instead, he claimed he told the victim to leave him alone and she threatened him, saying he -said/she-said reporting - the court explained that the prosecution filed a motion to exclude this evidence pursuant to evidence code section 352 because it was not clear who was telling the truth santa ana was a violent person, contradicting how he presented himself on the stand, and another witness was available to corroborate the threats he made over the phone. the prosecutor responded that santa ana had not yet been convicted and presenting the evidence would the court ruled the evidence went to the issue of impeachment based on misdemeanor conduct and that would require had a valid basis to refuse to testify, and even if she testified, the court could not simply limit the evidence to her testimony in order to be fair to both sides. the court also noted the allegations had not been proven in any court. thus, because this evidence would consume an undue amount of time and would risk confusing the jury, the court excluded it. evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issuesthe trial court broad power to control the presentation of proposed impeachment evidence collateral credibility isspeople v. mills (2010) 48 cal.4th 158, 195.) while impeachment evidence of conduct involving moral turpitude not amounting to a felony is 12 felony. moreover, impeachment evidence other than felony convictions entails problems of proof, unfair surprise, and moral turpitude evaluation which felony convictions do not present. hence, courts may and should consider with particular care whether the admission of such evidence might involve undue time, confusion, or prejudice which outweighs its people v. wheeler (1992) 4 cal.4th 284, 296-297.) we review the trial mills, supra, at p. 195.)6 the trial court acted within its discretion in excluding evidence of domestic violence arrest under evidence code section 352. the probative value of this evidence was low. appellants emphasize that santa ana gave the impression to the jury that he was fully reformed from his criminal past as a gang member, so evidence of the recent domestic violence incident would have brought his credibility into doubt. if the jury did get this impression, it was weak at best. santa ana as a few times where i did lie. but after i realized i any testimony where he claimed to be currently crime-free or that he had reformed completely. moreover, as discussed above, there was other evidence questioning santa evidence of the domestic violence incident had only limited additional impeachment value. on the other side of the scale, the trial court correctly recognized the reports created -said/she-domestic-resolve following a substantial minitrial with numerous witnesses, consuming significant time during an already lengthy trial and creating a risk of jury confusion.7 6 meraz suggests our review is de novo because the evidence was admissible under evidence code section 1101. whether or not correct, the trial court excluded the evidence pursuant to evidence code section 352, so our review is for abuse of discretion. 7 meraz cites andrews v. city and county of san francisco (1998) 205 cal.app.3d 938, but it is distinguishable. in that case, the court of appeal faulted the trial court for 13 due process. as wpetition for firearm possession, the admission of evidence underlying the domestic violence credibility and appellants were free to cross-examine him and offer other impeachment evidence, so they were not prevented from putting on a defense. finally, for reasons already discussed, any error in excluding this impeachment evidence was harmless because the evidence of appellants was overwhelming. 3. gang expert testimony joined by chambasis, meraz argues the trial court violated his sixth amendment right to confrontation by allowing officer adams to give expert opinions based on out-of-court testimonial hearsay from declarants whom appellants did not have an opportunity to cross-examine. respondent argues appellants forfeited this issue by failing to object on this ground in the trial court. meraz correctly responds that any objection would likely have been futile because the trial court was bound to follow appellate decisions holding that confrontation clause because it is not offered for its truth. (see, e.g., people v. hill (2011) 191 cal.app.4th 1104, 1128-1131.) we will therefore address the merits of this claim. the admission of testimonial out-of-confrontation clause rights unless the witness is unavailable to testify and the defendant had a prior opportunity for cross-examination. (people v. valadez (2013) 220 cal.app.4th 16, 30 (valadez).) the confrontation clause does not apply to out-of-court statements not offered for their truth. (valadez, at p. 30.) although appellate cases have held that gang in valadez, united states and california supreme courts] were called upon to resolve this issue, it seems likely the holdings in [cases finding] out-of-court ibility. (id. at p. 947.) 14 statements offered as expert basis evidence are not offered for their truth for confrontation purposes will be id. at p. 32.)8 appellant urges us to find the expert basis evidence in this case was offered for its truth. we decline to address that issue, however, because we find the evidence on which officer adams relied for his opinions was not testimonial and therefore not subject to the confrontation clause. (220 cal.app.4th at p. 32.) we need not repeat the exhaustive discussion of the applicable law on testimonial statements we set out valadez. suffice it to say, in that case, we identified the two-part test be testimonial the statement must be made with some degree of formality or solemnity. second, the statement is testimony only if its primary purpose pertains in some fashion to a criminal prosecution.valadez, supra, 220 cal.app.4th at p. 35.) in valadez, we found information from written materials and casual, consensual conversations with gang history of the gangs because those conversations did members and other officers objectively indicates the primary pquestioning was to target appellants or any other individuals or crimes for investigation or to valadez, at pp. 35-36.) instead, it was id. at p. id. at p. 36). the information on which officer adams relied to give his opinions in this case was indistinguishable from the information in valadez. at trial, officer adams formed his 8 the california supreme court has granted review in people v. sanchez (2014) 223 e on testimonial hearsay. 15 opinions from speaking with gang officers and detectives to gather intelligence about gangs, attending a conference during which he spoke with federal agents and other police departments regarding gang crimes, and reviewing training and other written materials. s, both in and valadez, none of this information bore any discernable degree of formality or solemnity and did not pertain to any particular criminal prosecution to render it testimonial under the confrontation clause.9 4. bestupid ass, bash bibiano coughed, but did not respond to the comment. in seeking its admission, the prosecution argued the statement was an adoptive admission. the trial court agreed. it explained at the time of the recording meraz and bibiano knew they were in n in spanish enforcement was present. during the conversation, they spoke freely and each was the rial court believed it was their co-bibiano as an adoptive admission. 9 convictions of other gang members were testimonial and violated his confrontation clause rights. (people v. taulton (2005) 129 cal.app.4th 1218, 1225 [confrontation clause].) 16 bibiano argues on appeal the (people v. dehoyos (2013) 57 cal.4th 79, 132) and we find none. arty is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule if the statement is one of which the party, with knowledge of the content thereof, has by words or other conduct manifested his adoption or his belief (evid. code,  accused of having committed a crime, under circumstances which fairly afford him an opportunity to hear, understand, and to reply, and which do not lend themselves to an inference that he was relying on the right of silence guaranteed by the fifth amendment to the united states constitution, and he fails to speak, or he makes an evasive or equivocal reply, both the accusatory statement and the fact of the adoptive admission exception to apply, . . . a direct accusation in so of a party to an action under the circumstances that would normally call for a response if the statement were untrue, the statement is admissible for the limited purpose of showing the partys reaction to it. [citations.] his silence, evasion, or equivocation may be considered (people v. riel (2000) 22 cal.4th 1153, 1189 (rielsupports a reasonable inference that an accusatory statement was made under circumstances affording a fair opportunity to deny the accusatid. at pp. 1189-1190.) the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting an adoptive admission by bibiano. riel is instructive. in that case, a witness testified that riel, supra, 22 cal.4th at p. 1188.) when ibid.) on appeal, the defendant 17 argued the statements were not adoptive admissions because it was unclear whether the were present, the defendant spoke first, the individual makcircumstances warranted presenting the evidence to the jury and letting the jury decide what id. at p. 1189.) here, bibiano was sitting with meraz while they were in custody alone, there was no he freely in hushed tones about their arrests for a double homicide, their potential sentences, and their potential alibis. as the trial court noted, at no point did they disagree with one another. as in rielagainst bibiano and allowing the jury to decide what weight to give it. 5. cumulative trial error because we have assumed only one error and have found it harmless, we reject 6. on the day of chambasispeople v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 to substitute his counsel. in an in camera hearing, he expressed dissatisfaction with his cou the court asked why he had not brought this up during trial, and hwhen the court told him he was going to be sentenced that day, he indicated he wanted to exerce 18 nse counsel] on your case watching you and watching your conduct during the the court asked him to explain why he had not made a complaint about his attorney before now. he responded that he had no one to complain to and he did not know about the of the issues he thought his counsel should have raised at trial, but the court said his counsel -court said it understood chambasis wanted to represent himself, he disagreed, saying he was not going to deprive you of that; but you will lose the advocate that you have here who so much time has gone by and you are bringing this up on the very moment of your sentence, that you can have [defense counsel] represent you for the sentencing today or, if you feel so disturbed by that that you want to represent yourself for the sentencin[a]d and everyone else is prepared to go forward with grant a continuance at this point based upon this late notice. [] so my suggestion is you 19 have [defense counsel] represent you for the sentencing, or you can represent yourself today recommedeny your request to have you represent yourself pro per, but that puts me between a rock and a hard place in the sense that if you are so inclined to represent yourself foattorney represent you, with all of my counseling you to not do that. or you can have faretta10 waiver form and repeated that it believed chambasis was trying to manipulate the court. in the exchange that followed, chambasis repeatedly said he was not going to proceed with the case, and the court repeatedly told him it would not grant him a continuance. chambasis ultimately decided against representing himself and his counsel represented him at sentencing. later in open court, the court further explained it would not have granted y court that were caused by mr. chambasis, that throughout the trial proceedings i had received continuous to the rules of the court and through the bailiff. he, mr. chambasis, during one point in the trial attempted to attack one of the witnesses who was being brought back, had to be brought down, caused a melee in the courtroom. and these would be reasons why the court would not feel comfortable in granting pro per status to a defendant under those circumstances, one not willing to conform to the rules and etiquette of the court. [] also, just for the record, that he wanted to go pro per only after being told that he was not going to have a change of lawyers and that his decisions were more of a reaction to that than a sincere desire to 10 faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806 (faretta). 20 chambasis argues the court abused its discretion in finding his request to represent himself untimely and forcing him to choose between keeping his current counsel for sentencing or representing himself without a continuance. we disagree. a criminal defendant has a constitutional right to represent himself at trial if he makes a timely and unequivocal request to do so. (people v. scott (2001) 91 cal.app.4th and the trial has commenced, it is thereafter within the sound discretion of the trial court to determine whether such a defendant may dismiss counsel and proceed pro sepeople v. miller (2007) 153 cal.app.4th 1015, 1021, quoting people v. windham (1977) 19 cal.3d 121, 124 (windham).) the factors a trial court must consider in determining whether to stage of the proceedings, and the disruption or delay which might reasonably be expected to windham, supra, at p. 128.) the trial court need not expressly address all the relevant factors so long as the record reflects the court implicitly considered them. (scott, supra, at p. 1206.) in arguing that his request to represent himself was timely, chambasis relies on people v. miller. in that case, the defendant requested to represent himself after the trial ended but two months before his sentencing, and the trial court denied the request as untimely. (people v. miller, supra, 153 cal.app.4th at pp. 1019-1020.) the court of appeal reversed, reasoning that sentencing is a postrequest was timely made before that proceeding, and faretta compelled the trial court to people v. miller, at pp. 1023-1024.) later, however, the california supreme court in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390 (doolin) found a faretta request untimely when the defendant made it on the day scheduled for sentencing and requested a continuance to prepare. (doolin, at p. 452.) the court distinguished people v. miller, noting the defendant made the request in that case two months before sentencing, whereas in doolin, under the facts the 21 self-(doolin, at p. 455, fn. 39.) we find doolin controlling and find chambasday of sentencing was untimely. doolin makes clear that a request on the day of sentencing, like a request on the first day of trial, is untimely. (doolin, supra, 45 cal.4th at pp. 454-455; see windham, supra, 19 cal.3d at p. 128, fn. 5.) people v. miller, on the other hand, involved a request made two months before sentencing, clearly not the circumstance here. chambasis attempts to analogize to people v. miller and distinguish doolin by arguing he did not appeasentencing, so he moved to represent himself at his first opportunity before the court. but doolin involved a similar four-week period between the verdict and sentencing, yet the doolin, supra, 45 cal.4th at pp. 452, 454.) moreover, chambasis has not explained why he could not have told his attorney during the period between the verdict and his sentencing that he wanted to represent himself, who could have then informed the court of his request. turning to the factors in windham, we find no abuse of discretion. although chambasis had not shown a proclivity to substitute counsel, the court was reasonably proceeding, chambasis showed a complete disrespect for the judicial process. as the trial court noted, during trial he attacked a witness, which caused a melee in the courtroom and resulted in him and the other defendants being restrained during trial. the record further reflects that, after the verdicts were read, he said, srequest would have caused at least a month delay in his sentencing. (people v. valdez faretta motion may be denied on the ground that discretion in denying chfaretta request. 22 7. because meraz was 16 years old and bibiano was 17 years old at the time of the shooting, they challenge their sentences for life without parole as violating the eighth amendment prohibition against cruel and unusual punishment. specifically, bibiano argues the eighth amendment categorically bans all life without parole sentences for juveniles and united states supreme miller v. alabama (2012) __ u.s. __ [132 s.ct. 2455] (miller), which prohibited the mandatory imposition of life without parole sentences for juveniles who commit homicide offenses. bibiano further argues he was not among the category of juvenile offenders for which a life without parole sentence would be appropriate and meraz argues the trial court failed to consider his individual circumstances in sentencing him to life without parole. we reject each of these challenges. a. legal background the eighth amendment to the united states shall not be required, nor excessive fines imposed, nor cruel and unusual punishments united states supreme court has narrowed the available punishments for juveniles under the eighth amendment. in roper v. simmons (2005) 543 u.s. 551, it held the eighth amendment bars capital punishment for juvenile offenders, and in graham v. florida (2010) 560 u.s. 48, it held the eighth amendment bars a sentence of life without parole for juveniles who commit nonhomicide offenses. (miller, supra, __ u.s. at p. __ [132 s.ct. at p. 2463].) most recently, miller a sentencing scheme that mandates life in prison without possibility of parole for juvenile id. at p. precludes consideration of his chronological age and its hallmark featuresamong them, immaturity, impetuosity, and failure to appreciate risks and consequences. it prevents taking into account the family and home environment that surrounds himand from which he cannot usually extricate himselfno matter how brutal or dysfunctional. it neglects the circumstances of the homicide offense, including the extent of his participation in the conduct and the way familial and peer pressures may have affected him. indeed, it ignores 23 that he might have been charged and convicted of a lesser offense if not for incompetencies associated with youthfor example, his inability to deal with police officers or prosecutors (including on a plea agreement) or his incapacity to assist his own attorneys. [citations.] and finally, this mandatory punishment disregards the possibility of rehabilitation even id. at p. 2468.) in california, section 190.5, subdivision (b) provides that the penalty for 16- or 17-year-confinement in the state prison for life without the possibility of parole or, at the discretion of the court, 25 people v. gutierrez (2014) 58 cal.4th 1354, 1360 (gutierrez).) two decades . . . , section 190.5(b) has been construed by our courts of appeal and trial courts as creating a presumption in favor of life without parole as the appropriate penalty for ibid.) in light of miller, the california supreme court in gutierrez overruled that line of authority and construed section - or 17-year-old juvenile convicted of special circumstance murder to life without parole or to 25 years to life, with no gutierrez, at p. 1360.) the court miller requires a trial court, in exercising its sentencing discretion, to sh the id. at p. 1361.) as discussed in miller, those ological age and its hallmark featuresamong them, immaturity, impetuosity, and failure to appreciate risks and and home environment that surrounds [the juvenile]from which he cannot usually extricate himselfchildhood abuse or neglect, familial drug or alcohol abuse, lack of adequate parenting or education, prior exposure to violence, and susceptibility to psychological damage or 24 participation in the conduct and the way familial and peer pressures may have affected associated with youthfor example, his inability to deal with police officers or prosecutors evidence or other information in the record bincluding the extent or absence of criminal history. (gutierrez, at pp. 1388-1389.) b. in their appellate briefs filed before gutierrez, meraz and bibiano attacked the constitutionality of section 190.5, subdivision (b) based on miller. gutierrez now forecloses those arguments. bibiano argues the eighth amendment as construed in miller bars life without parole sentences for all juvenile offenders. the court in miller left that issue open, e said in roper, graham, and this decision about occasions for sentencing juveniles to this harshest possible penalty will be uncommon. . . . although we do not forwe require it to take into account how children are different, and how those differences counsel against irrevocably sentencing them to a miller, supra, __ u.s. at p. __, citation omitted [132 s.ct. at p. 2469, citation omitted].) in gutierrez, our supreme court interpreted miller without parole on a juvenile homicide offender when the penalty is discretionary and when miller(gutierrez, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 1379.) we are bound by gutierrezmiller auto equity sales, inc. v. superior court (1962) 57 cal.2d 450, 455.) meraz and bibiano both argue section 190.5, subdivision (b) violates the eighth amendment because it creates a presumption in favor of life without parole for juvenile homicide offenders. as noted, before miller, this provision was judicially construed to create such a presumption. (gutierrez, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 1360.) however, gutierrez 25 construed the statute to eliminate any presumption, thereby avoiding any constitutional infirmity. (id. at p. 1387.)11 c. meraz further argues the trial court in this case failed to take into account the relevant factors under miller and gutierrez in sentencing him to life without parole and bibiano contends he was not among the category of juvenile homicide offenders for whom life without parole is a constitutionally permissible sentence. they were sentenced after miller but before gutierrez. nevertheless, we find the trial court was aware of the relevant factors related to their youth and acted within its discretion given the limited record before it in sentencing both of them to life without parole. in a prehearing sentencing memorandum filed after miller, the prosecutor requested life without parole for both appellants, citing their violent natures and the violent nature of the crimes. although the memorandum acknowledged the trial court had discretion to impose life without parole on meraz and bibiano as minors, it did not mention miller or any of the other factors set forth in miller. neither counsel for meraz nor bibiano submitted a sentencing memorandum. indicated it had read their preplea probation reports. those reports described the circumstanc: meraz had a juvenile history of assault and assault with great bodily injury, and bibiano had a juvenile history of vehicle theft, receiving stolen property, and criminal threats. the report contained no discussion of the other youth-related factors set out in miller, but when asked after trial, counsel for both meraz and bibiano declined to request presentence reports and stipulated to the trial court using the preplea reports for sentencing. at both sentencing 11 bibiano further argues section 190.5 is not saved by the recent enactment of section 1170, subdivision (d)(2), which generally allows a person sentenced to a crime committed while he was under 18 years of age to petition for resentencing after serving at least 15 years, provided certain requirements are met. ( 1170, subd. (d)(2); gutierrez, supra, 58 cal.4th at pp. 1384-1385.) the court in gutierrez agreed the enactment of this provision did not remedy the problem with a presumptive life without parole sentence for juveniles pursuant to section 190.5, subdivision (b). (gutierrez, supra, at pp. 1385-1387.) 26 hearings, neither defendant nor any witnesses gave statements, although the trial court provided the opportunity to do so. was 16 years oare asking for [a life without parole] sentence, given the double homicide. the case law that miller, as well as people v. caballero (2012) 55 cal.4th 262, and people v. moffett (review granted jan. 3, 2013, s206771, remanded by, superseded by, sub nom. gutierrez, supra, 58 cal.4th 1354),12 and process in terms of arriving at the appropriate se the court then extensively described the circumstances of the current crimes: with two other fellow gang members. each of them possessed additional firearms. and they entered into rival gang territory seeking a revenge killing in retaliation for a previous murder of one of their own that was believed to have been perpetrated by a rival gang. that, i think, was the logical interpretation of the evidence. committing these crimes, all of the three defendants, including mr. meraz, disguises or cover, and approached a porch where the three victims were standing or seated, unarmed, caught by surprise, and completely defenseless. 12 people v. caballero held that imposing an aggregate term of over 100 years on a juvenile for a nonhomicide offense violated the eighth amendment. (people v. caballero, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 265.) people v. moffett was one of the two appeals the supreme court considered in gutierrezlife without parole sentence in light of miller to allow the trial court to consider the erence to a presumption in favor of life without parole. (gutierrez, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 1365.) 27 sides to prevent escape. in the manner of a firing squad execution essentially is what it was, each of them together, they simultaneously fired multiple rounds at these three victims, killing two and severely wounding one. there were young children at play at the time and other persons who were in the house directly behind where the victims were standing or seated on that porch. meant to send a clear message to their rivals. and in the perpetration of these crimes the defendant was an actual shooter, having personally discharged a firearm, causing death, for the attempted murder the defendant was an active participant and intended to kill his victims, having fired at close range, firing multiple times at all victims who were in close proximity to one another on that porch. planned, they were premeditated, and they demonstrated a high degree of cruelty, defendant has a criminal history, which also includes previous acts of violence and threat of violence as one could read from that report. imposition of a sentence of life without the possibility of parole, and that is notwithstanding that the defendant was 16 years of age at the time that he committed these crimes. in that process the court has reviewed and weighed and considered lesser penalties, including life sentences with substantial custody time but with the possibility of parole. but in light ofand it has reviewed the cases that i just talked about earlier. but i do find that these factors in aggravation so far outweigh anything that would mitigate to a lesser sentence that it causes me to believe that a life sentence without the possibility of parole is the appropriate sent 28 . . . his mother left him in mexico, came to l.a. and then sent for him several years later. and within three months of him arriving in l.a., he was in foster care and part of the system. [] he then came out of foster care, stayed with his mother about two or three months; and she sent him to atlanta to live with his father. his father sent him back to his mother, and then he went back into foster care. [] and as a result of not having a nurturing mother, who chose her boyfriend over her children, my client drifted into the gang lifestyle. sowhich showed his poor judgment and ended up resulting in this conviction because of the poor choices he made, which i think were have a fully developed mind. he had the mind-set of an adolescent, of a person under the age of 18miller versus alabama and some other recent cases that have come up, saying that [life without parole] for juveniles is cruel and unusual punishment under the eighth amendment and a sentence of [life without parole] for a juvenile and somebody mr. years old. and that leaves no room for him to show any rehabilitation or maturity or anything that he might attain at this point forward showing that he should be given a chance to have some meaningful opportunity for rehabilitation and re- ade to go into the gang and the choice was made to ambush twothree defenseless victims and the statutes those cases preclude a life without parole sentence for a person between the ages of 16 and 18; but most importantly it requires the court to exercise discretion and consider lesser you just addressed with regard to mr. 29 circumstances of the current crimes: patent aggravating factors here, i just want to go over some of those to put this in proper context. when these offenses were committed, we start out with mr. bibiano having taken possession of a loaded firearm. we also have him having conspired with two other fellow gang members of the terra bella gang, who themselves each possessed additional firearms. they entered into rival gang territory seeking revenge and retaliation for a previous murder that had occurred, the murder of one of their own and which they believed to have been perpetrated by a rival, this rival gang. so that is the background context. bibiano as active as any of t, without any disguises or cover, and approached a porch where there were three young men standing or sitting. they were, these victims, unarmed at the time. they were completely caught by surprise and completely defenseless at the time of the shootings in this case. bibiano, and his two companions, all armed at the time, surrounded their victims from all sides to prevent escape; and in the manner of a firing squad execution, each and together they simultaneously fired numerous, numerous rounds at the three victims, killing two of them and severely wounding the third. other civilians inside of the house at the time of the shootings, and that house was directly behind where the three victims were standing or seated near the front door of that location. clear message to their rivals. this was not of the type that took place in the dark of night or with disguises. this was, as i said, in broad daylight, three of them, mr. bibiano included, committing these horrendous crimes for the benefit of their gang and with mr. bibiano personally discharging a firearm, causing death. these are findings that were made by the jury. 30 each of these murders and the attempted murder, that mr. bibiano was an active rather than a passive participant and that he intended to kill his victims at the time these crimes were committed, having fired at close range, multiple times at all victims, who were in close proximity to one another on that porch. court because the actions of mr. bibiano demonstrate a very high degree of cruelty and viciousness and a callous disregard for life. and when you take these facts all together and you balance them . . . also take into consideration that he was not of an age of majority at the time . . . . [] . . . [] the possibility of parole option, i also considered lesser punishments, those lesser punishments, in and of themselves would be severe, including life sentences with substantial amounts of prison time. but notwithstanding that, the court does believe that the sentence of life without the possibility of parole, in light of these aggravating factors that far outweigh any of the mitigating factors in my view, the court believes that a life we conclude this record sufficiently supported the trial courtdiscretion to sentence both defendants to life without parole. while the hearings took place before gutierrez. gutierrez eliminated the presumption of life without parole in section 190.5, but the trial court here already understood it had discretion under section 190.5. further, gutierrez simply reiterated the relevant youth factors from miller, and the trial court acknowledged the existence of miller and other related cases. for meraz, it is true the court did not discuss any specific information bearing on his youth, but the record reflects that information was not presented to the court, given counsel declined to request an updated sentencing report from probation, present a sentencing on this limited record, we cannot fault the trial court for not considering these factors. (see gutierrez, supra, 58 31 cal.4th at p. or in other court filings that a juvenile offender has had a troubled childhood, then that d age, but placed significant weight on the circumstances of the crime, which were unquestionably heinousa calculated, execution-style retaliatory shooting of three unarmed individuals in broad daylight with children around. there was also significant evidence all the appellants were shooters and therefore active participants in the crimes. (id. at p. 1389 the juvenile defcourt also considered violent criminal history. while meraz points to the fact that peer pressure might have affected him during the shooting (ibid.), given chambasis was 22 years old at the time of , the trial court was aware of that evidence from the trial. again, on this record, we are satisfied the court understood and acted within its discretion in sentencing meraz to life without parole. unlike with meraz, bibiano does not argue the trial court failed to consider the proper factors in sentencing him to life without parole; instead, he argues the information before the court demonstrated he was not the uncommon type of juvenile offender for which sentencing, at his counsel argued mitigating factors related to on appeal, bibiano points to evidence at trial that might have demonstrated his youth, such as possible peer pressure of the shooting, and his crying in response to officers questioning him about the murders. he also suggests his youth might have caused him to reject a 30-year plea offer before trial, only to then ask after trial whether the offer was still available. the trial court was aware of all this information, yet as with meraz, the court found the heinous circumstances of the crime outweighed any mitigating circumstances. it is also important to note at the time of the crimes in this case, bibiano was two months shy of his 18th birthday. the evidence 32 relevant to the miller youth factors was not so overwhelming that the trial court could not constitutionally impose life without parole on bibiano. thus, we find no error. 8. remaining sentencing issues appellants raise various errors in their sentences. we find several of their arguments meritorious, so we will modify their abstracts of judgment to correct the errors. a. sentences on count 4 joined by meraz, chambasis argues the trial court should have stayed his sentence on count 4 for shooting at an inhabited dwelling, rather than imposing a concurrent term of life without parole, because count 4 was directly related to the murders and attempted murder in counts 1, 2, and 3. in a sentencing memorandum, the prosecution recommended the sentence on count 4 be stayed. d the trial court was not required to stay the sentence on count 4. different ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the act or exception to . . . section 654 which allows separate punishment for each crime of violence against a different victim, even though all crimes are part of an indivisible course of conduct or risking harm to more than one person precludes application of section 6people v. felix (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 1618, 1630-1631 (felix).) our decision in felix is directly on point. in that case, the defendant attempted to murder one victim by firing gunshots through a bedroom window. relatives of the victim were staying in other rooms in the house. (felix, supra, 172 cal.app.4th at p. 1623.) the defendant was convicted of attempted murder of the intended victim, shooting at an inhabited dwelling, and several counts of assault with a firearm against the intended victim and his two daughters, but not the other relatives in the house. the sentence for the 33 shooting at an inhabited dwelling count was ordered to run concurrent with the sentence on the attempted murder count. (id. at pp. 1623-1624.) the defendant argued the sentence for the shooting at an inhabited dwelling count should have been stayed because it was based on the same act, committed during a single indivisible course of conduct. we disagreed the crime of shooting at an inhabited residence is involved, a defendant need not be aware of the identity or number of people in the house to be punished separately id. at p. ng into the dwelling but were not named victims felix, at p. 1631.) here, appellants opened fire on zamora, curiel, and santa ana while they sat on the wall next to it. hurtado and her children were inside at the time, but they were not named in any of the four counts against appellants. at sentencing, the trial court noted the shooting at an , curiel, and santa ana, appellants committed a separate act of violence against different victims, so the trial court was not required to stay their sentences on count 4 pursuant to section 654. b. section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1) for counts 1 and 2, the court imposed and stayed a gang enhancement pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1) for all appellants. appellants argue the court was not permitted to impose any additional term under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1) because section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5) applied. we agree. (5), any person who is convicted of a felony committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang members, shall, upon conviction of that felony, in addition and consecutive to the punishment prescribed for the felony or attempted felony of for murder, that additional term is 10 years. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c).) section 186.22, 34 a felony punishable by imprisonment in the state prison for life shall not be paroled until a appellants contend their life without parole sentences triggered section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5), so the trial court improperly imposed enhancements under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1). in people v. lopez (2005) 34 cal.4th 1002 (lopez), the california supreme court struck a section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1) enhancement for a 25-years-to-life sentence for first degree murder, concluding section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5) exempts crimes carrying with them both straight life terms and years-to-life terms. (lopez, at p. 1007.) the court did not address whether life without parole sentences fall within section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5), but in discussing the legislative history of the provision, it noted without analysis that, at the time the predecessor to that provision was enacted, it all lifers, except those sentenced to life without the possibility lopez, at p. 1010.) respondent cites this passage and argues that finding section 186.22, subdivision will never be eligible for parole. the court in lopez rejected a similar argument. in that case, the attorney general argued against applying section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5) to first or sminimum parole eligibility term for first degree murderers is 25 years and for second degree murderers is 15 years. (lopez, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 1009.) citing legislative history provides for a greater penalty or longer period of imprisonment that the latter provision shall subdivision (b)(5) would apply even if a first degree or second degree murder sentence carried the same or a longer minimum parole term. (lopez, at p. 1009.) following the plain language of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5) and the reasoning in lopez, rather than its passing dicta about life without parole sentences, we find the trial court improperly imposed and stayed additional terms pursuant to section 186.22, 35 subdivision (b)(1). section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5) applilopez explains, although section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5) will not set the minimum parole term life without parole sentences here, it still applies. thus, we will modify each judgment to delete the section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1) enhancement. c. parole revocation fine appellants contend and respondent concedes the trial court erred in imposing parole revocation fines in light of their sentences to life without parole. ( 1202.45.) they are every case where a person is convicted of a crime and his or her sentence includes a period with no determinate term. (people v. brasure (2008) 42 cal.4th 1037, 1075; people v. oganesyan (1999) 70 cal.app.4th 1178, 1183.) it also does not apply when any determinate term is stayed. (people v. carr (2010) 190 cal.app.4th 475, 482, fn. 6.) here, appellants were sentenced to indeterminate terms on all counts and the determinate terms for the enhancements were stayed. therefore, we will strike the fine for each appellant. d. custody credits each appellant argues he should have received additional presentence custody credit. respondent concedes the errors. chambasis is therefore entitled to 1,173 days of presentence custody credit, meraz is entitled to 1,166 days of presentence custody credit, and bibiano is entitled to 1,167 days of presentence custody credit.13 we will correct the abstracts of judgment to reflect the correct presentence custody credit. e. fees we have identified two errors in the fees imposed in the abstracts of judgment. they incorrectly reflect an $80 court security fee when the trial court imposed a $160 court security fee at sentencing hearing. 13 bibiano contends he is entitled to 1,166 days of presentence custody credit, but by 36 controls so we will order abstract of judgment corrected to reflect a $160 court security fee. (people v. sharret (2011) 191 cal.app.4th 859, 864.) at sentencing hearings, the trial court also imposed a $30 criminal conviction assessment on each appellant. each abstract of judgment reflects a $60 criminal conviction assessment. neither is correct. the trial court was required to impose a $30 assessment per count, for a total assessment of $120. (gov. code,  70373; people v. sencion (2012) 211 cal.app.4th 480, 483.) we will order the abstracts of judgment corrected accordingly. disposition we modify judgment to strike the section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1) enhancement, to strike the section 1202.45 parole revocation fine, to impose a $160 court security fee, and to impose a $120 criminal conviction assessment. we further modify to reflect 1,173 of presentence custody credits, modify modify t of judgment to reflect 1,167 days of presentence custody credit. the trial court is directed to forward the corrected abstracts of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. we affirm the judgments as modified. flier, j. we concur: rubin, acting p. j. grimes, j. 