filed 9/26/14 p. v. taylor ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. rosean damont taylor, defendant and appellant. b245455 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya081703) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mark s. arnold, judge. affirmed. winston kevin mckesson for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, linda c. johnson and tita nguyen, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury convicted appellant rosean damont taylor on one count of assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury. (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(1).)1 appellant, who is african american, objected to the racial makeup of the jury panel and moved to compel discovery of evidence that he asserted was necessary to establish a violation of his constitutional right to a jury drawn from a fair cross-section of the community. the trial court denied his motion, and he now appeals. we affirm. factual and procedural background2 appellant was charged in an amended information with one count of assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury. ( 245, subd. (a)(1).) the information further alleged that appellant had suffered two prior strikes ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)) and two prior serious felony or violent felony convictions ( 1170, subd. (h)(3)). appellant pleaded not guilty and denied the allegations. trial began in the southwest district of the los angeles superior court. during voir dire objected to the jury panel.3 as i told the court earlier, i am engaged in litigation downtown 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 2 we do not set forth the underlying facts of the offense, which are not pertinent to this appeal. 3 the jury pool is the master list of eligible jurors compiled for the year or shorter period from which persons will be summoned during the relevant period for possible jury service. a venire is the group of prospective jurors summoned from that list and made available, after excuses and deferrals have been granted, for assignment to a panel. a panel is the group of jurors from that venire assigned to a court and from which a jury will be selected to try a particular case. (people v. jackson (1996) 13 cal.4th 1164, 1193, fn. 2 (jackson).) 3 in criminal courts building with respect to the way african-americans are [dispersed] throughout the county. [] i would like to state for the record while [there] appears to be no african-from a pacific - -american to me. but we can mckesson i would just like to know, we have the latest records from the census. according to the census this is in the southwest district the population for the southwest district is 742,558. of that, 15 percent of the southwest district are african-american. i would like to point out that also 15.5 percent [are] asicounted four to five asians in the panel and no african-americans. [] so i would like the record to be clear that i am objecting to this panel on racial the trial court asked, what is the legal authority that stands for the -mckesson states constitution entitles [appellant to an] appropriate cross-section of the community where the courthouse sits. [] the california supreme court has held community is defined as the judicial district.federal case in orange county that found a presumptive violation where the judicial district was 31 percent about five or six points off. . . . an[d] especially with comparative analysis, when you compare it to the asian population, which is virtually the same, our figure shows 15.5 percent asian and 4 15 percent african-american. and i see no african-americans on the panel. [] so what we have to do, we have to make a presumptive showing. after that, then we are entitled to discovery from the jury commissioner because the jury commissioner keeps records and statistics and all this, and we can find out how the jury is being [dispersed]. the trial court statperson is african-american. but i know of no authority, no california statute or case authority, that allows for or requires me to dismiss this panel and bring up accept defense counsel on june 5, 2012, twelve additional prospective jurors were ordered to the courtroom. appellant renewed his objection to the panel, but the court overruled the objection. the jury found appellant guilty of one count of assault. ( 245, subd. (a)(1).) appellant filed a motion for new trial based on newly discovered evidence, attaching a declaration from the victim, who did not testify at trial and averred in the declaration that appellant did not assault her. the trial court denied the motion. appellant renewed his objection to the jury panel. mckesson again stated that there were no african-americans in the panel in a district that is 15 percent african-american. he argued that he was entitled to discovery from the jury commissioner to determine how jurors are dispersed in the district. mckesson expressed the belief that the jury commissioner sent african-americans to a court in inglewood, where they try misdemeanor cases, while the district [are sent] 5 the trial court . what the ethnic makeup was of each of the jurors. . . . it could very well be that a juror could appear to be caucasian but have african-the court sentenced appellant to a term of six years. discussion to compel discovery. people v. williams (1996) 46 cal.app.4th 1767, 1775.) we find no abuse of discretion and therefore affirm. al and state constitutions, an accused is entitled to a jury drawn from a representative cross-section of the community. [citations.] that guarantee mandates that the pools from which juries are drawn must not systematically exclude distinctive groups in the community. [citation.] to establish a prima facie violation of the fair-cross-section requirement, the group in the community; (2) that the representation of this group in venires from which juries are selected is not fair and reasonable in relation to the number of such persons in the community; and (3) that this underrepresentation is due to systematic exclusion of the group in the jury-citations.] the -section purposes is the judicial district in which the case is tried. [citations.] if a defendant establishes a prima facie case of systematic underrepresentation, the burden shifts to the prosecution to provide either a more precise statistical showing that no constitutionally significant disparity exists or a compelling justification for the procedure that has resulted in 6 people v. horton (1995) 11 cal.4th 1068, 1087-1088.) a prima facie case, but the prior question of whether [appellant] was wrongly denied the discovery of information necessary to make such a case. a defendant who seeks access to this information is obviously not required to justify that request by making a prima facie case of underrepresentation.jackson, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 1194.) jackson pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531, to define the standard a defendant must meet when seeking discovery of information necessary to make a case of underrepresentation. supporting a reasonable belief that underrepresentation in the jury pool or the venire exists as the result of practices of systematic exclusion, the court must make information designed to verify the existence of such underrepresentation and jackson, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 1194, citing city of santa cruz v. municipal court (1989) 49 cal.3d 74, 93.) . . arising by way of inferenceby attendant circumstances, fairly creating it, and honestly entertained(roddy v. superior court (2007) 151 cal.app.4th 1115, 1135.) contrary to establish the underrepresentation requirement by showing a disparity on the particular jury panel assigned to the court in which his or her jury is to be selected. 7 underrepresentation on the defend4 (people v. de rosans (1994) 27 cal.app.4th 611, 618 (de rosans).) the circumstances here are similar to those found in de rosans, in which the defendant first challenged the jury panel during voir dire. the defendant in de rosans did not move to compel discovery, but instead moved for a continuance in order to prepare a challenge to the jury panel pursuant to code of civil procedure section 225. the trial court denied the motion, and the appellate court affirmed. (de rosans, supra, 27 cal.app.4th at p. 622.) the court in de rosans observed that, although a challenge to a jury panel is timely if made before the jury is sworn (code civ. proc.,  225), -section grounds usually is made as a pretrial motion before any panel is assigned to the court that will try the id. at p. 620.) de rosans explained that the fair cross-section requirement did not mean that the defendant was entitled to a panel that represents a cross-section of the drawn from a representative cross-section of the community. thus, a challenge to the jury panel is always necessarily a challenge not to the composition of the panel but to the procedure by which the de rosans, supra, 27 cal.app.4th at p. 621.) because a challenge under code of civil procedure section 225, like a fair cross-section 4 the representative cross-section requirement arises in the context of a specific jury panel when a defendant makes a batson/wheeler motion challenof peremptory challenges to preclude potential jurors from serving. (people v. currie (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 225, 232; people v. reynoso (2003) 31 cal.4th 903, 907-908.) this case, however, does not involve the exercise of peremptory challenges. 8 id. at pp. 621-622.) similar to de rosans, appellant here improperly attempted to challenge his specific jury panel during voir dire, rather than filing a pretrial motion to compel discovery regarding the practices of the jury commissioner in dispersing the entire jury venire. the original information was filed in august 2011. appellant did not move to compel discovery regarding the jury selection process until voir dire began on may 30, 2012. even had rather than the jury venire been proper, his belated request for discovery would have delayed the trial and required a continuance. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying his motion to compel discovery. (see de rosans, supra, 27 cal.app.4th at p. 622.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports willhite, acting p. j. we concur: manella, j. collins, j. 