filed 8/9/13 p. v. ortiz ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. rafael ortiz, defendant and appellant. b245601 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka096879) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, bruce marrs, judge. affirmed. tomas requejo for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and stephanie a. miyoshi, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 following a jury trial, appellant was convicted of possession of cocaine. (health & saf. code,  11350, subd. (a).) appellant contends the trial court failed to excuse a juror for cause and there was insufficient evidence to support the judgment. his contentions are meritless. i. facts a. prosecution appellant was a captain with the los angeles fire department and a reserve cocaine fell from the area of his waistband and landed on the ground as he walked area. t about the issue, appellant contacted andrew grzywathe battalion fire chief in charge of his unit. appellant told grzywa have fallen from his pocket at the sherifthe substance could have been something he collected when participating in an arrest. however, three days later he called grzywa and changed his story. grzywa described . . . he got into . . . his own personal vehicle, and discovered a small baggie of what he believed to be cocaine. at that point in time, he explained . . . that . . . one of his sons had been driving the vehicle, along with one of his friends, and it was after his son had been driving the 3 b. defense appellant had the authority to arrest people while he was on duty. his supervisor e additional witnesses, i.e., a reserve deputy, a dependability, honesty and trustworthiness. ii. discussion a. juror no. 3 after the jury was empanelled but prior to opening statements, juror no. 3 pomona (los angeles county) and that he lived part of the time in chino (riverside as well as the notes of both attorneys, reflected juror no. maybe the court might want to inquire of him just to make the record clean. up to this these comments as a motiohe was a resident of pomona [and] he was certainly summoned through that pomona him at this point. hcounsel], and when we get down to the end, before they come back with a verdict, maybe even before they go out, i will let you renew your motion. [] . . . [] that way you can do a little more research . . . appellant claims the trial court had a sua sponte obligation to conduct an 4 that there may be good cause to discharge him. he mainpursue the matter further warrants reversal of the judgment. appellant is incorrect. investigate the possibility of juror bias, incompetence, or misconductlike the ultimate decision to retain or discharge a jurorrests within the sound discretion of the trial court. [citation.] the court does not abuse its discretion simply because it fails to investigate any and all new information obtained about a juror during trial. [] [a] hearing is required only where the court possesses information which, if proven to be true, would constitute to doubt a juror's ability to perform his duties and would justify his removal people v. ray (1996) 13 cal.4th 313, 343.) qualified to sit as jurors. (code civ. proc,  203(a)(4).) in the context of the election habitation is fixed for some period of time, but wherein he or she does not have the more than one people v. superior court (wright) (2011) 197 cal.app.4th 511, 515, original italics (wright).) appellant has not argued that the than the ordinary commonsense definition recognized in wright. indeed, there is no the court did not have information which, if proven to be true, would constitute good cause to excuse juror no. 3. because juror no. 3 indicated during voir dire that he resided within the jurisdiction of the trial court, it was inconsequential that he possibly had an additional residence outside the jurisdiction of the court. the existence of an additional residence in a city outside of los angeles county did not render him 5 residence did not amount to an abuse of discretion. 1 b. sufficiency of the evidence elements of [possession of cocaine] are: actual or constructive possession with knowledge of the presence of the drug and its narcotic character. [citations.] the elements may be established by circumstantial evidence and any reasonable inference people v. west (1990) 224 cal.app.3d 1337, 1347-1348; see health & saf. code,  11350, subd. (a).) the judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidenceevidence that is reasonable, credible and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence. [citation.] [] the same standard of review applies to cases in which the prosecution relies primarily on circumstantial evidence . . . he circumstances [citation.] we do not reweigh evidence (people v. guerra (2006) 37 cal.4th 1067, 1129, overruled on a different point in people v. rundle (2008) 43 cal.4th 76, 151.) appellant argues there was insufficient evidence he possessed the cocaine because unpersuasive. 1 appellant does not argue the trial court erroneously denied his motion to discharge the 6 appellant admitted to his superior that he possessed what he believed to be cocaine. initially he said it may have been the result of an arrest; then he claimed it was possessed cocaine and that he knew of its presence on his person. testimony indicated -free trier of fact could have concluded the prosecution established the elements of possession and presence. iii. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports kumar, j. we concur: mosk, acting p.j. kriegler, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 