 filed 8/15/14 p. v. amaya ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. alfredo jose amaya, defendant and appellant. b245905 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba392980) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, gail ruderman feuer, judge. affirmed. eduardo paredes, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and roberta l. davis, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 appellant alfredo j. amaya appeals from the judgment entered following his convictions by jury on count 3 lewd act upon a child (pen. code,  288, subd. (a)) and count 4 sexual penetration with a child 10 years old or younger (pen. code,  288.7, subd. (b)). the court sentenced appellant to prison for 15 years to life, plus six years. we affirm. factual summary 1. viewed in accordance with the usual rules on appeal (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206 (ochoa)), the evidence established in about october 2010, appellant and nine-year-old j.l. (j.), his niece, lived in different apartments in an apartment building in los angeles. appellant would pick up j. and his son jo. from school and bring them to j. from work. j. testified that on each of three days during a week in october 2010, she and appellant school. on the first day, appellant was playing on a computer. appellant had j. sit on his lap. he put his hand on j.clothes. on the second day, appellant again had her sit on his lap. appellant put his hand inside j. and over her underwear (count 3).1 he left his hand there, causing her to feel uncomfortable, scared, and sad. on the third day, appellant put his hand under j.underwear, moved his hand around, and put his finger inside her vagina (count 4), touching 2 when these acts occurred, jo., who was about 10 years old, was elsewhere in the apartment. after appellant began taking j. home from school, j. told her 16-year-old sister a.l. (a.) that appellant had been touching j. j. and a. cried. the next day, a. called their mother, s.l. (s.) at work, and told her what appellant had done. s. cried. s. came home from work, 1 age of 14 .l., on or between june 1, 2010, capitalization omitted.) 2 the jury convicted appellant on count 4 based on his sexual penetration of j. on or between june 1, 2010, and june 1, 2011. 3 questioned j., and j. began crying. s. embraced j., reassured her, and j. told s. what appellant had done to her. s. made arrangements to prevent appellant from picking up j. from school, and told j. not to tell appellant that j. had told s. about the abuse. s. did not call the police because she was concerned about the next day, when j. did not come home with appellant, he asked her why she was not coming home with him and if she had told anybj. denied she had told anyone.3 after j. told s. what appellant had done, j. told her grandmother. in 2011, when j. was in the fourth grade, she told her best friend j. in november 2011, j. told her teacher about the abuse and police were notified. on november 22, 2011, nicole farrell, a child interview specialist at the university of california medical center, interviewed j. j. se and told farrell that jo. was not present when it occurred. los angeles police detective alma mercado was assigned to the present case on november 18, 2011, and testified on october 10, 2012, as follows. children commonly delayed reporting sexual abuse, especially when the abuser was a family member. because make any 3 about two months later, a. told s. that appellant had sexually abused a. the abuse occurred when she was between about five years old and 10 years old. during the abuse, appellant told a. her parents did not love her and, if she reported what was happening, they would not believe her and would not care. at the time, a. did not tell her parents about the abuse because she was afraid she would get into trouble. a. did not report the abuse to s. when j. told s. that appellant was abusing j., because a. saw how upset s. had been that appellant had abused j. after a. told s. a., a. and s. agreed not to call the police because they were concerned about the health of a.alleged appellant committed two crimes against a., i.e., continuous sexual abuse (pen. code,  288.5, subd. (a); count 1) on or between july 28, 1999, and july 28, 2002, and lewd act upon a child (pen. code,  288, subd. (a); count 2) on or between july 29, 2002, and july 28, 2003. after the jury deadlocked on counts 1 and 2, the court declared a mistrial as to those counts and later dismissed them pursuant to penal code section 1385. 4 appointment, not mercado. the family had wanted a medical examination. at time of trial, j. and appellant still lived in their respective apartments in the apartment building. 2. defense evidence. in defense, relatives of appellant testified to the effect he had not acted inappropriately with j. or a. jo. acknowledged that when j. was at jo. was not always in the room with j. issues appellant claims (1) the trial court erroneously admitted into evidence j.hearsay statements to a., and (2) insufficient evidence supports his convictions. discussion 1. the trial court did not erroneously admit hearsay into evidence. a. pertinent facts. during direct examination by the people, a. testified that on one occasion after j. started coming home with jo., a. and j. were in their room when j. told a. j.] was a. if j. said what frightened her, and a. j.] was hearsay. the court sustained the objection. fairly read, the record reflects that later at sidebar, and following discussions between the parties and the court, the court ruled j.a. were admissible under the fresh complaint doctrine. tion is overruled, so the testimony comes in with respect to what [a.] just testified about what [j.] of what the truth of whether or not [j.] was scared, sequence of events, events of either talking to her mother about what happened. coming in for the truth of the statement, which is whether or not [j.] was scared.(sic.) b. analysis. appellant claims the trial court allowed a. to relate inadmissible hearsay from j. he argues j.j.5 (hereafter, the challenged statements) were inadmissible hearsay. we rejclaim. under the fresh complaint doctrine, evidence extrajudicial complaint the sexual offense occurred may be considered by the jury for the testimony. (people v. brown (1994) 8 cal.4th 746, 758-763 (brown); people v. ramirez (2006) 143 cal.app.4th 1512, 1522.) brown observed, the offense may be admitted in a criminal brown, p. included in the fresh complaint. (people v. burton (1961) 55 cal.2d 328, 351.) we review for abuse of discrruling on a hearsay objection. (people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 725.) as indicated, the trial court admitted the challenged statements under the fresh complaint doctrine. fairly read, the record reflects the trial court ruled it was not admitting the challenged statements for their truth that j. talking to her mothera. or j. talking to s., about what happened. the challenged statements were brown, supra, 8 cal.4th at p. 763), i.e., the challenged statements were part of the circumstances leading a. to call s., which in turn led j. to tell s. about the offenses. appellant concedes the trial court relied on the fresh complaint doctrine. we hold the challenged statements were nonhearsay properly proffered and admitted into evidence under that doctrine. (cf. id. at pp. 763-764.) appellant argues the fresh complaint doctrine is inapplicable to j.scared. appellant reasons j.was hearsay because it was offered to explain a. to s. j., and if a. had not believed j.a. would not have called s. we reject the argument. it confuses the nonhearsay purpose for which the people offered j.atement with a. subsequent alleged belief the statement was true, a matter irrelevant to whether the statement was or was not hearsay. moreover, the fact a. reported the matter to s. does not demonstrate 6 a. believed j. was scared; a. could have believed it was important to relate j.to s. whether or not a. believed that claim. appellant argues the fresh complaint doctrine is inapplicable because j. was available to testify. the argument is without merit. appellant cites no case holding unavailability at trial of the declarant of a fresh complaint is a condition of its admissibility. in brown, the fresh complaint declarant testified. (brown, supra, 8 cal.4th at pp. 750-753, 763-764.) appellant argues the fresh complaint doctrine is inapplicable because j.misconduct preceded a.the challenged statements. the argument is without merit. j. testified after a. testified. moreover, appellant cites no authority for the proposition a statement otherwise admissible under the fresh complaint doctrine is inadmissible merely because evidence of another complaint by the declarant was admitted into evidence. appellant argues the fresh complaint doctrine is inapplicable because the challenged we reject the argument. the doctrine merely the fact of disclosure or the nature of the crime. even if the challenged statements were hearsay, it does not follow the judgment must be reversed. j.1250 state of mind hearsay exception (cf. people v. riccardi (2012) 54 cal.4th 758, 822 afraid of defendant admissible]) as was j.statement she j. made other complaints (i.e., to her grandmother, best friend, teacher, and farrell) the admissibility of which is undisputed. even absent the challenged statements. any error in admitting the challenged statements into evidence as nonhearsay was not prejudicial. (cf. people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) appellant argues if the challenged statements were hearsay, the fact they were prejudicial is demonstrated by the facts they corroborated j.the jury convicted appellant on counts 3 and 4, but there was no such corroboration as to a.testimony a., and the jury did not convict appellant on counts 7 1 and 2. j. and a. were so factually different (see fns. 1 3, ante) it is not reasonably probable the differences in the outcomes as to counts 1 through 4 was attributable to any corroborative effect of the challenged statements on the evidence as to counts 3 and 4. moreover, appellant the evidence as to counts 3 and 4 was insufficient because the jury convicted appellant on those counts but not on counts 1 and 2 is akin to an argument the evidence on counts 1 and 2 was insufficient because of inconsistent verdicts. however, inconsistent verdicts are allowed to stand (people v. santamaria (1994) 8 cal.4th 903, 911); therefore, the verdicts on counts 3 and 4 are allowed to stand notwithstanding their alleged inconsistency with the outcome as to counts 1 and 2.4 2. suff appellant claims insufficient evidence supported his convictions. we disagree. the hand to touch j.nal area under her pants and over her underwear on or between june 1, 2010, and june 1, 2011. as to this count, j. testified that on the second of three days during a week in october 2010, appellant had her sit on his lap, put his hand inside her pants and over her underwear, and left his hand there, causing her to feel uncomfortable, scared, and sad. she made corroborating complaints to her grandmother, best friend, teacher, and farrell. appellant engaged in similar lewd conduct on the first and third days; this was evidence he committed the offense (count 3) on the second day. (see people v. ewoldt (1994) 7 cal.4th 4 jury to accept as true that j. was scared. we disagree; the instruction expressly stated her not coming in for the truth of the statement, which is whether or not [j.] was only after j. reported the abuse to her teacher that a criminal investigation began. we reject the argument because appellant misperceives the relevance of a fresh complaint at the time it was made, and because appellant raises the relevance issue for the first time in his reply brief. (cf. people v. thomas (1995) 38 cal.app.4th 1331, 1334; people v. jackson (1981) 121 cal.app.3d 862, 873.) 8 380, 393, 394 & fn. 2, 402-404.) we hold there was sufficient evidence supporting (cf. ochoa, supra, 6 cal.4th at p. 1206.) the jury also convicted appellant of sexual penetration of a child (count 4). as to this count, j. testified that, on the third day, appellant put his hand under her underwear, moved his hand around, and put his finger inside her vagina. as mentioned, she made corroborating complaints. he engaged in similar lewd conduct on the first and second days; this was evidence he committed the offense (count 4) on the third day. we hold there was sufficient evidence supporting app ochoa, supra, 6 cal.4th at p. 1206.) to based on the inadmissible hearsay of the challenged statements, because if, absent those statements, there was sufficient evidence he committed that offense, the jury should have convicted a. on counts 1 and 2. this argument, to , necessarily pertains only to his conviction on count 4. moreover, we have already rejected hearsay and inconsistent verdict arguments. appellant argues there is insufficient evidence because of an alleged evidentiary conflict. he notes j. testified when appellant move around and in [her] private partand she testified she did not remember if his finger [went] inside [her] private part one time or more than one time. appellant also notes farrell asked j. j. replied, when farrell later asked j. how many times j. replied twice. however, this argument necessarily pertains to count 4. the court instructed the jury pursuant to calcrim no. 226 that a jury should not automatically reject testimony because of inconsistencies or conflicts, the jury was to consider whether the differences were important, and people sometimes honestly forget things or make mistakes about what they remember. there is no dispute this is a correct statement of law and it applies here. we presume the jury resolved any factual conflict in favor of conviction. (ochoa, supra, 6 cal.4th at p. 1206.) we reject a 9 not know if a medical examination was done was unreasonable.the incident involving j. occurred in about october 2010. mercado was first assigned to this case in november 2011. mercado testified in october 2012. under these circumstances, the fact mercado did not remember whether j. underwent a medical examination did not render insubstantial the otherwise substantial evidence in this case. the real issue is not whether mercado remembered whether j. underwent such an examination but whether j. underwent one. to the extent appellant suggests mercado should have scheduled such an examination for j., appellant has failed to demonstrate mercado was obligated to schedule such an examination, that an examination conducted a year after the present incident would have produced any useful information, or that any resulting information would have diminished the otherwise substantial evidence in this case. testimony of johnathan [sicj.argument. j. told farrell that jo. was not present when the abuse occurred. j. testified when the acts occurred, jo. was elsewhere in the apartment. jo., a defense witness, acknowledged that when j. was at jo. was not always in the room with j. 10 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports kitching, j. we concur: klein, p. j. aldrich, j. 