filed 12/31/13 p. v. mason ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. blas mason, defendant and appellant. b246642 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba402152) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, upinder s. kalra, judge. affirmed. mona d. miller, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, chung l. mar and carl n. henry, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 the jury found defendant and appellant blas mason guilty in count 1 of first degree residential burglary (pen. code,  459)1 and in count 2 of receipt of stolen property ( 496, subd. (a)). the trial court found defendant had suffered a prior serious felony conviction under section 667, subdivision (a)(1), a prior serious or violent felony conviction under the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i); 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)), and two prior prison terms under section 667.5, subdivision (b). defendant was sentenced to two years on count 1, doubled under the three strikes law, plus a five-year enhancement for the prior serious felony conviction, and two one-year enhancements for the prior prison terms for a total term of 11 years in state prison. a 32-month sentence on count 2 (16 months doubled pursuant to the three strikes law) was imposed and stayed under section 654. defendant contends the judgment must be reversed due to a violation of his constitutional right to confront witnesses, improper admission of prejudicial evidence, unconstitutionally suggestive identification, and cumulative error. we affirm the judgment. facts2 michele paniz and justin dana were co-owners of a duplex held in joint tenancy. the units had identical floor plans. paniz lived in the ground unit, and dana lived in the second floor unit. at approximately 3:55 p.m. on september 2, 2012, paniz was working at home alone when she noticed someone she did not recognize running up the outside staircase 1 unless otherwise indicated, all statutory references are to the penal code. 2 because defendant did not call witnesses on his behalf, the statement of facts reflects the evidence as presented by the prosecution at trial. 3 knew no one was in the upstairs unit. the window to the left of the door. when the banging ended, paniz heard what sounded like footsteps inside of second floor unit. alarmed, paniz called 911. as the male intruder exited da using the stairs, paniz was able to take four cell phone photos from her breakfast-jeans, a light-colored polo-with black suspenders, typically worn for heavy lifting. paniz gave the description to the 911 operator as she watched the intruder exit and walk away from the residence. during palos angeles police department officers arrived at her residence. the officers arrested defendant at approximately 4:09 p.m., one block from -mower blade, and a spark plug in his back pocket. he was also in possession of stolen cash, jewelry, and other property belonging to dana. defendant was standing in the middle of a police-blocked street handcuffed and in the presence of other officers. paniz made the identification while sitting in the back seat of a squad car a few houses away. she made 3 her identification of defendant occurred about 45 minutes after he left officer david jamieson arrested and searched defendant. as a burglary expert, officer jamieson described how spark plugs are a favored tool for burglars, and that officers are trained on their use. spark plugs are uniquely suited to break windows easily because their weight concentrates a large force in a small area. officer jamieson has personally arrested burglars with spark plugs in their possession. detective paul quan testified regarding his investigation of the points of entry. 3 no back brace was booked into evidence, but officer jamieson testified that he remembered defendant wearing something with black straps across his back. 4 discussion limitation on cross-examination and impeachment of detective quan in her opening statement, defense counsel told the jury the fingerprint evidence taken at the crime scene did not match defendant. the following day outside the presence of the jury, the prosecution moved to exclude mention of fingerprint evidence had no personal knowledge of the fingerprint seizure, so his testimony would be inadmissible hearsay. defense counsel conceded that officer jamieson lacked the requisite personal knowledge but argued detective quan was present at the fingerprint seizure and knew the prints did not match defendant. when pressed by the trial court, defense counsel conceded she was uncertain whether detective quan was present when the prints were taken but stated she believed she could ascertain whether he was with a few brief questions. the trial court ruled: -taking unless the witness has personal knowledge. [] you can inquire of the witness if they were present when prints were taken. you cannot tell the jury about any matches. simply, the investigation of the location, what personal knowledge a witness has about the investigation or las stating, are you aware that prints were taken, are you aware that no match was taken, [] d on the same day, during cross-examination of detective quan, defense counsel questioned the witness: 5 [defendant]? to ask the witness to answer. [] go ahead. investigation division, latent print unit, indicating that the two palm prints that was lifted was not of afis quality; thus, it could not be run through the system to come back soon afterward, defense counsel asked for a laboratory receipt to be marked as an exhibit. the prosecution objected and requested a recess. the jury was excused. the prosecutor objected to defense counsel marking the laboratory receipt, which was not prepared by detective quan, into evidence as inadmissible hearsay. defense counsel explained that she wished to offer the laboratory receipt as impeachment evidence, and not as evidence of the truth of the contents of the receipt. the receipt contained a check box indicating the prints were afis quality, in contradiction of detective quanthe trial court reminded defense counsel it had given a very clear order not to question the witness regarding whether there was a match on the fingerprints, and she had violated the order. the court then stated defense counsel would be allowed to question detective quan as to whether he was relying on the laboratory report, and, if so, impeach him. a foundational hearing was held in which detective quan testified he did rely on a report of which he had no personal knowledge, and he was mistaken about the quality of the fingerprints. the prints were afis quality according to the report and did not match defendant. the trial court ruled defense counsel could elicit clarification 6 mistaken that the fingerprints were not of asif quality. detective quan was prohibited from testifying as to whether the fingerprints were a match to defendant or as to any other results of the analysis. cross-examination resumed and defense counsel asked detective quan if he wished to clarify his last answer. he responded yes and stated he had been mistaken and the prints were of sufficient quality to be analyzed. later, in closing argument, both parties stated the fingerprints did not match defendant. defendant contends his constitutional right to confront witnesses was violated because the trial court limited the scope of his cross-examination of detective quan, inhibiting his ability to impeach the detective. this contention is without merit. shall enjoy the right . . . to be confronted with the witnesses -people v. szadziewicz (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 823, 841-igh court has explained, cross-. . people v. smith (2007) 40 cal.4th 483, right, the accused, as is required of the state, must comply with established rules of procedure and evidence designed to assure both fairness and reliability in the [citation.people v. ayala (2000) 23 cal.4th -examination rises to a people v. singleton (2010) 182 cal.app.4th 1, 18.) the right of confrontation is not absolute . . . [ci (alvarado v. superior court (2000) 23 cal.4th 1121, 1138-1139.) frontation clause is concerned to impose reasonable limits on cross-examination . . . (people 7 v. greenberger (1997) 58 cal.app.4th 298, 350 (greenbergerapplication of the statutory rules of evidence does not impermissibly infringe upon a people v. ardoin (2011) 196 cal.app.4th 102, 119.) opportunity for effective cross-examination, not cross-examination that is effective in whatever way, and to whatever extent, the defense might wish. [citations.] . . . there is no sixth amendment violation at all unless the prohibited cross-examination might reasonably have produced a (people v. king (2010) 183 cal.app.4th 1281, 1314-1315, fn. omitted (kingif it is determined that trial court rulings limiting cross-examination of a witness have denied the defendant his right of confrontation, the error is subject to harmless-error the correct inquiry is whether, assuming that the damaging potential of the cross-examination were fully realized, a reviewing court might nonetheless say that the error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. . . . greenberger, supra, 58 cal.app.4th at p. 350.) the limitations the trial court imposed were reasonable in this case. because detective quan had no personal knowledge of the laboratory report or results of the fingerprinting, any testimony made regarding them would constitute impermissible hearsay under evidence code 1200. the court allowed defense counsel to elicit -impeaching testimony that he incorrectly stated the fingerprints were not of sufficient quality to analyze. this was all that was necessary to contradict the the prohibited cross-king, supra, 183 cal.app.4th at p. 1315.) allowing such testimony would only have served the purpose of exposing the jury to evidence for which there could be no proper foundation from the witness. detective quan did not analyze the fingerprints, witness the analysis, or even have knowledge of how such an analysis would be performed. on these bases, the court specifically ordered the results results of the fingerprinting analysis to the jury, it could have done so by subpoenaing the 8 analyst who performed the testing. the court was not required to allow defendant to circumvent the rules of evidence by violating a court order and then crying foul when the witness did not testify as expected. moreover, any error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. defense counsel told the jury the fingerprints did not match defendant in both her opening statement and closing argument, and the prosecutor conceded in closing argument that there was no match to defendant. had there been any doubt with respect to the veracity of detective uilt was presented at trial. defendant was apprehended one block from the crime scene, approximately five minutes after the burglary was completed. paniz identified defendant, took cell phone pictures of him to which she could refer if in doubt, and noted a distinctive black back brace he was wearing at the field line-up. defendant was in possession of burglary tools, including a metal pry bar, spark plug, and mower blade, as 4 in light of this evidence, we cannot admission of the spark plug defendant contends the trial court erred in admitting evidence he was carrying a spark plug in his pocket when apprehended, because the evidence was highly prejudicial and irrelevant. we disagree. in general, evidence is admissible if its probative value is not substantially , or mislead the jury. (evid. code,  352.) 4 as we will discuss below, the spark plug was properly admitted and the field line-up was not unconstitutionally suggestive, but even in the absence of this evidence, 9 people v. garceau (1993) 6 cal.4th 140, 177, overruled on another ground in people v. yeoman (2003) 31 cal.4th 93, 117-118 (yeoman).) evidence is not unduly prejudicial solely ]ll evidence which tends to prove guilt is prejudicial or damaging to the defendanevidence which uniquely tends to evoke an emotional bias against the defendant as an individual and which has very little effect on the issues. in applying section 352, people v. karis (1988) prejudicial and thus admissipeople v. albarran (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 214, 224-2ruling for abuse of discretion. (id. at p. 225.) here, officer jamieson described how spark plugs are uniquely suited to break windows easily because their weight concentrates a large force in a small area. due to their small size, they are a favored tool of burglars, and officers are trained on their use. officer jamieson had personally arrested burglars with spark plugs in their possession. possession of a common burglary tool in a burglary prosecution is highly relevant, particularly on the issue of intent. there is nothing inherently prejudicial, as that term is defined in evidence code section 352, in evidence describing a common burglary tool. (people v. ochoa (2001) 26 cal.4th 398, 437-438 [trial court abuses its discretion when it allows evidence to be admitted in ].) identification argues the field identification was unconstitutionally suggestive, because paniz viewed 10 and identified om the back seat of a squad car, as the sole suspect, handcuffed, surrounded by officers, and in the middle of a cordoned-off street. we agree with the attorney general that defendant forfeited his claim by failing to raise it below. (people v. elliott (2012) 53 cal.4th 535, 585-586.) however, even if the claim had not been forfeited, it would fail because the identification was reliable under the totality of the circumstances. whether the identification procedure was unduly suggestive and unnecessary, and, if so, (2) whether the identification itself was nevertheless reliable under the totality of the circumstances, taking into account such factors as the opportunity of the witness to view the suspect at the time of the offense, the witnesaccuracy of his or her prior description of the suspect, the level of certainty demonstrated at the time of the identification, and the lapse of time between the offense and the identification. [citapeople v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 989 (cunningham); see also manson v. brathwaite (1977) 432 u.s. 98, 104-107, 114.) trial court need not make an assessment of the reliability of the identification that resulted from the procedure. (yeoman, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. to warrant reversal of a conviction on this ground. (cunningham, supra, at p. 990.) idered on its own facts . . . . (simmons v. united states (1968) 390 u.s. 377, 384.) we must resolve all evidentiary conflicts in favor of the trievidence. (people v. contreras (1993) 17 cal.app.4th 813, 819.) defendant fails to show the field identification violated his constitutional rights in this case. paniz had ample opportunity to view defendant prior to the identification, specifically observing defining characteristics such as the back brace he wore and his clothing. she paid close attention throughout the offense and even took cell phone 11 pictures to verify the correctness of her memory. she accurately described defendant prior to making the identification and demonstrated a high level of certainty when she identified him. the time lapse between the offense and the identification was approximately 45 minutes, a short period of time in which her memory was unlikely to degrade. she was admonished that the person being shown was in temporary custody, which does not indicate his guilt or innocence, and the purpose of the procedure was to either eliminate or identify the suspect. the record presented reveals nothing more than a standard field identification, made by an unusually attentive witness, which was reliable under the totality of the circumstances. cumulative error defendant argues the errors alleged, even if not individually prejudicial, are prejudicial when taken together. there was no cumulative error, as any error was inconsequential. (see people v. hines (1997) 15 cal.4th 997, 1075.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. kriegler, j. we concur: turner, p. j. , j.* * judge of the ventura county superior court assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 