filed 7/7/14 p. v. bennett ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. kenneth bennett, defendant and appellant. b246567 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba372681) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, william c. ryan, judge. affirmed. jennifer peabody, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and idan ivri, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant, kenneth bennett, appeals his conviction for second degree murder with criminal street gang and firearm use enhancements (pen. code,  187, 186.22, subd. (b), 12022.53).1 he was sentenced to state prison for a term of 40 years to life. the judgment is affirmed. background viewed in accordance with the usual rule of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established the following. 1. the shooting. on memorial day, may 31, 2010,2 regina robertson held a party at her home on 74th street in los angeles. all the guests were friends and family whom robertson had personally invited. among them were christopher galloway, deandre smith and aaron loud. robertson did not know defendant bennett and he had not been invited to her party. neither loud nor galloway associated with any gang. smith was affiliated with the rolling territory claimed by the rolling -tre gangster crips. about 12:30 porch while the party was still going on inside the house. bennett and another man approached. they were both wearing black hooded sweatshirts even though it was not cold out. smith testified bennett, who did all the talking, asked if they could join the party.3 smith was worried bennett and his companion intended to start trouble: 1 all further references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 2 all further date references are to the year 2010 unless otherwise specified. 3 some air. 3 . [by the prosecutor]: party? they . . . demeanor was aggressive, and . . . just me-party, statements . . . to that effect. [] and then [smith] said . . . wait a minute. this . . . . party, no -tre gangster crips constituted a gang challenge, a declaration by bennett that he was from the 8-tre gangster crips and and why specifically did you feel that you were about to get shot? [] a. because the way the guy was standing, the gesturing, and he had his hands in his poc bennett kept reaching his hand in and out of the big front pocket of his hooded sweatshirt in a suspicious manner, and loud saw the butt of a handgun sticking out of this pocket.4 according to loud, bennett remained verbally aggressive while smith was 4 a [loud] no. on second thought, i did see like a butt of the gun. [] q and how 4 loud testified: . . his party, we have to see what the lady of the house if you can get in, you know, see what she can do, everyone turned around to walk towards the house. you do it slowly? seven minutes when smith said he would check with the homeowner about letting bennett and his companion into the party. that was when smith, loud and galloway began moving toward the front door. lloway] was behind me, and the other two people were behind us as we were walking. it seemed like the slowest walk -tre gangsters. . . shoot him, so he continued into the house. after the front door slammed shut behind him and smith, loud heard two or three gunshots in rapid succession. he knew galloway was still out on the porch, so he began warning people inside the house that galloway had just been shot. smith testified he had broken off the conversation with bennett and started for the front door: lf an inch of the gun butt. 5 walk away t q. and what happened next? and i dived i smith testified he had not actually planned on asking robertson if the two men could join the party. rather . . i was scared so i just said anything just to try to walk away from the situation without not believe they came for robertson testified she heard her party guests screaming and people saying there had been a shooting. she went outside and saw galloway lying in a fetal position near her front door. galloway subsequently died of two gunshot wounds: one to his upper left chest and one to his back. the chest wound had been caused by a medium caliber bullet, the back wound by a small caliber bullet. it was not possible to determine which shot had been fired first. several days later, police found two .25 caliber cartridge 2. . on june 17, loud identified bennett from a photo array, writing this note: is similar. chin and cheek bones look the same. suspect was the person doing all 6 tshirt night. on june 18, an officer spotted bennett on 85th street and saw him walk into a residence, leave, and then go into a second residence nearby. police surrounded the second residence, ordered everyone out, and arrested bennett. a search of the first residence turned up a .25 caliber semiautomatic handgun. forensic testing showed conclusively this gun had fired the .25 lawn. in addition, it was determined that a .38 caliber bullet recovered from the crime scene could not have been fired from the .25 caliber handgun recovered at the time of arrest, which identified members of the local 8-tre gangster crips. one of the names in -derogatory reference to a rival gang, the neighborhood crips. mendoza testified it following his arrest, bennett was questioned by detectives who falsely claimed his dna had been found on the .25 caliber handgun. at first, bennett claimed he had just purchased the gun on june 14. but after a while, bennett told a completely different night of the shooting, but said he went alone and unarmed. he wanted to get into the party, but people there started hassling him and then pulled out guns. shooting erupted and the people at the house shot one of their own friends by mistake. someone dropped a gun onto the ground. bennett picked it up, in case he needed it for self-defense, and ran away. during this interview, bennett began to suspect the detectives had lied to him 7 after the detectives left, bennett began making telephone calls from a booking . . my fingerprints and dna was on it, bro. . . they say that all the people in another phone call, bennett told his gr . . to another person,5 the only thing that they got on me . . think i fucked up . . bennett subsequently called the detectives in an apparent attempt to recant his . . finally, there was a telephone call between bennett and someone who was apparently a fellow gang member. this person warned bennett that people had been saying he made incriminating statements to the police, and advised him to decide on a single story and stick to it: 3. gang evidence. los angeles police department officer kevin currie testified as a gang expert. he explained the 8-tre gangster crips were rivals of the rolling crips in the area where galloway was killed. currie had stopped bennett multiple times, and bennett admitted he was from the 8-tre gangster crips and his moniker was g-buk. 5 8 bennett had a gang tattoo on his arm and currie identified him in photographs downloaded from the internet which depicted bennett flashing gang signs. currie testified it was important for the 8-tre gangster crips to instill fear in the communities that bordered their territory. individual gang members gained status and respect within the gang by committing crimes. currie opined that, given the gang-related nature of their conversation, the unidentified man who told bennett to stick to one story had likely been a member of the 8-tre gangster crips. this man was probably concerned about the rumor bennett had incriminated himself to the police because this meant there was a chance bennett would also implicate other gang members. if the person questioned gives the name of a rival gang or refuses to answer, the challenger will often commit an act of violence. given a hypothetical question based on the 8-community and show that the gang could commit crimes with impunity. if both bennett and his companion came to the party armed, it was highly likely they were looking for trouble and intended to commit a violent act: ooking looking for the question (sic), is it positive or negative? and in this case it was non-response [sic] which is negative so they shot. ny non-violent reason that you would expect an 8-tre gang territory, would there be any non-violent reason, based on your background, training and experience for that? 9 4. other background matters. bennett did not put on any evidence. there were two trials in this matter. at the first, the jury acquitted bennett of first degree murder and hung on second degree murder. at the second trial, bennett was convicted of second degree murder. contentions 1. there was prosecutorial misconduct. 2. the trial court erred by admitting evidence consisting of unauthenticated photographs. confiden 4. there was cumulative error. discussion 1. there was no prosecutorial misconduct. bennett contends the prosecutor committed misconduct by relying on false testimony and making improper comments during closing argument. these claims are meritless. a. legal principles. the trial court or the jury, and it is reasonably probable that without such misconduct, an outcome more favorable to the defendant would have resulted. [citation.] under the federal constitution, conduct by a prosecutor that does not result in the denial of the ional rights invocation of the right to remain silent but is otherwise worthy of condemnation, is not unfairness as to make the timely fashion and on the same ground the defendant made an assignment of misconduct and requested that the jury be admonished to disregard the impropriety. 10 people v. riggs (2008) 44 cal.4th 248, 298.) a defendant who fails to argument that could have people v. wrest (1992) 3 cal.4th 1088, 1105.) (people v. welch remarks constituting misconduct, we examine whether there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury would have understood the remark to cause the mischief complained of. (people v. osband (1996) 13 cal.4th prosecutorial misconduct based on remarks to the jury, the defendant must show a reasonable likelihood the jury understood or applied the complained-of comments in an improper or erpeople v. frye (1998) 18 cal.4th 894, 970, disapproved on another ground in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22.) one particularly egregious form of misconduct occurs when a prosecutor relies on -established principles of due process, the prosecution cannot present evidence it knows is false and must correct any falsity of which it is aware [citation.] put another way, the prosecution has the duty to correct the testimony of its own witnesses that it knows, or should know, is false or misleading. [citation.] this obligation applies to testimony whose false or misleading character would be evident in light of information known to the police involved in the criminal prosecution [citation], and applies even if the false or misleading testimony goes only to witness credibility knowing use of false evidence or argument to obtain a criminal conviction or sentence 11 people v. morrison (2004) 34 cal.4th 698, 716-717.) b. discussion. (1) prosecutor did not commit misconduct by relying on false testimony. (a) background. during the testimony of kevin currie, the prosecution gang expert, the following colloquy occurred: . . buk mean? well, per the urban [d]ictionary, it means to kill someone without asked if the online urban dictionary was something he referred to in the course of his anti-gang work, currie explained he sometimes consulted the internet when faced with slang terms he did not understand. during closing argument, the prosecutor referred to this testimony on two occasions. the first time, while pointing out how strongly gang-identified bennett was, ut without swearing on the gang, saying on gangster, derogatory racial terms.6 everything that he says is about the gang, and his moniker . . his by in his gang is g-buk, and what that means, according to officer currie . . . , g-buk is a person that . . he 6 the prosecutor was referring to the way bennett talked, as exemplified by this . er. on that, but on gangsters, my nigger, but but look, cuz, on gangsters, they the only 12 then, the prosecutor ended the rebuttal portion of her closing argument by saying: is a smoking gun in this case. there is a person who has committed his life to being an individual, g-buk, someone who kills without regard, and christopher galloway paid the price, and what really happened to him that day was a picture of the greater gang violence (b) discussion. not prosecution made no attempt to correct this false and misleading testimony and, in fact, of this false testimony, the failure to correct the testimony and the use of the testimony to the seminal case establishing this sub-category of prosecutorial misconduct is napue v. illinois (1959) 360 u.s. 264 [79 s.ct. 1173], which gave rise to the following must show the prosecutor knowingly used perjured testimony, or failed to correct what he subsequently learned was false testimony, and that the falsehood was material. testimony and not as a result of (united states v. mcnair (11th cir. 2010) 605 f.3d 1152, 1208, fn. omitted.) napue violation a presentation to a fact-finder of false testimony knowing it to be false results in the rever . . in any reasonable likelihood have affected the judgment of the jury . . . . [citation.] [] in napue, the prosecutor elicited and did not correct what he knew to be false testimony that the stat13 exchange for his testimony. [citation.] . . tnapue standard, . . in any reasonable likelihood have affected the judgment of the jury . . . 7 [] . . . [] in short, prosecutorial misconduct of the kind that occurred here violates the constitutional rights of the defendant and requires a reversal of the conviction if (1) the testimony was actually false, (2) the prosecutor knew it was false, and (3) the false testimony was material (i.e., there is a reasonable likelihood that the false testimony could have affected the judgment). dow v. virga (9th cir. 2013) 729 f.3d 1041, 1047-1048, fn. omitted.) rred when currie falsely testified -es the term buk moniker, as a polish word meaning king, or other person of great power.closest definitions, which range from - 7 automatically require reversal, courts apply a less demanding materiality standard to napue have affecta form of harmless error review, but a far lesser showing of harm is required under napuenapue requires us to determine only whether the error could have affected the judgment of the jury, whereas ordinary harmless error review requires us to determine whether the dow v. virga, supra, 729 f.3d at p. 1048, fn. omitted.) 14 med that currie falsified or n he proffered was false. either currie did not consult the urban dictionary, which would make his testimony indicating that he did false, or, if he did look the term up in the urban dictionary, he would know definitions, and thus, he would know his testimony was false. under either scenario, we disagree. there is a necessary distinction between intentional falsehoods and testimony that may be merely mistaken, inaccurate, inconsistent, or accidentally untrue. the two cases bennett cites involved actual perjury. in napue, the principal prosecution witness testified he had not been given any promises in return for his testimony. this was untrue. the prosecutor knew it was untrue but failed to correct it. in dow, a police detective testified dow had asked each participant in an identification lineup to wear a band-aid under his right eye, just where dow happened to have a small scar. in truth, it was false, the prosecutor told the jury that, by asking for the band-aids to hide his scar, dow had demonstrated his consciousness of guilt. but here there was no evidence currie committed perjury as opposed to merely does not prove he was committing perjury. (see people v. vines (2011) 51 cal.4th 830, 87henry v. ryan evidence that [the detective] knew his testimony was inaccurate at the time he presented 15 it, rather than [his] recollection merely being mistaken, inaccurate or rebuttable. he stepped while investigating the crime scene, any testimony inconsistent with the truth must be not only inaccurate but also perjured does not constitute evidence sufficient to make out a napue bennett has not cited any case demonstrating that the kind of testimony currie tituted napue error. we conclude the knowing use of perjured testimony. (2) prosecutor did not commit misconduct by making improper comments during closing argument. (a) background. you must impartially colike the defense is asking you to that was received throughout the entire trial. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . g in the them. they have the same subpoena power of the court. they have the discovery provided. they have the recorded statements. they have the telephone calls. you have to trust that the defense is doing their job, and if there was evidence any of that objection. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ground? burden shifting. 16 (b) discussion. . not only did the prosecutor vouch for its [sic] evidence by suggesting that there was nothing outside the evidence presented which would benefit the defense, but also vouched for the fact that defense counsel was competent, was doing her job and would have brought in shifted the burden of proof to the defense by suggesting that appellant had the burden to bring forth evidence that would have supported their position and undermined the it is improper for a prosecutor to imply there is additional evidence outside the confrontation and effective counsel. (people v. bolton (1979) 23 cal.3d 208, 212-213; see people v. herring (1993) 20 cal.app.4th 1066, 1076-he knew facts not in evidence amounted to unsworn testimony and required reversal].) however, a prosecutor may argue inferences that are based on what happened at trial as opposed to facts outside the record (people v. edelbacher (1989) 47 cal.3d 983, 1030), and the prosecutor may comment on the state of the evidence, including the failure of the defense to introduce material evipeople v. mincey (1992) 2 cal.4th 408, 446.) distinction clearly exists between the permissible comment that a defendant has not produced any evidence, and on the other hand an improper statement that a defendant has a duty or burden to produce evidence, or a duty or burden to prove his or her innocence. [] here, the prosecutor first committed misconduct when she went beyond the evidence presented and offered that there were no inconsistent statements or favorable facts in the police reports or recorded statement that were not presented to the jury. . . . the prosecutor then impermissibly vouched for the competency of defense counsel by 17 arguing tcomments by the prosecutor went beyond the evidence presented and amounted to conclusive testimony that there was nothing in the materials outside the evidence presented . . . anything, but there was no misconduct. the prosecutor was fairly commenting on the fact the of events. hence, for example, people v. jasso (2012) 211 cal.app.4th 1354, found was there, if there actually was evidence of an accident, [defense counsel], as good an evidence that there was an accident, because it was not there, because it was not an id. at p. 1370.) in sum, we conclude bennett has failed to establish either that the prosecution 2. admission of unauthenticated photographs from the internet was at most only harmless error. bennett contends the trial court erred by admitting into evidence photographs downloaded from the internet which showed him flashing gang signs and wearing a . bennett asserts these photographs should have been excluded because they were insufficiently authenticated, and that their admission requires the reversal of his conviction. we disagree. 18 a. background. the prosecution put into evidence three gang 38 and 41), two of which showed bennett flashing gang hand signs. at the first trial in photographs were not properly authenticated because they had been downloaded from an unidentified facebook page. the prosecutor argued the photographs were admissible because it was obviously bennett in the pictures and, moreover, the gang expert would testified he could recognize bennett and other gang members shown in the pictures. the trial court overruled the defense objection, finding that so long as the expert could recognize people in the photographs there was no foundation problem. at the second trial, currie testified exhibit 37, which showed bennett wearing a black hooded sweatshirt with a pocket in the front and flashing a gang sign, had been exhibit 38 showed bennett and three other members of the 8-tre gangster crips flashing gang signs. currie testified he was unsure when this photograph had been taken, but he believed it was sometime in 2010. exhibit 41 showed numerous 8-tre gangster crips members flashing gang signs; bennett did not appear in this photograph. b. legal principles. necessary to know when it was taken and that it is accurate and truly represents what it purports to show. it becomes probative only upon the assumption that it is relevant and accurate. this foundation is usually provided by the testimony of a person who was present at the time the picture was taken, or who is otherwise qualified to state that the representation is accurate. in addition, it may be provided by the aid of expert testimony [even if] there is no one qualified to authenticate it from personal observation. when authenticated by a witness from personal observation its admission into evidence people v. bowley (1963) 59 cal.2d 855, 862.) 19 applying this traditional rule to the modern world of computers and the world wide web, people v. beckley web sites should have barred their admission . . . .id. at p. 511.) in beckley, in order to southside compton crips and that she insisted beckley stop his association with the gang, the prosecution offered a photograph purportedly showing fulmore flashing the southside compton crips gang sign. detective schoonmaker testified that he page on the internet web site idbowley or any other evidence sufficient to sustain a finding that it is the photograph that the prosecution claims it is, namely, an accurate depiction of fulmore actually flashing a gang sign. schoonmaker could not testify from his personal knowledge that the photograph truthfully portrayed fulmore flashing the gang sign and . . . no expert testimony is even more critical today to prevent the admission of manipulated images . . . . recent experience shows that digital photographs can be changed to produce false images. [citation.] indeed, with the advent of computer software programs such as the attorney general recognizes the untrustworthiness of oyster & shrimp, incanything on the internet. no web-site is monitored for accuracy and nothing contained therein is under oath or even subject to independent verification absent underlying documentation. moreover, the court holds no illusions that hackers can adulterate the content of any web-site from any location at any id. at p. 515-516) 20 on the other hand, people v. valdez (2011) 201 cal.app.4th 1429, concluded authenticated before they are received into document is what it purports to be. required to authenticate a document [citation]; instead, its authenticity may be established evidence would support a finding of authenticity, the writing is admissible. the fact as evidence, not its admissibility. al fact, the authenticity of a [document] may be established by circumstantial evidence. . . id. at p. 1435.) c. discussion. bennett contends the trial court erred by admitting the downloaded photographs because no foundation had like in beckley and unlike in valdez, the record fails to contain the kind of evidence described in bowley or any other evidence sufficient to sustain a finding that exhibits 37, 38 and 41 accurately portray what the prosecution claims they portray, namely, an accurate depiction of appellant and fellow gang members, who are purportedly throwing ie was qualified as an expert on [the 8-tre gangster crips], meaning he could identify the meaning of the gang signs; he also testified that, given his personal knowledge of the men depicted, one of the photographs appeared to have been taken around 2010. the people did not seek to admit the photographs for any purpose requiring authentication beyond what officer currie 21 we need not decide whether these internet photographs were properly authenticated, however, because any error was clearly harmless.8 there is no doubt bennett was a member of the 8-tre gangster crips. he had admitted his membership to currie, and his jailhouse phone call showed him to be quite concerned about the gang ramifications of having talked to the police. as the attorney general points out, the than had he simply been holding a gun because the prosecution was able to argue that he but there was overwhelming evidence showing bennett was one of the two men who made an extremely positive identification based on having observed bennett during a confrontation lasting six or seven minutes, in which bennett did all the talking and his his jailhouse conversations, in which he repeatedly acknowledged having made a big mistake by admitting to the police he had been there that night. indeed, the question of we conclude that any error in admitting this evidence was harmless. 8 standard is chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18 [87 s.ct. 824]. but bennett never demonstrates this; he merely assumes it without citing any authority showing why people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, does not apply. (see people v. chism (2014) 58 cal.4th 1266, 1298 [erroneous admission of evidence is reviewed under the watson standard].) 22 3. trial court did not err by denying disclosure of confidential informant. bennett contends the trial court erred by denying disclosure of a confidential prior to trial, bennett moved for an order requiring the prosecution to disclose the identity of a confidential informant who had given the police information used to support a search warrant. after reviewing the sealed portion of the search warrant affidavit, the give information on the issue of guilt or innocence which might tend to exonerate mr. identity was properly denied should be resolved by having this court review the sealed must disclose the name of an informant who is a material witness in a criminal case or suffer dismissal of the charges against the defendant. [citation.] an informant is a material witness if there appears, from the evidence presented, a reasonable possibility that he or she could give evidence on the issue of guilt that might exonerate the defendant. [citation.] the defendant bears the burden of adduci people v. lawley (2002) 27 cal.4th 102, 159-160.) we have reviewed this material and, based on that review, we conclude the trial e provided any people v. lawley, supra, 27 cal.4th at p. 160.) 4. cumulative error. we ident(people v. vieira (2005) 35 cal.4th 264, 305; see also people v. richie (1994) 28 cal.app.4th 1347, 1364, fn. 6 [preserved for app 23 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: kitching, j. aldrich, j. 