filed 3/27/14 p. v. cooke ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jeffrey glenn cooke, defendant and appellant. b246001 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sa080565) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. antonio barreto, jr., judge. affirmed as modified. ______ kevin smith, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and rene judkiewicz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______ 2 an information, filed on june 21, 2012, charged jeffrey glenn cooke with one count of first degree burglary under penal code section 459.1 the information alleged that the burglary constituted a violent felony within the meaning of section 667.5, accomplice, was present in the it also alleged that cooke had a prior serious or violent felony conviction for assault with a deadly weapon ( 245, subd. (a)(1)), that qualified as a strike for purposes of ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)) and subjected him to a five-year enhancement under section 667, subdivision (a)(1). a jury found cooke guilty of he first degree and that was another person present, other than an accomplice, during the commission of the [crime cooke admitted his prior conviction for assault with a deadly weapon and agreed that it constituted a strike and a serious felony for the section 667, subdivision (a)(1), enhancement. the trial court sentenced him to a state prison term of nine years, consisting of the low term of two years for first degree burglary, doubled pursuant to the three strikes law, plus five years under section 667, subdivision (a)(1). cooke appealed, contending that (1) the trial court committed reversible error by admitting evidence under evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b), and (2) the accomplice, was present in the residence during the burglary. the people ask us to modify the abstract of judgment to reflect the parole revocation fine assessed by the parole revocation fine and affirm the judgment as modified. 1 statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 3 discussion 1. the trial court did not commit reversible error by admitting evidence under evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b) the burglary conviction involved an incident in which cooke was found in the home of the valdez family in the bedroom of the younger daughter, amy, who was approximately 18 years old at the time. amy and her older sister, kelly, approximately 20 years old, returned home, with a friend, from the beach in the late afternoon of april 17, 2012 to find cooke locked while wearing some items of , had stayed in a vacant apartment of a building owned by the family, left the residence through the drawers and the closet and off of shelves. they found three backpacks, one belonging to amy, one to the underwear, clothing and high-heeled shoes. three trash bags also were in room, containing more of her clothing, underwear and high-heeled shoes, as well as her ipad valdez family generally kept in the refrigerator, were in the room, as well as a dirty tampon, which had been used after it was removed from a box of tampons in backpack. in addition to this evidence, the trial court admitted evidence, under evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b),2 and father that on a prior occasion the mother had found in a garage, rented by the family and in which 2 nothing in this section prohibits the admission of evidence that a person committed a crime, civil wrong, or other act when relevant to prove some fact (such as motive, opportunity, intent, preparation, plan, knowledge, identity, absence of mistake or accident, or whether a defendant in a prosecution for an unlawful sexual act or attempted unlawful sexual act did not reasonably and in good faith believe that the victim consented) other than his or her disposition to commit such an act. 4 cooke had stayed for a period of time, a trash bag containing male clothing that she did not recognize, as well as cardigan sweater and clothes and shoes belonging to amy. cooke contends that the admission of this evidence constituted reversible error. even assuming error in admitting the evidence, the admission did not prejudice cooke, whether harmless error is judged under the state standard for erroneous evidentiary rulings, which we believe applicable here (people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 998-999; people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836), or the elevated standard that would be required if, as cooke contends, admission of the evidence violated his due process rights (crane v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 683, 690-691; chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24). an issue of dispute at trial was whether on april 17, 2012 cooke possessed the intent to commit a theft as he entered either the valdez home , as required for a burglary conviction. in reaching its guilty verdict on the burglary charge, the jury necessarily concluded that cooke had that intent. such a testimony that a cardigan sweater clothing were found in a trash bag in a garage once occupied by cooke would not have tipped the evidence, as cooke suggests, to enable the jury to find intent with respect to the burglary charge. in other words, if the jury did not believe that cooke had the intent 7, 2012, then it would not have changed its mind to reach a different result simply because of the the same. cooke, therefore, is not entitled to reversal of the judgment based on admission of the evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b), evidence. 5 2. an accomplice, was present during the commission of the burglary in reviewing challenges evidence in a light most favorable to the judgment and presume the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence in support of the judgment. the test is whether substantial evidence supports the decision, not whether the evidence proves guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. mincey (1992) 2 cal.4th 408, 432, fn. omitted.) solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a (people v. johnson (1980) 26 cal.3d 557, 578.) another person, other than an accomplice, was present in the valdez home during the commission of the burglary. according to cooke, a conclusion that the valdezbrandon, was in the home during the commission of the burglary could be based only on speculation, which does not rise to the level of substantial evidence. we disagree. with respect to crime charged in count 1, you must decide whether the people have proved the additional allegation that there was another person present, other than an accomplice, in the residence during the commission of the burglary. [] to prove this allegation, the people must prove that: [] 1. there was another person present at the time the defendant entered an inhabited dwelling house, or a room within an inhabited dwelling house, with the intent to commit a theft, and [] 2. that person was not an accomplice to the commission of the burglary. [] it is not necessary that the defendant be aware that there was another person present, other than an accomplice, in order for you to find this allegation to be true. [] . . . [] . . . [] . . . [] the people have the burden of proving each allegation beyond a reasonable doubt. if the people have not met this burden, you must find that the a 6 the evidence showed that amy left the house for the beach with kelly and her friend around 1:00 p.m. on april 17, 2012. the proalso identified brandon as being in the house when she, amy and the friend left for the beach. of a recluse. according to kelly, brandon did not come out of his room much, staying in the room to play video games and coming out only to eat and use the bathroom. amy and kelly both testified that brandon was in the house three or four hours later when they returned from the beach, as he came out of his room when amy and kelly were trying to hind a locked door. based on this evidence, the jury could reasonably infer that brandon was home when cooke entered either the home the intent to commit a theft. as a result, substantial evidence 3. the abstract of judgment is modified to reflect a parole revocation fine the trial court assessed and then stayed a $200 parole revocation fine. ( 1202.45.) the parole revocation fine, however, is not reflected in the abstract of judgment. we modify the abstract of judgment to reflect the $200 parole revocation fine assessed by the court. (people v. smith (2001) 24 cal.4th 849, 854.) 7 disposition the judgment is modified to reflect the $200 parole revocation fine assessed by the trial court. as modified, the judgment is affirmed. the trial court is directed to send a corrected copy of the abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published. rothschild, acting p. j. we concur: chaney, j. johnson, j. 