filed 6/17/14 p. v. torres ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. raymond torres, defendant and appellant. b246363 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va124164) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, robert j. higa, judge. reversed. nancy j. king, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, dana m. ali and toni r. johns estaville, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________ 2 raymond torres was convicted after a jury trial of two counts of committing forcible lewd acts on a child under 14 years of age, two counts of forcible penetration with a foreign object and one count of forcible oral copulation. stepdaughter, gabrielle. torres contends there is insufficient evidence he used force to commit any of the offenses andthe sexual abuse was insufficient to support convictions for more than one count each of forcible lewd conduct and forcible penetration. we agree there is insufficient evidence torres used force to commit the lewd acts, reverse the convictions on those two counts and direct the trial court to enter judgment finding torres guilty of two counts of the lesser included offense of committing a lewd act on a child under 14convictions on the other three counts are affirmed, and the matter is remanded for resentencing consistent with this opinion. factual and procedural background 1. the information torres was charged by information with committing multiple sexual offenses against his daughter krystal as well as gabrielle. with respect to krystal, torres was charged with three counts of forcible sexual penetration with a foreign object (pen. code,  289, subd. (a)(1)(a)) (counts 1, 2 and 3);1 and one count of forcible rape ( 261, subd. (a)(2)) (count 4). as to gabrielle, he was charged with three counts of committing lewd acts by force on a child under 14 ( 288, subd. (b)(1)) (counts 5, 6 and 12); two counts of forcible rape ( 261, subd. (a)(2)) (counts 7 and 8); two counts of forcible sexual penetration with a foreign object ( 289, subd. (a)(1)(a)) (counts 9 and 10); and one count of forcible oral copulation ( 288a, subd. (c)(2)) (count 11). it was specially ( 667.61, subds. (b), (e).) torres pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegation. 1 statutory references are to the penal code. 3 2. the evidence at trial a. twenty-one years old at the time of trial, gabrielle testified torres became part of her family when she was two years old. she considered torres her father and described him as a when gabrielle was nine years old, krystal, who was 15 or 16 and had been living with her mother, moved into the home gabrielle shared with torres, her mother, sister and brother on gard avenue in norwalk. after krystal moved in, according to gabrielle, everything changed: torres although krystal was the target of the brunt of his anger. torres also began touching -were playing, . like a tickling-type play, if i was laying down he would touch in between my legs, tickle inside of your thigh but it would go from the inside of my thigh up . . . to touch . . . my vagin when this occurred, nd stop playing. when gabrielle was 12 years old the family, except krystal, moved into a one-bedroom apartment on imperial highway in norwalk. torres would watch gabrielle and her siblings, both of whom are autistic, during the day while their mother worked. after the move torres and relationship changed. torres became possessive. if the two were out alone, torres would put his arm around gabrielle and sayeople are jealoucouch in the living room, was asleep on her stomach when torres pulled down her pants and touched her buttocks. as he was moving his hand toward her vagina, gabrielle, who was feigning sleep, moved. torres jumped back, but then continued touching her. as gabrielle kept her legs closed, torres touched as much of her vagina as he could reach. after this incident torres sexually abused gabrielle after she had gone to sleep a half they lived on imperial highway. actions varied although gabrielle always pretended she was repositioning herself in her sleep to minimize the contact. sometimes torres kissed her, pushed his penis against her buttocks and vagina or put his fingers between her vaginal lips. once he put his penis 4 inside her vagina; on another occasion he put his mouth on it. often torres touched her on evenings after they had fought during the dayphysically or just verbally, with torres cursing at herwhen ccuse me of some type the phone with this confused gabrielle, whose mother . . to calm down, and me to calm down, and to be a gabrielle explained she would lie on the couch in shock while torres was touching her. she did not tell him to stop approach the situation, because that was my dad. . . . [w]ho do you go to when you when gabrielle was 13 years old, the family moved to st. louis. torres continued to sexually abuse her until he moved out two years later. although there is conflicting testimony whether gabrielle told krystal about the abuse, gabrielle did talk about it with a counselor she began seeing in st. louis. she also wrote about the abuse in her journal, but threw the journal the first time she talked to law enforcement was in 2012 after krystal reported her own sexual abuse by torres to the authorities. b. krystal was seven or eight years old when she, her mother and her sister moved out of the home they shared with torres in san bernardino. krystal remembered torres had touched her vagina over her clothes while he was tickling her, which made her uncomfortable, before they moved. krystal had limited contact with torres until she was 15 years old when she moved away from her mother and into the apartment on gard avenue. krystal and 5 torres argued frequently, and torres was mean to her. torres also began touching her at night while she was sleeping in bed with gabrielle. torres pulled and rubbed in between her vaginal lips. he would sometimes masturbate, and once ejaculated in her hair. she also testified on one occasion he penetrated her with his penis, causing her to bleed. although krystal saw a doctor the next day, she did not tell her stepmother or the doctor what had happened because she was afraid torres might harm someone in the family. (bernardino, he used to hit krystal as well as her mother and sister.) torres kicked krystal out of the house after she graduated from high school. krystal finally reported the sexual abuse to law enforcement in 2010 after the people rested, one of the counts of forcible rape of gabrielle (count 8) was dismissed for insufficient evidence. ( 1118.1.) 3. the verdict and sentencing as to krystal, the jury found torres not guilty of forcible rape (count 4) and was unable to reach a verdict on the three counts of forcible penetration with a foreign object (counts 1, 2 and 3). with respect to gabrielle, the jury found torres guilty of two counts of committing forcible lewd acts on a child under 14 occurring between january 28, 1999 and january 28, 2000 (counts 5 and 6),2 two counts of forcible penetration with a foreign object occurring between january 28, 2003 and january 28, 2004 (counts 9 and 10) and one count of forcible oral copulation occurring between january 28, 2003 and january 28, 2004 (count 11). the jury was unable to reach a verdict on one of the counts of forcible lewd conduct (count 12) and the forcible rape charge (count 7). the jury found not true the multiple victim allegation. 2 although the information alleged count 6 was committed between january 28, 2002 and january 28, 2003, the court told the jury the date range for the offense was the same as that for count 5between january 28, 1999 and january 28, 2000and the verdict forms reflected that date range. 6 after hearing a victim impact statement from krystal but not gabrielle, who was not emotionally able to make one, and considering the probation report, the trial court sentenced torres to an aggregate state prison term of 36 years, comprised of consecutive terms of eight years each for counts 5 and 6 (the upper term),3 eight years for count 9 (the middle term) and six years each for counts 9 and 10 (the middle term). the court dismissed counts 1, 2, and 3 in furtherance of justice ( 1385) because the jury was split 11 to one for acquittal. the people dismissed counts 7 and 12. discussion 1. standard of review record to determine whether any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime or special circumstances beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the record must disclose substantial evidence to support the verdicti.e., evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] in applying this test, we review the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution and presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably have deduced from suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends. [citation.] we resolve neither credibility 3 section 288, subdivision (b)(1), was amended effective september 9, 2010 to increase the punishment for committing a forcible lewd act on a child under 14 to five, eight or 10 years. (see stats. 2010, ch. 219,  7.) eight years was the upper term when torres committed the offense in 1999. 7 people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357; accord, people v. manibusan (2013) 58 cal.4th 40, 87.) 2. substantial evidence supports with a foreign object and forcible oral copulation; there is insufficient evidence he used duress to commit lewd acts on gabrielle a. governing law section 288, subdivision (a), proscribes committing lewd acts upon a child under the age of 14 years.4 if the lewd act is committed by use of force or duress, it is an aggravated form of the offense punished under subdivision (b)(1) of section 288. the use of force or duress also aggravates the offenses of oral copulation ( 288a, subd. (c)(2)) and sexual penetration with a foreign object ( 289, subd. (a)(1)(a)). force used in this context from or substantially greater than that necessary to a(people v. soto (2011) 51 cal.4th 229, 242; accord, people v. griffin (2004) 33 cal.4th 1015, 1027.) duress means a direct or implied threat of force, violence, danger, hardship or retribution sufficient to coerce a reasonable person of ordinary susceptibilities to either perform an act that otherwise would not have been performed or to acquiesce in an act to which one otherwise would not have submitted. (see people v. leal (2004) 33 cal.4th 999, 1004.) circumstances including the age of the child and his or her relationship to the defendant should be considered. (see people v. soto, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 246 & fn. 9); see also calcrim nos. 1015 [oral copulation], 1045 [sexual penetration], 1111 [lewd or lascivious act on child under 14 years of age].)5 4 the elements of the offense are a person touched the body of a child; the child was under 14 years of age; and the touching was done with the specific intent to arouse, appeal to, or gratify the lust, passions, or sexual desires of that person or the child. ( 288, subd. (a); see also calcrim no. 1110; caljic no. 10.41.) 5 the court instructed the jury with caljic nos. 10.10, 10.30 and 10.42, the predecessors to calcrim nos. 1015, 1045 and 1111. the jury was also instructed with caljic no. 10.41 that committing a lewd act on a child under 14 years is a lesser included offense of the aggravated crime. 8 (soto, at p. 246.) b. forcible penetration with a foreign object and forcible oral copulation when gabrielle was 12 to 13 years old torres contends there was no evidence he used duress when he sexually violated gabrielle during the year and one half they lived in the apartment on imperial highwayfor example, that he struck her, directly or indirectly threatened her, physically controlled her or did anything to overcome her resistance, or warned her she would jeopardize the family if she reported the abuse. evidence torres hit gabrielle or used physical force greater than that necessary to accomplish his crimes was not required to convict torres of the aggravated offenses. such this case was that torres accomplished his crimes by use of duress, which includes not only a direct or implied threat of physical harm, but also threat of hardship or retribution. (see people v. leal, supra, 33 cal.4th at pp. 1008-1010 [duress includes threat of hardship]; see also caljic no. 10.30 against a viof duress, or fear of immediate and unlawful bodily injury(italics added).) describing under which the family lived in their home on imperial highway constituted substantial evidence supporting a finding of an implied threat of hardship sufficient to coerce a reasonable 12 s weekly acts of sexual abuse. torres, whom gabrielle considered a father, was responsible for moved to imperial highway, gabrielle and torres had gotten along well although gabrielle saw him act with irrational anger toward krystal, which confused her. once they moved, however, torres began acting like a jealous boyfriend toward gabrielle, accusing her of trying to sexually provoke men. they fought both physically and verbally, with torres cursing at her, often triggered when gabrielle was around other men, including the fathers of children she babysat. 9 the fights, she would tell gabriellethe 12 year oldto be the bigger person because of moods, a reaction that inhibited her from telling torres to stop. it was often on evenings after daytime fights had occurred that torres sexually abused gabrielle. the people v. soto, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 246), gabrielle was not required actions caused her to be fearful or directly caused her to acquiesce to his evening sexual advances. (see people v. cochran (2002) 103 cal.app.4th 8, 14 ats does not require a her relationship t.) measured by the requisite objective standard, the jury was justified in behavior created a pervasive and coercive climate of duress that did not abate simply because the day had turned into evening. c. lewd conduct when gabrielle was nine years old torres used duress to abuse gabrielle during the time she was 12 or 13 years old, there is no corresponding evidence of duress when gabrielle was nine years old and torres touched her vagina during the tickling game he played, notwithstanding the power imbalance between young gabrielle and the man she considered her father. (see people v. hecker (1990) 219 cap.app.3d 1238, 1251 [wwho compound their commission of such acts by the use of violence or threats of violence should be singled out for accord, people v. espinoza (2002) 95 cal.app.4th 1287, 1321.) to be sure, after krystal moved in, but his anger was primarily directed at krystal. gabrielle got along with him, and they . when torres touched vagina during the tickling game, she stopped indeed, gabrielle was not even certain for some time that he had done anything wrong. she of a sudden something happens and you touch me, or it was never something that i really 10 thought was over- no doubt, torres committed a lewd act , whether she understood it at the time or not: at some level there were moments she must have realized this kind of tickling was wrong because she would stop playing. although the lewd act was committed as soon as torres touched gabr vagina with the intent to arouse himself, as the jury necessarily found, she did not acquiesce to the act as a as required for a finding of the aggravated form of the offensecounts 5 and 6 and enter a conviction on two counts of the lesser included offense of committing a lewd act on a child under 14 years of age. (see  1181, subd. 6 hen the verdict or finding is contrary to law or evidence, but if the evidence shows the defendant to be not guilty of the degree of the crime of which he was convicted, but guilty of a lesser degree thereof, or of a lesser crime included therein, the court may modify the verdict, finding or judgment accordingly without granting or ordering a new trial. . . modify a judgment or order appealed from, or .)6 6 torres also contends the trial court committed prejudicial sentencing error when it allowed krystal to present a victim impact statement even though the jury had found torres not guilty of, or could not reach a verdict on, the charges involving her; relied on an outdated probation report; and imposed a $240 restitution fine when the minimum fine applicable at the time of the offenses was $200. we need not address these issues because we remand the matter for resentencing. on remand the court is directed to order a supplemental probation report (see cal. rules of court, rule 4.411(c) a supplemental probation s report in preparation for sentencing proceedings that occur a significant period of time after the original report was prepared]; advisory com. com., 23 pt. 1b 2006 ed.) foll. rule 4.411(c), pp. 235-236 [[s]ubdivision (c) is based on case law that generally requires a supplemental report if the defendant is to be resentenced a significant time after the original sentencing, as, for example, after a remand by an appellate court, or after the apprehension of a defendant who failed to appear at sentencing; conduct a sentencing hearing that excludes ; and assess a restitution fine in 11 3. substantial evidence supports torres two counts of committing lewd acts upon a child and two counts of forcible penetration with a foreign object resident child molester[s]living in the home who commit multiple sexual offenses, l or even any people v. jones (1990) 51 cal.3d 294, 305 (jones).) consequently, to balance the defendanid. at p. 313) with the need to the resident child molester is not immunized from substantial criminal liability merely because he has repeatedly molested his victim over an extended period of time(id. at p. 3multiple sexual offenses if certain criteria must describe the kind of act or acts committed with sufficient specificity, both to assure that unlawful conduct indeed has occurred and to differentiate between the various types of proscribed conduct (e.g. lewd conduct, intercourse, oral copulation or sodomy)[;] . . . the number of acts committed with sufficient certainty to support each of the counts alleged in the in)[; and] . . . the general time period in which these acts occurred (e.g.the summer before my during each sunday morning after he came to live wit) to assure the acts were committed within the applicable limitation period. additional details regarding the time, place or circumstance of the various assaults may assist in assessing the credibility s testimony, but are not essential to sustain a conviction. (id. at p. 316.) accordance with former section 1202.4, subd., (b)(1), in effect at the time torres committed the offenses. (see people v. klatt (2014) 225 cal.app.4th 906, 921 under the version of the statute applicable at the time of his offenses, the statutory minimum restitution fine for a felony conviction was $200. (former  1202.4, subd. (b)(1) as amended by stats. 1994, 1st ex. sess. 1994-1995, ch. 46,  4, p. 8755.) (former  1202.4, subd. (b)(1), stats. 1994, ch. 46,  4.) the legislature later raised the minimum amount to $240, starting january 1, 2012. ( 1202.4, subd. (b)(1), stats. 2011, ch. 358,  1.) 12 conceding that act, torres contends there was insufficient evidence he did it more than once (counts 5 and 6). he argues gabrielle merely stated they repeatedly played the tickle game, not that he touched her vagina during the game more than once. (see people v. davis (2013) 57 cal.4th 353, 360 [factual finding must be inference drawn from evidence not mere speculation as to protestimony is distorted. read in context, it is clear gabrielle testified torres touched her vagina on more than one occasion during the tickle game. after explaining torres would stop touchouse . . . just playing. we would play all the time. like i said, i got along with him and we ws with only two counts of committing a lewd act during that period. there was insufficient evidence of two counts of forcible penetration with a foreign object when gabrielle was 12 or 13 years old (counts 9 and 10). gabrielle testified torres sexually abused her about once a week during the year and a half they lived in the apartment on imperial highway. sometimes he would put his fingers inside her vaginal lips or kiss her or rub his penis against her buttocksher testimony was sufficient to support the inference he penetrated her with his finger on at least two occasions during this period of weekly sexual abuse.7 after the prosecutor asked gabrielle to dethe following exchange occurred from which it is clear gabrielle was describing multiple incidents: 7 sexual penetration with a foreign object includes penetration of the labia majora with a finger. (see people v. quintana (2001) 89 cal.app.4th 1362, 1366, 1371;  289, subd. (k)(1), (2).) 13 would try to put his finger like that but then i would move. i would always move, because i noticed that it would, you know, make him jump up. but sometimes he like his hand would stay there . . . . use i was asleep, but it was my way of en you said sleep you put your fingers up in the air like air quotes. were you pretending to be asleep? [] . . . [] n betweenhe would go in between thei guess the lips and the vaginal that torres penetrated her vaginal lips with his fingers more than once is further supported by the immediately following testimony during which gabrielle volunteered torres had orally copulated her only once. the prosecutor asked, push my butt up, and like my legs like this, and then he would put his mouth on me. he only did that one time though considered in toto was sufficient to meet the standard promulgated by the jones court for finding torres guilty of at least two counts of sexual penetration with a foreign object. gabrielle described the type of conduct involved (penetration with his finger), its frequency (on some occasions during the year and one-half course of weekly incidents) and the fact such conduct occurred during the limitations more is required to jones, supra, 51 cal.3d at p. 316; cf. people v. matute (2002) 103 cal.app.4th 1437, 1447, 1449 [exual intercourse on her from up to several times a weekwas sufficient to support 15 counts of forcible rape, a number of counts 14 r each month that [j.m. disposition the judgment is reversed with respect to the convictions on counts 5 and 6, and the court directed to enter a guilty verdict on two counts of the lesser included offense of committing a lewd act on a child under 14. the other convictions are affirmed. the matter is remanded for resentencing, including assessment of the restitution fine. perluss, p. j. we concur: zelon, j. segal, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 