filed 11/5/13 p. v. carter ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. will scott carter, defendant and appellant. b246024 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta121573) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, pat connolly, judge. affirmed. heather j. manolakas, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant and appellant, will scott carter, appeals from the judgment entered following his plea of no contest to inflicting corporal injury on a spouse, cohabitant or (a))1 and his admissions he previously had been convicted of a serious felony within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (a)(1) and the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)) and had served a prior prison term within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). the trial court sentenced carter to 14 years in prison. we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. facts.2 gwendolyn moore had dated and lived with car[f]ive or six months. and into an apartment on south central avenue in los angeles. carter did not move with moore and never lived with her at the south central avenue address. on the evening of january boyfriend, a man named jesse hendley. hendley was living with moore and daughter at the time. at approximately 9:00 p.m., carter went l avenue apartment. when moore opened the door and saw carter she was surprised. he had told moore he would be coming to visit on another day. carter, who was still dressed in his not returned his calls. carter then entered the apartment, sat down and began to talk about why he and moore should [] still need to take time to get . . . things together. you need to get yourself together, and i comment upset carter and he asked if he could when he finished speaki 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 the facts have been taken from the transcript of the preliminary hearing. 3 he got up and went to the restroom and, when he returned, he asked moore who [regarding] why [or whether anyone] was there, carter, who still sounded upset, told moore she was going to help him take his things home. moore stated she was not going to help carter. moore continued, what does it look like[.] [m]e carter, who had moved to the middle of the room, was pacing back and forth, loo at that point, carter moved toward moore, stood over her and again told her she was going to help him. when he was standing within inches of moore, carter made his hands into carter then retrieved a screwdriver from his back pocket and hit moore with it on the left side of her face. although he struck her only once with the screwdriver, carter continued to hit moore on the left side of her face. moore screamed, called out for help and attempted to get up from the couch, but carter kept pushing her back. when hendley heard moore screaming, he came out from the bedroom where he had been sleeping and into the living room. moore, who was sitting on the couch, was crying and acting as though she wanted get away from hercarter saw hendley, he backed up and stopped beating moore. while the two men were then got up from the couch, ran to the door, opened it and ran outside. carter ran after moore, caught up with her and told her to stop when hendley then came outside, moore was able to get away from carter and go back inside the house. hendley prevented carter from going back inside the apartment and moore did not see carter after that. once they were both inside, hendley helped moore find her phone, which had fallen underneath the couch, and she called 911. 4 up and they recommended she put an ice pack on it to stop the bleeding and swelling. moore still suffers from soreness around the injury on her face and at times has a ringing in her ear. 2. procedural history. following the preliminary hearing, on february 14, 2012 a two-count information was filed alleging carter had committed assault with a deadly weapon ( 245, subd. ( 273.5, subd. (a)). at proceedings held on march 13, 2012, carter made a marsden3 motion. outside the presence of the prosecutor, carter indicated that in 1978 he had entered a plea to second degree murder in violation of section 187. in 1988, he had been convicted of law did , and he did not understand why it was being applied to him. the trial court explained the three strikes law was retroactive and applied to all qualifying prior convictions. although under some circumstances a a prior, particularly if it 1978 conviction had been for murder, it was unlikely any court would strike that conviction. moreover, the trial court pointed out carter had a second strike from . . . a couple [of] he had willfully threatened to commit a crime which would result in death or great bodily injury to another in violation of section 422. carter, however, insisted that as part of his plea agreement the violation of section 422 was not to be considered a strike. carter asserted the transcript of the plea proceedings indicated defense counsel, who had reviewed the transcript of both the plea and sentencing proceedings, disagreed with carter. when the trial court then reviewed the transcript of the plea and sentencing proceedings, it too concluded carter was 3 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118. 5 mistaken. prior conviction of section 422 was not to be considered a strike. in addition to the misunderstanding regarding strikes, carter indicated that on two occasions his counsel had told him she would come to see him. she, however, had failed time. carter also felt victim in this matter was a female and he believed his counsel, who was also female, was ], instead of trying to help [him.] in response, defense counsel explained that, before the marsden hearing, carter had asked her to make a motion to strike his prior convictions. counsel had explained to carter that such a motion was to be dealt with at sentencing or if he decided to negotiate a plea. 995 [motion] regarding the screwdriverappropriate. the trial court addressed carter and indicated it had known defense counsel for several years. the court then noted the court continued: k . . . she is sexist, or because of the nature of . . . . [] as a matter of fact, the exact opposite is true. . . . [] . . . [] as far as her not showing up, , but i can tell you this. [counsel] handles a lot of cases just in this court alone, let alone what she has outside. and if i were sitting in your seat right now . . . not only would i feel very comfortable . . . [i would recognize] [s] the trial court other judges in [the] do and do. she understands what is in your best interest . . . the trial court then indicated, no regard to his conviction of threatening to commit a crime in violation of section 422, even if the court were to strike the conviction under the three strikes law, both the murder and 6 the threat to commit a crime were [d] the trial the marsden motion and invited the district attorneys to come back inside the courtroom. after an unreported discussion was held at the bench, the trial court addressed carter and informed him the people had made an offer which was less than the court would give him. the trial court continued: you also have a also going to be, i would assume, having that offer go up.carter the p years in prison. the court also informed carter that, if he were to go to trial, defense counsel indicated, although they intended to file an amended information, ] offer [of 14 years] to remain open until [the following] tuesday, march 20. the trial court then addressed carter and stated: carter, i expect you to think about these things. when i bring you back on march 20th on march 20, 2012, the people filed an amended information. in count 1, it was alleged carter had committed the serious felony of assault with a deadly weapon ( 245, subd. (a)(1)) and in count 2 it was alleged he had committed the felony of inflicting corporal injury on ( 273.5, subd. (a)). it was further alleged as to both counts that they were serious, violent or required registration pursuant to section 290, subdivision (c) and that time spent in custody for the offenses was required to be served in state prison ( 1170, subd. (h)(3)). it was also alleged that in the commission or attempted commission of the two offenses, carter had personally used a deadly and dangerous weapon, a screwdriver, causing the offenses to be serious felonies within the meaning of section 1192.7, subdivision (c)(23). with regard to both counts, the information alleged carter had suffered prior convictions for two serious 7 felonies within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (a)(1), and had served prison terms for the offenses within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). in addition, as to count 1 the information alleged carter had suffered two prior serious or violent felony convictions or juvenile adjudications within the meaning of the three strikes law ( 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d), 667, subds. (b)-(i)). after hearing the charges alleged in the amended information, carter decided to enter a plea. adamant objection, address the trial court and present to the trial court a letter. carter then indicated that, after he had been released from jail in 2009, he was required to go to dare hurt anybody, state he would never commit any of the crimes he had been charged with, the court was not going to accept his plea. the court stated it would recall the case at a later time. had been given the opportunity to confer with his counsel, the trial court indicated it would accept his plea. carter waived his right to a trial by a court or jury, his right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses against him, his right to subpoena witnesses to - then pled no contest to count 2, inflicting corporal injury to a spouse, cviolation of section 273.5, subdivision (a). carter then admitted, pursuant to the three strikes law ( 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d), 667, subds. (b)-(i)) and section 667, subdivision (a)(1), having suffered a prior conviction for murder ( 187) and, pursuant to section 667.5, subdivision (b), having suffered a prior conviction and prison term for willfully threatening another within the meaning of section 422 ( 667.5, subd. (b)). the trial court, joined by defense counsel, found there was a factual basis for the plea and , and explicitly s. after dismissing all 8 remaining counts and allegations, the trial court set sentencing and, if necessary, a restitution hearing for july 11, 2012. at a hearing held on april 3, 2012, defense counsel addressed the trial court and indicated carter had earlier told her he wished to withdraw his plea. however, that morning he had informed counsel he no longer wished to do sot wanted to make sure . . . [carter] had the opportunity, since he [was there] in court, to address the court if he so chose . . . . carter then indicated the victim, moore, had spoken to mother and told her she was going to come and be honest about what [had] happened. [] [carter] tried to explain this to [his] would stand by withdrawing [his] plea. [however, when he did so, counsel] got [heated] the trial court indicated it was not that counsel would not let carter speak, she . . . even though there [was] an agreed upon disposition, she [did not] want [carter] to say anything [that was] going to hurt [him]. carter stated he understood the things his counsel did not want him to say, but he had mr. carter, w your plea following a discussion regarding, in particular, the sentence carter could at proceedings held on october 3, 2012, carter made a second marsden motion. counsel explained carter had again indicated to her he wished to withdraw his plea. however, after consulting with the appellate department at her office, as well as the head appropriate reason to [file such] neither did counsel believe she had been ineffective. had she thought there had been a genuine conflict, she would have asked the court to remove her from the case and appoint new counsel. when carter addressed the court, he indicated he believed the district attorney had originally made an offer of nine years in prison and that his counsel, in collusion with the people, had agreed they should raise the offer to 14 years in prison. carter indicated he 9 [her] ku klux klan ass out of [t]not taking nine years, much less 14. carter stated: respected her. i am being carter asserted his counsel spoke with his mother and sister, then came back into the courtroom and told him his mother had said if he did not her anymore. [his] point because [he had] played games with [the] court for [too] the trial court told carter to simply tell it why he wanted counsel off his case and the court would then [] . . . [] after the district attorney returned to the courtroom, the trial court indicated the parties were there for sentencing. defense counsel informed the trial court carter was at that time enrolled in two programs, an anger management course and a program called counsel requested the court to when the prosecutor then indicated carter was to be sentenced to 14 years as he had . . count 2 [and] admitted the five-year prior and [one] strike[], -year prior i do, and so you did[.] the trial court sentenced carter to the upper term of four years for his conviction of section 273.5, subdivision (a), then doubled the term to eight years pursuant to the three of section 667, subdivision (a)(1), the court imposed an additional five years. finally, for his service of a prior prison term pursuant to section 667.5, subdivision (b), the court imposed an additional one year, for a total sentence of 14 years in state prison. the court then ordered carter to pay a $960 restitution fine ( 1202.4, subd. (b)), a stayed $960 10 parole revocation restitution fine ( 1202.45), a $40 court operations assessment ( 1465.8, subd. (a)(1)), a $30 criminal conviction assessment (gov. code,  70373) and h carter was precluded from having any contact with the victim, gwendolyn moore, for the next 10 years, then awarded carter presentence custody credit for 267 days actually served and 40 days of conduct credit.4 on november 26, 2012, carter filed a timely notice of appeal and request for a certificate of probable cause. in support of his request for a certificate of probable cause, carter asserted the trial court improperly denied his request to withdraw his plea, appointed trial counsel failed to inform hfinding of an injury amounting to a battery to qualify as a felony, his prior conviction was not originally deemed a strike and then, in a letter filed december 19, 2012, carter asserted his sentence was improper in that the statutes which multiple use of the same fac at proceedings held on december 19, 2012, the trial court indicated it had read and considered the two letters submitted by carter and, as they failed to show a prima facie case for relief, his request for a certificate of probable cause was denied. the trial court added: ground[s] for his release. the defendants] [contentions are] patently frivolous and/or between the parties. the defendant has abused [use of] the motion[s] by filing piecemeal 4 on june 17, 2013, court indicating carter should have been credited with 268 days actually served and 268 the department of corrections an amended order and abstract of judgment reflecting the on july 1, 2013, an amended abstract of judgment showing the correct number of presentence custody credits was filed in the trial court. the amended abstract of judgment was filed in this court on september 26, 2013. 11 contentions after examination of the record, appointed appellate counsel filed an opening brief which raised no issues and requested this court to conduct an independent review of the record. by notice filed july 22, 2013, the clerk of this court advised carter to submit within 30 days any contentions, grounds of appeal or arguments he wished this court to consider. on august 6, 2013, carter filed a response in which it appears he is asserting he had ineffective assistance of trial counsel. l below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms and whether the defendant suffered prejudice to a reasonable probability, that is, a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome people v. carter (2003) 30 cal.4th 1166, 1211; see strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 694.) here, nothing in reasonableness. counsel made appropriate motions, arguments and recommendations. this is particularly apparent when one considers that, had carter gone to trial, he faced a prison term of 35-years-to-life. by entering into the plea agreement, as recommended by his counsel, carter was sentenced to a term of 14 years in prison. counsel refused to help him with his case is unsupported by the record. actions were reasonable and assisted carter in receiving a fair and favorable outcome. review on appeal we have examined the entire record and are satisfied counsel has complied fully smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 278-284; people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, 443.) 12 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports kitching, j. we concur: klein, p. j. aldrich, j. 