filed 5/5/14 p. v. tellez ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. samuel a. tellez, defendant and appellant. b246281 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma055310) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, henry hall, judge. affirmed. joanna mckim, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, yun lee and stephanie c. santoro, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ 2 samuel tellez appeals from his convictions for second degree murder (pen. code,1  187) and assault on a child causing death ( 273ab), alleging insufficiency of the evidence, evidentiary error, prosecutorial misconduct, and unconstitutional restitution fines. we affirm the judgment. factual and procedural background one-month old amelia rose hightower sustained injuries from being shaken and hit against a hard surface. her symptoms became evident immediately after being in the care of tellez. tellez was charged with murder and assault on a child, causing death. i. prosecution evidence at tellez had first contacted krystal hightower in late 2009 on a social networking website. they met that day and commenced a sexual relationship. tellez gave hightower a false name, did not reveal his address, and did not give her his telephone number. he repeatedly asked her for money, which she gave to him. in march 2010 hightower discovered she was pregnant. she had no method for contacting tellez directly, so she revealed her pregnancy to him on the social networking website they used. he immediately blocked her on the website and declined repeated requests to speak with her. eventually tellez contacted hightower again to ask for money, which she gave to him. he directed hightower to have an abortion, but she refused. tellez said he would tellez continued to contact hightower for money but failed to provide hightower with any way to contact him. hightower became frustrated with the requests and refused to give him more money, stating that she was saving for her child. tellez became angry and questioned whether he was the father of the child. hightower resolved to raise the baby alone and deleted her profile from the social networking site they used. 1 unless otherwise indicated, all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 hightower and tellez resumed contact when hightower was six or seven months pregnant because hightower wanted her daughter to have a father in her life. she offered to put their past conflict aside and told him that she would like for him to be a part of his giving him money on a weekly basis. tellez gave hightower no telephone number and no address, and he only telephoned her from a blocked number. in september 2010, hightower and tellez had met and been sexually intimate when hightower discovered that she was bleeding. tellez told her to go to the hospital and then left. hightower was hospitalized for one to two weeks and was then on bed rest for the remainder of the pregnancy. tellez contacted her but did not visit during that time. amelia rose hightower was born prematurely october 16, 2010. tellez was not there and did not visit. hightower asked him if she could give the baby his last name, to other than jaundice shortly after birth, amelia was a healthy child. hightower and amelia were discharged from the hospital on october 18. tellez asked her to meet him and told her to bring the baby. they met in the parking lot of a liquor store. tellez looked at ameli tellez constantly raised the subject of child support, telling hightower that she tellez and hightower began a pattern of visiting together. on monday nights, she would take the baby to see him at the liquor store parking lot, and on wednesdays and fridays, he would come over to her house. were not home, and he refused to meet her mother. tellez always wanted to feed the baby, and hightower would sometimes go downstairs to wash the bottles while tellez cared for her. 4 tellez was very moody. hightower never left the house when tellez was there with the baby. at one point tellez asked to take the baby out alone, and hightower refused. tellez then said he would not come to visit again and would not have anything amelia was a bastard. tellez scaled back his visits in the second week of november 2010. hightower after he said such things, tellez acted as though nothing had happened, and if hightower attempted to discuss what had occurred, he accused her of focusing on the on november 17, 2010, hightower put amelia down in her crib at about 7:00 at that time, she was breathing normally, and she was sleeping. tellez came over around 8:00 p.m. tellez asked if he could feed amelia and picked her up from her crib. she cried, which was her standard response to tellez holding her. tellez that amelia hated him, asking why she cried, or telling her to be quiet. tellez instructed hightower to warm up a bottle for amelia, and hightower went downstairs to do so. she left tellez holding amelia in the bedroom near the crib. while she was downstairs warming the bottle in the microwave, she could hear amelia continue to cry. hightower was out of the room for one to two minutes. when she returned with the bottle, tellez was cradling amelia in his arms in the same area of the room. nothing seemed out of the ordinary to hightower at the time, although amelia was partially rm. hightower sat down to watch television with her back facing tellez and the crib. soon thereafter, tellez told her that amelia was not taking the bottle. this did not -half hours earlier, and amelia tended to eat every two and one-half to three hours. tellez 5 placed amelia back in the crib and left the bedroom, saying that he was going to use the restroom. after tellez left the room, hightower walked to the crib to look at amelia. gasping for air. hightower screamed for tellez and told him that amelia was not breathing. hightower called 911 and tellez tried to administer cpr. paramedics took amelia to the hospital. angeles. used to go. tellez gave hightower no contact information and did not advise her on how to update him on condition. she xpected that she would bring amelia s hospital. they discussed withdrawing life support. law enforcement contacted hightower and requested permission to search her home; hightower gave full permission to access the house. tellez contacted hightower and after she advised him about the issue of whether to withdraw life support from amelia, he came to the hospital. hightower knew that he caused ameliahappened to amelia. tellez left the hospital. amelia was taken off life support and died on november 19, 2010. a longtime friend of tellez. toledo testified that tellez called him in the early hours of november looked scared and worried when he arrived. he explained that he had come from the existence and thought tellez was referring to his daughter s. tellez repeatedly said that 6 he was going to jail. toledo asked why, and tellez said severato go see the baby, and he was with the mother in the bedroom, and he asked the mother to go fix the bottle so he could feed the baby. and when she left the room, he shook the and he went to the bathroom. then he heard toledo asked why he had shaken the baby; tellez responded that he had no reason and that he had no intention of doing it but knew that he had shaken her. toledo was in shock and disgusted; he did not want to believe what tellez was telling him. he wanted tellez to leave. tellez urged toledo to keep what he had said a secret and invoked the memory of their deceased friend marcus. toledo asked what he was going to do now, and tellez because tellez had talked about committing suicide during their conversation, toledo was concerned about him. accordingly, toledo offered to follow him to ensure he arrived safely, and he followed tellez to the motel where the brother was staying. toledo could not sleep that nightand taken his burden off of his shoulders and threw it onto my shoulders, and i was carrying e to do d more from the social worker that he would learn that tellez had been mistaken. instead, only question was which parent did it, or whether they committed abuse together. toledo 7 looked over at sam and i saw sam. he had no emotion on his face. he was just cold. and i looked over at the mother, and it looked like she had been crying for the past night toledo testified after they had returned to the antelope valley, toledo told tellez that he needed to do the right thing and tell the sheriffs what he had done. tellez pretended he had no idea what toledo was talking about. the jury was shown photographs of texts from do witlove you, man. see you in another life maybe . . . be a statement that he was going to commit suicide. at trial, toledo explained that do anything, letting it ride on other people. and the way that i saw it, what the social of him tellez texted reference to tellez had asked toledo to swear he would not tell what tellez had told him. toledo knew, based on -up for his decision and [that he, toledo,] toledo felt uncomfortable, uneasy, and angry, because, he , even toledo told law enforcement what tellez had told him. 8 on cross-examination, toledo denied having a falling out with tellez in 2010, then clarified that after the text message exchange they had fallen out. he admitted that he was trying in 2010 to get into the los angeles police department, but denied that he contacted law enforcement because he thought it might help him get into the police or poke with detectives contacted them much later to give them that information. the deputy medical examiner who performed the autopsy on amelia, david whiteman, m.d., also testified at trial. he determined that her death was a homicide caused by head trauma and its consequences, specifically the formation of a subdural hemorrhage, a skull fracture, and brain swelling. was a complex fracture because it was essentially two fractures originating from a single point on her skull; the fracture crossed her skull sutures. for a fracture to cross suture lines requires far more force than a fracture that stops at a suture line. the swelling of her brain pushed the skull sutures apart. overlying the bone on both the galea and the periosteum, resulting from external force applied to the head that broke blood vessels. the hematoma from the subgaleal hemorrhage alone was approximately four inches long. she had a subdural hemorrhage on both sides of her brain and a subarachnoid hemorrhage as well. in excess of 30 tic nerve sheath hemorrhages and retinal hemorrhages, which are related to head trauma and may indicate a higher degree of trauma inflicted on a child. optic nerve sheath hemorrhages are complications of more severe head trauma from rotational injury or shaking. , and one hard strike would be enough to have caused these injuries. her injuries were consistent with being shaken by an adult man and having her head strike a hard surface like a crib. both from an impact causing the fracture and from shaking, and this caused part of her 9 brain to die. in addition, blood coated the brain and pushed against the brain, and the brain began to swell. the brain was pushed against the blood vessels, impairing the circulation of blood within the brain and its flow from the brain; this impairment caused more brain swelling, causing more of the brain to die, and that death in turn caused more brain swelling. this created a cycle in which the brain became liquefied and soft. when a baby is injured in this manner, his or her breathing is compromised because the brain is shutting down and because the part of the brain that controls breathing is compressed as well. physically, the baby might initially appear to be sleeping, but would actually be unresponsive and possibly turn blue from lack of breathing. njuries. symptoms like blue lips, red face, limpness, and cessation of breathing could set in the time it would take for a bottle to be warmed and brought to the bedroom, to have an unsuccessful feeding attempt, to place the baby in the crib, and to use a restroom. pediatrician carol berkowitz, m.d., an expert witness on the subject of child , testified that she agreed with uries. amelia was injured by an impact to the skull. striking a hard surface like a crib could cause a skull fracture, galeal and subdural hemorrhaging, optic nerve sheath and retinal hemorrhaging, and intracranial hemorrhaging. stunned, may stop breathing, may experience a color change, may gasp for air or seem the onset of amelymptoms was consistent with the events as described by hightower and a severe head trauma while hightower was out of the room. ii. defense evidence tellez presented several witnesses in his defense and testified on his own behalf. his older brother, rudy, testified that toledo was a bad influence and described toledo 10 he testified that he believed that toledo was lying and framing tellez. rudy tellez never told the police about in the car on the way to the hospital because toledo was a prosecution witness and it was younger brother art tellez testified that t, art tellez testified that he had known for years that toledo was a liar. he did not, however, tell the investigating officers that toledo was a liar. art tellez also believed that the officers investigating the matter were biased against tellez and thnever contacted the authorities to complain about the officers. the defense also called investigating officer luis nunez to testify. the defense ration and evasiveness and inquired into the process of excluding hightower as a suspect. social worker shawn rivas also testified when called as a witness by tellez. he testified that he had spoken with hightower on nd that hightower had denied that she or tellez would harm amelia. hightower appeared calm. tellez then testified. he admitted meeting hightower through a social networking website for the purposes of finding a sexual partner. he admitted giving hightower a false name and no contact information. he asked hightower for money; sometimes he bought diapers for his older daughter, and sometimes he spent the money on oxycontin or heroin. tellez acknowledged having arguments with hightower during her pregnancy, but denied that he called the baby any derogatory names. according to tellez, toledo knew about the baby while hightower was pregnant and encouraged tellez to keep asking for money from hightower so they could spend it on drugs. tellez testified that he visited amelia twice per week after she was born, and that he talked to her, held her, and fed her when he visited. on november 17, when he 11 with her. he asked when amelia had last been fed, and hightower said that she had been fed a few hours earlier. tellez decided to feed her and picked her up; amelia cried and turned red in the face. he told hightower to warm up the bottle for about 10 seconds. hightower was out of the room for 45 seconds to one minute, during which time he held amelia in his arms and told her that her food was coming soon. tellez denied shaking amelia, hitting her head against the crib, or having any kind of accident with her. hightower returned with the bottle, then sat down in the room. tellez tried to feed amelia, but she did not suck on the bottle when it was in her mouth. tellez returned amelia to her crib; she looked a little red, but tellez attributed that to amelia having been crying. tellez noticed nothing about her lips. tellez used the bathroom for a minute or so, and was nearly finished when he heard hightower screaming. tellez saw cardiopulmonary resuscitation at the instruction of the 911 operator. amelia was gasping for breath. tellez testified that he went to the hospital to make sure that amelia was all right. he was distraught and by. at that time tellez was not close to toledo, and he had only contacted toledo to try to find his brother art. he testified that he did not tell toledo that he had shaken or hurt amelia. thers and toledo. he knew that something was wrong because the deputy sheriff wanted to speak with him. he did not want to believe that amelia had been abused, and he did not understand it. he left the hospital after a few hours because he was only able to see amelia for a few minutes, and visits were monitored; he was also uncomfortable because he knew that hightower and her mother were blaming him for what had happened to amelia. he knew at the time he left that removing amelia from life support was being discussed, but he did not know until the following day that a decision had been made to do so. 12 was never the same again. he began drinking alcohol, returned to drug use, and lived in his car until he was hospitalized. tellez testified about toledo. they had known each other since he was 13 years old. they had falling-outs over the years because tellez owed toledo money multiple times. toledo and tellez often argued, and toledo threatened to beat him up more than once. tellez had begun to distance himself from toledo in 2010 because toledo was threatening and bullying him. tellez had stopped talking to toledo but later resumed -to guy to score drugtellez did not remember receiving a text message from toledo urging him to do the right thing, and he said that the message he sent in response made no sense to him, although he agreed that he probably sent the message. he denied ever telling toledo that he had hurt amelia and making him swear not to tell, and he did not understand what his text message to toledo making reference to swearing on the memory of a dead person meant. tellez also presented the testimony of hideo itabashi, m.d., the neuropathologist was unable to make a full evaluation of the brain or an anatomic evaluation of the various parts of the brain due to the liquefaction. under a microscope, itabashi did see signs of a subdural hemorrhage that was starting to organize. the hemorrhage occurred about two to three days before amelia was declared brain dead, and it was most likely caused by , and in the brainstem. macrophages are scavenger cells that enter injured tissue, and they appear two to three days after an injury, although some research suggests they may appear within 12 to 24 hours. the macrophages contained hemosiderin, a substance that results from the breakdown of red blood cells; its presence indicates that enough time has passed since an injury for the red blood cells to break down and the macrophages to consume the breakdown products of the blood. macrophages containing hemosiderin occur three to four days after injury. unless amelia had other injuries to 13 prompt macrophages, the injury had occurred three to four days before her brain death. time, although the subdural hemorrhage did not contain macrophages. the defense also called forensic pathologist david posey, m.d., to testify as an expert witness. posey testified that in his opinion from reviewing the records of the case, he testified that it was unknown how some small hemorrhages underneath the scalp and on the scalp surface. other than that, he found no evidence of a recent injury to the head other than the skull fracture, and when that fracture was sustained could not be determined. he would have expected to see t against a crib. posey excluded nthe skull fracture point impact or by a large area of impact. posey saw no evidence of shaken baby syndrome in this case because amelia did not sustain a neck injury. posey thought that simple fall to the ground. if amelia instantaneously stopped breathing after being hit against an object, he would find that consistent with second-impact syndrome, meaning that there had been a prior injury from which the brain had recovered, but the brain could not respond to a second injury, causing immediate lethargy or cessation of breathing. the jury convicted tellez of second degree murder and assault on a child causing death. he appeals his convictions and sentence. discussion i. sufficiency of the evidence of murder he murdered amelia. specifically, tellez challenges the evidence that he harmed amelia: he argues that the medical testimony did not definitively establish that amelia 14 was injured while he was with her in the bedroom; there were no eyewitnesses to the injuries; and toledo was the only witness to testify that tellez had confessed. next, he asserts that there was no evidence of malice. finally, he claims that no reasonable juror d mine whether, after viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime or special circumstance beyond a reasonable doubt. we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment below to determine whether it discloses sufficient evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesupporting the decision, and not whether the evidence proves guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] we neither reweigh the evidence nor reevaluate the credibility of witnesses. [citation.] we presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury reasonably could deduce from the evidence. [citation.] if the circumstances reasonably justify the findings made by the trier of fact, reversal of the judgment is not warranted simply because the circumstances (people v. jennings (2010) 50 cal.4th 616, 638639 (jennings).) viewing the record in the light most favorable to the verdict, the evidence was sufficient to support a determination that tellez committed an act causing death. amelia was healthy and fine when hightower put her down in her crib, and she was responsive when tellez picked her up from her crib. he was left alone with her for a brief period while hightower warmed a bottle. only a few minutes later, amelia had stopped breathing, turned blue, and was limp and unresponsive. as whitehead and berkowitzshowed, these symptoms were entirely consistent with tellez having shaken her and hit her against the crib in the moments he had her alone. 15 moreover, tellez confessed to toledo that he had shaken amelia and hit her against the crib. the evidence was also sufficient to support a determination that tellez acted with malice . malice may be express or implied. ( 188.) an act, the natural consequences of which are dangerous to life, which act was deliberately performed by a person who knows that his conduct endangers the life of another and who acts with a conscious disregard for life. [citation.] in short, implied malice requires a defendawareness of engaging in conduct that endangers the life of another . . . people v. knoller (2007) 41 cal.4th 139, 143.) here, tellez testified that his first daughter had been born one month prematurely, just like amelia, and that he knew that premature infants are fragile and must be treated very gingerly. he knew that shaking a premature y would kill the baby. a reasonable jury could conclude, based upon this evidence, that tellez was aware that his actions in shaking amelia and causing her head to strike the edge of the crib would endanger her life, and that he acted with a conscious disregard for her life. tellez contends, however, that he had not ever tried to hurt amelia before, and that he had not harmed his older daughter. he contrasts the facts of this case with those in people v. cravens (2012) 53 cal.4th 500, a case in which the defendant knocked out a smaller, intoxicated victim with a very hard punch in a manner to ensure he would fall on concrete; had used deadly punches at other times; and laughed after he had knocked the victim to the ground. he claims that here none of these statements tends to demonstrate the insufficiency of the evidence of malice or murder. tellez may not have harmed his daughter previously in the month she had been alive, and he may never have harmed his older child, but that does not tend to establish that he did not murder amelia in november 2010. certainly the facts of this case differ from those in cravens, but cravens does not purport to restrict the definition of implied malice to the facts of that case, and it has no application here. moreover, therinjuries 16 were not accidental: the deputy medical examiner testified that her injuries were not caused by something like a simple fall but that her skull sustained a complex fracture from external force such as slamming her head into a hard surface. to cause fractures like those amelia suffered, whitehead testified, would require more force than generated by a fall from a two-story building. finally, tellez argues that the judgment should be reversed it because was inherently improbablealthough an appellate court will not uphold a judgment or verdict based upon evidence inherently improbable, testimony which merely discloses unusual circumstances does not come within that category. [citation.] to warrant the rejection of the statements, given by a witness who has been believed by a trial court, there must exist either a physical impossibility that they are true, or their falsity must be apparent without resorting to inferences or deductions. (citing cases.) conflicts and even testimony which is subject to justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends. people v. lyons (1956) 47 cal.2d 311, 319-320.) tellez argues that testimony was inherently improbable because he asserts that if tellez had actually confessed, toledo would have called the police immediately instead of waiting. while calling the hood hoping that at the hospital he would learn information that exculpated tellez; and in urging his friend to come forward before turning him in. tellez has not demonstrated any tellez next argues that it was not reasonable that toledo failed to mention that tellez specifically said he struck amelia against the crib until a year after he first reported tellez, and only after he had received a subpoena to testify. tellez does not explain why it is not reasonable that toledo could have forgotten to tell law enforcement 17 y reported that tellez shook the baby to death. it is not unusual for witnesses to forget certain details, and tellez has not established anything unreasonable or inherently improbable here. here again, tellez has not demonstrated any physical impossibility or apparent falsity in next, tellez argues that toledo had an incentive to give untruthful testimony: he felt tellez owed him money and wanted it back. he had beaten tellez up and damaged his property. finally, he contends that the wanted law enforcement employment. here again, tellez has not established any physical impossibility in the testimony or any falsity apparent on its face; at best, he has shown that the testimony could be subject to justifiable suspicion. but evidentiary onflicts and even testimony which is subject to justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends.people v. lyons, supra, 47 cal.2d at pp. 319-320.) ii. sufficiency of the evidence of assault on a child causing death tellez challenges the sufficiency of the evidence to support the conviction for assault on a child causing death. the elements of the offense are (1) a person, having the care or custody of a child under the age of eight, (2) assaults the child, (3) by means of force that to a reasonable person would be likely to produce great bodily injury, (4) ( 273ab.) the evidence was sufficient to support the conviction. tellez had care and custody of amelia at the time of the incident. tellez admitted shaking amelia and striking her against the crib. amelia suffered serious head injuries, and medical testimony demonstrated that her injuries were likely caused by blunt force trauma to her head from being shaken and hit against a hard surface. a reasonable person would realize that great bodily injury would directly, naturally, and probably result from the act of shaking an infant and striking her head against a hard surface. amelia died from her 18 injuries. based on the evidence, a rational jury could find beyond a reasonable doubt that amelia, who was one month old, died at the hands of tellez, a caretaker who intentionally used force that a reasonable person would believe was likely to cause great bodily injury. tellez, however, argues that his conviction should be reversed because there was no evidence that he was aware that what he was doing with amelia would lead a reasonable person to realize that great bodily injury would result to her. this appears to be an argument that tellez lacked subjective awareness that he was harming amelia. subjective awareness, however, is not required for a conviction of assault on a child, causing death. (people v. wyatt (2010) 48 cal.4th 776, 785.) instead, a defendant may be guilty of an assault within the meaning of section 273ab if he acts with awareness of facts that would lead a reasonable person to realize that great bodily injury would directly, naturally, and probably result from his (id. at p. 781.) here, tellez admitted to toledo that he shook amelia and caused her head to strike the crib, and a reasonable person would realize that great bodily injury would directly, naturally, and probably result from the act of shaking an infant and striking her head against a hard surface. moreover, tellez testified to his actual, subjective awareness that such conduct would endanger the life of a baby. specifically, tellez testified that he knew that premature infants are fragile and must be treated very premature baby will kill the baby. be subjectively awaid. at p. 781), here tellez was aware that the act of shaking amelia and striking her head against the crib could cause her death. points to defense medical expert testimony concerning lapses of time between a skull fracture and the onset of visible symptoms; the possibility that this injury was caused by a 19 fall; the absence of visible external injuries on amelia; the rounded nature of the crib not injury; and the presence of macrophages in her brain and healing on her optic nerve. these arguments establish only that there were conflicts in the evidence, not that there is insufficient evidence to support the conviction. reevaluate the credibility of witnesses. [citation.] we presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury reasonably could deduce from the evidence. [citation.] if the circumstances reasonably justify the findings made by the trier of fact, reversal of the judgment is not warranted simply because the circumstances might also (jennings, supra, 50 cal.4th 616 at pp. 638639.) next, tellez argues that this conviction should be reversed because no reasonable juror could have believabove and need not repeat the discussion here. iii. alleged evidentiary errors a. death, sergeant luis nunez. defense counsel asked a series of questions about the investigation, beginning with whether tellez was cooperative during interviews. nunez answered that tellez was cooperative and had come to the station twice for interviews when requested to do so. defense counsel asked whether hightower had been considered counsel asked whether she had been ruled out as a suspect, to which nunez responded affirmatively, ancounsel asked what had been the determining factor leaving tellez as a suspect and not hightower, to wh 20 a major factor, as well as the fact that the accounts given by toledo and hightower were consistent. on cross-examination, the prosecutor elicited testimony from nunez that although tellez had been cooperative to the extent that he came in voluntarily to speak with law enforcement, he was evasive and could not provide answers to their questions. nunez ve that the evidence that you uncovered during the investigation showed that the defendant, sam tellez, shook amelia hightower and when he was shaking her, caused her head to strike on redirect examination, defense counsel asked nunez what, exactly, tellez had been evasive about. the prosecutor objected on hearsay grounds, but the court overruled not give a direct answer to the question and then would answer with something to the etails of his conversation with [hightower], and at some point that, you know, what was he supposed to do, remember everything they spoke about, or he may have said, written it down or something, and then eventually would admit to possibly saying something nunez testified that tellez was evasive in response to a wide range of topics, including whether he had ever called the baby derogatory names or whether he had said hightower should roll over on the baby. defense counsel asked how nunez knew he was being evasive rather than just forgetting details, and nunez responded that tellez made statements trying to distract the detectives and change subjects, and that tellez claimed not to remember things that nunez thought a person would remember and about which he or she could answer questions directly. tellez was also evasive about whether he had injured amelia, nunez testified. his posture, his demeanor. i wish we had videotaped the interview so you could get a 21 his posture, the struggle he appeared to be going through in talking to us specifically about the child. and these are based on my experience, having interviewed hundreds if i could defense counsel asked if there were any other areas in which nunez believed tellez had been evasive beyond calling the baby names and his demeanor during the interview. nunez respamelia, but then backed off when asked if he was accusing her of harming amelia. defense counsel asked if on re-cross examination, the prosecutor elicited testimony from nunez that he also believed that tellez was evasive with respect to information about toledo. then, the defense counsel moved to strike the final answer on the grounds that it went to the ultimate issue in the case. the court observed that ordinarily the entire line of questioning would be improper, but that evaluation of the credibility of the various actorsraised the issue and made a tactical decision to . . . ny as having presented the issue as one of credibility of tellez, toledo, and hightower, the final question logically followed: 22 , would normally be a the direct examination in this case, it was a proper question. the detective did give a statement early in his testimony that there were a whole variety of things that led him to constituted an impermissible opinion on the ultimate issue of guilt and that its admission constituted prejudicial error that violated his right to a fair trial. we review evidentiary rulings for an abuse of discretion. (people v. alvarez (1996) 14 cal.4th 155, 201.) there was no abuse of discretion here. the defense had chosen to question nunez on his determinations of the truthfulness of tellez, toledo, and hightower; on how he identified a suspect in this case; on cooperation and/or evasiveness; and on how nunez concluded that he was evasive. the -cross examination, like his summarizing question on cross-examination, was designed to pull together the various elements of testimony and emphasize for the jury that based on various factors and the investigation as a whole, nunez had concluded that tellez, not hightower, should be the suspect in given that the defense had first introduced and then probed this area of inquiry, we find no abuse of discretion in proper. tellez relies primarily on two cases to support his argument that the testimony was improper: people v. sergill (1982) 138 cal.app.3d 34 and people v. killebrew (2002) 103 cal.app.4th 644.2 in sergill, the testifying officer improperly offered an opinion on sergill, at pp. 38-40.) in killebrew, an officer testifying as an expert witness improperly testified to his opinion as to the subjective 2 in people v. vang (2011) 52 cal.4th 1038, the california supreme court seriously questioned the reasoning of killebrew. as the facts and issues of this case are fundamentally dissimilar to those in killebrew, we need not consider its continued vitality here. 23 knowledge and intent of specific gang members. (killebrew, at pp. 658-659.) the statements or to his subjective knowledge and intent; instead, he testified to how, when faced with two potential suspects, he determined that tellez was the primary suspect and excluded hightower from suspicion. in neither sergill nor killebrew had the officers been questioned by the defense about how they determined that one of two possible suspects should be the primary suspectthis line of inquiry, initiated by the defense, necessarily required nunez to testify to the various factors that led him to credit nunimproper opinion on the ultimate issue. b. and his brothers. according to toledo, he wanted to talk to the social worker because he was trying to make sense of what had happened and because he hoped that there was toledo began to relate what the social worker had said, and defense counsel objected that the acted to matter asserted, but only for the purpose of explaining why toledo did what he did. toledo went on to testify that the social worker said that there were obvious signs of child abuse and that either tellez did it, hightower did it, or they did it together. toledo testified that after hearing what the social worker said, he looked over at tellez no emotion on his face. he was just cold. and i looked over at the mother, and it looked like she had been crying 24 on appeal, tellez argues that the statements were irrelevant and inadmissible as hearsay, and that their admission infringed on his constitutional right to a fair trial. we disagree. the testimony was relevant and properly admissible for the nonhearsay purpose of showing its effect on toledo. toledo had wanted to talk to the social worker true. when he heard what the social worker said, and observed tellez and hightower, he reached the conclusion that tellez had been telling the truth when he said he injured amelia. the evidence, therefore, was presented not as evidence that there had been child abuse, but for its effect on toledo and his state of mind. es, his state of mind, and the events leading up to his decision to report tellez to the police were highly relevant. accordingly, the evidence was properly admitted as nonhearsay evidence for the limited purpose of the effect on the state of mind of the listener. (people v. marsh (1962) 58 cal.2d 732, 737-738.) iv. prosecutorial misconduct ve tomlin gave the defendant and other family members, art tellez, rudy tellez, even his eant nunez that his son tellez argues that this constituted prosecutorial misconduct. . . . intemperate behavior violates the federal conduct by a prosecutor that does not render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair is 25 [citationpeople v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 819 (hill).) to preserve a claim of prosecutorial misconduct for appeal, a defendant must make a timely objection, make known the basis of the objection, and ask the trial court to admonish the jury. (hill, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. misconduct could not be cured by an admonition, the defendant must object to the alleged misconduct at trial. although tellez conclusorily states that an admonition would have ecause it would have called attention to the remark, there is no evidence that an admonition would have been insufficient to remedy any misconduct. tellez has therefore waived this argument by failing to object at trial. (people v. ochoa (1998) 19 cal.4th 353, 428.) we address the merits of the issue nonetheless, however, because tellez argues that his trial counsels failure to object constituted ineffective assistance of counsel within the meaning of strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668 because there could be no valid tactical reason for failing to object. (see people v. nation (1980) 26 cal.3d 169, 179.) tellez argues that the argument was improper because the prosecutor stated facts not in evidence and attempted to shift the burden of proof to tellez. these facts were, however, in evidence. nunez testified that neither called him to say concerns about his welfare, but that she never said that her son was innocent. nor did the comments came in the course of his argument that not only had the prosecution proven tellez guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, but the credible evidence presented by the defense also showed that he was guilty. specifically, the prosecutor observed that even now maintained that he was innocent, they never told the police anything of the kind. tellez, when speaking with the police, never told them about bullying or broken property. then, when he came to court, he testified about e of how the defendant is guilty, ladies and 26 while to the defendant; he merely observed that the out-of-court statements by those aligned contrary to is not similar to people v. gaines (1997) 54 cal.app.4th 821, at pages 824 and 825 (misconduct when prosecutor represents to the jury what a non-testifying witness would have said and makes statements on subjects for which there was no evidence presented); people v. johnson (1981) 121 cal.app.3d 94, at page 102 (misconduct for prosecutor to state that the complaining witness would deny making an extortion demand when there was no evidence she would do so); or hill, supra, 17 cal.4th at pages 829 through 832 (misconduct for prosecutor to advise jury that there had to be some evidence on which to base doubt, to imply a witness who did not testify would have testified favorably to the prosecution, and to assert that a defense witness lied because her friend was a relative of the defendant, of which there was no evidence). because we find that the challenged statement was not prosecutorial misconduct, it was not ineffective assistance of counsel for defense counsel to fail to object to it. v. restitution fine challenge tellez challenges the $280 restitution fine imposed under section 1202.4. tellez acknowledges that his failure to object to the fine at trial would ordinarily constitute a forfeiture of the issue (people v. scott (1994) 9 cal.4th 331, 353-354 (scott)), but he attempts to avoid forfeiture by contending that the $280 fine is actually an unauthorized sentence. according to tellez, when the court remarked at sentencing that tellez was unable to pay the cost of attorney services, so those costs were waived, the court was also announcing that it wanted to impose the lowest possible restitution fine amount. tellez then argues that the imposition of the $280 fine indicated that the court did not recall that the lowest fine the court could impose was $200, the statutory minimum at the time that the crimes were committed. tellez argues, the statutory range for restitution fines, because the trial court intended to give appellant 27 the lowest statutory amount, the amount ordered was not the statutory minimum at the time the crimes were committed, thereby violating the constitutional prohibition against tcourt did not state that it wanted to impose the lowest possible restitution fine; its nothing in the record indicates that the court intended to do anything other than impose a $280 restitution fine when it imposed a $280 restitution fine. as tellez acknowledges, this fine falls within the statutory range authorized by law at the time of the offense. (people v. souza (2012) 54 cal.4th 90, 143 [for ex post facto analysis purposes, the amount of a restitution fine is determined as of the date of the offense].) there is, therefore, no ex post facto violation. moreover, this was not an unauthorized sentence. an unauthorized sentence is one that could not lawfully be imposed under any circumstance in the particular case. (scott, supra, 9 cal.4th at p. 354.) because the amount of the fine was within the statutory range for restitution fines applicable at the time of his crime, it could lawfully be imposed here. tellez had the opportunity to object to the discretionary amount of the restitution fine at the time of sentencing, and having failed to do so, he has forfeited his claim. (people v. tillman (2000) 22 cal.4th 300, 302.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. zelon, j. we concur: woods, acting p. j. segal, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 