filed 3/4/14 p. v. brauford ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. vincent irvin brauford, defendant and appellant. b246710 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya079571) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mark s. arnold, judge. affirmed. vanessa place, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and brendan sullivan, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 vincent irvin brauford appeals the judgment entered following a jury trial in which he was found guilty of four counts of willfully committing a lewd or lascivious act upon a child under the age of 14 years, with true findings he committed the offenses in the present case against more than one victim. (pen. code,  288, subd. (a), 667.61, subds. (b), (c) and (e)(5); counts 1-4.)1 at sentencing, the trial court imposed terms of 15 years to life consecutively for counts 1 and 3, making the total term in state prison 30 years to life. the 15-year-to-life terms for counts 2 and 4 were imposed concurrently. contention brauford (appellant) proceeded in propria persona (in pro. per.) at trial. on appeal, he contends his pretrial may 14, 2011, faretta waiver was not sufficiently informed, and thus his waiver of the right to counsel was not intelligent and voluntary. accordingly, he is entitled to a reversal of the judgment. (faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806 (faretta).) essentially, he argues that pursuant to indiana v. edwards (2008) 554 u.s. 164 (edwards) and the subsequent california supreme court decision in people v. johnson (2012) 53 cal.4th 519 (johnson), implementing the edwards decision in california, he was entitled to a fuller faretta advisement and inquiry concerning self-representation. in concerning present and past mental infirmities were inadequate. he asserts that in the absence of a more elaborate faretta advisement and inquiry, he was not properly advised so as to meet the constitutional requirements for a waiver of counsel, and he is entitled to a reversal of the instant judgment as a matter of due process. he also seeks to have this court institute a new rule of criminal procedure requiring further inquiries and waivers as he specifies, and asserts he should receive the benefit of the application of any new such rule of criminal procedure. 1 all further references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 in this opinion, we decline his suggestion to imply from the decision in johnson the requirements for a valid faretta waiver have now changed, or to apply any new such rule of criminal procedure to appellant so as to reverse the judgment. nor does the court background 1. the trial evidence. the facts adduced at trial are not at issue in this appeal. thus, the trial evidence will be stated briefly. appellant, age 29 at the time of trial, was s.gardena during the years 1999 to 2003. he was then 19 to 23 years old. at that time, s.b. had a female daughter t., age 7 to 8, as well as a son. frequently, s.b.n., who was a year younger than t., was at s.b.and he and s.b. met only occasionally thereafter. when t. was age 15, she told s.b. that when appellant lived with them, he had fondled her on two separate occasions, rubbing her vagina over her pants. also, when they were alone, he had undressed her for no apparent reason. n. revealed to her mother, s.b.lived with s.b., appellant had digitally penetrated her vagina on two separate occasions. in late 2010, charges were filed. at trial, the victims were respectively 17 and 16 years of age. in defense, appellant produced two women from his neighborhood who were prepubescent when he was an older teenager. they testified that he never showed any sexual interest in them. appellant testified and denied the charges, claiming the accusations arose when he rejected s.b. after she became aware he had started a relationship with another woman.2 2 during cross-examination, appellant asked s.b. whether he had told her when they were living together that he had a learning disability. s.b. replied he had never complained of a learning disability that prevented him from working. the only thing she was aware of was that he had moved from group home to group home. when the prosecutor cross-examined appellant, the prosecutor inquired about his memory loss as he 4 2. the procedural facts. on november 12, 2010, appellant was arraigned on the criminal complaint, and the magistrate appointed counsel to represent appellant, los angeles county deputy public defender haaris a. syed. the preliminary hearing was held on april 6, 2011. appellant was held to answer and later arraigned on the information. on may 24, 2011, at a pretrial hearing, appellant was represented by another deputy public defender, mr. murrey correa. mr. syed had required surgery and was unavailable. on may 24, 2011, appellant requested self-representation, which was granted after he entered into a faretta waiver. on june 23, 2011, the petit jury was sworn. during trial, appellant represented himself. on july 1, 2011, the jury returned its guilty verdicts. on july 1, 2011, after the verdicts were returned, appellant immediately requested the appointment of counsel. the trial court reappointed mr. syed. the matter was continued from time to time for a year and a half for sentencing until january 23, 2013, had mentioned it in examining s.b. appellant explained he did not have to write things down so he could remember things that happened long ago. them down and review them every couple of days so he would not forget them. then he he repeated he had a good memory. his short-term memory loss was the same thing as his long-term memory loss. appellant claimed that the teaching he was getting on parole was to assist him to retain information. the psychological counseling later in his testimony, he said everything he reads he forgets. he explained that that was how he communicated. he said that age 15. sometimes he thinks he sees her. when he was a child, he wanted to be with her and had only seen her seven times in his life. his criminal history was all related to running from various group homes to find his mother. when he ran, he stole food so he had something to eat. the thefts would lead to an arrest. he was a person without family and support. he said that he was in this predicament, referring to the instant charges, because he is a thief and he breaks his promises to women. that was the only thing of which he was guilty. 5 on january 23, 2013, the trial court read and considered the motion for new trial. counsel argued that appellant was learning disabled. trial counsel asserted appellant suffered short-term memory loss and some long-term memory loss resulting from a childhood head injury and that appellant was functionally illiterate. trial counsel incarceration. the prison records also disclosed appellant took medication to prevent seizures, and in 2008, he was diagnosed by prison personnel as suffering from schizophrenia. trial counsel revealed appellant claimed he was hearing voices directing him to go in pro. per. during the trial proceedings. appellant also had told trial counsel talization was a sign from god indicating he should represent himself. the motion for new trial referred to incidents during the actual trial that evidenced appellant had difficulties arising from his mental state with self-representation. in the motion for new trial, trial counsel asserted the trial court should have declared a doubt and proceeded pursuant to section 1367 as appellant was incompetent for purposes of self-representation, i.e., appellant was an edwards-johnson gray-area defendant. as such, the motion for new trial asserted appellant should be retried as the trial court had permitted him to proceed to trial without counsel. trial counsel also argued appellant was suffering memory losses during jury voir dire and these memory losses had interfered with his ability to impeach the witnesses at trial with their prior inconsistent statements. at the hearing on the motion for new trial, the trial court and the prosecutor commented that appellant had conducted himself during the pretrial and trial proceedings in the same fashion as a typical pro. per. appellant had fully participated in his trial and was aware of certain procedural rules indicating he had a minimal understanding of self-representation. also, appellant had demonstrated during the trial no severe disabilities or bizarre thinking that would alert the trial court to any lack of competence. the trial court 6 faretta trial on edwards-johnson grounds. on january 29, 2013, the trial court sentenced appellant to state prison. on june 19, 2008, the united states supreme court filed its decision in edwards. on december 24, 2009, the california supreme court filed its decision in people v. taylor (2009) 47 cal.4th 850 (taylor), a related case, following edwards. taylor was final on february 18, 2010. on january 30, 2012, the california supreme court filed its decision in johnson, supra, 53 cal.4th 519. the johnson decision was final on april 11, 2012. 3. indiana v. edwards. a. the state of the law before the decision in edwards. in california, prior to the decision in faretta, supra, 422 u.s. 806, self-representation was discretionary with the trial court. (taylor, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 871 & fn. 8; see also johnson, supra, 53 cal.4th at pp. 526-california law provide[d] no statutory or constitutional right of self-representationjohnson, supra, at pp. 525-526, 528.) in faretta, supra, 422 u.s. 806, the united states supreme court held that the sixth amendment to the united states constitution gives criminal defendants the right to represent themselvess waiver of counsel must be -representation. (id. at p. 835.) further, a defendant was irrelevant to the exercise of the right to self-representation. (id. at p. 836). after faretta, in godinez v. moran (1993) 509 u.s. 389, 396 (godinez), the united states supreme court suggested that the federal constitutional standard for competency to stand trial and for a waiver of counsel is the same that stated in dusky: whether [the defendant] has sufficient present ability to consult with his lawyer with a reasonable degree of rational understanding and . . . a rational as well as factual understanding of the proceedings against himdusky v. united states (1960) 362 the due process clause of the federal constitutions 7 fourteenth amendment prohibits trying a criminal defendant who is mentally incompetent. (medina v. california (1992) 505 u.s. 437, 439 . . . ; pate v. robinson (1966) 383 u.s. 375, 378.)people v. ary (2011) 51 cal.4th 510, 517 (ary).) when a trial court is presented with evidence that raises a reasonable doubt about a defendants mental competence to stand trial, federal due process principles require that trial proceedings be suspended and a hearing be held to determine the defendants competence. [citations.] only upon a determination that the defendant is mentally competent may the matter proceed to trial. ary, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 517.) section 1368, in subdivision (a), requires a trial court to suspend cr the mental competence of the a defendant can create reasonable doubt through substantial evidence of mental incompetence, or the trial court can raise the issue on its own. [citations.] section 1369 provides for the appointment of psychiatrists as well as licensed psychologists to assess the defendants mental competence (id., subd. (a)); and it allows both the defense and the prosecution to present evidence to either support or counter a claim of the defendants mental incompetence to stand trial (id., subds. (b)-(d)).ary, supra, 51 cal.4th at pp. 517-518.) a defendant is presumed competent and bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence a lack of competence. ( 1369, subd. (f); (ary, at p. 518.) substantial evidence of mental incompetence is evidence that raises a reasonable doubt on the issue. (people v. alvarez (1996) 14 cal. 4th 155, 211.) in determining whether there is substantial evidence of incompetence, a court must consider all of the relevant cs opinion. (people v. howard (1992) 1 cal. 4th 1132, 1164.) [t]he that characterize competency proceedings may make it difficult to determine whether a defendant is incompetent or malingering.cooper v. oklahoma [(1996)] 517 u.s. [348,] 365.) what constitutes . . . substantial evidence in a cannot be 8 answered by a simple formula [citation.](people v. laudermilk [s]ufficien to cooperate with a lawyer and assist rationally in preparing a defense includes more than an orientation as to time and place,some recollection of events is not enough(people v. tomas (1977) 74 cal.app.3d 75, 88.) mere bizarre statements or actions are generally insufficient to constitute substantial evidence raising a doubt as to the defendantpeople v. burney (1981) 115 cal.app.3d 497, 503.) on the other hand, the testimony of one mental health professional that the defendant is unable to assist in his or her defense because of a mental defect constitutes substantial evidence sufficient to compel a hearing. (people v. stankewitz (1982) 32 cal. 3d 80, 92.)(people v. castro (2000) 78 cal.app.4th 1402, 1415-1416 (castro), overruled on other grounds in people v. leonard (2007) 40 cal.4th 1370, 1391 & fn. 3. ) it is not essential for the defendant, his or her counsel, or the prosecutor to make a motion which ras competence in order to permit consideration of the issue on appeal. (people v. tomas, supra, 74 cal.app.3d at p. 88; see also people v. aparicio (1952) 38 cal. 2d 565, 568-569.) rather, the presence of the requisite substantial objective evidence compels the trial court to sua sponte suspend proceedings and order a hearing, and the courts failure to do so in the face of such evidence is an act in excess of its jurisdiction and may be raised by the defendant on appeal from the judgment. ([people v. superior court (marks) (1991)] 1 cal.4th [56,] 69; people v. tomas, supra, 74 cal.app.3d at p. 90.) s duty includes sua sponte reconsideration of pro se status where there is substantial evidence bringing the defendants competency into doubt. [citation.]castro, supra, 78 cal.app.4th at p. 1416.) 9 b. decision in edwards. in edwards, supra, 554 u.s. 164, the united states supreme court refined the federal standard for determining when a defendant may proceed with self-representation. it added a gloss onto the decisions in faretta and godinezthe [federal] constitution permits judges to take realistic account of the particular defendants mental capacities by asking whether a defendant who seeks to conduct his own defense at trial is mentally competent to do so. that is to say, the constitution permits states to insist upon representation by counsel for those competent enough to stand trial under dusky but who still suffer from severe mental illness to the point where they are not competent to conduct trial proceedings by themselves.id. at pp. 177-178.) edwards designated defendants who are trial competent, but not competent under that decision for purposes of self--area did. at p. 174.) the court in edwards explained that as a matter of preserving the right and the appearance of the right of a fair trial, it was permitting state courts to deny self-representation to dusky-competent defendants who are so mentally disabled they are otherwise unable to carry out the basic tasks needed to present a defense without the assistance of counsel. (edwards, supra, 554 u.s. at pp. 176-178.)3 following the decision in edwards, in taylor, supra, 47 cal.4th 850, the california supreme court addressed whether a trial court should have denied or revoked self-representation on the ground he was an edwards gray-area defendant, i.e., taylor asserted that he was not competent to represent himself under the heightened standard in edwards. (taylor, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 882.) after setting out a complete history of such issues under federal and state law, the taylor court held there was no error. the court reasoned when taylor was tried, the state law in california had not changed following the decision in edwards. california had not 3 the edwards court drew a distinction between the competency to waive counsel or proceed in pro. per. during a plea of guilty, such as in godinez, supra, 509 u.s. at pages 399 to 400, and the competence to proceed with self-representation during a trial. (edwards, supra, 554 u.s. at p. 173.) 10 adopted the standard in edwards, and california law provided the trial court with no test of mental competence to apply other than the dusky standard of competence to stand trial. under the dusky standard, taylor was competent, and the trial court properly refused to find that he was a gray-area defendant and to deny or to revoke self-representation. subsequently, the california supreme court decided johnson, supra, 53 cal.4th 519. in johnson, on appeal, the defendant challenged whether the trial court properly revoked his self-representation status when the trial court, expressly relying on edwards, had concluded defendant was too mentally disorganized to represent himself. (johnson, supra, at p. 525.) the supreme court concluded there was no error as the trial court determined, as a matter of first impression, that appellant was a gray-area defendant pursuant to edwards. (id. at pp. 528, 530.)4 the supreme court approved the trial edwards as a new rule of criminal procedure under california law. it held a california trial court may deny or revoke self- suffers from a severe mental illness to the point where he or she cannot carry out the basic tasks needed to present the defense id. at p. 530.) however, in establishing this new rule, it pointed out that due process does not mandate this higher standard for denying or revoking self-representation; edwards held only that states may impose a higher standard without running afoul of the federal constitution and faretta. thus, refusing to grant self-representation or revoking self- 4 after a section 1368 jury trial in johnson in which the jury found appellant to be competent, the trial court found appellant qualified as a gray-area defendant. to support behavior in the court and in the jail. the trial court said that even if appellant is has disorganized thinking, deficits in sustaining attention and concentration, impaired expressive abilities, anxietycommon symptoms of severe mental illness that impair his ability to play the significantly expanded role required for self-representation. (johnson, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 525.) 11 representation for a gray-area defendant is discretionary with the trial court. the new california standard is not constitutionally compelled. (johnson, supra, 53 cal.4th at pp. 528, 530, 531-532.) furthermore, the johnson court cautioned that trial courts are not required routinely to inquire into mental competence at the time of a faretta waiver; inquiry is only necessary when the trial court has doubts concerning a faretta (johnson, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 530-531.) the johnson court directed that when the -to appoint appropriate experts employing the same statutory procedures used to determine trial competence pursuant to dusky. (ibid.; see  1368, 1369 [procedure for declaring a doubt as to mental competency and the appointment of experts to opine on competence].) discussion faretta waiver was uninformed, i.e., unintelligent and unknowing, and involuntary, and for that reason, he is entitled to a reversal. 1. the standard of review for a knowing, intelligent and voluntary faretta waiver. there is no required form of the waiver of counsel in favor of self-representation. the requirements for a valid waiver of the right to counsel are (1) a determination that the accused is competent to waive the right, i.e., he or she has the mental capacity to understand the nature and object of the proceedings against him or her; and (2) a finding that the waiver is knowing and voluntary, i.e., the accused understands the significance and consequences of the decision and makes it without coercion. [citations.] (people v. lawley (2002) 27 cal.4th 102, 139 (lawley).) particular form of words, however, is required in admonishing a defendant who seeks to forgo the right to counsel and engage in self-representation. warnings or advisements were given but whether the record as a whole demonstrates that the defendant understood the disadvantages of self-representation, including the risks and [citations.] (id. at p. 140.) 12 people v. koontz (2002) 27 cal.4th 1041, at pages 1070 to 1071, explained people v. lopez (1977) 71 cal.app.3d 568 (lopez), the court enumerated a set of suggested advisements and inquiries designed to ensure a clear record of a defendans knowing and voluntary waiver of counsel. first, the court recommended the defendant be cautioned (a) that self-almost always unwise, and the defendant may conduct a defense ultimately to his own detriment (id. at p. 572); (b) that the defendant will receive no special indulgence by the court and is required to follow all the technical rules of substantive law, criminal procedure and evidence in making motions and objections, presenting evidence and argument, and conducting voir dire; (c) that the prosecution will be represented by a trained professional who will give the defendant no quarter on account of his lack of skill and experience; and (d) that the defendant will receive no more library privileges than those available to any other self-represented defendant, or any additional time to prepare. second, the lopez court recommended that trial judges inquire into the defendants education and familiarity with legal procedures, suggesting a psychiatric examination in questionable cases. the lopez court further s understanding of the alternative to self-representation, i.e., the right to counsel, including court-appointed counsel at no cost to the defendant, and exploring the nature of the proceedings, potential defenses and potential punishments. the lopez court advised warning the defendant that, in the event of misbehavior or disruption, his or her self-representation may be terminated. finally, the court noted, the defendant should be made aware that in spite of his or her best (or worst) efforts, the defendant cannot afterwards claim inadequacy of representation. (id. at pp. 572-574.) as indicated above, the purpose of the suggested lopez admonitions is to ensure a clear record of a knowing and voluntary waiver of counsel, not to create a threshold of competency to waive counsel. the failure to give a particular set of advisements does not, of itself, show that a faretta 13 not intelligently and knowingly waive his right to counsel. . . . [t]his burden is not satisfied by simply pointing out t(people v. weber (2013) 217 cal.app.4th 1041, 1058-1059; see also people v. elliot (2012) 53 cal.4th 535, 591-592.) 2. faretta waiver at may 24, 2011, appellant asserted he wanted to go in pro. per. he claimed that the trial court warned appellant that he would be up against a trained and experienced prosecutor, appellant had not tried a criminal case previously and he was not a law school graduate. appellant agreed. the trial court asked appellant how he possibly would know what to do. appellant the trial court asked appellant whether he was familiar with the day, all month in jai the trial court asked appellant how he was going to learn what a lawyer learned in three years of law school in the three weeks remaining until trial. appellant acknowledged it would be difficult, but he claimed he could learn the basics. the trial appellant replied, - 14 the trial court inquired how many cases mr. correa, the deputy public defender in court with appellant, had tried, and mr. correa replieow to defend yourself in this certain people investigated in the family who were actually living there and the trial court interrupted and asked what investigating the family was going to you read. the girl says someone touched her. how could you put somebody in jail if she merits of the case. it advised appel surgery and might be back the next day. mr. correa wanted to put the matter over to see whether mr. syed would be returning. however, mr. correa could not do so as appellant the trial court explained to appellant that his case possibly involved a life term in prison. the trial court inquired whether appellant wanted self-representation when he could be spending the rest of his life in prison. go out fighting than the trial court said it did not understand what appellant meant. appellant explained that mr. correa was asking him to enter into a plea bargain for a six-year prison term. the trial court told appellant he was not obligated to accept any plea offer. mr. correa indicated the plea offer had been withdrawn. the trial court again told appellant to let mr. correa, who knew what he was doing, try the case. it repeated appellant did not know what he was doing. 15 the trial court inquired how much schooling appellant had. appellant claimed oolish he was to proceed in pro. per. to do so. when asked what he wanted to do, appellant replied he wanted self-representation. the trial court had his court personnel hand appellant the los angeles county -printed form for waiving counsel in favor of self-representation. the trial court indicated it would inquire later. appellant filled in the form, initialing the boxes following the seven constitutional rights listed in its initial section. the form explained that by initialing the boxes, appellant was indicating he could read and write and he understood the constitutional rights and the further explanation of those rights: the right to an attorney, the right to a speedy trial and a jury trial, the right to subpoena witnesses and records, the right to confront and cross-examine witnesses, the right against self-incrimination, the right to be released on bail, and the right to self-representation. in the form, by way of background, appellant claimed that he graduated from carson high school and had no further education or employment experience. the form detailed the dangers and disadvantages of self-representation, including that he would not obtain the assistance of a lawyer or the court during his trial proceedings and he would be expected to follow all the technical rules of substantive law, criminal procedure and evidence. further advisements included that appellant would be facing an experienced prosecutor and would not get assistance from the trial court during the trial. appellant would be expected to conduct all the pre- and post-trial and trial proceedings just as a lawyer would, without the assistance of an attorney, including proposing jury instructions, examining witnesses and making appropriate objections and motions during 16 the trial. if appellant were to engage in misconduct, or if he changed his mind midtrial, his request for counsel might well be denied. the form informed appellant that movement in the courtroom would be limited, any attorney appointed later during the proceedings may well be at a disadvantage in representing him, and by obtaining self-representation, he was giving up his right to raise on appeal ineffective assistance of trial counsel. on the form, appellant indicated he was aware of the nature of the crime, he knew the facts to be proved in order to find him guilty and he was familiar with the defenses to the crime. he acknowledged the trial court did not recommend self-representation, he wished to proceed in pro. per. and waive his constitutional right to counsel by making his request. after filling out the form and initialing its pertinent boxes, appellant signed and dated the form, thereby acknowledging he freely and voluntarily gave up his constitutional right to counsel in favor of self-representation. after appellant filled in the waiver form, the trial court inquired on the record whether appellant understood each advisement. appellant said he had signed the form and thereby understood he had a right to counsel. he said by signing the form he was indicating he wished to waive his right to counsel in favor of self-and disadvantages . . . [in] represen-representation. appellant immediately requested the preliminary hearing transcript and in pro. per. funds. the trial court had the prosecutor prepare a discovery packet to give appellant. later that afternoon, the prosecutor turned over the discovery packet to appellant. parole officer stated for purposes of the pre-plea probation report that appellant was on parole. in the probation report, the parole officer disclosed that appellant has been 17 diagnosed with long term and short term memory loss. the trial court told the 5 3. analysis. appellant makes a narrow contention. he attacks only the validity of his faretta waiver and asks this court to institute a new rule of criminal procedure, which applied to his case, requires a reversal of the judgment.6 appellant asserts the state and standard advisements and waivers for defendants seeking pro. per. status must include a he urges that gray-area 5 appellant makes a claim in his motion for new trial that he asked for standby counsel on june 16, 2011. however, our appellate record fails to contain a minute order reflecting that request, and the record contains no reportwe note that references to the record of the actual trial are made in the motion for new trial. we were unable to tie those references to our appellate record as the pagination in the transcript from which trial counsel was working in the trial court differs from that provided on appeal. (see cal. rules of court, rule 8.204 (a)(1)(c); people v. dougherty (1982) 138 cal.app.3d 278, 282 [it is incumbent upon appellant to support his claims with references to the evidence in the trial record. the reviewing court is not called upon to make an independent search of the record where this rule is ignored.].) 6 in this appeal, appellant does not raise a threshold challenge that at the time of the motion for new trial, substantial evidence disclosed appellant was an edwards-johnson gray-area defendant. nor does he address another threshold issue of whether a heightened edwards standard adopted by the court in johnson. (see johnson, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 530.) additionally, appellant has failed to brief the issue of the retroactive or prospective operation of the decision in johnson. (see people v. carrera (1989) 49 cal.3d 291, 327-328; people v. guerra (1984) 37 cal.3d 385, 399-417 [extensive discussion of test for retroactivity in the context of the applying the new rule in people v. shirley (1982) 31 cal.3d 18, 66-67, concerning the admissibility of testimony following hypnosis]; donaldson v. superior court (1983) 35 cal.3d 24, 36-38 [new rule of search and seizure given prospective effect]; people v. rollins (1967) 65 cal.2d 681, 685-686 & fn. 3 [the decision in miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 does not apply to trials which commenced before those decisions were announced even though such cases may be on direct appeal; the rollins decision also notes judicial decisions presumptively apply to all cases pending on direct review when the decision is rendered].) 18 standardized advisements and waivers here failed to alert either appellant or the trial court as to the potential effecto adequately represent himself. the lack of adequate advisements also left the trial court in the position of having inadequate information to take a valid waiver. and, there was no location on the faretta waiver form for appellant to indicate whether he presently suffered from, or was being treated for, or had a history of mental impairment. thus, the appellant as to whether he had a history of psychiatric treatment, including institutional commitment, which would have addressed the problem posed by persons such as appellant who deny present incompetency but suffer from chronic disabilities. the contention lacks merit. a. validity of the faretta waiver. as the trial court and prosecutor johnson-edwards grounds, nothing thadevelopmental or emotional condition interfered with his self-representation. when the trial court granted appellant self-representation, it had appellant read and fill out a standardized faretta waiver form. therein, appellant acknowledged he understood the dangers and pitfalls of self-representation and still wanted to represent himself. he said he understood the constitutional rights he had during the trial proceedings and claimed he understood them. he indicated he had a high school education and failed to disclose his claimed learning disability, a disability he later claimed interfered with self-representation. the written faretta waiver form provided to him generally conformed to the suggested advisements and inquiries in koontz and lopez. orally, on the record, appellant was told repeatedly by the trial court he was being foolish by requesting self-representation when he lacked legal training. appellant indicated he would be satisfied proceeding with what little criminal procedure he might 19 learn in the next three weeks before trial. the trial court spoke to appellant at some length, repeating the warnings concerning the pitfalls of self-representation contained in the form. the trial court pointed out to appellant he had trial counsel available to him who was experienced and a match for the trained and experienced prosecutor. when appellant complained about being persuaded to accept a plea bargain and he feared trial counsel would not advocate for him, the trial court explained to appellant that appellant had no obligation to accept any plea offer and trial counsel was ethically bound to enthusiastically represent appellant. in its advice, the trial court asked appellant questions requiring responses sufficient for the trial court to have an adequate opportunity -representation. in the later ruling on the motion for a new trial, considered a year and a half after trial, the trial court observed that during the faretta waiver and trial proceedings, it observed no evidence appellant was too mentally ill to represent himself. it commented appellant had personally filled out the entire waiver of counsel form, and his writing was neat. in the form, appellant indicated he was aware of the charges and whether the offenses were general or specific intent crimes. appellant said he was aware of the elements of the offenses and the defenses. the trial court asserted it had diligently attempted to persuade appellant to accept representation by counsel, but appellant was adamant. nothing the trial court observed during the waiver had alerted the trial court that appellant had long-and short-term memory loss. the comments by the prosecutor that appellant had short-term and long-term memory loss were insufficient to make the trial court aware appellant had any kind of disability disqualifying him from self-representation. the trial court observed that appellant had fully participated in the trial. appellant raised a rational defense. at trial, he claimed he did not commit the acts for which he was charged. he speculated in his testimony the charges arose from the jealousy of his former girlfriend, who was unhappy with him when he acquired a new girlfriend. he conducted a rational voir dire of the potential jurors, asking them questions designed to ferret out whether they would be sympathetic to his defense and to him at trial and related 20 to the defense he intended to raise. he cross-examined witnesses, engaged in oral argument and raised objections during the trial. pretrial, he requested discovery and asked for in pro. per. funding. post-trial, he immediately asked the trial court when he was to file a petition for habeas corpus, perhaps mistaking a habeas petition for the appeal. when the trial court indicated any petition for a writ of habeas corpus was filed only after sentencing, appellant immediately asked for representation by counsel for the sentencing proceedings, and the trial court reappointed mr. syed, who represented him for the next year and a half until he was sentenced. there was no evidence presented to the trial court in the motion for new trial indicating appellant was one of those rare persons who might be a gray-area incompetent. a history of mental illness, even present mental illness, and self-serving claims of hearing voices and believing god is giving you a sign do not amount to substantial evidence of gray-area incompetence. if appellant were being medicated before or during the trial, the medication was never specified; it might not have related to his that in so far as appellant may have suffered learning disabilities, it was not apparent duabuse its discretion by concluding appellant was overstating or feigning disability, or that such disabilities had not interfered significantly with his performing the basic tasks of trial. (compare these cases concerning dusky competence: people v. laudermilk, supra, 67 cal.2d at p. 285 [mere bizarre actions or bizarre statements or statements of defense counsel that defendant is incapable of cooperating in his defense or psychiatric testimony that a defendant is immature, dangerous, psychopathic or homicidal or such diagnosis duty to declare a doubt and send a defendant for a section 1368 examination for competency]; see also people v. ramirez (2006) 39 cal.4th 398, 431 [the same]; people v. blair (2005) 36 cal.4th 686, 714 [a history of mental illness and taking psychotropic medication does not constitute substantial evidence of incompetence]; people v. hayes (1999) 21 cal.4th 1211, 1281 [evidence 21 regarding past events that does no more than form the basis for speculation regarding possible current incompetence is insufficient to require the trial court to declare a doubt].) faretta waiver was knowing, intelligent and voluntary, and he was not denied his federal constitutional right to counsel. nor is there any indication in this record that his trial was fundamentally unfair. b. the request to this court to institute a new rule of criminal procedure. insofar as appellant is claiming the faretta waiver is invalid as the inquiry of and pitfalls of self-representation were deficient after the decisions in edwards and johnson, we disagree. this court declines to institute a bright-line rule of criminal procedure requiring edwards-johnson inquiries in every case. to impose specific inquiries or advice for a necessary to obtain a valid faretta waiver. (lawley, supra, 27 cal.4th at p. 140.) to do so would be at odds with the well-established rwhether a review of the entire record discloses a knowing and voluntary waiver. (ibid.) the test of a valid waiver is not whether the specific warnings and advisements were given, but whether the record as a whole demonstrates the defendant understood the disadvantages of self-representation, including the risks and complexities of the particular case. furthermore, the suggested lopez admonitions are for the purpose of ensuring a clear record of a knowing and voluntary waiver of counsel, not to create a threshold of competency for the waiver of counsel. (koontz, supra, 27 cal.4th at p. 1071. aware of the potential impact of their conditiin johnson, the court pointed out the improper denial of in pro. per. privileges for a gray-area defendant does not amount to a denial of due process. (johnson, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 527.) in any event, it is unlikely that mentally-ill defendants bent on self-representation will spontaneously, or in response to trial court inquiries, disclose their mental health history or present their individual mental difficulties to trial court. 22 (see united states v. hill (7th cir. 2001) 252 f.3d 919, 928.) more likely, where a defendant is not suspected prior to trial of being dusky pretrial and trial performance that will disclose gray-area incompetence. edwards or johnson decisions supports his claim that new and specific faretta inquiries or advice are required to implement the principles set out in those decisions. nor do the decisions suggest defendants should be routinely asked or advised about their potential mental disabilities during the faretta waiver. rather, the johnson court warns trial courts that it contemplates the new heightened standard for denial or revocation of self-representation -representation. competence of a defendant seeking self-representation. it needs to do so only if it is considering denying self-johnson, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 530.) and, johnson indicates the new heightened standard for competency is intended to be used only in those few instances where doubts arise during the proceedings that a defendant suffers a mental illness to the point where he or she cannot carry out the basic tasks needed to present the defense without the help of counsel. (ibid.) 7 7 nevertheless, prospectively, after johnson, trial courts may wish to advise defendants one pitfall of self-representation is that in pro. per. privileges may be revoked during trial if it becomes apparent to the trial court the defendant has a mental illness that prevents him from performing the basic tasks of self-representation. but, as in lopez, we conclude no one specific advisement is required in every case. the validity of a waiver of counsel is determined by examining the whole record. 23 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: croskey, j. aldrich, j. 