filed 9/20/13 p. v. woods ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. gerald w. woods, defendant and appellant. b246870 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma054857) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. hayden a. zacky, judge. affirmed. siri shetty, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, kenneth c. byrne and shira b. seigle, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________ 2 a jury convicted gerald woods of one count of making a criminal threat and one count of witness intimidation. in a bench trial, the court found that woods had suffered three prior convictions for serious or violent felonies for purposes of the three strikeslaw (one conviction of assault with a deadly weapon and two convictions of robbery). s romero1 motion to dismiss all three strike convictions, the court sentenced woods to two consecutive terms of 25 years to life plus two consecutive five-year terms under penal code section 667, subdivision (a)(1). woods argues that the court abused its discretion in not dismissing at least two of three prior strike convictions as permitted under romero, supra, 13 cal.4th at page 530. woods maintains that the court only looked at his prior felony convictions in people v. williams (1998) 17 cal.4th 148, 161, our supreme court explained that in ruling on a motion to dismiss prior conviction allegations under the three strikes law, the trial court must consider whether, in light of the nature and circumstances of the present offense, the prior felony convictions, and the particulars of the defendants background, character, and prospects, the defendant may be deemed outside the spirit of the three strikes law, in whole or in part, and hence should be treated as though he had not previously been convicted of one or more serious or violent felonies. on appealthat the sentencing decision was irrational or arbitrary. (people v. superior court (alvarez) (1997) 14 cal.4th 968, 977.) the legislature establishes a sentencing norm and requires the court explicitly to justify a departure therefrom, and the court sentences in conformity with the legislative standard, all that is required on the appellate record is a showing that the court was aware of its discretion to select an alternate (people v. langevin (1984) 155 cal.app.3d 520, 524.) 1 people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497.) 3 the record in this case shows that the court was aware of its discretion and that it considered factors in s prior strike convictions including evidence that he was on felony probation when he committed the current crimes, that this ing his strikes and that he had more than 20 disciplinary incidents while in custody for the current offenses. although s prior strike convictions occurred 20 years earlier, woods did not lead a crime-free life in the interim. in 1994 he was convicted of inflicting corporal injury on a spouse. in 1999 he was convicted of reckless driving. in 2000 he was again convicted of inflicting corporal injury on a spouse and misdemeanor making of criminal threats. in 2011 he was convicted of grand theft, and it was while he was on probation for this felony that he committed the current crimes. we find no abuse of discretion in not dismissing the prior strike convictions in this case. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. rothschild, j. we concur: mallano, p. j. johnson, j. 