filed 9/23/14 p. v. pearson ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. coltrane larshan pearson, defendant and appellant. b246219 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba397111) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, ronald s. coen, judge. affirmed. christopher a. darden for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and allison h. chung, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________ 2 introduction in an amended information, the people charged defendant coltrane larshan pearson with making a criminal threat (pen. code,  422, subd. (a); count 1); unlawful driving or taking of a vehicle (veh. code,  10851, subd. (a); count 2); evading an officer with willful disregard for safety (id.,  2800.2, subd. (a); count 3); possession of a firearm by a felon (pen. code,  29800, subd. (a)(1); count 4); two counts of misdemeanor hit and run driving (veh. code,  20002, subd. (a); counts 6 & 7); and carjacking (pen. code,  215, subd. (a); count 8).1 the people also alleged various enhancements and prior convictions, including the allegation pursuant to penal code section 12022, subdivision (a)(1), that pearson was armed with a firearm during the commission of the crimes charged in counts 2 and 3. after the people rested, counsel for pearson made a motion for acquittal pursuant to penal code section 1118.1. the trial court granted the motion as to count 6 and denied it as to the remaining counts. the jury found pearson guilty on counts 2, 3, 4, and 7 and found true the allegations in counts 2 and 3 that during the commission of the offenses pearson was armed with a firearm. on counts 1 and 8 the jury found pearson not guilty. during a court trial on the allegations of ourt found true the allegation in counts 2, 3, and 4 that pearson had suffered one strike within the meaning of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12), as well as the allegation that he had served two prior prison terms within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). the trial court sentenced pearson to state prison for an aggregate term of 12 years and 6 months. pearson makes five arguments on appeal: (1) the evidence is insufficient to support his conviction on count 4 for possession of a firearm by a felon or 1 prior to trial the court dismissed count 5, which alleged that pearson committed a residential burglary (pen. code,  459). 3 finding that he was armed during the commission of the crimes alleged in counts 2 and 3; (2) the trial court erroneously refused to allow him to impeach the victim with two misdemeanor petty theft convictions; (3) the trial court failed to discharge its sua sponte duty to give the jury a claim of right instruction; (4) he was denied the effective assistance of counsel because his attorney failed to request a claim of right instruction; and (5) the trial court made three sentencing errors under penal code section 654. we find no merit in any affirm. factual background charlzet jamison2 and her boyfriend pearson lived together in an apartment on east imperial highway in los angeles. jamison owned a gray dodge magnum. both jamison and pearson drove the car and made car payments. pearson had a set of keys to the car. on april 28, 2012 jamison and pearson got into an argument in the apartment. jamison believed pearson had been unfaithful. pearson denied the accusation and stated he did not want to argue and was leaving. jamison, who did not want pearson to leave, followed pearson and continued to argue with him. pearson went to leave in the car. jamison told him to give the keys back and not to take her car. . pearson had hit jamison in the past, and she was afraid of pearson and believed his threat.3 2 the trial court allowed the prosecutor to read preliminary hearing testimony to the jury. pearson does not challenge that ruling on appeal. 3 at the preliminary hearing jamison denied telling the police that she and pearson were arguing or that pearson took her keys and drove off in her car. jamison also denied telling the police that she asked pearson to return the keys and not to take her car, and that he responded by telling her to shut up or he would beat her. she denied telling the police that she was afraid of pearson because he hit her in the past and would hit her again. 4 pearson drove away in car, and jamison called 911 and asked the police to come to her house.4 said sstreet and western avenue and that she knew where pearson was. her friend drove jamison to 92nd street and western avenue, where jamison saw her car. jamison confronted pearson in the parking lot of a liquor store and asked for her car back. pearson said, 5 pearson then got into away, and parked near a liquor store. jamison again called 911. los angeles police officer jorge martinez responded and went to 92nd street and western avenue. upon his arrival he saw a woman waving him down. the woman jamison also told officer martinez that she had asked the individual who took her car to return it, he told her the officer to retrieve her car. offi parked in the middle of the block on the east side of the street pointing in a northerly direction. officer martofficer jaramillo, drove northbound, car, and activated his red light. the officers got out of their patrol car and approached the dodge magnum. from his vantage point on the passenger side, officer martinez could only see officer jaramillo, who approached on side of the car, asked pearson to get out of the car twice. each time pearson said he did 4 morning stewart heard jamison arguing with pearson. stewart testified that pearson was trying to leave, and jamstewart regularly saw pearson drive the gray magnum. 5 at the preliminary jamison denied telling the police that when she asked pearson for her car back he said to go away or he would kill her, or even that she saw pearson in or near her car. 5 not do anything and he did not need to get out of the car. after the second request pearson removed some keys from the center console and started the engine. the officers backed up toward their patrol car. pearson then accelerated, colliding with the car parked in front of him. he reversed, and again accelerated forward, hitting the car in front of him. pearson accelerated until he had enough room to maneuver out of his parking space and then drove northbound on western. a high speed pursuit on surface streets ensued. at one point during the pursuit, the officers lost sight of pearson when he turned southbound onto st. andrews place from 89th street. when the officers turned onto st. andrews place, pearson was already at the end of the block. by the time the officers approached 91st street and st. andrews place, pearson turned southbound onto van ness. when the officers turned onto van ness, they again lost sight of pearson. with the help of citizens who pointed in the direction pearson had traveled, the officers continued their pursuit and eventually were able to observe the car a considerable distance away. when the officers turned onto crenshaw boulevard, officer martinez observed that the vehicle they were pursuing had collided with a wrought iron fence that surrounded an apartment complex, entered a parking lot, and collided with a parked car. e driver was no longer inside. yausmenda freeman, a woman in the yard area of the apartment complex, pointed continued their pursuit on foot. the officers encountered a man who also pointed west. eventually officer martinez came to another parking lot where he observed pearson trying to get into a red suv that was about to leave the parking lot. after the suv drove off, officer martinez approached pearson, and ordered him to the ground. los angeles police officer michael estrada responded to a call regarding the pursuit. officer estrada arrived at a large apartment complex with multiple structures, sharing a common driveway and gated fence. officer estrada spoke to freeman, who told him that she had been sitting in front of her residence when she saw a gray car crash into the gate. freeman explained that she saw the driver get out of the car and run into the apartment complex. the driver yelled to freeman something to the 6 into police officers she directed them to the area she last saw him running. show-up to see if she could identify a person other officers had detained nearby. when ad . . . entified pearson as the person freeman identified.6 received information that a witness, derek haskell, had called and stated that he had observed someone throw an object from the car that the officers had pursued. haskell told a responding officer that he had been standing in his driveway when he heard the sound of tires screeching near the corner of 89th street and st. andrews place. when he looked in that direction, he saw a dodge turning from 89th street onto st. andrews place, followed by a police car. both cars were traveling fast. haskell only saw one person, a black male, in the dodge.7 as the car. after checking on family members who had been outside during the pursuit, haskell crossed the street and walked toward the area where the driver of the dodge had thrown the silver object. haskell found a silver handgun lying on the front lawn of a vacant house, and called 911. when the police arrived, haskell directed them to the 6 although freeman testified at trial, she did not remember if the man who crashed through the fence and ran through her apartment complex had spoken to her. she also did not remember identifying pearson during the field show up, and she did not identify pearson in court. freeman candidly stated that she did not want to testify out of concern for her safety and the safety of her family. 7 because he did not get a good look at the person driving the dodge, haskell was unable to identify the driver. 7 handgun. los angeles police officer garrett pascolla photographed the firearm before another officer collected it. discussion a. sufficiency of the evidence pearson challenges the sufficiency of the evidence supporting his conviction on count 4 of possession of a firearm by a felon. he similarly argues that the evidence was he possessed a firearm while unlawfully taking or driving a vehicle (count 2) and evading a police officer (count 3). of the evidence to support a conviction, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce cases in which the prosecution relies mainly on circumstantial evidence. [citation.]people v. mccurdy (2014) ___ cal.4th ___, ___ [2014 wl 3953468, p. 27].) the same standard we apply to a conviction. . . . [citation.] [citation.] (people v. hajek and vo (2014) 58 cal.4th 1144, 1197.) the jury found pearson guilty on count 4 of violating penal code section 29800, subdivision under the laws of the united states, the state of california, or any other state, government, or country . . . and who owns, purchases, receives, or has in possession or 8 the elements of this [crime] are conviction of a felony and ownership or knowing possession, custody, or control of a firearmpeople v. osuna (2014) 225 cal.app.4th 1020, 1030.) a defendant possesses a weapon when it is under his dominion and control. [citation.] a defendant has actual possession when the weapon is in his immediate possession or control. he has constructive possession when the weapon, while not in his actual possession, is nonetheless under his dominion and control, either directly or through others. [citations.] [citation.] implicitly, the crime is committed the instant the felon in any way has a firearm within his control. id. at pp. 1029-1030.) hat he saw a silver object thrown from the dodge magnum as it sped by and that he found a silver handgun in the area where the object landed, together stainless steel handgun, is substantial evidence that pearson, who stipulated that he was convicted of the felonies alleged in count 4, was a felon in possession of a firearm. the fact that officer martinez did not actually see pearson discard the weapon testimony that, by the time he and his partner turned onto st. andrews place, pearson had gained some distance on them and was already at the end of the block. the jury reasonably could have concluded that pearson discarded the gun before the officers turned onto st. andrews place and that pearson, a felon, possessed a firearm. this same substantial when he evaded the police. (see people v. hajek and vo, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 1197.) with regard to the armed enhancement alleged in count 2, pearson argues that there is no evidence in the record that he possessed a firearm when he left the apartment . the people can prove possession, however, by circumstantial evidence. (see people v. law (2011) 195 cal.app.4th 976, 978-979 [sentence enhancement can be established by circumstantial evidence]; cf. people v. busch (2010) 187 cal.app.4th 150, [t]he elements of unlawful possession may be established by circumstantial evidence and any reasonable inferencefrom the 9 evidence establishing that pearson was in possession of a firearm while parked on western avenue the jury reasonably could have inferred that he either brought the firearm with him when he left the apartment or that he already had the weapon in the car when he got into the car, and thus was armed with a firearm when he left the apartment in (see law, supra, at p. 983 ircumstantial evidence that establishes a defendants personal use of a gun within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivision (b), also suffices for personal use of a firearm for purposes of assault with a firearm ( 245, subd. (a)(2)) and the personal use enhancement of section 12022.5, subdivision (a)substantial evidence suon the armed enhancement alleged in count 2. b. impeachment before the people commenced their case-in-chief, counsel for pearson sought to impeach jamison with two misdemeanor convictions for petty theft and one felony conviction for burglary. crimes of moral turpitude, they objected to their admission pursuant to evidence code section 352. the court allowed pearson to impeach jamison with the felony conviction for burglary but not the misdemeanor convictions for petty theft.8 pearson challenges misdemeanor petty theft convictions. onduct that involves moral turpitude, people v. carter (2014) 227 8 evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger 10 cal.app.4th 322, 329; accord, people v. wheeler (1992) 4 cal.4th 284, 295.)9 however, the fact of conviction of a misdemeanor remains inadmissible under traditional hearsay rules when offered to prove that the witness committed misconduct bearing on his or her wheeler, supra, at p. 288; see people v. contreras (2013) 58 cal.4th 123, 157, fn. 24amounting to a misdemeanor has some logical bearing upon the veracity of a witness in a criminal proceeding, that conduct is admissible, subject to trial court discretion, as i (wheeler, supra, at p. 295; see people v. clark (2011) 52 cal.4th 856, 931 [the admissibility of any past misconduct for impeachment is limited at the outset by the relevance requirement of moral turpitude,[b]eyond this, the latitude [evidence code] section 352 allows for exclusion of impeachment evidence in individual cases is broad].) xercising its discretion under evidence code section 352, a court must always take into account, as applicable, those factors traditionally deemed pertinent in this area. [citations.] but additional considerations may apply when evidence other than felony convictions is offered for impeachment. in general, a misdemeanoror any other conduct not amounting to a felonyis a less forceful indicator of immoral character or dishonesty than is a felony. moreover, impeachment evidence other than felony convictions entails problems of proof, unfair surprise, and moral turpitude evaluation which felony convictions do not present. hence, courts may and should consider with particular care whether the admission of such evidence might involve undue time, confusion, people v. wheeler, supra, 4 cal.4th at pp. 296-297, fn. omitted; see people v. contreras, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 157, fn. 24 9 petty theft is a crime of moral turpitude. (people v. mendoza (2000) 78 cal.app.4th 918, 925; people v. waldecker (1987) 195 cal.app.3d 1152, 1156.) 11 lax moral character and dishonesty than does either an act or conviction involving a .) we review a courts ruling under evidence code section 352 by applying an abuse of discretion standard. [citation.] this discretion allows the trial court broad power to control the presentation of proposed impeachment evidence criminal trials from degenerating into nitpicking wars of attrition over collateral credibility issues. [citation.] [citation.] (people v. lightsey (2012) 54 cal.4th 668, 714.) the trial court initially petty theft convictions for impeachment purposes because the court had ruled that the prosecution could impeach jamison with her prior felony conviction for burglary, which carries more weight in establishing immoral character or dishonesty than a misdemeanor. (see people v. contreras, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 157.) implicit s was a stronger indication of dishonesty than misdemeanor conduct, that the felony conviction would sufficiently allow pearson to impeach , and that the misdemeanor convictions would be cumulative. discretion.10 10 later in the trial, during the defense case, the prosecutor informed the trial court , and renewed the objection to its use for impeachment. the trial court impliedly overruled the objection, pearson does not argue that he renewed his request to impeach jamison with her felony burglary conviction was actually a misdemeanor conviction, nor that these 12 c. claim of right instruction pearson contends that the trial court had a sua sponte duty to instruct the jury on the claim of right defense to count 2, taking or driving a vehicle without consent and with the intent to deprive the owner of possession of the vehicle. pearson points to evidence that he contributed to paying for the car, had keys to the car, and often drove it. the people contend that a jury instruction for claim of right was a pinpoint instruction that the trial court had no duty to give because pearson did not request it. the people are correct. pinpoint instructions relate particular facts to a legal issue in the case or pinpoint the crux of a defendants case, such as mistaken identification or alibi. [citation.] they are required to be given upon request when there is evidence supportive of the theory . . . . people v. wilkins (2013) 56 cal.4th 333, 348-349.) in people v. anderson court has no obligation to provide a sua sponte instruction on accident where . . . the idend[s] no (id. at p. 998, fn. omitted.) in people v. lawson (2013) 215 cal.app.4th 108 the court anderson applies with equal force to the defense of mistake of fact, or any other defense that operates only to negate the mental state element of the id. at p. 117.) the lawson instruction on mistake of fact, the trial court did not have a duty to instruct on the defense ibid.) -of-mistakenly held, that he has a right or claim to property he takes from another negates the felonious intent people v. tufunga (1999) 21 cal.4th 935, 938; see people v. fenderson (2010) 188 cal.app.4th 625, 642-643.) the defense of claim of right, like the defenses of accident and mistake of fact, negates a mental state element of the crime: intent to deprive the owner of possession without the (see people v. ledbetter a claim- 13 of-right defense can negate the animus furandi element of robbery where the defendant is seeking to regain specific property in which he in good faith believes he has a bona fide claim of ownership or title11 thus, the defendant must request a pinpoint instruction on the defense of claim of right. because counsel for pearson did not ask the trial court to give a pinpoint instruction on the claim of right defense, the court had no duty to give it. (people v. anderson, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 998; people v. lawson, supra, 215 cal.app.4th at p. 118.)12 d. ineffective assistance of counsel instruction on the defense of claim of right deprived him of the effective assistance of counsel. in order to demonstrate ineffective assistance of counsel, a defendant must first show counsels performance was deficient because his representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness . . . under prevailing professional norms.[citations.] second, he must also show prejudice flowing from counsels performance or lack thereof. [citations.] prejudice is shown when there is a reasonable probability that, but for counsels unprofessional errors, the result of the proceeding would have been different. a reasonable probability is a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome. people v. goldman (2014) 225 cal.app.4th 950, 957; see strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687-694 [104 s.ct. 2052, 80 l.ed.2d 674]; people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 1003.) 11 a]nimus furandipeople v. tufunga, supra, 21 cal.4th at p. 938; see people v. hawkins (1991) 1 cal.app.4th 880, 884-he terms animo or animus furandi are the common law phrases for the intent to permanently deprive a person of their property 12 we do not decide whether the claim of right defense applies to the crime of unlawful taking of a vehicle. (see people v. montoya (2004) 33 cal.4th 1031, 1035, fn. 3 [declining to decide whether the claim of right defense applies to the carjacking statute].) 14 m on the ground of lack of sufficient prejudice, . . (people v. goldman, supra, 225 cal.app.4th at pp. 957-958; see people v. lucas (2014) ils to show prejudice, the trial court instructed the jury that in order to prove that pearson violated vehicle code sectook or drove a vehicle belonging to another person; two, the other person had not consented to the taking or driving of her vehicle; and three, when the person took or drove the vehicle, he had the specific intent to deprive the owner either permanently or voluntarily and not under the influence of threats, force or duress; two, must have knowledge of the true nature of the act or transaction involved; and three, must possess the mental capacity to make an intelligent choice whether or not to do something proposed by another person. merely being passive does not amount to consent. consent requires a free will and positive co unlawfully. in his closing argno taking, ladies and gentlemen, because she said there was no taking. they shared this car. they shared this car. he paid the note on occasion. [a neighbor] told you that she had seen him reguljury of his defense within the context of the instructions given by the trial court. lawfully because she regularly allowed him to drive the car and thus consented to his taking and driving the car on april 28, 2012. thus, it is not reasonably 15 probable that the jury would have acquitted pearson of unlawfully taking or driving hicle if the trial court had given an instruction on the defense of claim of examination of the entire record establishes a reasonable probability that the error affected thpeople v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 165; see people v. hanna (2013) 218 cal.app.4th 455, 462, 463 [e]rror in failing to instruct on the mistake-of-fact defense it was not reasonably probable defendant would have obtained a more favorable outcome had the court instructed on the mistake-of-fact defenseprejudicial. therefore, pearson has not demonstrated that he was denied the effective assistance of counsel. e. penal code section 654 the court sentenced pearson to state prison for a total term of 12 years on counts 2, 3, and 4 and to county jail for six months on count 7. on count 2 the trial court imposed a term of seven years, consisting of the upper term of three years doubled to six years pursuant to the three strikes law, plus one year for the armed allegation. on count 3 the court imposed a consecutive term of one year and eight months, consisting of one-third of the middle term of two years, or eight months, doubled to 16 months under the three strikes law, plus one-third of the one-year armed allegation, or four months. on count 4 the court imposed a consecutive term of one year and four months, consisting of one-third of the middle term of two years, or eight months, doubled to 16 months. on count 7, the court imposed a consecutive term of six months in county jail. finally, the court imposed two, 1-year prior prison term enhancements pursuant to penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b). pearson argues that the trial court violated penal code section 654 (section 654) (1) by sentencing him to consecutive terms of imprisonment on counts 2 and 3, (2) imposing one year for each of the armed allegations in counts 2 and 3, and 16 (3) sentencing him to state prison on count 4 after having imposed sentences on the armed allegations in counts 2 and 3. we find no error . subdivision (a) of se[a]n act or omission that is punishable in different ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the act or omission be punished under more than one provision. whether a course of criminal conduct is divisible and therefore gives rise to more than one act within the meaning of section 654 depends on the intent and objective of the actor. if all of the offenses were incident to one objective, the defendant may be punished for any one of such offenses but not for more than one. [citation.]people v. capistrano (2014) 59 cal.4th 830, 885a course of conduct divisible in time, although directed to one objective, may give rise to multiple violations and punishment. [citation.] this is particularly so where the offenses are temporally separated in such a way as to afford the defendant opportunity to reflect and to renew his or her intent before committing the next one, thereby aggravating the violation of public security or policy people v. petronella (2013) 218 cal.app.4th 945, 964.) [t]he purpose of section 654 is to insure that a defendants punishment will be commensurate with his culpability.[citation.] it is [the] defendants intent and objective, not temporal proximity of his offenses, which determine whether the transaction is indivisible.s intent and objectives are factual questions for the trial court; [to permit multiple punishments,] there must be evidence to support [the] finding the defendant formed a separate intent and objective for each offense for which he was sentenced.people v. capistrano, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 886, fn. omitted.) pearson contends that the trial court violated section 654 when it imposed consecutive sentences on count 2, unlawful taking or driving of a vehicle, and count 3, evading an officer with willful disrthis 17 contention is based on the erroneous premise that pearson did not commit the crime of unlawful taking or driving of a vehicle until he had led officers martinez and jaramillo on a high speed chase. pearson completed tcar when he drove it from the apartment on east imperial highway. the crime of evading occurred later when pearson refused to cooperate with officers martinez and jaramillo and then drove off in the car, leading the officers on a high speed chase. because counts 2 and 3 were not part of a single indivisible course of conduct with a single criminal objective, section 654 did not prevent the trial court from imposing consecutive sentences on these counts. the trial court also did not err by imposing consecutive armed enhancements on counts 2 and 3. pearson argues when he threw a gun from a fleeing vehicle. one gun. one toss. one i the contention is also based on the erroneous premise that counts 2 and 3 were part of an indivisible course of conduct. r two crimes, then it cannot bar punishment for the same enhancements attached to those separate substantive offenses. this is true even if the same type of sentence enhancement is people v. wooten (2013) 214 cal.app.4th 121, 130.) as noted, pearson had unlawfully taken and driven began to evade the police. the two substantive offenses constituted separate criminal acts with separate criminal objectives. because pearson was armed with a firearm during the commission of both crimes, and because section 654 does not bar the imposition of consecutive terms for the underlying substantive offenses, section 654 does not preclude imposition of consecutive enhancements on counts 2 and 3. finally, pearson contends that the trial court erred in sentencing him to 16 months in state prison on count 4, felon in possession of a firearm, after imposing consecutive armed enhancements on counts 2 and 3. this assertion of sentencing error, like the others, is based on a faulty premisefelon at that very same moment wherein he was allegedly armed with a firearm during the commission of the acts described in counts 2 and 3, 18 separacalifornia law does n -felon commits a crime using a firearm, and arrives at the crime scene already in possession of the firearm, it may reasonably be inferred that the firearm possession is a separate and antecedent offense, carried out with an independent, distinct intent from the primary crime. therefore, section 654 will not bar punishment for both firearm possession by a felon [citation] and for the primary crime of which the defendant people v. jones (2002) 103 cal.app.4th 1139, 1141; see people v. vang (2010) 184 cal.app.4th 912, 916 [jones ate punishment for shooting at an inhabited dwelling [citation] and possession of a firearm by a convicted felon [citation] because the defendant must have people v. ratcliff . . . simultaprimary offense[s] . . . people v. bradford (1976) 17 cal.3d 8, 22.) therefore, the trial court did not violate section 654 by sentencing pearson to a consecutive sentence on count 4 after having imposed armed enhancements on counts 2 and 3. 19 disposition the judgment is affirmed. segal, j.* we concur: woods, acting p. j. zelon, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 