filed 4/1/14 p. v. castellanos ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose l. castellanos, defendant and appellant. b247986 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba380676) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. norm shapiro, judge. affirmed. linn davis, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews, supervising deputy attorney general, roberta l. davis, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______________________________ 2 this case is before us for the second time. a jury convicted jose l. castellanos on one count of second degree robbery under penal code section 211 and found true the allegation that the offense had been committed to benefit a criminal street gang under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1). the trial court sentenced appellant to the low term of two years for the robbery plus five years for the gang enhancement. in the prior appeal, we concluded that substantial evidence did not support the gang enhancement and therefore reversed that finding and remanded the matter to the trial court for resentencing. on remand, the trial court imposed the upper term of five years on the robbery count. on appeal, appellant contends the trial court relied on impermissible factors during the resentencing, thus denying appellant his constitutional rights. we disagree and affirm. background on january 31, 2011, salvador figueroa was at a video arcade when he went outside to check on his bicycle which he had locked and chained to a parking meter. after checking on his bike, figueroa turned around to re-renter the arcade and saw codefendant oscar ernesto lopez blocking the entry. lopez asked figueroa how much the bicycle cost and if he would sell it. figueroa responded that the bicycle was inexpensive but that he did not want to sell it because it was his only means of transportation. lopez again offered to buy the bicycle and figueroa declined. lopez then became aggressive and said, figueroa tried to walk away when appellant came out of the arcade and blocked out of your pockets. when figueroa did not do so, appellant stated, figueroa at this point noticed the shape of a gun in 1 figueroa 1 figueroa testified that he never saw a gun, only the shape of one and no gun was found on appellant or lopez. 3 emptied his pants pocket and handed lopez two dollars in quarters. appellant again insisted that figueroa take everything out of his pockets and figueroa saw that his cell phone was visible in his shirt breast pocket. when appellant reached to grab the cell phone, figueroa initially tried to cover the phone to stop appellant and then thought better of it and let appellant take the cell phone. appellant and lopez then ran away. figueroa went into the arcade and called the police. after arresting appellant and lopez, police officers asked figueroa to identify the suspectand identified lopez as the one who wanted the key to his bicycle and stood by as figueroa was being robbed. appellant was convicted of second degree robbery and the jury found to be true the gang allegation. original sentencing codefendant lopez was sentenced to the upper term of five years on the robbery count and the five year gang enhancement was imposed and stayed. five-year sentence because appellant had no prior felony convictions and because the case did not -prosecution had made a pretrial offer of 10 years where there was -year approximate seven-year sentence. the court stated at the hearing that it understood where the prosecution wdeference from the district attorney iwas sentenced to a five-year term and had been willing to take a pretrial offer for a five- 4 year term but could not because appellant declined his pretrial offer and requested trial.2 the court, however, subsequent conviction is not being considered as any factor in regards to the punishment, sentence after h the trial court explained that it disagreed appellant should get the same five-year sentence as lopez. while the trial court believed that the lengthy maximum sentence of 15 ythe trial court sentenced appellant to an aggregate term of seven years based on the lower term of two years on the second degree robbery count and five years on the gang enhancement. in addition to the usual fines and fees, the court ordered $50 restitution to figueroa as hearing after successful appeal after appellant successful appeal of the gang enhancement, the trial court held a scheduling conference with no parties present.3 the court stateposed is as follows: at the time of sentencing . . . lopez was given a five-year term, the and noted that lopez had been willing to plead to the offense with a five-year term but appellant had wished to go to trial-year sentence, the court imposed a low term of two years with 2 the prosecution offered a package plea offer, requiring appellant to accept a 10-year plea offer and lopez to accept a five-year plea offer; since appellant declined the 10-year offer, lopez was unable to enter a plea in return for five years before trial. 3 the trial court noted that after this court reversed on the gang allegation, the case returned to the trial court and it took appropriate action as to lopez. we grant the order for august 2, 2011, which includes the february 11, 2013 nunc pro tunc order, in 5 the five-no time felt that [appellant] should receive less time than [lopez]. in fact, the court felt, but, as -year term which appellate counsel indicates is close to having been served, and [appellant] is due to be r resentencing at the resentencing hearing, the trial court noted -year term, which i thought was very very fair position for them to take, under the circumstance. and in imposing and in requesting that seven-year term, the only way to get that term was to impose the low term of two years for the offense with a five-year additional term for the gang enhancethe court noted, however, that the court of appeal determined the gang enhancement was erroneous and, while the prosecutor had indicated4 that she believed the court of a the beneficiary of the error. the court also at the time at the original sentence, that a five-year term is therefore the appropriate term. the only reason you were given the low term was to accommodate a seven-year term, and the only way to get to that seven-year term was the low term of two and the five-yea 4 that the court of appeal had looked at the matter carefully, and had the issue or the testimony or the question at the trial been framed a little bit differently, she believes it sic] concern; however, it was what it was what it was, and it was erroneous, and, therefore you were the beneficiary of the court of appeal opinion ordering this court to resentence you, striking that five-year this discussion took place. 6 trial counsel argued that and that the mitigation, because the court definitely could have imposed a higher sentence at the defense cou the court then stated, the sin other cases it had given sentences after trial that were the same or less than what was offered before trial. after the court read out loud the transcript from the sentencing hearing and sentence greater than two years, the court stated: sometimes people such as [appellant] benefit, and i want to use this word very carefully just a quirk in the situation, and if that happens, it happens. this court, however, feels that your client the sentence initially, in the transcript i read from, the court was thinking in excess of five years, and the district attorney urged the court to kind of put on the brakes and maybe impose perhaps a seven-year term, which i thought was very fair and reas the prosecution argued for a new sentence of the upper term of five years, noting the court then sentenced appellant to the upper term of five years on the second degree two-year or three- discussion on appeal, appellant contends that the trial court impermissibly re-sentenced appellant to the upper term because appellant had refused to accept a 10-year plea bargain 7 e was no lopez, arguing that appellant and lopez were equally culpable. finally, appellant contends that none of the factors the trial court gave for imposing the upper term are valid aggravating factors and that therefore the middle term of three years was appropriate. we disagree and affirm. was the more culpable of the two defendants. robbery of the second degree is punishable by imprisonment in the state prison for two, three, or five , subd. (a)(2).) imprisonment is to be imposed and the statute specifies three possible terms, the choice of the appropriate term shall rest within the sound discretion of the court. . . . the court shall select the term which, in the courts discretion, best serves the interests of justice. the court shall set forth on the record the reasons for imposing the term selected . 1170, subd. (b).) . . . . we must affirm unless there is a clear showing the people v. avalos (1996) 47 cal.app.4th 1569, 1582.) a single aggravating factor supported by substantial evidence is sufficient to impose either an upper term or a consecutive term. (people v. osband (1996) 13 cal.4th 622, 732; people v. jones (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 853, 863, fn. 7 [only single aggravating factor needed to impose aggravated term].) party attacking the sentence to clearly show that the sentencing decision was irrational or arbitrary. [citation.] in the absence of such a showing, the trial court is presumed to have acted to achieve legitimate sentencing objectives, and its discretionary determination to impose a particupeople v. superior court (alvarez) (1997) 14 cal.4th 968, 977-978.) 8 a imposing any sentence permitted under the applicable statutes and rules on remand, subject (people v. burbine resentencing by an appellate court, the trial court is entitled to consider the entire sentencing scheme. not limited to merely striking illegal portions, the trial court may reconsider all sentencing choices. [citations.] this rule is justified because an aggregate prison term is not a series of separate independent terms, but one term made up of interdependent components. (people v. hill (1986) 185 cal.app.3d 831, 834.) a defendant, however, may not be penalized for exercising his right to a jury trial. (in re lewallen (1979) 23 cal.3d 274, 278-281; people v. collins (2001) 26 cal.4th 297, the exercentencing discretion cannot be exercised with the purpose of punishing a successful appeal. (people v. ali (1967) 66 e his right to appeal . . . .alabama v. smith (1989) 490 u.s. 794, 798-799 [requires that vindictiveness against a defendant for having successfully attacked his first conviction sentence was people v. angus (1980) 114 cal.app.3d 973, 989-990.) here, the trial court years to five years after the five-year gang enhancement was reversed. the trial court stated that request for a trial was not being considered as a factor and stated at the re-sentencing hearing that sentence was not a punishment for going to trial. in the ex parte hearing, the trial court stated that, based on facts of the case, it felt appellant should be punished more severely than lopez, and at the re-of the two individuals here. although appellant characterizes appellant and figueroa as 9 equally culpable, the record supports conclusion: while lopez initiated the encounter with figueroa by asking to buy his bicycle and later demanding that figueroa give him the key to the bicycle, it was appellant who threatened figueroa to empty his pockets or risk his life, appellant who pointed something in his pocket that looked like a gun, and appellant who, after figueroa complied by taking money out of his pocket and handing it to lopez, demanded and key to the bicycle, he did not take either the bicycle or the key from figueroa. rather, it was not unt5 sentence appellant to the upper term on the second degree robbery count. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. chaney, acting p. j. we concur: johnson, j. miller, j.* 5 to the extent appellant argues in his reply brief that the -sentencing of appellant was influenced by an ex parte conversation with the prosecution in which the prosecutor indicated that differently worded questions to the gang expert e gang enhancement in -sentencing was based because of speculation about possible gang evidence. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 