filed 8/15/14 p. v. molina ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose molina, defendant and appellant. b247924 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba381488) appeal from a judgment of the superior court for the county of los angeles. henry j. hall, judge. affirmed. tanya dellaca, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and kimberley j. baker-guillemet, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________ 2 summary a jury convicted defendant jose molina of three counts of attempted murder, and found true allegations that the attempted murders were committed willfully, deliberately and with premeditation. allegations of personal use and intentional discharge of a firearm, in one case causing great bodily injury, were also found true, as were allegations the crimes were committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang. defendant challenges the hearing testimony of an unavailable witness, contending the prosecution failed to use due diligence to secure the was relevant to impeach the unavailable witness. we find no merit in contentions and affirm the judgment. facts 1. the crimes and the investigation on february 20, 2011, omar b. and his brother, pedro g., were visiting the home of their longtime friend, leonardo c. omar b. and pedro g. lived about 20 miles away, and had visited leonardo c.s house only a few times during the past two years. the three men had been watching a soccer game with leonardo c. family, and left the house to walk to a market on valley boulevard to buy some groceries. they were south of valley boulevard, returning from the store and walking through an alley around 4:00 p.m., when they were confronted by defendant and another man, standing at the other end of the alley. (valley boulevard is the southern boundary of el sereno gang territory, and the area south of valley boulevard is territory of a rival gang, metro 13; ) omar b. understood to mean holding a weapon with both hands, his arms fully extended, and was wearing a baby blue baseball cap. no one answered when (omar b. was not a gang member) and defendant immediately started shooting, taking one or two steps forward. . . . which he was holding 3 down next to his thigh when omar b. first saw it. then, the companion also started to walk forward and shot. omar b. run. there were two or three shots before omar b. turned and ran, and as he was turning he was shot in the left arm, and ran with his arm hanging down. he suffered two bullet wounds to his left arm. the shooting was rapid fire; the police later recovered ten 9-millimeter bullet casings and one live round. omar b. . he was facing me head on and i was w when the shooting stopped, the three victims went to a nearby house to ask for help. omar b. omar b. told police that, while they were walking back to leonardo house from the store before the the day after the shooting, detective jorge alfaro was assigned to investigate. he interviewed omar b. while he was in the hospital. omar b. told detective alfaro the shooter was a light-skinned hispanic male wearing a blue baseball cap. a few days after the shooting, omar b. identified defendant in a photo lineup. (pedro g. and leonardo c. were unable to identify anyone.) at trial, omar b. (omar b. thought he had given this description to detective alfaro, but detective alfaro testified he had not been given any information about moles.) defendant was an el sereno gang member. michael cruz and his brother, henry cruz, were also el sereno gang members. both michael and henry cruz were on parole at the time of the shooting. on february 23, 2011, officer aaron skiver conducted a parole search of the cruz residence. police recovered a photograph that included defendant and michael cruz with other known members or associates of the el sereno gang. after the search, michael cruz was arrested for a parole violation. detective 4 alfaro interviewed michael cruz, and spoke to him about the shooting. mr. cruz was cooperative, and gave him information suggesting defendant was involved in the shooting. detective alfaro did not threaten to charge mr. cruz, and assured him that he (the detective) would keep his information and identity confidential, and would relocate him if he wished. after detective alfaro spoke to mr. cruz, defendant was arrested. shortly after the day he was interviewed, probably within the next week or so, officer skiver observed michael cruz at his usual routine around his neighborhood, going to and from where he worked and lived. 2. the preliminary hearing michael cruz did not want to testify at d and the district attorney sought and obtained a court order under code of civil procedure section 1988 and penal code section 1332, authorizing service of a forthwith subpoena michael cruz, the people will request that michael cruz be required to post a surety bond of at least $100,000 in accordance with california penal code section 1332, or to remain recounted his efforts to serve a subpoena on mr. cruz. these included a telephone call from mr. cruz in which mr. cruz told the detective that he had already made it clear to detective alfaro in his interview that he would not come to court, and that the detective the day before the preliminary hearing, officer skiver and his partner saw mr. cruz in front of his house on lombardy boulevard and detained him who then came and brought mr. cruz to court. (that was the last time officer skiver ever saw mr. cruz in the neighborhood.) when detective alfaro brought mr. cruz to court, the detective, the prosecutor and mr. [mr. cruz] was sitting in the custody box in 5 voluntarily if they released him, and he promised to appear the next day. according to the gang, he wanted to leave that life behind, and he is more than willing to cooperate and mr. cruz was released. the court ordered him to return the next day for the preliminary hearing, and he did so, accompanied by his mother. at the preliminary hearing the next day, june 16, 2011, michael cruz identified defendant in the courtroom, and identified a photograph of the defendant and himself. he testified he and defendant were friends when the photograph was taken, and were members of the el sereno gang. mr. cruz testified that the defendant called him on the sell a nine-millimeter gun. anything that in your experience as a gang member, what did it mean to you when he said something had of any k outsi -examine mr. cruz. officer rudolph rivera, who saw michael cruz at the preliminary hearing, later testified at trial that when mr. cruz finished testifying and left the courtroom, he was officer rivera used to see mr. cruz walked out of the courtroom following his preliminary hearing testimony. (officer side of the train tracks is what ) 6 3. the trial sought to introduce his preliminary hearing testimony. after a hearing, the trial court ruled the testimony was admissible, and it was read to the jury during the course of the trial. evidence was adduced about the shooting, as described in part 1, ante. omar b. identified defendant. he ter ot at him that day. when he identified defendant from the photo lineup a few days after the shooting, he was [a] he had never seen defendant before. when he made the photographic identification of defendant, henry cruz. he did not recognize anyone in those photographic lineups. (officer skiver testified that michael cruz and defendant do not look anything alike.) in addition, the prosecutor presented evidence to establish the extent of omar b.injuries, and to establish that defendant committed the crimes for the benefit of a criminal street gang within the meaning of penal code section 186.22, subdivision (b). the defense presented evidence from guadalupe esparza, an investigator for the and various courtroom measurements. dr. scott fraser, an expert in eyewitness identification, testified about many factors that can compromise the accuracy of an identification. the parties stipulated that, during the preliminary hearing, omar b. was never asked to give a physical description of the shooters, and was not asked and did not testify attorney at trial was not the defense attorney at the preliminary hearing, and omar b. was not cross-examined at the preliminary hearing; that both henry and michael cruz were interviewed by detective alfaro after their arrests for parole violations; and that michael 7 cruz had previous convictions for felony criminal threats in 2004, possession or purchase for sale of narcotics in 2005, and possession for sale of narcotics in 2007. the jury found defendant guilty of all counts, found the attempted murders were committed willfully, deliberately and with premeditation, and found all the firearm and gang enhancement allegations true. the court imposed a total term of three consecutive life sentences, plus 25 years to life, plus 13 years four months. the court also ordered custody and good time/work time credits and made other orders not at issue in this appeal. discussion violated his sixth amendment confrontation rights because the prosecution failed to use lso argues the trial court erred in refusing to admit evidence that, when the police conducted a parole search of michael ter the shooting, they found nine-millimeter ammunition. we reject both contentions. 1. the due diligence issue a. the evidence of due diligence before the jury was selected, the court held an evidence code section 402 hearing he trial. ( 240, subd. (a)(5).) the hearing began on october 29, 2012, and revealed the following efforts. detective alfaro testified, as described in part 2, ante, of the facts, about obtaining that time, including statements that he wanted to leave the gang life behind and was willing to cooperateexact same thing he tol. after mr. cruz came to court be cooperative. i (the prosecutor also represented to the court 8 time of the preliminary hearing; that she would not have released mr. cruz the day before the preliminary hearing if she and detective alfaro had not been convinced he would voluntarily return; and neither s by the lombardy boulevard . . . of this year [(2012) gang has ordered that the person be killed, and [t]he consequencestays within gang territory after being labeled a snitch.) boulevard residence again and detective him . . . what i had heard and . . . mother was not cooperative; she asked the detective to leave her son alone and said her son could take care of himself. resources to see if he was maybe detained . . . , incarcerated, or if he had any forwarding address. i checked different resources to check about his whereabouts because i did him through any of those resources. he also checked to see if mr. officers huerta and 9 skiver, who were familiar with the area and the gang, if they had seen him, and they had not. uncooperative versus the way he had been at the time of the preliand i did not receive any phone calls from michael cruz as (detective alfaro also testified that, between the preliminary hearing and when he came to believe mr. cruz had fled, he drove by the lombardy boulevard be put out on him. but the anything were to happen, i could turned the matter over to investigator richard collins, who kept detective alfaro apprised of developments. mr. collins, who had been an investigator for the d12 cruz on july 17, 2012. when he spoke with the prosecutor that day, he understood mr. cruz was going to be uncooperative. on july 17, mr. collins checked to see if mr. cruz was in custody, and checked several different databases. those databases produced a residence address and phone mother. she told him tsaw her son occasionally, so mr. collins left his contact information to pass on to mr. cruz. mr. collins also left a voicemail message at another phone number. 10 the next day, mr. collins drove to the cruz residence on lombardy boulevard, but no one was there. he determined from the employment development department that mr. cruz had a work address. on july 19, mr. collins drove to the home of david h., a former employer of mr. cruz; mr. cruz had told police he sometimes stayed with david h. david h. did not know where mr. cruz was, but he provided a phone number and an address for mr . between july 18 and july 25, mr. collins drove to several other residence addresses he had obtained from the databases. at one of those locations, neighbors recalled mr. cruz living there, but said he had moved away. on july 25, mr. collins drove to told mr. collins he had not seen or heard from mr. cruz for over one month, and that mr. cruz knew that the police wanted him. mr. collins gave the grandfather his business card and asked him to have mr. cruz call him. that day, mr. collins went again to the lombardy boulevard address. he noticed the mercedes benz he had seen outside the house when he stopped by on july 18 was still parked in the same spot it had been. he recorded and ran the license plate number; it was registered to michael cruz. it was dirty and looked as though it had not been driven recently. also on july 25, mr. collins went to the work address he had obtained on july 18, and spoke to the general manager, hector j. hector j. told mr. collins that mr. cruz was employed there, but would not arrive for another hour. mr. collins, who was driving an unmarked crown victoria, waited for mr. cruz to arrive. while he was waiting, mr. cruz called hector j. and asked him if there was a polimanager told him yes, the subject [(mr. cruz)] asked what do they want, the manager on july 31, hector j. told mr. collins he planned to hire a replacement for mr. cruz because he had not returned to work. hector j. gave mr. collins a cell phone number for mr. cruz; mr. collins left a message at that number but received no response. 11 in august, mr. collins checked on two occasions to see if mr. cruz was in custody, and checked one of the databases for any address changes, but there were no updated addresses. on september 6, 2012, mr. collins got a call from a woman who identified herself resided with a cousin in perris, california, and gave him a location and cell phone number. mr. collins called detective alfaro to relay that information on september 10, and detective alfaro returned his call on september 11. (the trial court took judicial notice that september 6 was a thursday and september 10 was a monday.) on september 19, 2012, detective alfaro and others, including detective ernest material witness subpoena on mr. cruz. (the day before, on september 18, detective garcia took over from detective alfaro as lead investigator trying to locate mr. cruz, and detective alfaro told him that mr. cruz might be residing in perris.) mr. cruz was not theweek. they believed the reason he had been there was that he was having marital problems. they were unable to give detective garcia any forwarding address or phone number. called her on september 17. she told mr. collins that mr. cruz was no longer at the location she collins information that a stepsister lived in rancho cucamonga, but the information did not lead to michael cruz, wife was giving him false information. mr. collins checked for warrants, and continued to check databases in september and october, but found no new leads or information. on october 16, detective garcia checked another database providing a variety of criminal reports and other information, but found nothing. on october 19, he contacted 12 hector j., but hector had not seen mr. cruz since the day mr. cruz fled from his worksite. detective garcia estranged wife, who had provided the address in perris. she said she had not seen mr. cruz since july 18, and had no additional information. on october 29, mr. collins checked with coroners offices, hospitals and jails in riverside and san bernardino counties. he searched unsuccessfully for a social media account. he called the cell phone number he had obtained, but the phone was not receiving incoming calls. he checked several databases again, but found no new information. on october 29, detective garcia spoke to officer huerta, who was familiar with the el sereno area and the el sereno gang, about michael cruz. officer huerta said he had gone by the lombardy boulevard residence that day. the garage door was open, and he did not see any of the vehicles that michael cruz normally drove (a motorcycle and the mercedes benz) in the area or in the garage. detective garcia ran more database searches, a dmv check, a reverse directory check, and a rap sheet check, all to no avail. he searched the probation system three times in october, with no positive results. he contacted two los angeles county hospitals, registration information, and the department of corrections. he checked a database for bankruptcy and civil filings, county sdepartment, with no results. the trial court found that mr. cruz was unavailable within the meaning of evidence code section 240. absence was triggered by the fact that he was green lighted, and mr. cruz reason in the world to make himself absolutely non-d right up to being irrelevant as far as i the court extraordinary 13 court concluded certainly there was a longstanding, more than reasonable good faith b. the applicable law the confrontation clauses of both the federal and state constitutions guarantee a criminal defendant the ris witnesses. (u.s. const., 6th amend.; cal. const., art. i,  15.) that right is not absolute, however. an exception exists when a witness is unavailable and, at a previous court proceeding against the same defendant, has given testimony that was subject to cross-examination. under federal constitutional law, such testimony is admissible if - to obtain the pr [citations.] [citation.]people v. fuiava (2012) 53 cal.4th 622, 674-675 (fuiava).) in california, this exception is codified in evidence code section 1291. declarant is unavailable as a witness and: [] . . . [] . . . the party against whom the former testimony is offered was a party to the action or proceeding in which the testimony was given and had the right and opportunity to cross-examine the declarant with an interest and motive similar to that ( 1291, subd. (a)(2).) his or her statement has exercised reasonable diligence but has been unable to procure his ( 240, subd. (a)(5).) fuiava tells us that (fuiava, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 675.) further: incapable of a mechanical definition,connotes persevering application, untiring efforts in good earnest, efforts of a substantial character.[citations.] relevant considerations include whether the search was timely begun [citation], the importance of the witnesss testimony [citation], and whether leads were competently explored [citation].ibid.) 14 s due diligence determination is subject to independent review. (people v. cromer (2001) 24 cal.4th 889, 901.) c. this case defendant duty to use reasonable means to prevent a present witness from becoming absent.(people v. louis (1986) 42 cal.3d 969, 991 (louis).) he claims that, during the 13 months between the preliminary hearing and july 17, 2012 (when detective alfaro handed over the efforts to locate mr. cruz to mr. collins), the prosecution duty to exercise reasonable diligence to maintain contact with [mr. cruz] and take people v. friend substantial risk the prosecutor is required to take adequate to stop s subsequent attempts to locate mr. cruz. we disagree. the supreme court has said that we could not properly impose upon the people an obligation to keep on every material witness in a criminal case, for the administrative burdens of doing so would be prohibitive.people v. hovey (1988) 44 cal.3d 543, 564 (hovey)also, the prosecution is not required, absent knowledge of substantial risk that thitake adequate preventative measures to stop the witness from disappearing. people v. wilson (2005) 36 cal.4th 309, 342; see hovey, at p. 564 [in louis, supra, [42 cal.3d at pages 989-991], we hevital to the s case, the people must take reasonable precautions to prevent the witness from disappearing. first, that this is a case like louis, where t witness. 15 (louis, supra, 42 cal.3d at p. 989.) in louis, was the sole evidence identifying the defendant as the shooter; the defendant and his codefendants were tried before separate juries that heard virtually the same evidence, dand likely to disappear . . . .(id. at pp. 974, 989.) moreover, in louis, the prosecutor may have taken no steps [] because he hoped that since the witness would not look as good in person as he does in reading out of the transcript . . . . (id. at p. 993, fn. 7; see people v. thomas (2011) 51 cal.4th 449, 502 subsequent cases have limited the holding in louis to its peculiar facts. here, the testimony was fa; as the trial court aptly stated, the testimony . . . .corroboration of omar b.petrator, it was not testimony that was crucial to obtaining a conviction. (cf. fuiava, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. second and entirely apart was not vital to the case we , at the time of the preliminary hearing, that after that hearing. cation for a material witness subpoena; mr. inal but if these factors alone were sufficient to require the prosecution to keep tabs on a material witness, the prosecution would be required to do so with virtually every gang-member witness. we do not think this is the law. 16 nor do we accept prosecutor to believe mr. cruz was not a flight risk immediately after the preliminary hearing. the trial court apparently credited the testimony of detective alfaro and the representations of the prosecutor that they believed mr. cruz when he , he wanted to leave that life behind, and he is more than willing to cooperate with us,and the detective testimony that, while he act with me in case anything were to (see people v. cromer, supra, 24 cal.4th s resolution of disputed factual issues, often by determining the credibility of witnesses, is reviewed deferentthe appellate court do or do not demonstrate prosecutorial due diligence].) taken to prevent mr. cruz from disappearing before trial, such as extending his parole (which ended about two months after the preliminary hearing) or setting bail. we agree was to set bail on mr. cruz, and the reality is that has the functional result of having him in custody . . . . the matter realistically was not going to start trial for at least a year, and hovey, supra, it is unclear what effective and reasonable controls the people could impose upon a witness who plans to leave the state, or simply disappear, in short, we cannot view this case as one where the prosecution, immediately after precautions to prevent the hovey, supra, 44 cal.3d at p. 564.) it is the ordinary case where the prosecution was not required to periodic tabs(ibid.) as soon as detective alfaro received s efforts to find mr. cruz, visiting his residence and seeking the cooperation of his mother, checking databases, and 17 enlisting the help of other officers to locate mr. cruz, and only then did he come to believe that mr. cruz no longer intended to cooperate. the subsequent efforts by detective alfaro, investigator collins, and detective garcia to find mr. cruz were extensive, and they show that all the factors relevant to a determination of due diligence whether the search was timely begun, the importance of the witness, and whether leads were competently explored (fuiava, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 675) favored an affirmative finding. to this we must add that, after he this is demonstrated by, among other things, his flight from his place of employment, never to return, when he discovered that the authorities had tracked him there. we note one other point. defendant complains -inves; and that there were delays in relaying information, all of we reject this characterization of the extensive efforts to locate mr. cruz, demonstrated in the record. people v. cummings (1993) 4 cal.4th 1233, 1298 are the trial court found due diligence. we find due diligence. that additional efforts might have been made or other lines of inquiry pursued does not affect this conclusion. [citation.] it is enough that the people used reasonable efforts to locate the witness. they did. finally, defendant argues that, at the prelimithe right and opportunity to cross-examine the declarant with an interest and motive similar to that which he has at the hearing,id., subd. (a)(2).) nsel likely did not extensively cross-examine [mr. cruz] because, given the charges . . . and the lowered burden of proof at the preliminary hearing, the chance [defendant] would not be held to answer [was] almost non- we do not agree with defen 18 people v. zapien (1993) 4 cal.4th 929, 975 (zapien) s motive for cross-examining a witness during a preliminary hearing will differ from his or her motive for cross-examining that witness at trial. for the preliminary hearing testimony of an unavailable witness to be admissible at trial under evidence code section 1291, these motivsimilar. admission of the former testimony of an unavailable witness is permitted under . . . section 1291 and does not offend the confrontation clauses of the federal or state constitutionsnot because the opportunity to cross-examine the witness at the preliminary hearing is considered an exact substitute for the right of cross-examination at trial [citation], but because the interests of justice are deemed served by a balancing of the defendants right to effective cross-s interest in effective prosecution. in zapien, the court concluded t-were sufficiently similar to those existing at trialbecause had the same s guilt. s interest and motive in discrediting this testimony was identical at both zapien, supra, 4 cal.4th at p. 975.) s testimony that he chose, for strategic considerations, not to vigorously cross-examine [the witness] does not render her former testimony inadmissible. as long as defendant was given the opportunity for effective cross-examination, the statutory requirements were satisfied; the admissibility of this evidence did not depend on whether defendant availed himself fully of that opportunity. ibid.; see people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1114, 1172-1173 [rejecting confrontation rights were violated s brief cross-examination constituted incompetent representation as long as a defendant was provided the opportunity for cross-examination, the admission of preliminary hearing testimony . . . does not offend the confrontation clause . . . simply because the defendant did not conduct a particular form of cross-examination that in hindsight might have been more effective ]; people v. smith (2003) 30 cal.4th 581, 611 [rejecting contention that 19 a defendant has less incentive to cross-examine at the preliminary hearing than at trialwe have routinely allowed admission of the preliminary hearing testimony of an unavailable witness we see no basis for reaching a different conclusion in this case. 2. the exclusion of evidence of nine-millimeter ammunition the defense sought to adduce evidence that nine-millimeter ammunition was shootings. the prosecutor described this as a third party culpability issue, and argued the evidence had no connection to the crime and was irrelevant. defense counsel argued . . . after this crime was committed that there was ammunition recovered in two suspect] the court initially indicated it was relevant ammunition was found and neither of them were prosecuted for a parole violation, but decided to consider and revisit the issue later. the prosecutor subsequently advised the court that officer skiver, who conducted the parole search, attended a parole violation hearing for michael cruz. mr. cruz was found not to be in violation of parole because he because the ammunition was not found in his room). the court ruled that if defense counsel to establish bias, the court would allow the prosecutor to introduce evidence that, in fact, they attempted to violate michael cruz based on that and that no violation was found and that no violation was the court concluded that create an illusion of bias when, in fact, what the bias came to or would establish[, i.e.,] some benefit of working wthe prosecutor asked to and the court agreed, saying, then, in questioning officer skiver about the parole search of the cruz residence, defense counsel asked 20 millimeter when she was interrupted by an objection. the objection was sustained and the question stricken from the record. at the next recess, the court this was that the fact that contraband was found that constituted a violation of parole was fair game, again, recognizing that . . . the cruz brothers were not violated on their parole, but then again, we know that parole revocation proceedings were initiated . . . . going to make this ruling just as clear as i can possibly make it. there is no evidence to link the nine-millimeter ammunition up to the nine-millimeter ammunition that was used values other than to establish that the cruz brothers were in violation of parole. ve instructed people to refer to it as contraband. from here on out, it will be referred to as contraband and i will not hear any further evidence about ammunition found at the cruz residence defendant contends the exclusion of the ammunition evidence violated numerous constitutional rights, including his right to present a defense and to a fair trial. he says with the himself and by mdefendant argues the evidence was relevant testimony, but was crucial to [his] defense that [he] was mis-identifiedun . first, the only relevance of the ammunition evidence was, as the trial court underneath the parole violation the court permitted the defense to adduce evidence that the cruz brothers were arrested for parole violations and that contraband was booked into evidence, and the parties stipulated that detective alfaro interviewed them after their 21 arrests a few days after the shooting. thus, the defense was plainly permitted to show mr. cruzindeed, defense counsel argued to the jury that if mr. to avoid -pack; and that was because mr. oking at more second, the trial court was clearly correct that the ammunition evidence was irrelevant for any other purpose. the only point in identifying the contraband found in the parole search is that is, to suggest to the jury that mr. cruz may have been involved in the crime. but it is well-established that third party exculpatory evidence is only admissible if there is linking the third person to the actual perpetration of the crime.(people v. hall (1986) 41 cal.3d 826, 833.) as the trial court [t]here is no evidence whatsoever that links that nine millimeter bullet up to disposition the judgment is affirmed. grimes, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. rubin, j. 