filed 12/27/13 p. v. palacios ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. cesar palacios, defendant and appellant. b247517 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba394968) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. melissa n. widdifield and george g. lomeli, judges. affirmed. ______ jennifer hansen, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii and steven e. mercer, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______ 2 an amended information, dated january 23, 2013, charged cesar palacios with five counts: (1) criminal threats (pen. code,  422, subd. (a)1) (counts 1 and 3); (2) assault with a deadly weapon ( 245, subd. (a)(1)) (count 2); (3) dissuading a witness by force or threat of force or violence ( 136.1, subd. (c)(1)) (count 4); and (4) dissuading a witness ( 136.1, subd. (b)(1)) (count 5). as to counts 1 and 4, the amended information specially alleged that palacios had used a deadly and dangerous weapon, a knife, in committing the offenses within the meaning of section 12022, subdivision (b)(1). the jury found palacios guilty on counts 1, 2 and 4 and not guilty on counts 3 and 5. the jury found true the special allegation under section 12022, subdivision (b)(1), as to counts 1 and 4. the trial court (hon. george g. lomeli) sentenced palacios to a state prison term of six years, consisting of (1) the upper term of four years for dissuading a witness by force or threat in count 3, plus one year for the section 12022, subdivision (b)(1), enhancement; and (2) a consecutive term of eight months, one-third the two-year midterm, for criminal threats in count 1, plus four months, one-third the one-year term, for the section 12022, subdivision (b)(1), enhancement.2 palacios appealed, challenging only his conviction for assault with a deadly weapon and asking us to independently review pursuant to pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531 (pitchess) the trial detectives from the los angeles police department. we affirm the judgment. discussion 1. palacios has presented no basis to reverse his conviction for assault with a deadly weapon as noted, the jury convicted palacios on count 2 of assault with a deadly weapon, and the trial court imposed the three-year midterm on that count but stayed execution of sentence pursuant to section 654. palacios contends the conviction on count 2 should be 1 statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 2 the trial court imposed the three-year midterm for assault with a deadly weapon in count 2 but stayed execution of sentence pursuant to section 654. 3 reversed because the trial court did not appropriately answer questions on that count asked by the jury during deliberations. we disagree. according to the evidence, as relevant, in february 2012, palacios and his girlfriend at the time were in his bedroom. palacios became angry with her after learning she had a potential job opportunity because she had not asked his permission to get a job. palacios began a verbal and physical altercation with her during which he called her derogatory names and grabbed, pushed and slapped her. as she [her] to shut up because if his mom . . . hear[d] everything, he was going to kill [his girlfriend and . . . [she] told him that [she] wanted just to go home . . . and he just told [her] that [she] better not make a report, call according to the girlfriendon her on a prior occasion. during the altercation, [the pocketknife] out, he opened it and . . . put it on [her the blade of the pocketknife [her] her the trial court instructed the jury under caljic no. 9.02 that, [the] crime [of assault with a deadly weapon], each of the following elements must be proved: [] 1. a person was assaulted; and [] 2. the assault was committed [with a deadly weapon or instrume in closing argument, with respect to the charge of assault with a deadly weapon, the prosecutor weapon? [the girlfriend] testified [palacios] pull[ed] the knife out of his pant pocket, he opened the knife to expose the blade, and then he put it to her neck as he threatened her. on the first afternoon of deliberations, the jury asked about the second element it matter if the knife was open and ready to be used or if it was just exposed? does it matter i the trial 4 well, the assault and the use of the knife have to be concurrent, at the same time. . . . because if body with a weapon, the weapon has to be concurrent with the the court then reinstructed the jury on caljic no. 9.00 (assaultdefined) and caljic no. 9.01 (assaultpresent ability to commit injury necessary). the court [the use of the deadly weapon] has to be concurrent, at the same time, of the act. sobecause you said, what if he brought hen the answer would be, no, because it has to occur at the defense counsel agreed with the response, emphasizing that he believed the use of the knife had to be concurrent was correct and answered the question. [palacios] pulled the knife after pushing [his girlfriend] down in order to threaten her not to tell the trial court would be, to some extent, putting my place in your place. you are the trier of fact. i am the trier of the law, if you will. you have to plug in the facts and the evidence that you heard to the jury instructions and the definition of, i take it in this question, what constitutes an assault with a deadly weapon. the only difference between a simple assault and an assault with a deadly weapon is that in one case . . . a deadly weapon is the court then read calcrim no. 875 on assault with a deadly weapon to further define the crime for the jury. as the court was excusing the jury to return to deliberate, one juror asked to reword the question, stating, just that there was a question as to whenif the assault happened, the physical assault . . . and then within minutes, say 5 minutes pass, and then there was . . . the knife in this case was presented in front of the victim. does that constitute assault with a deadly weapon if there was, like, a little time separation between the actual, you know asking for this court to interpret the facts. because the assault can occur at the moment 5 someone pulls out a weapon, the assaultassault some personany touching. there has to be a present ability to commit that after the jury returned to deliberate, defense counsel asked the court to repeat for the jury that the assault and the use of the deadly weapon had to be concurrent. the court declined to do so. the jury returned with the verdict after its lunch break. palacios contends that his conviction for assault with a deadly weapon should be reversed because, in responding to the jury questions, the trial court should have closing argument that the other physical contact that he had with her. alternatively, he asserts that the court should have given the jury a unanimity instruction under caljic no. 17.01. according to palacios, the court should have responded in one of these ways to eliminate jury confusion. to dispel what he believes was continued jury confusion. the prosecutor clearly stated during closing a question about assault with a deadly weapon, the court definitively stated three times that the assault and the use of the deadly weapon had to be concurrent. it told somebody with a weapon, the weapon has to be concurdoes matter is, also just a reminder, [use of the weapon] has to be concurrent, at the same it also explained to the jury that, if the defendant brought out a weapon a few minutes after assaulting the victim, then the answer to the charge of assault with a in addition, the court reread instructions to the jury distinguishing the crime of assault with a deadly weapon from the crime of simple assault, which does not involve a deadly weapon. and, after the jury asked another question, the court instructed under calcrim no. 875, which further defined the crime of assault with a deadly weapon, telling jurors that, to 6 convict on that count, the defendant must do an act with a deadly weapon that by its that, when the defendant acted, he must have had the present ability to apply force with a deadly weapon, again emphasizing that the assault and the use of a deadly weapon had to be concurrent. these responses adequate explanation to address the jury questions. (see people v. beardslee (1991) 53 cal.3d 68court has discretion under section 1138 to determine what additional explanations are 2. palacios has presented no basis under pitchess for a conditional reversal of the judgment -century our trial courts have entertained what have become known as pitchess motions, screening law enforcement personnel files in camera for evidence that may be relevant (people v. mooc (2001) 26 cal.4th 1216, 1225, fn. omitted (mooc); see pitchess, supra, 11 cal.3d 531.) to balance the defendants right to discovery of records pertinent to his or her defense, and thus to a fair trial, with the peace officers reasonable expectation that his or her personnel records remain confidential, the legislature adopted a statutory scheme requiring a defendant to meet certain prerequisites before a trial court considers his or her request. (people v. prince (2007) 40 cal.4th 1179, 1284-1285; mooc, at p. 1227; see pen. code,  832.5, 832.7, 832.8; evid. code,  1043-1047 [statutory scheme governing pitchess motions].) a defendant seeking to initiate discovery must file a written motion that includes showing good cause for the discovery or disclosure sought, setting forth the materiality thereof to the subject matter involved in the pending litigation and stating upon reasonable belief that such governmental agency identified has the records or information (evid. code,  1043, subd. (b)(2) & (3); california highway patrol v. superior court (2000) 84 cal.app.4th 1010, 1019-1020.) 7 (warrick v. superior court (2005) 35 cal.4th 1011, 1016 (warrick).) to establish good cause, the defendant scenario of officer misconduct . . . that might or could have (id. at p. 1026.) misconduct that is both internally consistent and supports the defense proposed to the (ibid.) assessing credibility or persuasiveness at the pitchess discovery stage is inconsistent with the statutory language. (ibid.) depending on the circumstances, the defendants fa (id. at pp. 1024-1025.) nevertheless, the defendant must request information about for any helpful information mooc, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 1226.) if the trial court concludes the defendant has made a good cause showing for the defendants request. (mooc, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 1226.) the court then examines the documents in chambers with only the custodian of records and such other persons he or she is willing to have present. (evid. code,  915, subd. (b), 1045, subd. (b).) subject to certain statutory exceptions and limitations, the court must disclose 3 (mooc, at p. 1226; see also warrick, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 1019.) s ruling on a motion for access to law enforcement personnel records is (people v. hughes (2002) 27 cal.4th 287, 330.) if the appellate court determines the existence of discoverable material, 3 the trial court must exclude from disclosure: mation consisting of complaints concerning conduct occurring more than five years before the event or transaction which is the subject of the litigation in aid of which discovery or disclosure is sought. [] (2) in any criminal proceeding the conclusions of any officer investigating a complaint filed pursuant to section 832.5 of the penal code. [] (3) facts sought to be (evid. code,  1045, subd. (b); see also mooc, supra, 26 cal.4th at pp. 1226-1227.) 8 it conditionally reverses the judgment and remands the matter to provide the defendant the opportunity to demonstrate any prejudice from the nondisclosure. (people v. gaines (2009) 46 cal.4th 172, 182-185.) in his pretrial motion for pitchess discovery, palacios requested personnel records of the two los angeles police department detectives who interviewed him after his arrest. according to palacios, the detectives employed improper tactics to coerce him into writing a second statement in which he admitted to initiating a physical altercation with his girlfriend and bringing out his knife. palacios maintained that the pitchess materials requested were necessary to support an argument that the second written statement was inadmissible and to assess witness credibility. at the hearing on the pitchess motion, on august 8, 2012, the trial court (hon. melissa n. widdifield) found good cause for an in camera hearing in camera, the court reviewed the personnel records of the detectives and found that one complaint as to one of the detectives was discoverable and that no other discoverable pitchess information existed. (see mooc, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 1229.) at request, we reviewed the sealed transcript of that hearing.4 our review of the transcript reveals that the court properly exercised its discretion in determining that, aside from the complaint deemed discoverable, the personnel records did not contain any material appropriate for disclosure under pitchess. 4 palacios did not provide us with the records viewed by the trial court. 9 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. rothschild, acting p. j. we concur: johnson, j. miller, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 