filed 7/21/14 p. v. burrough ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. nykaza dewhite burrough, defendant and appellant. b247287 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta120802) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, kelvin filer, judge. affirmed. carey d. gorden, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and pamela c. hamanaka, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________ 2 nykaza dewhite burrough was convicted by a jury of attempted robbery and misdemeanor battery. on appeal burrough contends the trial court erred in admitting evidence of a prior uncharged robbery, the prosecutor committed misconduct on multiple instances during closing argument and the court misunderstood the scope of its discretion in setting the amount of the restitution fine. we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. the information an information charged burrough with attempted first degree robbery of a public transit operator (pen. code,  211, 664),1 attempted carjacking ( 215, subd. (a), 664) and misdemeanor battery ( 243.3). it was specially alleged burrough had suffered two prior convictions for a serious or violent felony under the three strikes law ( 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d), 667, subds. (b)-(i)) and two prior serious felony convictions (pleaded and tried together) within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (a)(1). burrough pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. 2. trial according to the evidence at trial, on november 7, 2011 burrough boarded a bus in compton operated by the los angeles county metropolitan transit authority. at the end of the route, after all the other passengers had left, burrough approached oscar mayorga, the driver, and said, do me a favor. let me have money. when mayorga said he did not carry money with him, burrough persisted, demanding let me see your pocket. burrough pushed mayorga, held him down so he could not move and demanded, let me have your wallet. mayorga refused. burrough then tried to reach into mayorgas right rear pants pocket. finding nothing in the pocket, burrough again asked, wheres the money? wheres your wallet? frustrated, burrough then said he was going to take the bus and drive it away. as burrough tried to sit in the drivers seat, mayorga flipped a switch disabling the bus. mayorga quickly got out of the bus and called the los angeles county sheriffs department. when sheriffs deputies arrived, 1 statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 they found burrough in the drivers seat of the bus trying to start the bus. a video recording of the incident from a surveillance camera installed in the bus was played for the jury. the prosecutor, over burroughs objection, introduced evidence that in september 2001 burrough had approached the driver of an ice cream truck, pointed something at him that appeared to be a gun and demanded money. the driver gave him $400. after a pretrial hearing pursuant to evidence code section 402, the court ruled the evidence was admissible to show intent and its probative value was not outweighed by any prejudicial effect. the court also provided a limiting instruction to the jury on its use of this evidence.2 burrough did not testify. his theory of defense was that he had been under the influence of several drugs at the time of the offense and could not have formed the specific intent necessary to find him guilty of attempted robbery or carjacking. toxicology tests showed burrough had amphetamine, cocaine and marijuana in his system at the time of the incident. burrough also argued he was mentally ill and, absent proper medication, unable to form the specific intent to commit the offenses. he presented evidence that, while at the hospital following the incident, a consulting psychiatrist prescribed an antipsychotic medication and a mood stabilizer to calm burroughs agitation. burrough argued such powerful medicines would not have been prescribed absent an indication and history of some mental illness. sheriffs deputies who saw burrough at the hospital several days 2 the court instructed the jury in accordance with calcrim no. 375 that, if it found by a preponderance of the evidence that burrough had committed the prior uncharged offense, it may consider the evidence solely for the purpose of deciding he result of mistake or accident. [] in evaluating this evidence, consider the similarity or lack of similarity between the uncharged offenses and charged offenses. [] do not conclude from this evidence that the defendant has a bad character or is di 4 later found him to be acting disoriented and paranoid. burrough asked them, did you catch the guys who were chasing me? burroughs brother testified burrough had suffered with some form of unidentified mental illness since he was a child. he became quickly agitated and paranoid when he did not take his medication. burroughs counsel also emphasized portions of the video recording showing burrough walking up and down the aisle of the bus several times prior to the robbery showed burrough apparently agitated each time the bus stopped. he argued the evidence supported his theory burrough was mentally ill and paranoid. 3. the verdict and sentence the jury acquitted burrough of attempted carjacking; it found him guilty of attempted robbery and misdemeanor battery. in a bifurcated bench trial the court found the special allegations true. the court dismissed one of the two prior serious felony convictions pursuant to section 1385 for the purpose of sentencing under the three strikes law only, sentenced burrough to nine years in state prison and imposed statutory fees, fines and assessments. discussion 1. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting evidence of burroughs prior, uncharged robbery a. general principles governing evidence of uncharged misconduct california law has long precluded use of evidence of a persons character (a predisposition or propensity to engage in a particular type of behavior) as a basis for an inference that he or she acted in conformity with that character on a particular occasion: evidence code section 1101, subdivision (a),3 prohibits admission of evidence of a persons character, including evidence of character in the form of specific instances of uncharged misconduct, to prove the conduct of that person on a specified occasion. 3 trait of his or her character (whether in the form of an opinion, evidence of reputation, or evidence of specific instances of his or her conduct) is inadmissible when offered to 5 (people v. ewoldt (1994) 7 cal.4th 380, 393 (ewoldt).) indeed, [t]he rule excluding evidence of criminal propensity is nearly three centuries old in the common law.(people v. falsetta (1999) 21 cal.4th 903, 913.) evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b),4 clarifies, however, that this rule does not prohibit admission of evidence of uncharged misconduct when such evidence is relevant to establish some fact other than the persons character or disposition. (ewoldt, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 393; accord, people v. jones (2013) 57 cal.4th 899, 930; people v. edwards (2013) 57 cal.4th 658, 711; see people v. falsetta, supra, 21 cal.4th at p. 914 [the rule against admitting evidence of the defendants other bad acts to prove his present conduct was subject to far-ranging exceptions, citing evid. code,  1101, subd. (b)].) [e]vidence of uncharged crimes is admissible to prove, among other things, the identity of the perpetrator of the charged crimes, the existence of a common design or plan, or the intent with which the perpetrator acted in the commission of the charged crimes [citation] . . . only if the charged and uncharged crimes are sufficiently similar to support a rational inference of identity, common design or plan, or intent. . . . (people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1114, 1147.) the least degree of similarity between the uncharged act and the charged offense is required to prove intent. (ewoldt, at p. 402; jones at p. 930.) sufficiently similar [to the charged offenses] to support the inference that the defendant . . . probably harbor[ed] the same intent in each instance.people v. kipp (1998) 18 cal.4th 349, 371; accord, ewoldt, at p. 403.) in addition to its relevance to an issue other than predisposition or propensity, to be admissible under evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b), the probative value of 4 nothing in this section prohibits the admission of evidence that a person committed a crime, civil wrong, or other act when relevant to prove some fact (such as motive, opportunity, intent, preparation, plan, knowledge, identity, absence of mistake or accident, or whether a defendant in a prosecution for an unlawful sexual act or attempted unlawful sexual act did not reasonably and in good faith believe that the victim consented) other than his or her disposition to commit such an act. 6 must not be largely outweighed by the probability that its admission would create a serious danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jupeople v. kipp, supra, 18 cal.4th at p. 371; accord, people v. carter, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 1149.) offenses is reviewed for abuse of discretion. (people v. kipp, supra, 18 cal.4th at p. 369 a likewise, whether the probative value is outweighed by the prejudicial effect of the evidence is subject to abuse-of-discretion review. (people v. davis (2009) 46 cal.4th 539, 601; people v. gray (2005) 37 cal.4th 168, 202.) b. the uncharged robbery was admissible to prove intent burrough contends evidence of his uncharged robbery of an ice cream truck driver a decade earlier was too remote and too dissimilarit involved a gun and no evidence of drug use or mental instabilityto be relevant to the issue of his intent during the instant offense. as the trial court recognized in admitting the evidence, however, intent at the time of the offense was the critical issue in the case.5 the defense theory of the uncharged robbery against another commercial driver years earlier was offered in direct contravention of that position, suggesting that in both instances burrough intended to commit a robbery against the driver of a commercial vehicle. while not identical, the offenses were sufficiently similar to meet the relatively minimal standard required by evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b). (see ewoldt, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 403; 5 at the evidence code section 402 heartwo extreme versions, at least as far as mental requirement, [of] what was going on and what was happening at the time. the people are going to say he certainly intended to take the bus and commit[] the thefts, argument from the defense. . . . [w]hat was going on in his head, what his intentions were and what he was intending to do at the time he was acting, is going to be the, if not one of the key issues for this j 7 people v. kipp, supra, 18 cal.4th at p. 371.) the trial courtdetermination such evidence was admissible and not sufficiently remote as to be more prejudicial than probative was well within its discretion. (see people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1194; people v. whisenhunt (2008) 44 cal.4th 174, 205 [prior uncharged violent act between seven and 10 ye.) 2. compel reversal a. governing law on prosecutorial misconduct the applicable federal and state standards regarding prosecutorial misconduct are well established. s . . . intemperate behavior violates the federal ious that it infects the [citations.] conduct by a prosecutor that does not render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair is prosecutorial misconduct under state law only if deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade either the court or the (people v. navarette (2003) 30 cal.4th 458, 506; accord, people v. morales (2001) 25 cal.4th 34, 44.) to determine whether misconduct has occurred, the reviewing court evaluates how the remarks would, or could, have been understood by a reasonable juror. (see, e.g., people v. cummings (1993) 4 reasonable likelihood that the jury would understand the passertion that defense counsel sought to deceive the jury, misconduct would be b. the comment results in forfeiture of that argument on appeal at the beginning of closing argument the prosecutor, adewale oduye, stated, them . . . to present the evidence and 8 that is to present the law improper vouching for the veracity of witnesses and improper expression of belief in their credibility. (see people v. turner (2004) 34 cal.4th 406, 432-parent honesty or credibility of witnesses or otherwise bolstering the veracity of their testimony by people v. martinez (2010) 47 cal.4th 911, 959 [same].) we agree the comment was improper, but burrough did not object at trial; and there is no indication an objection would not have been sustained or that a clarifying instruction would not have cured any harm that may have occurred. accordingly, burrough has forfeited this claim on appeal. (people v. redd (2010) 48 cal.4th 691, 734 [t]o preserve a claim of prosecutorial misconduct for appeal, a defendant must object and seek an admonition if an objection and admonition would have cured the harmpeople v. jones (2003) 29 cal.4th 1229, 1260.) c. prosecutor arguing burrough had not been mentally ill during the incident, the prosecutor and down. so, is he on his meds now? and if he is, what would explain when he talked to the cops whe burrough contends this statement was improper for two reasons: (1) it constituted a reference to facts not in evidence; and (2) it amounted to a comment on his failure to testify in violation of griffin v. california (1965) 380 u.s. 609 [85 s.ct. 1229, 14 l.ed.2d 106]. unless a defendant puts his or her courtroom behavior at issue, it is improper during the guilt phase of a trial for the prosecutor to comment on the demeanor of a nontestifying defendant. (people v. blacksher (2011) 52 [i]t is 9 people v. smith (2007) 40 cal.4th 483, 524 [same]; people v. heishman (1988) 45 cal.3d 147, 197 [same]; people v. garcia (1984) 160 cal.app.3d 82, 91 [evidence of nontestifying s demeanor is irrelevant since on the credibility of a [testifying] cf. people v. duncan (1991) 53 cal.3d 955, 977 [prosecutor did not commit misconduct by briefly commenting on nontestifying calm demeanor in courtroommodest behavior in the courtroom was not inconsistent with violent conduct under other although burrough did not object to the comment when made, the court inserted its own objection at a sidebar conference, tellibeen doing anything. that is not evidence, and that clearly i think was an improper statement because the jury cannot consmedications when, in fact, you kremedy any harm caused by the remark. soon thereafter, the court provided a curative mind you that evidence comes from this witness stand and evidence. evidence comes on6 considering the record as a whole, prosecutor oduyealthough plainly improper, does not compel reversal. the remark, reasonably interpreted, amounted to a 6 the court denied a subsequent motion for mistrial by defense counsel, concluding its curative instruction had remedied any harm likely to have resulted from the comment. 10 facts not subject to consideration by the jury. nonetheless, the court cured any associated harm when it instructed the jury considered by them in determining whether he was guilty of the crimes charged. (see people v. delgado instructions]; people v. ochoa (1998) 19 cal.4th 353, 427 [when claim of misconduct is based on arguments or comments prosecutor made to the jury, the question of prejudice is applied any of the complained-people v. morales (2001) 25 cal.4th 34, 47.) diligent and thorough actions amply dispelled any possible prejudice that may have otherwise resulted from the burrough alternatively contends the statement concerning his courtroom demeanor amounted to an improper comment on his failure to testify in violation of griffin v. california, supra, 380 u.s. at pages 613 to 614 (evidence of his guilt). (see people v. garcia, supra, 160 cal.app.3d 82, 93.) burrough did not object on this ground, nor was it raised during the sidebar with the court when it sua sponte expressed its concern. accordingly, it has been forfeited. (people v. mincey (1992) 2 cal.4th 408, 446 [failure to object on grounds of griffin error forfeits argument on appeal].) the argument is also without merit. comment, although an improper invitation for the jury to consider facts not in evidence, did not in any way ; burrough does not cite any relevant authority to suggest otherwise. d. mean let me get on drugs and then i [can] do whatever i want to do and then i can come to court does not allow for that. and like i said before, the question is [burrough] has to show he had no ideajected an objection, stating, 11 burrough contends the remark improperly shifted the burden of proof to him to present a defense. that argument, unsuccessful in connection with his motion for mistrial in the trial court, fails here for the same reason. although the remark suggested the defendant bore the burden of proof, the trial court immediately sustained the defense objection and properly referred the jury to its instructions that the prosecution bore the burden to prove each element of the offense beyond a reasonable doubt. any possible prejudice was promptly and adequately cured. e. enigrating defense counsel burrough contends the prosecutor denigrated his defense counsel and accused her ke when you haveboiling possibly can on the wall to see if it sticks. has a mental disease, but wait it could be also that it was because he was on meth and on weed and on some other drug. or it could be because the doctor said he did an evaluation and he spoke to the defendant and the defendant, who is mentally impaired, [and] so-called out of his mind tells the doctor, doctor, this is my medical history. it all started the trial court overruled n and reminded a prosecutor commits misconduct when he or she disparages defense counsel or accuses counsel of fabricating a defense without factual support. (see people v. cash (2002) 28 cal.4th 703, 731 [people v. bemore (2000) 22 cal.4th 809, 846 [same].) there were neither personally disparaging nor suggestive of a fabricated defense. to the 12 contrary, when considered in context, the prosecutor simply highlighted the theories of the defensevoluntary intoxication and mental illnessand questioned the evidence supporting them. (see people v. medina (1995) 11 cal.4th 694, draw some speculation, try to get you to was not misconduct; it integrity]; people v. redd, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 735 [comment concerning defense idence or lack thereof].) in sum, the record demonstrates the prosecutor in closing argument made some proper remarks, others improper and a few close to the line. more significantly, it shows a trial court carefully monitoring the proceedings and curing, both sua sponte and following an objection, any potential for harm. whether considered separately or cumulatively, none of the remarks preserved by objection and identified and addressed on the merits, when viewed together remedial action, so infected the trial as to warrant reversal. 3. the trial court did not misunderstand its discretion to impose a lesser restitution fine section 1202.4, subdivision (b), requires the court to impose a restitution fine in every case what the time of the offense, subdivision (b)(1) vested the court with the discretion to determine the amount of the fine, so long as the amount was not less than $200 or more than $10,000.7 (see stats. 2011, ch. 45,  1.) former subdivision (b)(2) suggested (but did the court may determine the amount of the fine as the product of two hundred dollars 7 section 1202.4, subdivision (b), has since been amended to increase the statutory minimum amount of the mandatory restitution fine from $200 to $240 starting january 1, 2012; to $280, starting january 1, 2013; and to $300, starting january 1, 2014. (see stats. 2012, ch. 873,  1.5.) 13 ($200) [(the minimum fine pursuant to paragraph (1))] multiplied by the number of years of imprisonment the defendant is ordered to serve, multiplied by the number of felony (ibid.) a mandatory restitution fine, $1,penal code section 1202. but did not direct his objection to going to follow the statute. and i have imposed the minimum of $1,800 that can be collected from your prison earnings. and there also is a parole revocation fine of $1,800 burrough acknowledges the amount of the fine was statutorily authorized, but contends the court misunderstood the scope of its discretion to set a lesser fine. the court, he argues, erroneously believed the statute mandated, rather than authorized, the $1,800 amount. in fact, the statute permitted the court to select any fine within the $200 to $10,000 range. although former section 1202.4, subdivision (b)(1) and (2) is correct, his characteobjection, directed to the imposition of the fine rather than the amount, led the court to explain the fine was mandatory.8 the court then stated it was electing to proceed in accordance with the statute. nothing in this record suggests the court misunderstood its discretion under former section 1202.4, subdivision (b). 8 if counsel had intended to object to the amount of the fine, it was not accomplished with the clarity required to preserve that objection for appeal. 14 disposition the judgment is affirmed. perluss, p. j. we concur: woods, j. segal, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 