filed 10/1/13 p. v. dabney ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. erica denise dabney, defendant and appellant. b247412 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va098564) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, roger ito, judge. affirmed. law office of margaret e. dunk and margaret e. dunk for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant and appellant, erica denise dabney, appeals from the judgment entered following revocation of probation previously granted after entry of her plea of no contest to the serious felony of assault with a deadly weapon (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(1)),1 during the commission of which she inflicted great bodily injury on the victim, not an accomplice to the offense ( 12022.7, subd. (a)). the trial court sentenced dabney to four years in state prison. we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. facts.2 at approximately 11:00 p.m. on november 18, 2006, dabney went to the home of denise johnson at 9514 kalmia street in los angeles. dabney, accompanied by her dabney asked johnson where her children were. when johnson told dabney her children leave the house. johnson believed that, as two women, she and dabney could talk about hallway. dabney remained in the living room, reached into her shoe and started as the two women became 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 the facts have been taken from the transcript of the preliminary hearing. 3 shoulder.3 up to her shoulder, she realized she was bleeding. johnson then noticed she was not only bleeding from her shoulder, but also from three cuts on her upper left arm. dabney told the house. hand. called 911. paramedics arrived and transported johnson to the hospital where she after receiving the stitches, johnson was required to attend physical therapy for approximately one and one-half years. the injuries inflicted by dabney had affected suffers from pain in her arm when it is cold. 2. procedural history. on october 15, 2009, a one count information was filed in which it was alleged dabney committed the crime of assault with a deadly weapon in violation of section 245, subdivision (a)(1), a felony. it was further alleged that, during the commission of the causing the assault to be a serious felony within the meaning of section 1192.7, subdivision (c)(8). after the preliminary hearing, counsel for dabney made a motion to dismiss the matter, asserting the prosecutor had presented insufficient evidence to support the charges. c 3 johnson had been stabbed with a knife on a previous occasion and knew what it 4 never saw any weapon and just suffered injuries that could have been caused by a ring or by other persons present . . . weapon is any object, instrument or weapon, which is used in such a manner as to be ed the uncomfortable with the allegation the assault had been committed with a knife, the information could be amended to allege the injuries had been inflicted wisufficient evidence to hold dabney to answer to the charges. at proceedings held on january 8, 2010, dabney indicated she wished to withdraw her earlier plea of not guilty and plead no contest to the alleged charges. after being informed the alleged crime amounted to a strike within the meaning of the three strikes law and she faced a maximum term of four years in state prison, dabney indicated she still wished to plead no contest to the charge alleged in count 1 of the information. in exchange, dabney was to be sentenced to four years in prison, the sentence was to be suspended and she was to be granted three years probation, including 60 days of work at caltrans. before taking her plea, the prosecutor advised dabney she had the right to a jury trial, the right to confront and cross-examine witnesses who testified against her, the right half at no cost to her, and the right to remain silent. after indicating she understood and was obation. if you future case. in fact, [she was] pleading to a strike. so if [she] pick[ed] up a felony case 5 after indicating she understood the consequences of her plea, dabney pled no assault with a deadly trial court then referred to a form which dabney had filled out indicating she had understood and waived her constitutional rights, understood the consequences of her plea admitting any special allegations or enhancements. after conferring with her counsel for one last time, dabney indicated she still wished to enter the no contest plea and admit the use of a weapon. the trial court accepted the plea, adopted the findings set forth in the waived her constitutional rights and [ffound dabney guilty. the trial suspended imposition of sentence with the exception of the 21 days of presentence custody credit which she had served and for which she was given credit, then granted dabney three years probation under various terms and conditions, including that she addition, she was to pay a $30 court security fee ( 1465.8, subd. (a)(1)), a $30 criminal conviction assessment (gov. code,  70373), a $200 restitution fine ( 1202.4, subd. (b)) a stayed $200 probation revocation restitution fine ( 1202.44) and restitution to the victim in an amount to be determined by the probation department. the trial court then dismissed all remaining counts and allegations. at a hearing held on december 16, 2010, the trial court indicated it was in receipt [that day], order [dabney] to complete [an] anger management program, and . . . admonish her that any additional violations, especially involving force and violence, or 6 any anger issues, [would] result in after waiving her right to a formal probation violation hearing, dabney admitted she was in violation of her probation. the trial court then revoked probation, reinstated it [and] . . . involved in a lot of other at a hearing held on october 11, 2012, the trial court noted dabney had not weeks earlier, she had gone to caltrans, she was told she could not do the work because she suffers from scoliosis. dabney was told to report to her probation officer and have the condition of probation changed from caltrans to community service. the trial court directed dabney to return in three weeks with medical evidence indicating she was unable to work at caltrans. the court indicated, after viewing such documentation, it would change the requirement to community service. on november 9, 2012, the trial court indicated, because she had not completed 14, 2014. in the interim, dabney was ordered to enroll in and complete 60 days of community service. dabney again appeared dabney] initially refused to do a breath sample and then subsequently complied and blew probation report indi-the-circumstances, the prosecutor requested that dabney be remanded and a formal probation 7 dabney without bail, ordered a supplemental probation report and set the matter for a hearing to be held in february 2013. at the february 7, 2013 proceedings, the trial court recognized dabney had been charged with driving under the influence of alcohol. accordingly, the court set a formal probation violation hearing for march 7, 2013. at the formal probation violation hearing held on march 7, 2013, the trial court specifically a new arrinfluence case had not yet been litigated, the people intended to proceed with the hearing on the probation violation. the people called as a witness the officer who had arrested dabney for driving under the influence. california highway patrol officer alexis magana had observed dabney drive onto the northbound 101 freeway. as dabney from the number three violation, the officer followed her as she exited the freeway, then initiated a traffic stop. when thdabney told her she did not have one. dabney, however, admitted she had been at a party and had been drinking. when the officer asked dabney to get out of her vehicle, tests. after th when officer magana asked dabney if she would submit to a blood, breath or urine test, dabney initially stated she wished to have her doctor or lawyer present. however, after magana transported dabney to the police station in her patrol car and dabney spoke with the sergeant there, she agreed to take a breath test. the results of the 8 test indicated dabney had a blood alcohol level of .19 or .18. these results were slightly lower than those magana had obtained in the field. m to the original probation report which indicated dabney had failed to provide proof of having enrolled in community service. dabney testified on her own behalf. she stated that on the night of her arrest, a friend had initially been driving the car. wbecame frightened and she instructed her friend to pull to the side of the road. the friend did so and dabney, who believed she could do a better job of driving, got into the , then pulled off the freeway. as she did so, the officer pulled her over. before she was placed under arrest, it had not occurred to dabney that she should not drive because she had no valid license and had been drinking alcoholic beverages. dabney admitted she had not completed the ordered community service. although she had gone to the community service department, because she had only half the amount of cash necessary to enroll, the department had rejected her. dabney remembered that, at a hearing held on december 16, 2010, the trial court . moreover, she had been convicted in another jurisdiction of driving with a suspended license in violation of vehicle code section 14601.2, subdivision (a) and had been placed on probation for the offense. de a promise to this court that thought it was for violent. [] . . . [] [] i did not understand . . . . i thought it was force 9 after dabney completed her testimony and the parties argued, the trial court stated that, approximately six months after she had been placed on probation in this matter, then noted that in december 2010, dabney had admitted committing vandalism against a family member. at that time, the court had ordered dabney to complete an anger especially involving force and violence or any anger issue, [woucrime you want, so long as [it does not involve] force and violence . . . the trial court allowed dabney to personally make a number of comments. she stated, with regard to her most recent arrest for driving under the influence, that she had the evidence that [dabney was] in violation of himposed the previously stayed term of four years in state prison. the trial court awarded dabney presentence custody credit for a total of 127 days then advised her of her right to appeal. dabney filed a timely notice of appeal on march 7, 2013. contentions after examination of the record, appointed appellate counsel filed an opening brief which raised no issues and requested this court to conduct an independent review of the record. by notice filed june 14, 2013, the clerk of this court advised dabney to submit within 30 days any contentions, grounds of appeal or arguments she wished this court to 1, 2013. in her brief, dabney first contends she was informed by the trial court she would be considered to be in violation of probation only if she committed an offense involving 10 entered her plea, the trial court sentenced her to four years in state prison, suspended imposition of sentence and granted dabney three years probation under various terms and all laws, rules, and orders of the court and of the probation 16, 2010, statin[dabney] to complete the anger management program, and . . . admonish her that any additional violations, especially involving force and violence, or any anger issues, [woudabney that she could be found to be in violation of probation only if she committed an offense involving anger, force or violence. the trial court clearly indicated she could be found in violation of probation if she violated any laws, rules or orders of the court or probation department. dabney also contends she should have been given presentence custody credit against her state prison term for the time she spent on probation. the contention is without merit. in the last several years, the legislature has passed bills providing for more generous awards of presentence conduct credits. (see people v. garcia (2012) 209 cal.app.4th 530, 534-535.) however, under no circumstances may a defendant be 2900.5, subds. (a)-(g); see people v. davenport (2007) 148 cal.app.4th 240, 245, quoting people v. darnell cedure by which a defendant is placed in a facility that determines the right to credit, but the requirement that the placement be conduct for which the defendant has given presentence custody credit for all the time she spent in custody with regard to this case. she is entitled to no additional credits. 11 review on appeal we have examined the entire record and are satisfied counsel has complied fully smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 278-284; people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, 443.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports kitching, j. we concur: klein, p. j. aldrich, j. 