filed 1/28/14 p. v. badillo ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. filomeno carlos badillo, defendant and appellant. b247244 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya062793) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, gail ruderman feuer, judge. affirmed. agopoglu law firm and berc agopoglu, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and j. michael lehmann, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 pursuant to a plea agreement, appellant filomeno carlos badillo pled no contest to making criminal threats (pen. code,  422). 1 he was granted probation for five years. motion made pursuant to section 17, subdivision (b)(3),2 to reduce his felony to a misdemeanor. he contends the trial court abused its discretion in denying the motion. we reject the contention and affirm the judgment. facts although the record does not contain a transcript of the preliminary hearing, it does indicate that the trial court reviewed the preliminary hearing transcript and described [appellant] broke into her locked home with what appeared to be a semi-automatic gun, grabbed her by the shoulder, brought her by the shoulder throughout the house as part of a dispute, and held a gun to her head and threatened to kill her while he was in the bedroom, and recitation of the facts. discussion -page exhibit containing: letters and documents from his current and former employer indicating he was a highly regarded employee; a transcript from a community college he attended; a high school equivalency 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 2 in pertinent part, section 17, subdivision (b)(3) provides the trial court with felony offense, for which probation had been granted, to a misdemeanor if that offense may be punished as a felony or a misdemeanor. 3 certificate; and award certificates from the los angeles county unified school district. saying that he has been employed since the crime and continuing, it appears until the present that he has been a trustworthy and good employee. those are factors i consider. [] but . . . i need to consider the totality of the circumstances, including both the crime and the conduct since that time. i also can consider . . . behavior prior to the crime. . . . . i do find based on all of the information before me that there are not such extenuating when defense counhave reduced many felonies to misdemeanors based on the totality of the circumstances. . . . hearing transcript. i read the probation report. i read every letter submitted by [appellant]. after considering all of . . . things, as well as your argument . . . , the argument of the people, it is the decision of the court that it is not appropriate that this case . . . be red when ruling on a motion made pursuant to section 17, subdivision (b)(3), the trial individualized consideration of the offense, the offender, and the public interest . . . people v. superior court (alvarez) (1997) 14 cal.4th 968, probation may have been laudable, the offense was aggravated by appellant: holding a m from one room to another; and then abused its discretion. (see people v. giminez, (1975)14 cal. 3d 68, 72 [abuse of discretion occurs cision is arbitraryexceeds the bounds of reason].) 4 disposition the judgment (pen. code,  422) to a misdemeanor is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports mink, j.* we concur: turner, p. j. mosk, j. * retired judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 