filed 6/10/14 elliott v. hovrick ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven willliam andrew elliott, plaintiff and appellant, v. mitch hovrick et al., defendants and respondents. b248426 (los angeles county super. ct. no. bc467001) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, robert l. hess, judge. affirmed. roger jon diamond for plaintiff and appellant. seki, nishimura & watase, gilbert m. nishimura and andrew c. pongracz for defendants and respondents. ______________________________________ 2 introduction the plaintiff in this case filed a complaint against several law enforcement officers, alleging the officers had arrested him for a vehicle code violation without probable cause in violation of his civil rights. (42 u.s.c  1983.) finding no triable issue of material fact regarding whether there was probable cause for the arrest, the trial the plaintiff appeals from the judgment subsequently entered, arguing (1) even assuming he was the driver involved in the police pursuit preceding his arrest, he did not violate the vehicle code provision with which he was charged, and (2) the trial court should have exercised its discretion to deny the motion because he challenged the arresting to a material fact and as a party testifying to his own state of mind. (code civ. proc.,  437c, subd. (e).) because it is undisputed that the arresting officer had probable cause for the arrest (among other reasons), we affirm. factual and procedural summary in august 2011, william elliott filed a hodrick , deputy llaury, deputy witty, deputy knight and deputy goedecke.1 (42 u.s.c.  1983.) elliott alleged the deputies 1 the liability of officer and the evidence so indicates. accordingly, so long as hodrick remains in the case there is no reason to keep the other deputies in the case although they did participate jason goedecke and shannon knight were dismissed from the case by stipulation of the argument that summary judgment was improper to hodrick alone. keeping this record in mind, we include the deputy defendants in our references to hodrick unless otherwise indicated. 3 arrested him for violating vehicle code section 2800.2, subdivision (a) (felony evasion), on april 13, 2010, despite the fact they lacked probable cause to do so, in violation of his fourth and fourteenth amendment rights. elliott further alleged that the los angeles county district attorney filed a criminal charge against him (people v. elliott, lasc no. ma048841), but that charge was later dismissed without a trial. hodrick answered, the parties conducted discovery, and hodrick then filed a motion for summary judgmentsupported by probable cause; (2) hodrick is entitled to qualified immunity; (3) hodrick is entitled to sovereign immunity; and (merit. in support of the motion, hodrick submitted his own deposition testimony and declaration, declarations from another deputy involved in the pursuit and arrest (shannon knight), and deposition testimony of elliott and his mother (valerie elliott) as evidence.2 according to , on april 13, 2010, at about 2:00 a.m., hodrick was parked facing north th street west, just north of avenue k-8 in lancaster, with the headlights of his patrol car turned off, when he heard and observed a vehicle he believed to be exceeding the 25-mile-per-hour speed limit, based to accelerate as it approached from the opposite direction (heading south).3 hodrick turned on his maglite flashlight and held it up so the driver of the other car would have to travel through the beam of light as he drove past hodrick. from a distance of about 10 to 15 2 in his separate statement, hodrick also refers to the declarations of deputies jason goedecke, miguel llaury and noel witty (and this evidence was apparently filed and served on elliott given the fact he responded to the asserted undisputed material facts without indicating no such evidence was produced and referred to specific paragraph numbers within these declarations), but we do not find them in the record on appeal, and simply note the presence or absence of this additional evidence does not affect the resolution of this matter in any case. 3 hodrick testified he had been to traffic school, had had 40 hours of speed estimation on vehicles either approaching or leaving and worked traffic enforcement and patrol. 4 feet, hodriat hodrick. the driver was a white male with blond spiky hair and goatee, and he had a cigarette dangling from his mouth. hodrick believed the car was an older white ford taurus. after watching the driver [o]and turn right, hodrick testified, he turned on his lights, put his car into drive, made a u-turn and began to simply follow directly behind the other vehicle. then, after observing the driver almost causing a traffic collision at the intersectionand weaving between traffic lanes, hodrick said he believed the driver to be driving at that point, he determined the driver to be an extreme danger to himself, other drivers and potential pedestrians so he turned on his emergency lights in an attempt to pull the driver over, but the driver did not yield. he and informed these units he was in pursuit of a white taurus four-door sedan with a single white male occupant; he tried to direct the units to where he thought the driver was heading next. his main concern at the time, he testified, was the safety of the public and to maintain proper protocol to continue the pursuit. according to with his patrol cahe followed directly behind the vehicle until the intersection of 45th street west and avenue l-8, when another patrol unit (deputies goedecke and knight), which had been was able to enter the pursuit closer to the vehicle, and from that point, hodrick became the second unit in position behind goedecke and knight.4 with deputies goedecke and knight in first position, the pursuit 4 drive after it while he (knight) kept sight of the vehicle through the entire chase except 5 continued through bumpy and muddy dirt roads, and hodrick stated he saw the other vehicles undercarriage hit the pavement at least once or twice.5 the deputies lost sight of the vehicle around the intersection of 45th street west and avenue l so the pursuit was terminated at that point (at about 2:20 a.m.); hodrick then requested units in the area to search for a vehicle fitting the description he had broadcast . he recalled the vehicle did not have hubcaps, and regrouped for a debriefing and recreated the pursuit route with his sergeant, pursuant to protocol.6 he was able to add more to his circumstances that [he had] dealt with, [his] observations, things [we]re coming to [him] ieve[d] that the suspect was driving faster than the permissible speed limit and [he] observed the suspect blow three 5 w 6 ter (adding that the white male suspect had --version, the second generation of asked why his recitation of greater detail was ongoing pursuit, not only are we having to watch out for the safety of the other drivers, myself, speed and direction, [attempting to see a] license plate, coordinating the call, a just going to be the most pertinent information first, safety first. [] and as [the] pursuit turns, my thought processes are actually speeding up. [] the important thing is at the initiation of the pursuit, the shock, the speed, the violence, the near crashes, the most surrounding[s], i can pick up other things in more detail, and i can almost do the pursuit 6 a bit clearer as [his] adrenalin level start[ed] to drop, [and] the pursuit for the most part at about 3:45 a.m., hodrick testified, he was notified over the police radio that, a on point, deputies witty and llaury had located a vehicle they believed matched the description hodrick had coordinates, witty and lldrove up and down every street south of avenue l between 45th and 50th 7 when hodrick arrived at without hubcapsthe undercarriage consistent in addition, he saw the same 8 either deputy knight or goedecke noted the antenna was bent, just like the antenna on the vehicle in the pursuit. 7 a when he heard deputy llaury report over the radio he had found a vehicle matching the description of at it looked exactly like 8 --than an hour and a half later. earlier in his police radio broadcast, hodrick said he had though 7 hodrick] had chas when the deputies knocked on the door of the mother) confirmed elliott owned the 1999 ford taurus parked in the driveway and gave consent for the deputies to enter. hodrick saw elliott in the hallway, and elliott gave his consent for the deputies to follow him to his bedroom because he wanted to put on a shirt. and a goatee; he looked to hodrick like the driver he had seen at the start of the pursuit. hodrick then arrested elliott because he (hodrick) testified he believed elliott to be the driver involved in the pursuit. according to hodrick, elliott was cooperative and no force (other than placing him in handcuffs and leading him to the patrol car) was required to make at his own deposition, elliott ] general submitted his own declaration as well as a declaration from his attorney (roger diamond); each numbered paragraph of declaration tracked the corresponding the majority of otherwise, elliott repeatedly stated that he was home sleeping dchase . . . before and the dirt roads were muddy but said there was no mud on his 1999 ford taurus, the car was parked in his paany pursuit. he acknowledged that he had no hubcaps on his car; that his mother 8 consented to the deputitime (but not while sleeping). . . . he said his car was cold (although at his deposition, he stated that he did not touch the car because he was handcuffed when he left his house) warm if it had just been in a high speed chase[; antenna was not bent (although at his deposition, he had stated that he did not know whether the antenna was bent and, in addition, a photograph his mother had taken which was attached as an exhibit to her deposition testimony demonstrated the antenna may have been either bent or positioned at an angle, and hodrick had sold the car). finally, frame an innocent person. they chased a vehicle and were embarrassed that they lost the answered ready for the criminal trial. thereafter, he purported to summarize testimony in deposition transcripts and attachments (but did not provide copies of all of these documents). along with his reply brief, hodrick filed objections to the elliott and diamond declarations and, pursuant to evidence code section 452, subdivision (d), and flores v. arroyo (1961) 56 cal.2d 492, 497, requested judicial notice of the minute order in ode section 2800.2, subdivision . took the matter under submission. then on december 5, the trial court issued a five-page written order, gr 9 for the arrest . . . initiallyr of a vehicle which had been involved in a car chase with deputies hodrick, knight and goedecke. the issues presented are whether there is a triable issue of material fact concerning: first, if the [deputy defendants] had probable cause to arrest [elliott]; and second, if the [deputies] should have known they did not have probable cause to arrest [elliott] based e ing is prima facie evidence of probable cause[,]observed t 3-declaration other paragraphs presented inadmissible hearsay, improper legal opinion or statements lacking foundation or relevance. the trial court also rtions of three separate deposition transcripts . . . instead of simply quoting and/or authenticating the transcript so the actual ustained as inadmissible hearsay. then, the trial court found hodrick had demonstrated he was entitled to summary 10 first, a substantial number of agraph [__]. see diamond declaration page 3, lines 21-23, and page 6, lines 8--31, 33-34, 39-40, 43, 56-66, 68-85, 88-89, 94-98, and 101-105.[9] in a large number of the paragdisputes the various undisputed facts, there is no admissible evidence set forth which similarly, the trial court observedthe declaration of mr. diamond summarizes or recites at [sic] various exculpatory statements by [elliott] and family members, and gives transcript page references. despite the fact that those references did not make their curred on the night in question, they do statement. mr. diamond also refers contents of transcripts of the radio transmissions or the dispatch transmission, but those are not part of the evidence [elliott] subm the probable cause issue on summary judgment, as discussed in johnson v. lewis (2004) nts leading up to locating identified him as the person he had seen driving the vehicle. these circumstances lead to the conclusion that the undisputed facts demonstrate the existence of probable cause as a 9 11 the ground that there were no triable issues of material fact with respect to the existence additional arguments. elliott appeals from the judgment subsequently entered.10 discussion motions for summary judgment and the standard of review. the purpose of summary judgment is to determine whether the parties possess evidence that requires the weighing procedures of a trial. (lyons v. security pacific nat. bank (1995) 40 cal.app.4th 1001, 1013 [48 cal. rptr. 2d 174].) accordingly, a motion for summary judgment sh submissions demonstrate the existence of a triable issue of material fact. (aarts productions, inc. v. crocker national bank (1986) 179 cal. app. 3d 1061, 1065 [225 cal. rptr. 203].) on appeal from the entry of a summary judgment, we apply the same standard that was applicable in the trial court, i.e., we independently review the record to determine whether there are triable issues of material fact. (saelzler v. advanced group 400 (2001) 25 cal.4th 763, 767 [107 cal. rptr. 2d 617, 23 p.3d 1143].) in doing so, we evidentiary submissions in a light most favorable to the appellant as the losing party. (id. at p. 768.) summary judgment will be upheld when the evidence, viewed in such a light, demonstrates that there is no material issue of fact which requires the process of a trial so that the respondent is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (guz v. bechtel national, inc. (2000) 24 cal.4th 317, 334 [100 cal. rptr. 2d 352, 8 p.3d 1089].)johnson v. lewis (2004) 120 cal.app.4th 443, 451.) to obtain summary judgment, defendant must show plaintiffs cannot establish an element of their causes of action, or show a complete defense thereto. (aguilar v. 10 although the judgment was filed on january 2, 2013, elliott notes (and hodrick doenotice of appeal dated april 30, 2013 was timely filed (within 180 days of the filing date of the judgment, rather than 60 days after service). (cal. rules of court, rule 8.104(a)(1)(c).) 12 atlantic richfield co. (2001) 25 cal.4th 826, 850 [107 cal. rptr. 2d 841, 24 p.3d 493].) [the defendant] make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any (ibid.) if defendant makes this showing, plaintiffs must show some triable issue of material fact does exist. (ibid.) may not rely upon the mere allegations oset forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fa (code civ. proc.,  437c, subd. the party opposing the summary judgment must make an independent showing by a proper declaration or by reference to a deposition or another discovery product that there is sufficient proof of the matters alleged to raise a triable question of fact if the s evidence, standing alone, is sufficient to entitle the party to judgment. [citations.] to avoid summary judgment, admissible evidence presented to the trial court, not merely claims or theories, must reveal a triable, material factual issue. [citation.] moreover, the opposition to summary judgment will be deemed insufficient when it is essentially conclusionary, argumentative or based on conjecture and speculation (wiz technology, inc. v. coopers & lybrand (2003) 106 cal.app.4th 1, 1011 [130 cal. rptr. 2d 263] (wiz technology).)trujillo v. first american registry, inc. (2007) 157 cal.app.4th 628, 635, italics added.) on appeal, we must independently examine the record to determine whether triable issues of material fact exist. (saelzler v. advanced group 400 (2001) 25 cal.4th 763, 767 [107 cal. rptr. 2d 617, 23 p.3d 1143].)trujillo v. first american registry, inc., supra, 157 cal.app.4th at p. 635.) because this case comes before us after the trial court granted a motion for summary judgment, we take the facts from the record that was before the trial court when it ruled on that motion. (state dept. of health services v. superior court (2003) 31 cal. 4th 1026, 1034-35 [6 cal. rptr. 3d 441, 79 p.3d 556].) s decision de novo, considering all the evidence set forth in the moving and opposing papers except that to which objections were made and sustained (id. at p. 1035.) we liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and 13 resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party. (wiener v. southcoast childcare centers, inc. (2004) 32 cal. 4th 1138, 1142 [12 cal. rptr. 3d 615, 88 p.3d ((2005) 36 cal.4th 1028, 1037, italics added.) a defendant is entitled to summary judgment if the record establishes as a matter of law that nons asserted causes of action can prevail. [citation.][citation.] the party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a (aguilar v. atlantic richfield co., [supra], 25 cal.4th [at p.] 850 [107 cal.rptr.2d 841, 24 p.3d 493].) in moving for all that the defendant need do is to show that the plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of actionfor example, that the plaintiff (id. at p. 853.) review of a summary judgment motion by an appellate court involves application of the same three-step process required of the trial court. (bostrom v. county of san bernardino (1995) 35 cal.app.4th 1654, 1662 [42 cal.rptr.2d 669].) the three steps are (1) identifying the issues framed by the complaint, (2) determining whether the moving party has made an adequate showing that negates the s claim, and (3) determining whether the opposing party has raised a triable issue of fact. (ibid.) although we independently review the grant of summary judgment [citation], our inquiry is subject to two constraints. first, we assess the propriety of summary judgment in light of the contentions raised in [appellants] opening brief. [citation.] second, to determine whether there is a triable issue, we review the evidence submitted in connection with summary judgment, with the exception of evidence to which objections have been appropriately sustained (food safety net services v. eco safe 14 systems usa, inc. (2012) 209 cal.app.4th 1118, 1124 (sanchez v. hitachi koki, co. (2013) 217 cal.app.4th 948, 953-954, italics added.) here, hodrick raised numerous evidentiary objections to declaration, and the trial court sustained almost every . because elliott does not attack the rulings on appeal, he has forfeited any contentions of error regarding them. (food safety net services v. eco safe systems usa, inc., supra, 209 cal.app.4th at p. 1124, citing wall street network, ltd. v. new york times co. (2008) 164 cal.app.4th 1171, 1181.) the fourth amendment and probable cause. [t]he right of the people to be secure in their persons, houses, papers, and effects, against unre in conformity with the rule at common law, a warrantless arrest by a law officer is reasonable under the fourth amendment where there is probable cause to believe that a criminal offense h (people v. thompson (2006) 38 cal.4th 811, 817 [43 cal. rptr. 3d 750, 135 p.3d 3].) penal code section 836, a peace officer may arrest a person in obedience to a warrant, or, . . . without a warrant, may arrest a person whenever any of the following circumstances occur: [] (1) the officer has probable cause to believe that the person to be arrested has committed s presence. [] (2) the person arrested has committed a felos presence. [] (3) the officer has probable cause to believe that the person to be arrested has committed a felony, whether or not a felony, in fact, has been commi[11] (italics added.) 11 as vehicle code section 2800.2 provides for imprisonment in state prison, violation of that section qualifies as a felony (pen. code,  17) even though the offense is i.e., it can also be punished as a misdemeanor. (see levin v. united air lines, inc. (2008) 158 cal.app.4th 1002, 1017, fn. 19, citing robert l. v. superior court (2003) 30 cal.4th 894, 901a misdemeanor by the people or reduced to a misdemeanor by the sentencing court . . . . 15 reasonable cause to arrest exists when the facts known to the arresting officer would lead a reasonable person to have a ss guilt. (people v. mower (2002) 28 cal.4th 457, 473 [122 cal.rptr.2d 326, 49 p.3d 1067].) this is an objective standard. (people v. adair (2003) 29 cal.4th 895, 904905 [129 cal.rptr.2d (toole v. superior court (2006) 140 cal.app.4th 488, 511 [44 cal. rptr. 3d 531].) it is the right to arrest that is being tested. . . . the question with why did the officer want to arrest this particular was there reasonable cause to arrest this particular de s secret intentions, hopes, or purposes have nothing to do with the legality of the arrest. the legality [of the arrest] which is based upon reasonable cause is tested by objective standards . . . (people v. mcclure (1974) 39 cal. app. 3d 64, 68 [113 cal. rptr. 815]; see gillan v. city of san marin [(2007) 147 cal.app.4th [1033,] probable cause is measured by an objective standard based on the information known to the arresting officer, rather than a subjective standard that would take into account the arresting s actual motivations or beliefs . . . ].) [s]ufficient probability [that a crime has been committed], not certainty, is the touchstone of reasonablen (people v. thompson, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 820.)levin v. united air lines, inc. (2008) 158 cal.app.4th 1002, 1017, 1018.) if the facts that gave rise to the arrest are undisputed, the issue of probable cause is a question of law for the trial court. (levin v. united air lines, inc., supra, 158 cal.app.4th at p. 1018, citations omitted.) elliotts. in assessing the propriety of summary judgment, we look first to [the] allegations in the [complaint], which frame the issues pertinent to a motion for summary judgment. (bostrom v. county of san bernardino, supra, 35 cal.app.4th at p. 1662 [[i]t is [the s] allegations to which factual basis for relief on any theory reasonabs 16 pleading. ].) (food safety net services v. eco safe systems usa, inc., supra, 209 cal.app.4th at p. 1124.) in elliott alleges that hodrick arrested him for violating vehicle code section 2800.2, subdivision (a), without probable cause to do so. in his appeal, elliott first argues no one violated vehicle code section 2800.2.12 . . . hodrick was apparently pursuing did not commit a felony either. thodrick pursued did not violate vehicle code section 2800.2, and had that person been apprehended by hodrick, he could not have been arrested with probable cause, so, according to elliott, there was no reason for hodrick to pursue that person either. he says although was also not subject to a proper arrest[, e]ven assuming arguendo the stranger was elliott[,] he should not have been arrested. without citation to either the record or 12 vehicle code section 2800.2 (disregard for safety of persons or property), if a person flees or attempts to elude a pursuing peace officer in violation of section 2800.1 and the pursued vehicle is driven in a willful or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property, the person driving the vehicle, upon conviction, shall be punished by imprisonment in the state prison, or by confinement in the county jail for not less than six months nor more than one year. . . subdivision (a) of vehicle code section 2800.1 (flight from peace officer) states any person who, while operating a motor vehicle and with the intent to evade, willfully flees or otherwise attempts to s motor vehicle, is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment in a county jail for not more than one year if all of the following conditions exist: [] (1) s motor vehicle is exhibiting at least one lighted red lamp visible from the front and the person either sees or reasonably should have seen the lamp. [] (2) s motor vehicle is sounding a siren as may be reasonably necessary. [] (3) the peace offis motor vehicle is distinctively marked. [] (4) the peace officers motor vehicle is operated by a peace officer, as defined in chapter 4.5 (commencing with section 830) of title 3 of part 2 of the penal code, and that peace officer is wearing a distinctive uniform. 17 authority (other than vehicle code section 2800.2, subdivision (a))record indicates there was no traffic and the phantom driver drove by hodrick in a elliott ignores both the record and the law. first, as long as hodrick had probable cause to arrest elliott, it makes no difference whether he arrested elliott for the wrong offense. the court in johnson v. lewis, supra, 120 cal.app.4th 443, addressed the same issue. (id. claiming that there are triable issues of material fact with respect to whether lewis had probable cause to arrest her, plaintiff focuses on the offense for which she was ultimately cited. (veh. code,  23103.) however, the question of probable cause to arrest is not so circumscribed.johnson v. lewis, supra, 120 cal.app.4th at p. 452, italics added.) lead a person of ordinary care and prudence to believe and conscientiously entertain an honest and strong suspicion that an individual is guilty of a crime. (people v. harris (1975) 15 cal.3d 384, 389 [124 cal. rptr. 536, 540 p.2d 632].) if an officer has probable cause to believe a person is guilty of a crime, probable cause is not vitiated and an arrest remains valid even if the officer purports to arrest the person for the wrong crime. (people v. rodriguez (1997) 53 cal.app.4th 1250, 12621265 [62 cal. rptr. 2d 345]; people v. goldberg (1984) 161 cal. app. 3d 170, 179 [207 cal. rptr. 431]; people v. lewis (1980) 109 cal. app. 3d 599, 609 [167 cal. rptr. 326]; in re donald l. (1978) 81 johnson v. lewis, supra, 120 cal.app.4th at p. 452, italics added.) ght] observed the he believed the suspect to be driving in excess of the speed limit, he nd he saw the pursuit suspect 18 driving recklessly and possibly under the inhis emergency lights in an attempt to pull the driver over, but the driver did not yieldeven though hodrick testified he was following directly behind the other driver and an additional patrol unit (deputies knight and goedecke) joined the pursuit. in other words, regardless of whether the deputies satisfied every element necessary for finding a violation of vehicle code section 2800.2, the record establishes facts supporting a reasonable suspicion of criminal activity nevertheless as there was he validity of an arrest is measured by whether the facts known to the officer support a reasonable suspicion of criminal activity, not whether the facts are sufficient to convict.johnson v. lewis, supra, 120 cal.app.4th at p. 454; id. at p. 452, italics added ause to believe a person is guilty of a crime, probable cause is not vitiated and an arrest remains valid even if the officer purports to arrest the person for the wrong crime pen. code,  836, subd. (a).) even if hodrick erred in citing elliott for violation of vehicle code section 2800.2, the arrest was still valid in light of code,  23103).13 (id. at p. 454) without supporting legal authority or citations to the record, elliott asserts sincerely and subjectively believed that he had the right person was a fact in dispute that once again, elliott ignores both the record and the law. 13 he was also originally charged with reckless driving (veh. code,  23103, subd. (a)), as well as felony evasion (veh. code,  2800.2, subd. (a)). 19 first, elliott identified as undisputed believed [elliott] was the drive furthermore, as addressed in the preceding section, hodrick had probable cause to arrest the driver of the white car involved in the pursuit, and according to the evidentiary record (over and above the foregoing concession), the car involved in the pursuit was the hodrick testified the driver looked directly at him when he directed his flashlight at the driver from a disthodrick saw elliott at his residence, hodrick testified, he recognized him (elliott) as the in fact, at his own deposition, elliott testified that, as soon as hodrick saw probable cause is measured by an objective rather than subjective standard. (people v. rodriguez, supra, 53 cal.app.4th at p. 1266.) where, as here, an officer has probable cause to make an arrest, we will not inquire into his subjective motivations. (ibid.)johnson v. lewis, supra, 120 cal.app.4th at p. 454.) in any event, we cannot agree with motivation is questionable. in his own deposition testimony, elliott testified that as soon as he walked around the corner and saw deputy hodrick, hodrick immediately pointed at him he was being arrested and commented on the other deputies involved in his arrest (and there is no indication in the record that he had any prior contact with hodrithink it was anything personal . . . according to the record, just as the court observed in johnson v. lewis, supra, 120 cal.app.4th 443, were entirely consistent with a law enforcement motivation. he did not do or say anything which would indicate any motivation other than law enforcement. . . . in short, there is nothing 20 in the record that would suggest lewis [or, in this case, hodrick] had any motivation other than enforcement of the traffic laws.id. at pp. 453-454.) just as the court determined with respect to the officer and facts presented in johnson v. lewis, supra, had the statutory authority to make an arrest on probable cause that a traffic offense posing a danger to persons or property was committed in his presence.id. establishes the probable cause which was necessary for an arrest by [hodrick]. hence, we reject contention that there are triable issues of material fact with respect to the validity of the arrest.id. at pp. 455-456.) authorities, defendants were not required to show that the facts known to the officers were sufficient to prove that plaintiff actually committed a crime. rather, it was sufficient to show that the officers were aware of facts that would cause a reasonable person to suspect a crime had been committed. under this objective standard, the officers actual or subjective belief that plaintiff did or did not commit a levin v. united air lines, inc., supra, 158 cal.app.4th at p. 1019, original italics.) because the evidence in this case demonstrates deputy hodrick met this threshold as a matter of law (and elliott asserted nothing more than speculation to the contrary), hodrick was entitled to summary judgmeid.) here, the facts known to an officer are sufficient to constitute probable cause to arrest, the possibility of an innocent explanation does not vitiate probable cause and does not render an arrest unlawful. (kodani v. snyder (1999) 75 cal.app.4th 471, 476477 [89 cal. rptr. 2d 362].) (johnson v. lewis, supra, 120 cal.app.4th at pp. 476-477.) knew elliott was not the person he was chasing; his credibility was in dispute and therefore the [trial] court should have exercised discretion under code of civil procedure [section] 437c[, subdivision] (e) and denied the summary 21 as we have already noted, elliott this s argument on appeal that hodrick knew elliott was not the person he was chasing.tt was the driver involved in the pursuit nearly two s he was asleep (or that his car was very wet or not that muddy) do not create a triable issue of material fact as to whether hodrick met the objective standard required for a showing of probable cause for an arrest. (johnson v. lewis, supra, arresting officer was aware of facts that would lead a person of ordinary care and prudence to believe and conscientiously entertain an honest and strong suspicion that an individual is guilty o elliott also citing code of civil procedure section 437c, subdivision summary judgment motion because (1) hodrick was the sole witness of a particular fact (that elliott was the one he was pursuing) and (2) a material mind.14 14 if a party is otherwise entitled to a summary judgment pursuant to this section, summary judgment may not be denied on grounds of credibility or for want of cross-examination of witnesses furnishing affidavits or declarations in support of the summary judgment, except that summary judgment may be denied in the discretion of the court, where the only proof of a material fact offered in support of the summary judgment is an affidavit or declaration made by an individual who was the sole witness to that fact; or where a s state of mind, or lack thereof, and that fact is sought to be estabs affirmation thereof. 437c, subd. (e).) 22 the motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. in determining whether the papers show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact the court shall consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers, except that to which objections have been made and sustained by the court, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence, except summary judgment may not be granted by the court based on inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence, if contradicted by other inferences or evidence, which raise a triable issue as to any material fact.15 (code civ. proc.,  437c, subd. (c), italics added.) moreover, if a party is otherwise entitled to a summary judgment pursuant to this section, summary judgment may not be denied on grounds of credibility or for want of cross-examination of witnesses furnishing affidavits or declarations in support of the summary judgment, except that summary judgment may be denied in the discretion of the court, where the only proof of a material fact offered in support of the summary judgment is an affidavit or declaration made by an individual who was the sole witness to that fact; or where a s state of mind, or lack thereof, and that fact is sought to be estabs affirmation thereof. 437c, subd. (e), italics added.) in opposing asleep in bed at the time of the police pursuit. however, elliott did not offer any admissible evidence to contradict the evidence hodrick submitted to establish probable . hodrick said the white car first drew his notice when it 15 supporting and opposing affidavits or declarations shall be made by any person on personal knowledge, shall set forth admissible evidence, and shall show affirmatively that the affiant is competent to testify to the matters stated in the affidavits or declarations. any objections based on the failure to comply with the requirements of this subdivision shall be made at the hearing or shall be deemed waived.proc.,  437c, subd. (d), italics added.) 23 approached him at what appeared to hodrick to be excessive speed so he looked up and directed his flashlight at the driver. as the car passed him, hodrick said he as well as his car. therefore, he was able to later identify elliott as river when he (hodrick) saw elliott (again, according to hodrick) before cause, entitling hodrick to summary judgment as a result. instead, like the plaintiffs in trujillo v. first american registry, inc., supra, 157 testimony only by labeling it unbelievable and self-serving.id. managers] even remember [prospective tenant plaintiffs], let alone can identify why their applications were rejected].) as the trujillo no matter. summary may not be de (code civ. proc.,  437c, subd. (e).) s evidence is not controverted, the court must ordinarily accept it as true for purposes of the [summary adjudication] motion. in other words, the judge generally lacks discretion to deny the motion and send the case to trial simply to allow the opposing party to cross-examine the affiants or ot (6 witkin, cal. procedure (4th ed. 1997) proceedings without trial,  220, p. 631.) the declarations may well be self-but where (as here) [they are] uncontradicted, case law establishes that such a showing can provide the basis for summary judgment. (trujillo, supra, 157 cal.app.4th at p. 636, citing golden west baseball co. v. talley (1991) 232 cal. app. 3d 1294, 1305 (golden west).) in addrestrujillo plaintiffs unpersuasively note the court has discretion to deny summas own statement is the only evidence of his or her state of mind. (code civ. proc.,  437c, subd. (e).) [h]owever, the converse is also true, and a court has the discretion to grant a motion for summary [adjudication] un (golden west, supra, 232 cal. app. 3d at p. 1306.) plaintiffs show no abuse of discretion here.trujillo, supra, 157 cal.app.4th at p. 636.) 24 just like the trujillo plaintiffs, elliott has failed to demonstrate an abuse of discretionmakes no sense. if hodrick were parked on a dark street in the early morning hours of april 13, 2013 [sic, 2010,] he would not be able to see the face of a driver coming with his headlights on in the direction towards the parked vehicle. why would hodrick have the need to point a flashlight on the face of the alleged driver[?] the driver had done nothing wrong, even according to hodrick. the alleged violation, if any, did not occur d then made a turn. this was viewed by hodrick presumably through his rear view mirror. [] it appears the evening in his deposition testimony, hodrick never stated or suggested that he based his first observation of the driver in the white car. however, hodrick did explain that, as an experienced traffic and patrol officer who had received specialized training with regard to the estimation of speed, the driver (whom hodrick later identified as elliott) first drew his notice when it accelerated past him at a speed he believed to be in excess of the speed limit during the early morning hours of april 13, 2010. according ony, the driver of the white car appeared to be exceeding the speed limit thereafter--nearly causing a traffic collision, and drove in a manner both traffic and patrol before hodrick identified elliott as the driver he had first seen, then followed and then pursued, leading to elliottarrest.16 therefore, hodrick presented evidence demonstrating probable cause for elmake an independent showingadmissible 16 geles a deputy since 1992 (and had been assigned to the lancaster station since 1995). hodrick also testified he had attended 40 hours of traffic school, was trained to estimate vehicle speed either approaching or leaving and worked traffic. 25 evidence presented to the trial courttrujillo, supra, 157 cal.app.4th at p. 636, citation omitted) that, to the contrary, hodrick lacked probable cause to arrest him and that summary judgment should be denied. elliott also asserts the trial court failed to exercise its discretion under subdivision because of its erroneous belief that the probable cause determination made by the magistrate at the preliminary hearing was prima facie evidence of probable cause for purpo to be clear, just as elliott argues, the evidence of proba is an incorrect statement of the law. the same aslet alone identical tothat of sufficient cause to hold the defendant for trial. (see people v. williams (1989) 213 cal. app. 3d 1186, 1197 [262 cal. rptr. 303] the issues before a magistrate on preliminary hearing are whether a public offense has been committed and whether there is probable cause to believe the defendant is guilty ].) indeed, the existence of cause to arrest or detain is irrelevant to the issues before the magistrate, and the defendant may be prohibited on that ground from inquiring into it. (ibidinasmuch as no suppression motion was made at the preliminary hearing, the only issues before the magistrate were whether a burglary had been committed and whether there was sufficient cause to believe respondent committed it; and defense s questions on cross-examination of the officer relating to his state of mind and what information he had received concerning the break-in had no tendency in reason to prove or disprove the issues before t].)(schmidlin v. city of palo alto (2007) 157 cal.app.4th 728, 767-768, original italics.) as our supreme cthe magistrate forms a personal opinion regarding the guilt or innocence of the accused, that opinion is of no legal significance whatever in view of the limited nature of the proceedingspeople v. wallace (2004) 33 cal.4th 738, 749, quoting people v. uhlemann (1973) 9 cal.3d 662, 26 cause to hold a defendant for trial is not a finding of probable cause to arrest (or detain), and that s limited factfinding powers do not permit the the issue so as to give s ruling preclusive effect in a later civil suit.schmidlin v. city of palo alto, supra, 157 cal.app.4th at p. 768.) the law), viewed in context, we find elliottbecause of [of the record. first, tnote, the trial court observedincorrectlythat of probable cause. see johnson v. southern pacific co. (1910) 157 cal. 333, 339 (malicious prosecution); deimer v. herber the trial court expressly stated such evidence wathat the fact el entitlement to summary judgment on the ground that probable cause existed for the because the cont supported by the cited evidence while elliott presented no evidence to establish a triable issue of material fact in this regard. (italics added.) in other words, the trial ates that the ruling was not based on the passing mention in a footnote of an erroneous statement of the law regarding the significance of whether a case. to the contrary, the ruling was expressly grounded in the which necessarily excluded the preliminary hearing order statement)as the undisputed thus, notwithstanding the erroneous comment set out in a footnote to 27 correct in any event. (carnes v. superior court (2005) 126 cal.app.4th 688, 694, regardless of how the trial court reached its decision, it falls to us to examine the record de novo and independently determine whether that decision is correct].) as the trial court observed in its evidentiary rulings, although elliott purported to -31, 33-34, 39-40, 43, 56-66, 68-85, 88-89, 94-98, 101-104), he did so by citing to his own declaration, in which (for the most part) he repeated.17 consequently, elliott failed to support his assertions that facts remained in dispute with evidence, as code of civil procedure section 437c, subdivision (d), requires; instead, he actually highlighted the absence of contrary evidence. . first of all, the trial court sustained e statements within that declaration as nothing more than summaries of deposition testimony and characterizations of evidence not contained in the record. because elliott appeal, he has forfeited any claims of error in this regard. (food safety net services v. eco safe systems usa, inc., supra, 209 cal.app.4th at p. 1124.) court nevertheless declaration (and so have we). the thrust of this evidence i(valerie elliott) nor his girlfriend at the time (amanda hauber) believed he would have been involved in a police pursuit; also said the car was cold by the time 17 elliott specifically acknowledged these remaining facts to be undisputed. 28 elliott was arrested. as the trial court concluded, such evidence does not create a triable hauber testified she hours before hodrick observed the white taurus and the pursuit took place, and testified she was asleep the entire timefrom the time she said she heard the door close as hauber left until the officers knocked on her door at 4:00 a.m. even assuming elliott had been sleeping and had no involvement whatsoever in the police pursuit, none of his evidence undermines the evidence hodrick presented in support of the probable cause determination. (johnson v. lewis, supra, 120 cal.app.4th at decided in accordance with the circumstances at the time of detention, unhampered by the outcome of the charge against the plaintiff of the public offense or by the conclusions of the trial court. . . id. at p. 476, citation omitted when, as here, the facts known to an officer are sufficient to constitute probable cause to arrest, the possibility of an innocent explanation does not vitiate probable cause and does not render an arrest unlawfullevin v. united air lines, inc., supra, 158 cal.app.4th at pp. 1017-1018, citations omitted arresting officer would lead a reasonable person to have a strong suspicion of the . . if the facts that give rise to the arrest are undisputed, the issue of support provided evidencethe car parked in front of the same white taurus involved in the pursuit more than an hour and a half before hodrick identified elliott as the driver involved in the pursuit and elliott was arrested. to the extent hodrick was the only witness to identify hodrick as the driver of that car, as we have already explained, elliott presented no evidence and instead relies on his own mere speculation that hodrick must have been so 29 embarrassed to have lost the vehicle involved in the pursuit earlier in the night that he later and arrest him to somehow save] facewithout any basis for believing elliott was in fact that same driverbecause [own] conduct. sangster v. paetkau (1998) 68 cal.app.4th 151, 166.) to the contrary, speculation [as opposition to summary judgment] is [not only] impermissible it is grounds for granting summary judgment.doe v. salesian society (2008) 159 cal.app.4th 474, 481, italics added, citing yuzon v. collins (2004) 116 cal.app.4th 149, 163, 166 [landlord not liabls dog bite incident where evidence that landlord knew the dog was dangerous was based on speculation].) issue of fact can only be created by a conflict of evidence. it is not created by k. . . . further, an issue of fact is not raised by . . . . . . or mere possibilities . . . yuzon v. collins, supra, 116 cal.app.4th at p. 166, citations omitted.) idence in this case comes transmissions were presented to the trial court, and we do not find them in the record. (and see fns. 6-8, ante.) a party cannot defeat summary judgment by the expedient of averring he or she has evidence to support a cause of action; instead, such evidence must be presented in opposition to summary judgment.18 (uhrich v. state farm fire & 18 under subdivision (hin opposition to [a motion for summary judgment or adjudication] that facts essential to justify opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons stated, then be presented, the court shall deny the motion, or order a continuance to permit affidavits to be obtained or discovery to be had or may make any other order as may be just. . . 30 casualty co. (2003) 109 cal.app.4th 598, 616-617, citations omitted; and see weil & brown, cal. practice guide: civil procedure before trial (rutter group 2013) [][] 10:198 to 10:205.1, pp. 10-82 to 10-85.) elliott says we mus elliott says, fast because although that would arguably have given hodrick the right to pursue the phantom driver it would not have enabled hodrick to actually identify the phantom 19 again, speculation is both impermissible and insufficient as opposition to summary judgment. (doe v. salesian society, supra, 159 cal.app.4th at p. 481.) insufficient as well. (ahrens v. superior court (1988) 197 cal.app.3d 1134, 1152.) elliott also says the desc we note elliott did not request a continuance or make the showing contemplated under section 437c, subdivision (h). 19 deposition testimony, but having reviewed this evidence, we see no disavowal of ectly conflicts with that testimony or otherwise suggests hodrick was lying. (see miller v. american greetings corp. (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 1055, 1061-1062.) similarly, he vaguely suggests his appearance does not match the description hodrick provided. again, however, we find no support for such a claim and instead note only evidence to the contrary in the record before us. for example, he says his hair was not spiky, the color was wrong and his goatee was not mentioned in the broadcast (though he provides no supporting citation to the record). however, hodrick testified that he was able to provide more details once the pursuit had terminated and his adrenaline level had dropped by the time he participated in a debriefing with his supervisor before he booking photos are in the record, and we find no variance from would support the conclusion the trial court abused its discretion by failing to reject that testimony and to deny summary judgment. (code civ. proc.,  437c, subd. (e).) 31 dispatcher asked hodrick foelliott mean that hodrick was following the correct person. the other deputies did not follow the vehicle noelliott also makes much of the fact that, although he was held to answer at his preliminary hearing, the charge against him was ultimately dismissed. all of these assertions only slaw with respect to probable cause for an arrest as well as his own evidentiary burden on failed to identify any evidence that would permit a reasonable trier of fact to find in his favorto find that hodrick did not have probable cause to arrest elliott. (see miller v. american greetings corp. (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 1055, 1061-1062.) as we noted at the outset, nable cause to arrest exists when the facts known to the arresting officer would lead a reasonable person to have a strong suspicion s guilt. [citations.] this is an objective standard. it is the right to arrest that is being tested. . . . the question with which we are why did the officer want to arwas there reasonable cause to arrest this particular de . [citations.] [s]ufficient probability [that a crime has been committed], not certainty, is the touchstone of reasonablen (people v. thompson, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 820.)levin v. united air lines, inc., supra, 158 cal.app.4th at pp. 1017-1018.) therefore, as hodrick presented undisputed evidence in support of the issue of probable cause on which he sought summary judgment, and elliott failed to 32 identify any admissible evidence to create a triable issue of material fact in this regard, hodrick was entitled to summary judgment. as the court explained in johnson v. lewis, supra, 120 cal.app.4th 443, [t]he to be decided in accordance with the circumstances at the time of the detention, unhampered by the outcome of the charge against the plaintiff of the public offense or by the conclusions of the trial court. . . [citations.] neither an acquittal nor the dismissal of the criminal charges collaterally estops defendants from asserting the lawfulness of plas arrest. accordingly, the dismissal of the criminal charge against plaintiff does not vitiate the validity of her arrest. id. at p. 456, italics added.) support the conclusion the trial court necessarily abused its discretion within the meaning of subdivision (e) of section 437c in granting summary judgment. argument is that the trial court should not have accepted as truthful hodas to his own state of mind and instead argument fails in light of the standard of reviewabuse of discretion. in addressing essentially the same argument in butcher v. gay (1994) 29 cal.app.4th 388, 404-405, the although the [trial] court could have refused to accept [the moving assertion about [her] own state of mind, it was not required to do so. subdivision (e) of the summary judgment statute provides that summary judgment may be denied in the discretion of the court . . . where a material fact s state of mind, or lack thereof, and that fact is sought to be established solely by the individuals affirmation thereof. the court therefore did not err in refusing to deny the subdivision (e), the trial court had no obligation to refuse to believe hodrick, and on the record presented in this case, we find no basis for concluding the trial court abused its . 33 our determination there is no triable issue with respect to the issue of probable arguments. (johnson v. lewis, supra, 120 cal.app.4th at p. 457.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. hodrick is entitled to his costs on appeal. woods, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. segal, j.* *judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 