filed 12/22/14 p. v. quinonez ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. byron quinonez, defendant and appellant. b248569 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va118141) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, dewey l. falcone and michael a. cowell, judges. affirmed. steven schorr, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, state attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii and brendan sullivan, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______________________________________ 2 introduction at trial, byron quinonez was convicted of first degree murder, with firearm and gang allegations found true. the trial court sentenced him to state prison for a term of 50 years to life. quinonez appeals, claiming error relating to one line of a spanish-to-from her injuries. more particularly, he argues he is entitled to reversal of his conviction because the trial court (1) failed to properly instruct the jury as to its duties when receiving a transcript of an audio recording containing a foreign language translation; (2) failed to exercise its discretion to reopen the trial sua sponte when the jury identified a translation error; (3) as an alternative to reopening the trial, failed to declare a mistrial t; (4) exerted undue pressure for a verdict and effectively directed a guilty verdict when the court reprimanded the jury to accept the provided translation; (5) abused its discretion in ction of a corrected translation as new evidence; and (6) deprived him of a fair trial when it denied the new because quinonez has failed to identify any prejudicial error, we affirm. factual and procedural summary prosecution evidence. yolanda c. during the evening hours of november 11, 2010, byron quinonez, a florencia 13 gang member, and his 14-year-old girlfriend yolanda c. left home and went to the park to hang out and smoke marijuana.1 quinonez talked with yolanda about stealing a carnot any particular carthey walked to the el saloon bar and waited outside. 1 yolanda c. had been living with quinonez and his family. 3 shortly after 2:00 a.m. (november 12), rosa enriquez and her co-worker (nadiezda ann schopp) left the el saloon bar in south gate and walked to their cars.2 yolanda watched as quinonez approached enriquez but could not hear what he said. he told her later that he had asked the woman to give yolanda and him a ride. at but then agreed. yolanda and quinonez both sat in the back, with quinonez on the right and yolanda in the middle, while enriquez drove. there was no one else in the car. yolanda was talking with the woman about a man she (enriquez) had dated and her children when she and then heard . . . sitting there after the first shot, yolanda said she ut[,] . . . enriquez was out of the car, quinonez got in and drove to an alley where he parked. were looking for a car to steal. they took some papers and a bag containing a purse, clothes and shoes from the car and walked home. . meanwhile, at about 2:20 a.m., responding to 9-1-1 calls reporting shots fired and a woman down in the middle of the street, south gate police officer christian perez arrived to find the enriquez lying in the middle of the street with gunshots to her chest and shattered glass and blood in the street surrounding her. he immediately turned on a recorder he carried with him and attempted to get a statement from her. officer perez 2 4 3 fluent in spanish himself, officer perez continued to speak with enriquez in spanish, and she responded primarily in spanish but also in english at times. she provided a description of her vehicle (a black 2005 infiniti) after that, she . . . . . . 4 investigation. ep. at some point after that, quinonez left. he came back later that morning to pick up yolanda they drove to a self-service carwash where they washed the inside and outside of the car. after cleaning the car, quinonez drove to a park and put everything that was left in the car into a trash can. yolanda saw quinonez meet with can were on fire.5 loan obtained 3 as we will discuss, a second court-certified interpreter later translated this line as 4 enriquez died as the result of her multiple gunshot wounds. 5 while on patrol, a city of south gate police officer (david kochmanski) saw the fire burning in the trash can next to a black infiniti suv with a shattered driver-side jacking so he set up a crime scene around it. 5 phone calls about an hour after the shooting which, under the circumstances, led him to believe the person using her cell phone was the same person responsible for shooting enriquez. detective sloan then spoke with the individuals whose telephone numbers had to quinonez. officers conducted surveillance, obtained a warrant and detained quinonez and a computer. a number of gang-computer detectives sloan and perry interviewed quinonez in january 2011. quinonez (then 20) admitted he was a validated florencia gang member going by the name of t and said he had gotten jumped in six or seven months earlier. he lived with his parents, a sister and a brother and, for about a month and a half, his girlfriend yolanda. he met her when he got out of county jail, and he had been seeing her for about three months. (he said he had thought she was 17 although the other officers had told him she was 14.) initially, quinonez said he did not know anything about a murder; he said he thought he had been in investigating the case, detective perry told quinonez, they had talked to a lot of people and had collected a lot of evidencevideos from businesses, fingerprints, dna, 6 gunshot residue (gsr), hair, blood spatter, cell phone records and more.6 detective sure of, and still other things they wanted to talk with quinonez about, but they would not tell him everything they knew and he should not agree with or say no to everything. he would not know whether the detectives did or did not know the answer to a question because part of what they were doing was same in return. detective perry told quinonez they had had spent a lot of time talking emotionally. quinonez said he knew about her life, as much as he could get from her, saw . . long with him (quinonez). detective perry asked -year-chance she could have since the detectives said as to her role and they could go to the district attorney and say he had said her role was d not even know that it was going to happen. otherwise, -- 6 at trial, the detective acknowledged he did not have all of this evidence, but such 7 ven a chance. the detective told quinonez the evidence led them to his door, but the question -ome from quinonez. what he had intended to happen made a difference in the law. the detective e honest and quinonez said he knew who she wasfrom the saloononez said he and another guy named marcos used to make sure nobody parked in the parking lot without going to the bar, and date him? yeah. do you know how big this is[?] now you see when you mentioned marcos and i say she used to date him. . . . quinonez acknowledged talk to her when [quinonez] was right there . . . marcosand said he smoke[d] a little weed and did meth too. detective perry asked what kind of car enriquez had, and quinonez said it was an infiniti truck. quinonez said he had not seen enriquez since the week he got out of jail. detective perry told quinonez he knew quinonez make several calls after she was dead, and he could prove it. detective perry asked 8 quinonez if what hin response, quinonez said he had been to kill . . . , and he had to be the one to ask her for a ride. . . . . they know i have some kind it happened. the detectives told quinonez enriquez was alive for about two hours after she was shot at the time of the shooting, quinonez said, he and yolanda waited outside the bar until the woman he recognized came out. he said he approached her, asking for a ride to a motel, and she agreed. he and yolanda got in and he sat on the right rear passenger side with yolanda just to his left. there was some brief conversation . . . i just asked her to forgive me for this. i know -- . . . 9 [him] want like not [to] do it, but at that point[,] it was already . . . he described how she opened the car door. he said he had burned his clothes as he had been told to do when he picked up the gun. he handed the gun off to someone of ice had the gun he had used (or that that two people had been arrested with it. he us at that point, the detectives noted his body language and said they could tell he was starting to feel a little better because he had finally gotten to talk to somebody about what happened. continuing on, quinonez told the detectives yolanda slept that night but he did . . . he said there was nothing that could be done; he people came to his house and shot at his father he said his dad got sho informingthat i was cooperating with the cops. i got pulled over one time and they seen me talking to them . . . . said he had been taken to the station on a terrorist threats charge, but the lady dropped the charges and he got out the next day, but someone else he knew from florencia who lived . . . my house, try to get me in there . . . quinonez said 10 . . . because i dohappening to me while i--ad until the end of the month. account and hi, but insisting . . . i put that on everything i love . . . . . . to . . . deci[de] what to do, other than to do what i was told to do to save my own life. i wanted to keep on, you know, i met this girl, i wanted to keep on living with her, you know, i want to die right there, so of course i was going to do what i had to do. . . . at the end of his interview, quinonez asked the detectives what would happen to having to point me quinonez was charged with murder (pen. code  187 [all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code]), with accompanying gang and firearm allegations. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c); 12022.53, subds. (b)-(d).) at trial, the people presented evidence of the facts summarized above. in addition the interview lasted 2 hours and 47 minutes. at trial, yolanda also testified that, at some point between the shooting and their she [the victim] had something to do with some other business because of something she 11 with this case, she was serving a seven-year sentence in a juvenile correctional facility for conspiracy to commit a carjacking and possession of stolen property. she loved quinonez and believed he would do anything for her. quinonez stipulated he was a member of the florencia 13 gang. a los angeles an camarillo) testified that florencia 13 is a criminal street gang that claims the territory surrounded by slauson avenue to the north, central avenue to the west, 92nd street to the south and as far east as salt lake avenue in huntington park. florencia 13 gang members commonly identify themselves benefit of, in association with and at the direction of a criminal street gang. such an act requested of him, prove he was not a snitch and enhance his reputation. to be known as a killer within gang culture would make a gang member famous and would place that gang member in higher regard, entitling such a person to benefits in county jail. quinonez had written yolanda letters while he was in jail, expressing his undying 7 in another letter, he wrote: idea i came out on the news and on the newspaper [sic] but i guess i did cus [sic] people in here already knew me. it was a trip, but fuck it, i guess. they take care of me pretty -related evidence. in her all damaged in 7 , signifying the gang (florencia). 12 a manner consistent with having passed through a person. all of them had been fired from a smith and wesson in the possession of another florencia 13 gang member (jerry verduzco) at the time of his arrest. she was not able to determine a specific trajectory for all of the bullets, but the trajectory of two of them was right to left, rear to front and downwards. peck determined that the door was partially open when one of the bullets she could not say with certainty where the shooter was positioned in the vehicle. found enriquez had sustained five gunshot wounds (one bullet had entered and exited or all of the wounds was right to left, back to front and downward, except for one wound that angled slightly up. except for one, each of the wounds was potentially fatal standing alone. four of the wounds had stippling around them which meant enriquez was shot from a distance of anywhere from half an inch to 24 or 36 inches. quinonez presented no evidence in his defense. the jury convicted quinonez of murder as charged and found true the gang and firearm allegations. equent motion for new trial, the trial court sentenced quinonez to state prison for a term of 50 years to life (25 years to life on the murder count plus another 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement). ( 12022.53, subd. (d).) the trial court stayed sentencing on the remaining enhancements. quinonez appeals. discussion in the street from multiple gunshot wounds. according to the transcript reflecting the 13 court-deliberations, however, the jury (which included some spanish speakers) indicated there ry it had to accept the translation provided by the court-certified interpreter as the trial court had previously instructed. shortly thereafter, the jury reached its verdict, finding quinonez guilty as charged and reaching true findings as to the firearm and gang allegations. later, in connection with his motion for new trial, quinonez submitted a translation prepared by a different court-certified translator who indicated the disputed line was: factual and evidentiary context which would quinonez argues it is necessary to consider the full procedural history. we agree that be considered in the proper context of this case and therefore set forth the relevant proceedings below. interpreted foreign language testimony and transcripts. following opening statements on july 13, 2012 (a friday), the prosecutor called first witness (schopp), indicating she required the assistance of the spanish interpreter. . . . to the record, there was a show of hands. the trial court then instructed those of you who speak spanish must accept the interpretation given by a certified interpreter, not put your own spin on what the witness has testified about in spanish. we have to rely on the court[-]certified interpreter. [] 14 through the spanish interpreter. prdone before.[8] keep in mind this is only to assist you this morning. when you go back and deliberate, . you will later in the day on july 16 (more than three calendar days after schopp testified contain the disputed line) and would then ask officer perez some questions but first would pass out transcripts. the transcript. the left-hand column is the spanish transcription, and the right-hand column is the english translation from a certified spanish interpreter he[ jurors] have a sure-a the jury did not receive any instruction regarding foreign language recordings or 8 record the jury had been provided with transcripts before this time. 15 spoken in english only or limiting consideration of the statements in spanish to the arent tone or demeanor or any other purpose. the prosecutor then played the first audio officer perez which, as we have already described, began as follows: sa: it was a man, it was a man.9 defense counsel had the opportunity to cross-examine officer perez and asked as far as i can tell, yes. defense counsel had no further questions and raised no objections. later, the prosecution rested its case in chief, subject to the admission of exhibits. although defense counsel objected to the admission of some of the exhibits, he raised no objections spanish and some of [exhibit no.] 33, the cd or the audio, to go in, but [exhibit no.] 33-defense counsel made no objection, responding: jury instructions. next, the trial court discussed jury instructions with counsel, identifying by number each of the caljic instructions the court intended to give, including caljic 9 again, according to the translation later submitted in smotion for new trial, another certified spanish interpreter/translator reported the line as 16 nos. 1.00 (respective duties of judge and jury) and 1.03 (juror forbidden to make any independent investigation). according to the record, defense counsel raised no objections to these instructions and made no requests for modification or amplification. defense counsel advised the trial court quinonez would not be testifying. the trial court then gave the jury three admonitions.10 thereafter, the trial court instructed the jury as agreed. there was no instruction relating to a foreign language recording. although the trial court had ruled that both the trastatements to officer perez would be given to the jury, there was no instruction limiting the use of the audio to the english language portions only or any other purpose. the jury was dismissed for the day at the conclusion of the instructions. closing arguments. the next morning, the prosecutor and defense counsel made their closing arguments. the prosecutor observed the defense had made two issues out of the case: first, through his cross-examination, defense counsel implied yolanda could have been the 10 reference to his use of marijuana, time in county jail and possession of knives, the trial whether he had committed the crime with which he was charged. [w]e heard some testimony regarding yolanda and her difficultyher early life difficulty and the allegations that she had been molested when she was about four years old. that was not evidence. there was reference to that. but, again, i want you to keep had that 9[-]1[- cut down, and it may seem a little out or sequence or out of sorts, not necessarily logical. but what we do is we pick out what we feel are relevant portions of her statements and take out the 17 so he was not responsible for what he did to enriquez. she reviewed the details of established yolanda had not been the shooter. in addition, she argued, [officer perez] hit the record button, he specifically asked [enriquez] was it a man or a woman [a]nd [enriquez] sawas a man that did this to her, not a woman. . . . what happened and the gender of the person who had done this to her.she concluded by emphasizing the inconsistency between the two defense theories and reminded the jury how quinonez told detectives he took the gun out, racked the slide, told enriquez, moment and thought he should not do it, but he didhe shot enriquez repeatedly. have is mr. quinonez . . . the fact quinonez had told the detectives he brother make regarding yolanda, defense counsel interview defense counsel continued, the evidence quinonez was under duress and did not want to do it meant his crime was second degree murder. in her rebuttal, the prosecutor again said to get rid of gsr, and she sat in the back seat so she could have done it. the prosecutor 18 acknowledged she could not determine exactly where the . the defense has conveniently not addressed that at all. [passed away was [sic] that it was a man that [sic] shot her, and that completely eliminates promote his gang. after the trial court gave two more concluding instructions, the jury began its deliberations at 11:06 a.m. (on july 18, 2012).11 after taking lunch from 12:00 to 1:30 p.m., the jury resumed its deliberations, but at 2:15 p.m., submitted a written request for playback of the audio recording of officer 11 outsidcounsel] and ms. cox [the prosecutor], on readback, advise you merely what the requested readback is, and then waive appearance of both mr. quinonez and counsel and let the reporter . . . . and i spoke to mr. quinonez, and he agrees to accordingly. 19 at 2:55 p.m., the jury submitted a written question to the trial court. as stated in jury is once again provided with equipment for use during audio playback. contacted and advised to appear in court. at 9:00 a.m . . . . waived by counsel. [] court and counsel confer re juror question as fully reflected in the according to the record, the trial court and counsel had the following exchange: he jurors. transcript. no translator will be provided. those who speak spanish must still accept the told them. so they come back and say, significant difference in the audio translation of offi[ould play a major part in our verdict. page 1, the starting of the audio, line 3, indicates that there is a male and female. line 3 needs a reference to a male and female. 20 t is the evidence. think you can. nsert that language that it was a certified court interpreter that provided the transcription and the translation. . . . what bothers me is that they ignored my instruction that they had to accept it. [] then i get the last note out saying, bring juror no. 12, who is our foreperson, out and remind him of that importance, that reviewed by whatever reviewing agency is involved. ute? 21 the foreperson tomorrow and advise them and instruct them that they must abide byasking myself should i bring all [12] jurors out? i think i should. the trial court ordered counsel and quinonez to appear the following morning at 9:00 a.m. bring out the twelve jurors and the two alternate jurors and go over some of the matters present (at 9:30), the trial court addressed the jury as follows: read both attorneys, and then i formulate a response thereto based upon my discussion with based upon my discussion with the attorneys indicating they indicate that it was an appropriate response. in the transcript. no translator will be provided. those who speak spanish must still after my discussion with counsel. things in perspective as to where you people were. first of all, at the time that the audio and the translation of the audio-awere presented to the jurors and before you heard the audio and before you read the transcript, i asked those 22 of you in the jury box whether or not any of you spoke spanish. and i believe about three or four of you indicated that you did speak spanish. and that you are bound to accept that translation given by that interpreter, and you are not to put your own analysis or interpretation of what you hear on the audio, but accept that translation.[12] [] in addition, again, when this note went back, i had instructed you on the law, and i want to refresh your memory as to two points of the instructions that i gave ion on the facts and the law. you have two duties to perform. first, you must determine what facts have been proved from the evidence received in this trial and not from any other source. a fact is accept and follow the law that i state to you regardless of whether or not you agree with [(caljic no. 1.00.)] questions of fact in this case from the evidence received in this trial and not from any other source. when a witness has testified through a certified court interpreter, you must accept the english interpretation of that testimony even if you would have translated the foreign lang[(caljic no. 1.03.)] [] so those are two the audio on the transcript, nobody voiced any opposition, any objection to what they heard on the audio as compared to what they saw in the transcript. so after all that came 12 exchange with officer inquiry as to spanish speakers on the jury and instruction at the time schopp testified in court through a certified court interpreter, but there was no transcript involved and no transcript-related instruction given at that time. 23 about and you heard all of the evidence, the evidence was moved to be considered by the jury, and that went back as the evidence. let me go over something else. i want to remind you of your oath. sometimes we say things to peopleand it ath, when you were sworn will well and truly try the cause now pending before this court and a true verdict render according only to the evidence presented to you and t sets out certain regulations as to how an interpreter is certified. they have to have proficiency tests in the language that they are going to translate. then they take an oath that that they well and truly will translate the language in english and vice versa. they that language. audio given to you people, both sides had a long period of access to that audio and the transcript. and, as a matter of fact, before you heard it, i, with counsel, went over the audio and the transcript, and we redacted certain information. so you only heard and saw what was relevant. but that transcript had been approved by both sideswent into evidence. if there was some objection, i would have made a determination, but there was no objection, so that transcript went into evidence. that is the evidence of you are violating your oath that you gave this court and the attorneys, and, apparently a few of the spanish-speakers are influencing the non-spanish-speakers. [] let me go 24 another note from the on with what the rest of the statement was. problem has to emanate from my spanish-speaking jurors, who never said anything before until the evidence was in the foreperson. the non-spanish-what the spanish-it. [] do you speak spanish, foreperson? are bound to accept the translation given by a certified court interpreter periodperiod. r decision on, among the other evidence note i sent out, all the information i gave you before the note went out, as well as what i recited this morning? anybody fee send my twelve jurors back to the jury room. continue your deliberations. [] my alternate jurors, you may go upstairs, and we wil at 9:40 a.m. (after hearing from the trial court for about 10 minutes), the jury resumed its deliberations. six minutes later, at 9:46 a.m., the trial court was informed the jury had reached a verdict and counsel were contacted. 25 at 10:12 a.m. (on july 19, 2012), with counsel and quinonez present, the verdict was read. the jury found quinonez guilty of willful, deliberate and premeditated murder as charged ( 187, subd. (a)), and found true the firearm ( 12022.53, subds. (b)-(d)) and gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1(c)) special allegations.13 -review[ by an independent interpreter or translator. on january 3, 2013, the trial court noted the matter was on calendar for sentencing but at defense cof the victim, as given to the jury and as translated by the court certified interpreter, be re-o invite the 14 motion for new trial. in mid-transcript of a translation by a different court certified interpreter (evangeline hernandez) prosecutor argued defense counsel had not objected or requested a hearing when the jury 13 the jury was polled; all 12 jurors affirmed the verdict. sentencing was scheduled for september 12, 2012, then continued to november 7 and then again to january 3, 2013. 14 on february 26, the sentencing date was continued again (to march 28). 26 raised an issue with the translation and the trial court instructed jurors they were to accept the translation by the court certified interpreter as provided to them; in addition, the and was merely contradictory such that a new trial was not warranted. 15 defense counsel argued: have a case and are in deliberation and ask for more evidence because of a purported error in a spanish translation, is it proper for the court to reopen an evidentiary proceeding. . . . and i discussed. [] . . . [] and we never arrived at an answer. [] but i think this is what your honor is going to answer . . . the trial court (hon. michael a. cowell) inquired: d recollection of events. i do not recall ever the issue of reopening ever coming up at all to address this particular issue. [] i remember distinctly having a conversation in open court on the record regarding the interpreter and what sort of response to give to the jury, re was no discussion regarding reopening. [] and just as an aside, there is case law that does permit a judge under certain 15 according to the minute order dated march 11, 2013, the matter was ordered transferred to a different courtroom (department se-superheard on april 24. 27 defense counsel then not as great as it was. . . . when we were addrestalked abouour conversations. [] but judge falcone, i remember asking him what can we do, can . . . ot back tomorrow morning and admonish them that they have all the evidence that they need and they are stuck with the evidence. . . defense counsel asked about whether it is ever proper to reopenwhich, as the prosecutor pointed out, case law says it isevidence, . . . . and was judge falcone in error by saying i am not going to allow them to do this further [sic]. [y . . . . . the trial court summarized the state of the evidence as follows: quinonez and his girlfriend were arrested, detectives advised him of his miranda rights, he confessed to killing ms. enriquez, he exculpated his girlfriend and claimed she did not know about the plan to kill ms. enriquez. (miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436.) after she was advised of her miranda girlfriend admitted to witnessing the murder 28 was an error there [in to the fact there was a man and a woman in the car, if she was taken by these two people. . . e any defense counsel argued the shots came from the back at an angle, and yolanda, -year [sic, seven-abuse[,] she hooked up with mr. quinonez, lived with [him][,] and she testified that she -year [sic, seven-yeaconfession. [] but the jurors believed for some time anyway, the shooter very well female or someone right-handed or someone in the passenger seat reaching across and still shooting . . . anything in exchange for her testimony; she pled in juvenile court and was sentenced. she testified because she was subpoenaed to testify as a witness. 29 accepting the defense contention yolanda could have been the shooter, the trial court concluded the i. sua sponte with calcrim no. 121. quinonez first argues the trial court erred by failing to instruct the jury sua sponte receiving a transcript of an audio recording containing a foreign language translation prepared by an interpreter.16 we disagree. forfeiture. as a preliminary matter, we note that the attorney general argues quinonez forfeited this claim of err by failing to raise it in the trial court. it is true that to the extent a defendant argues certain instructions required further amplification or clarification, if the defendant did not seek such amplification or clarification at trial, we conclude that the claim is forfeited. (people v. lucas (2014) 60 cal.4th 153, 281, fn. 47, citing people v. moon (2005) 37 cal.4th 1, 29 [the however, an instructional error affecting a s right to a jury verdict based on the evidence is reviewable on appeal even absent an objection in the trial court. (see people v. hernandez (2009) 180 cal.app.4th 337, 348, quoting  1259 [instructional error not forfes 16 ds spoken in spanish. in the transcript accompanying the recording, an interpreter has provided a translation for you. you must rely on the translation provided by the interpreter, even if you understand the language spoken in the recording. do not translate any of the language in the recording for other jurors. if you believe the court interpreter translated the language in the recording incorrectly, let me know immediately by writing a note and giving it to the bailiff. 30 substantial rights]; people v. lucas, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 281, fn. 47 [for claims of error .) we review such claims of instructional error de novo. (people v. martin (2000) 78 cal.app.4th 1107, 1111 [a claim that a court failed to properly instruct on the applicable principles of law is reviewed de novo].) calcrim no. 121 and the applicable law. calcrim no. 121 ( instructs jurors that they muss english translation of foreign language testimony, even if they understand the language spoken by the witness.17 the bench note recommends giving this instruction whenever testimony will be received with the assistance of an interpreter, though no case has held that the court has a sua sponte duty to give [it]. (judicial council of cal. crim. jury instns. (2014) bench notes to calcrim no. 121, p. 20.) in 2014 , calcrim no. 121 was revised to include an alternative instruction for foreign language recordings, which requires jurors to rely on the transcript of the english language translation of the recording.18 before the revision, the bench notes recommended using a similar ninth 17 <alternative a--foreign language testimony> some testimony may be given in ___________________ <insert name or description of language other than english>. an interpreter will provide a translation for you at the time that the testimony is given. you must rely on the translation provided by the interpreter, even if you understand the language spoken by the witness. do not retranslate any testimony for other jurors. if you believe the court interpreter translated testimony incorrectly, let me know immediately by writing a note and giving it to the 18 foreign language recording> you (may/are about to) hear a recording [that is partially] in a foreign language. you will receive a transcript with an english language translation of that recording. [] you must rely on the transcript, even if you understand the language in the recording. do not share your own translation with other jurors. please write a note to the clerk or bailiff if you believe the translation is wrong. [if the recording is partially in english, the english 31 circuit model jury instruction in that situation.19 (ninth circuit manual of model criminal jury instructions (2010) criminal cases, jury instruction no. 2.8 [requiring jurors to accept transcript of official english-language translation of recording]; judicial council of cal. crim. jury instns. (2012) bench notes to calcrim no. 121, p. 22.) a recording in english normally constitutes the evidence of what was said, and a transcript of the recording is used only as an aid in following and understanding the recording. if the recording and the transcript conflict, the recording controls. (people v. brown (1990) 225 cal.app.3d 585, 598599 (brown).) however, when the recording is in a foreign language, the english translation controls and is the evidence of what was said. (people v. cabrera (1991) 230 cal.app.3d 300, 304 (cabrera).) any other rule for harm where the jury includes (u.s. v. fuentes-montijo (9th cir. 1995) 68 f.3d 352, 355-356; accord, cabrera, supra, 230 cal.app.3d at pp. 303-304.) analysis. . . . . [citationpeople v. martin, supra, 78 cal.app.4th at p. 1111.) we consider the instructions as a whole, assume jurors are intelligent and capable of understanding and correlating all jury so as to support the judgment rather parts of the recording are the evidence.]recording].) 19 s model criminal instruction 2.8 provided: [hear] [watch] a recording in the [specify the foreign language] language. a transcript of the recording has been admitted into evidence. the transcript is an official english-language translation of the recording. [] although some of you may know the [specify the foreign language] language, it is important that all jurors consider the same evidence. therefore, you must accept the english translation contained in the transcript even if you would translate it (9th cir. crim. jury instns. (2010) instn. no. 2.8; judicial council of cal., crim. jury instns. (2011) bench notes to calcrim no. 121, p. 22.) 32 than defeat it if they are reasonably susceptible to such interpretation. [citation.](id. at pp. 1111-1112.) here, although the trial court did not instruct the jury using calcrim no. 121, at ness testified through a spanish interpreter, the trial court instructed the jury (after confirming there were spanish speakers on the jury): interpreter, not put your own spin on what the witness has testified about in spanish. we have to rely on the court[-the jurors responded in the affirmative. when the prosecutor passed out transcripts before playing enrirecorded statement for the jury, the prosecutor called attention to the fact there were two columns in the transcriptthe spanish transcription on the left when the trial court formally instructed the jury, the jurors received caljic nos. 1.00 has testified through a certified court interpreter, you must accept the english interpretation of that testimony even if you would have translated the foreign language differently. . . when the jury raised a question as to the accuracy of the translation these same the translation of the court certified interpreter. by instructing bilingual jurors not to rely on their own understanding of a s testimony or recording if they disagree with the certified translation, calcrim no. 121 ensures that a defendant is convicted only on evidence presented at trial. (see cabrera, supra, 230 cal.app.3d at pp. 303-304 [juror committed misconduct in relying on and sharing her own translation of testimony with other jurors]; see also u.s. v. fuentesmontijo (9th cir. 1995) 68 f.3d 352, 355-356 [restrictions on bilingual 33 essential where translation is disputed].) in this case, the trial court similarly emphasized the importance of the court-when testimony (including recorded testimony) is in a foreign language, the english translation controls and is the evidence of what was said. (cabrera, supra, 230 cal.app.3d at p. 304; people v. posey (2004) 32 cal.4th 193, 218.) the trial court did not err in this respect. to the extent quinonez objects that caljic no. 103 did not distinguish foreign language testimony from foreign language recordings or that the further language about instructions, he has identified no authority for the proposition that such language is mandatory. indeed, this language was not incorporated into calcrim no. 121 until 2014. while it may be the better practice to include such a request to forestall issues like the ones quinonez raises here, (see cabrera, supra, 230 cal.app.3d at pp. 303-304 [it is misconduct for a juror to translate for other jurors testimony that has been translated by the court-f [the juror] believed the court interpreter was translating incorrectly, the proper action would have been to call the matter to the trial claim of error is in the nature of a request for amplification or clarification, rather than a failure to instruct the jury on the applicable law.20 (people v. kelly (1992) 1 cal.4th 495, 535expected to attempt to revise or improve accepted and correct jury instructions absent ) because quinonez failed to request such amplification or 20 timing instructions, alternative a (foreign language testimony) may be given at the beginning of the case, when the person requiring translation ts discretion. likewise, alternative b (foreign language recording) may be modified and given again at the end of the case, with all other instructions. 34 clarification, he forfeited the issue. (id. at p. 536; see people v. mckinnon (2011) 52 a defendant who believes an instruction requires clarification or modification must request itfurthermore, notwithstanding the absence of this further instruction, the jury did proceed as calcrim no. 121 would have instructedby calling attention during its deliberations. as a result, even if jurors did not understand the same rule applicable to foreign language testimony applied to a foreign language recording from the outset, in addressing the jury when the perceived discrepancy arose, the trial court confirmed the rule was the same.21 we . . . and presume they generally instructions . . . (people v. mckinnon, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 670, citations omitted.) in any event, even assuming quinonez had been able to establish error in the trial failure to instruct the jury sua sponte with calcrim no. 121, it is not reasonably probable quinonez would have obtained a more favorable outcome had the instruction been given. (people v. ross (2007) 155 cal.app.4th 1033, 1054-1055; people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) as we have explained, while the jurors were not instructed with the exact words of calcrim no. 121, they nevertheless received the substance of that instruction through caljic nos. 1.00 and 1.03, the trial 21 on this record, it is not even clear that the inclusion of the language about giving a note to the bailiff in the event of an error in the translation would have made any during the trial. indeed, officer perez, a fluent spanish speaker certified by the department, listened to the playback at trial and, during cross examination, confirmed the certified translation accurately reflected the spanish spoken on the audio recording, and no issue arose at that tiidentified the shooter as a man; the jury then asked to hear this audio again and notified the trial court of the apparent disparity at that time. consequently, even if the jury had been instructed with calcrim no. 121 at the time of the audio playback during trial, 35 s further instructions at the time the accuracy of the translated line from came into question. the only line missing from while the non-translation under the circumstances presented in this case, the trial court nevertheless made clear the disregard the spanish-to (people v. mckinnon, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 670.) moreover, quinonez had confessed to the crime (describing in detail how he had planned its commission, why he claimed he had no choice but to kill enriquez, how he ized to her but then shot her anyway and how he had worked to destroy the evidence against him). girlfriend yolanda also identified him as the shooter and testified in a manner to give calcrim no. (people v. watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836.) ii. in the absence of a request from defense counsel, the trial court had no duty to reopen the trial, and quinonez was not prejudiced in any event. quinonez argues the trial court denied him his constitutional rights to a fair jury trial and due process of law trial once the jury informed it of the translation error. we disagree. forfeiture. declared the existence of a sua sponte duty to reopen during jury deliberationsthen, citing people v. caro (1988) 46 cal.3d 1035, 1046, he notes the supreme court 36 courts do not have a sua sponte duty to reopen jury selection, but the case does not provide any meaningful guidance in the instant cont (italics added.) this case defendant in carowho had raised no objection to the jury selection processhe] was in any way dissatisfied id. at p. 1047.) to the contrary, defense counsel had stipulated to the procedure. (ibid.) similarly, when the trial court in this case stated, another iand when the prosecutor asked the trial court to remind the jury a certified court interpreter had provided the transcription and translation, defense counsel, speci22 it follows that quinonez . (see caro, supra, 46 cal.3d at p. 1047; see also people v. young (2007) 156 cal.app.4th 1165, 1171 [defendargument to jury forfeited the issue on appeal]; people v. jennings (1991) 53 cal.3d 334, 383-ex parte communication with jury precluded assertion of error on appeal; potential significance of the error was slight]; people v. bishop (1996) 44 cal.app.4th 220, 235 [by failing to request additional argument when trial court stated its intention to instruct the jury they could find appellant guilty of special circumstance allegation on an aiding and abetting theory, appellant waived the objection]; 6 witkin & epstein, cal. criminal law (4th ed. 22 later, at initially said he thought he had asked the trial court about reopening during an unreported exchange, the prosecutor contradicted his account, indicating there was only the reported proc 37 2012) reversible error,  41, p. 571, and citations therein [defendant who did not induce error may nevertheless, by conduct amounting to acquiescence in the action taken, forfeit the right to attack it[; t]his is true even though the defendant does not affirmatively urt].) applicable law. even if this claim had not been forfeited, it would fail. he trial court has authority to order a case reopened for good cause even after jury deliberations have begun.people v. green (1980) 27 cal.3d 1, 42 (green), overruled on other grounds as stated in people v. dominguez (2006) 39 cal.4th 1141, 1155, fn. 8, and people v. hall (1986) 41 cal.3d 826, 834, fn. 3; people v. jones (2003) 30 cal.4th 1084, 1110; people v. riley reted [penal code] sections people v. goss (1992) 7 rial court has broad discretion to order a case reopened . . . the discretion green, supra, 27 cal.3d at p. 42; pen. code,  1093 for good reasons, and in the sound discretion of the court, the order prescribed in se.) request to reopen, the reviewing court consider(1) the stage the proceedings had reached when the motion ws diligence (or lack thereof) in presenting the new evidence; (3) the prospect that the jury would accord the new evidence undue emphasis; and (4) th(people v. jones, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 1110.) however, as stated in green, where the trial court id not exercise its discretion . . . the error lay in its failure to 38 whether the error resulted in a miscarriage of justice. (green, supra, 27 cal.3d at p. 42, italics added; people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) analysis. quinonez argues a result more favorable to him was reasonably probable had the opportunity to obtain a translation from a second certified court interpreter would have produced evi paraphrasing people v. newton (1970) 8 cal.app.3d 359, 384, to consider the possibility, however remote, that someone other than he . . . had fired the fatal [shots], and he might have obtained a hung jury. the people did not present anything else which tied quinonez to the homicide without similarly and he mischaracterizes the record in this case. both quinonez and yolanda said quinonez had shot enriquez. relying on the back as the jury heard, however, yolanda was 14, and she had known quinonez for three months. quinonez was a 20-year-old validated florencia 13 gang member, and he did not merely confess to the crime; he described it in detail during an interview lasting nearly three hours. only after detectives told him enriquez had lived long enough to speak to the police and all of the evidence pointed to him killer but the circumstances of why he had killed her could make a difference under the law, quinonez said he had been sent on uez and, because his own , he had no choice but to kill her or be killed himself. he y had to 39 her. according to quinonez himself, he was the one who had been given the gun, the instructions of what had to be done before and after enriquez was killed and the deadline how he rolled which made him not want to do it and apologized to her but shot her multiple times anyway. he furthermore, even if the jury had been presented with the second translation rather than the first, ! the two people enriquez told officer perez had asked her for a ridetestimony. in fact, at a different point in the transcription, where the first interpreter him23 (italics added.) assuming arguendo defense counsel had asked to reopen the case in an unreported exchange, the trial court would not have abused its discretion in denying the request given the insignificance of the evidence in the context of this record. (people v. newton, supra, 8 cal.app.3d at p. exercise of discretion include the significance of the evidence].) even assuming 23 ed recorded by officer perez. in that full version, it is clear that she specifies there were a male and female who were on foot when they asked her for a ride and she generally uses plural pronouns, but where she is specific, her apparent focus is on the 40 arguendo the trial court instead failed to exercise its discretion upon a proper defense motion to reopen the case on the mistaken belief the court lacked jurisdiction to do so, on the record before us, we would find the error to be nonprejudicial, just as in green, as it is not reasonably probable quinonez would have obtained a more favorable result had the case been reopened to allow the admission of a second translation like the one later . (green, supra, 27 cal.3d 42-44, citing people v. watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836 [failure to exercise discretion to reopen was error, but error was nonprejudicial on the record presented].) iii. the trial court did not err in failing to declare a mistrial based on jury misconduct. as an alternative to reopening the trial, quinonez argues the trial court discretion by failing to exercise its inherent power to declare a mistrial upon discovering the jurors had committed actual misconduct by violating their oath to adhere to its instructions. (people v. cabrera, supra, 230 cal.app.3d at p. 303 [it is misconduct for a juror to retranslate for other jurors testimony translated by court-appointed interpreter]; people v. engelman (2002) 28 cal.4th 436, 443 [refusal to apply the law as instructed by the court during deliberations may constitute a ground for discharge of a juror].) we disagree. forfeiture. because quinonez did not object or request a mistrial based on juror misconduct, he forfeited such claim of error on appeal. (people v. lewis (2009) 46 cal.4th 1255, on ground of juror misconduct forfeits claim on appeal]; people v. stanley (2006) 39 cal.4th 913, 950 [even where jury misconduct is evident and gives rise to rebuttable presumption of prejudice, defense counselor to request a mistrial based on jury misconduct waives claim of error on appeal].) 41 applicable law and analysis. even if the claim had not been forfeited, it would fail. as our supreme court recently stated in people v. lavender (dec. 8, 2014, s209975) ___ cal.4th ___ [2014 cal. lexis 11034, *24] (lavenderwhen we talk about jury deliberations, we are talking about the conduct of human beings who are fallible. s a rare jury trial in which s part.to demand theoretical perfection from every juror during the course of a trial is unrealistic. accordingly, the presumption of prejudice resulting from jury misconduct may be rebutted by a reviewing e record, that there is no substantial likelihood the complaining party suffered actual harm. (lavender, supra, ___ cal.4th ___ [2014 cal. lexis 11034, *14, *17 [addressing the question of whether prejudice from jury misconduct had been rebutted where, during deliberations, one or reminder to the jury s instrus decision not to testify is, in the absence of objective evidence establishing a basis to question the effectiveness of the reminder (see evid. code,  1150), strong evidence that prejudice does not exist; people v. lewis, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 1309; people v. nesler (1997) 16 cal.4th 561, 582.) in this case, in response to the jrecording and copies of the transcript for each juror, the trial court responded by telling translator will be provided. those who speak spanish must still accept the translation reflected in the note pointing out the specific line spanish-speaking jurors believed had been mistranslated, and instruction that they had to accept it. 42 as a result, the trial courthad been instructed they had to determine the facts from the evidence presented at trial and not from any other source; they had to follow the law as stated by the trial court regardless of whether they agreed with it; and when a witness testified through a certified court interpreter, they had to accept the english interpretation of that testimony even if they would have translated the foreign language differently.24 in addition, the trial court also explained that to become certified, interpreters have to take proficiency tests to demonstrate their ability and also had to give an oath to translate truthfully. moreover, the trial court emphasized that both the prosecution and defense had a long period of access to the audio recording and transcript in its entirety, and the jury had only heard the relevant portionso accepting a different after that, the trial court inquired whether a]nyfor the record, there was no showing of hands. citing people v. thomas (2012) 53 cal.4th 7the spanish-was people v. thomas, our supreme court explained: when juror misconduct involves the receipt of information from extraneous sources, a substacan appear in two different ways. first, we will find bias if the extraneous material, judged objectively, 24 in people v. keenan (1988) 46 cal.3d 478, 532, our supreme court held that the a trial court learns during deliberations of a jury-room problem which, if unattended, might later require the granting of a mistrial or new trial motion, the court may and should intervene promptly to nip the problem in the bud. the law is clear, for example, that the court must investigate reports of juror misconduct to determine whether cause exis 43 is inherently and substantially likely to have influenced the juror. [citations.] second, we look to the nature of the misconduct and the surrounding circumstances to determine whether it is substantially likely the juror was actually biased against the defendant. [citation.] (ibid.) in an extraneous-entire record logically bearing on a circumstantial finding of likely bias includes the nature of the s conduct, the circumstances under which the information was obtained, the instructions the jury received, the nature of the evidence and issues at trial, and the strength of the evidence against the defendant.ibid.) here, the record establishes no reasonable likelihood any juror was improperly influenced by the spanish-speakin(see lavender, supra, that jurors who wade into a forbidden topic in the course of deliberations can never be put right again by a reminder from the trial judge . . . sets an unreasonably high bar for jury conductretrial, quinonez necessarily acknowledges that the spanish-of the disputed line was favorable to himthe jury to his detriment. (people v. thomas, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 819.) furthermore, looking to the nature of the misconduct and surrounding circumstances (ibid.), the record in this case establishes no reasonable likelihood any juror was actually biased against quinonez as a result. (ibid.) to the contrary, the -was not only the correct translation but that it could assist defense and that, in spite of these circumstances, they were being instructed they could not consider it. once the trial court explained the defense had had access to the audio recording and transcription for a long time before trial, the recording and transcription were actually 44 lothe redacted version without objection, the jurors indicated they were able to follow the -certified translation and reached their verdict. -three-hour statement to s statement to officer perez, there is no substantial likelihood quinonez suffered actual harm as a result of the trial people v. thomas, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 819, citation omitted om jury misconduct] may be rebutted . . . by upon examining the entire record, that people v. nesler, supra, 16 cal.4th at p. 580-581, citation omitted [in considering the opinion and render a verdict based on the evidence presented in court because we conclude the trial court did not err in failing to declare a mistrial based on jury misconduct, reversal is not warranted under either the harmless error or reasonable probability standards quinonez urges. (chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24; people v. watson, supra, 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) citing people v. rodriquez (1986) 42 cal.3d 730, quinonez argues his conviction must be reversed because instructing the jury rather than commenting on the evidence, were likely to have r (id. we have made clear that the trial court has broad latitude in fair commentary, so long as it does not effectively control the verdictany claim that the jury was pressured into reaching a verdict depends on 45 the particular circumstances of the case.people v. russell (2010) 50 cal.4th 1228, 1252.) it appears the intention with the jury was based on the mistaken belief the court had already specifically instructed the jury regarding a recording in foreign language. nevertheless, even assuming the trial court was unduly harsh in its subsequent admonitions to the jury, the trial court correctly instructed the jury it was obligated to accept the court-. (compare people v. smith (2004) 32 cal.4th 792, 801, italics added [where jury took only 20 minutes to transform a seven-to-five deadlock into a unanimous guilty verdict, blinks reality to deny that the erroneous instruction was the ] with people v. russell, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 1252 [where court did not suggest it favored any particular verdict or inquire as to the voting . . . the jury except to require that the jury abide by the instructions rued as coercive].) after receiving the further assurance that the excerpts were part of a lengthier statement and the defense had no objection to the translation as it stood, the jury was quick to reach its verdict. however, because we do not view the tsingle disputed line in isolation but rather in the particular circumstances of this case, instructions as improperly coercive of a guilty verdict. (people v. russell, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 1252; and see 6 witkin & epstein, california criminal law (4th ed. 2012)  countenanced so long as it is not coercion to v. the trial court did not new trial. applicable law. the authority to grant a defendant a new trial is found in code of civil procedure section 1181. quinonez moved for a new trial citing subdivision 8 of section 1181, 46 which states that the trial court may grant a new trial: when new evidence is discovered material to the defendant, and which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the trial. when a motion for a new trial is made upon the ground of newly discovered evidence, the defendant must produce at the hearing, in support thereof, the affidavits of the witnesses by whom such evidence is expected to be given, and if time is required by the defendant to procure such affidavits, the court may postpone the hearing of the motion for such length of time as, under all circumstances of in ruling on a motion for new trial based on newly discovered evidence, the trial court considers the following factors: 1. that the evidence, and not merely its materiality, be newly discovered; 2. that the evidence be not cumulative merely; 3. that it be such as to render a different result probable on a retrial of the cause; 4. that the party could not with reasonable diligence have discovered and produced it at the trial; and 5. that these facts be shown by the best evidence of which the case admits.(people v. delgado (1993) 5 cal.4th 312, 328, citations omitted.) the focus of the trial court, however, should be on the significance and impact of the newly discovered evidence, not upon the failings lack of diligence was so unjustifiable that it fell below constitutional standards.people v. martinez (1984) 36 cal.3d 816, 826 (martinez). in martinez, although the trial court reasonably could have found defense counsel had failed to use reasonable diligence to obtain the allegedly newly discovered evidence, our supreme court concluded the trial court had abused its discretion in denying the motion for a new trial because it determined the evidence on which it was based . rs lack of diligence to bar defendant from presenting that evidence to a trier of fact would work a ma25 (id. at pp. 825-826.) 25 in people v. soojian cases that have discussed the application of martinez have focused on the weakness of 47 the granting or denial of a motion for a new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence is a matter within the sound discretion of the trial court, and in determining whether there has been a proper exercise of discretion on such motion, each case must be judged from its own factual background. [citation.]people v. dyer (1988) 45 cal.3d 26, 52.) here, the trial court properly focused on the significance of the second transcription of statement to officer perez as interpreted by a different court- a woman[,the fact there was a man and a woman in the car,she was taken by these two people . . . leaving to one side the issues of whether the evidence (rather than its materiality) was newly discovered and whether quinonez, with the exercise of reasonable diligence, could have discovered and presented it at trial, we find the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying the motion for new trial. even if was ,such evidence did not constitute evidence that would render a different result probable on a retrial of the (people v. delgado, supra, 5 cal.4th at p. 328, citations omitted; people v. s case, whether the new evidence directs strongest evidence against the defendant, and the likelihood that reversal would have been required utilizing an ineffective assistance of counsel analysis. while we are not certain whether any of these factors must be present, we are certain that each case must stand on its own facts, and no bright line can be drawn to permit easy resolution of this issue.id. at p. 518.) 48 mcdaniel a motion for a new trial on newly discovered evidence is looked upon with disfavor, and unless a clear abuse of discretion is shown, a denial of the motion will not be interfered with on appeal the non-statutory ground an incorrect translation deprived him of a fair trial. quinonez based his motion for new trial on the additional non-statutory ground that an incorrect translation deprived him of a fair trial; in this regard, he says he . consequently, this argument fails for the same reasons addressed in section ii of our discussion. quinonez forfeited any error in this regard; even leaving to one side this forfeiture, he has failed to demonstrate error as well as prejudice in any event. (see brown, supra, 225 cal.app.3d at p. 599 transcripts of admissible tape recordings are only prejudicial if it is shown they are so inaccurate that the jury might be misled into con; cabrera, supra, 230 cal.app.3d at pp. 304-305.) quinonez admitted he shot enriquez in his detailed police interview, and all of the other evidence was consistent with his confession. disposition the judgment is affirmed. woods, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. segal, j.* *judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 