filed 7/25/14 p. v. santana ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. reynaldo santana, defendant and appellant. b248278 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va123745) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. john a. torribio, judge. affirmed as modified. richard a. levy, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, linda c. johnson and gary a. lieberman, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________ 2 reynaldo santana appeals from a judgment entered after a jury found him guilty of committing a lewd act upon a child under the age of 14 years. (pen. code,  288, subd. (a).)1 after santana admitted a prior conviction for continuous sexual abuse of another child ( 288.5), the trial court sentenced him to 55 years to life in prison. santana contends the trial court erred in failing to instruct sua sponte on lesser included offenses, he also contends pros(before he admitted that conviction). as explained below, we modify the minute order from the sentencing hearing and the abstract of judgment to correct a clerical error regarding a statutory sentencing provision. as so modified, we affirm. background evidence presented at trial father. the conduct which forms the basis of the lewd conduct charge occurred in late august 2011, when elizabeth was eight years old. to her mother, nancy r., in october 2011. the evidence presented at trial began with that disclosure. elizabeth was nine years old at the time trial commenced on march 26, 2013. on october 17, 2011, santana picked up nancy and her seven-year-old son at the train station. santana drove them to his ex-pick up elizabeth. as she en from there, santana took nancy and her two children to their house. nancy noticed 1 further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 when they arrived at her house, nancy exited sbelongings inside. elizabeth also exited the car, but stayed outside. when nancy returned, santana and elizabeth were standing behind the car looking at clothes santana ntana showed her the clothes. santana had often given elizabeth gifts during the short period of time he was in her lifebetween one and two months. before he left on october 17, 2011, santana asked elizabeth for a hug and kiss. they said goodbye and santana drove away. and to a prior to october 17, 2011. elizabeth explained that on the day santana took her to see the smurfs moviewhich nancy recalled was during the last week of august in 2011santana made her touch him while he was wearing his underwear.2 although she was aware santana had been in trouble in the past for sexual misconduct with children, she had allowed elizabeth to spend time alone with him. on october 17, 2011, conduct. a deputy responded to her home that evening and interviewed her and elizabeth. according to nancy, elizabeth told the deputy santana should go to jail for what he did to her. a few days later, a detective interviewed nancy and elizabeth. 2 testify about the specific statements elizabeth made to her regarding the charged conduct. 4 in august 2011, santana took elizabeth to see the smurfs movie. elizabeth felt she demonstrated at trial how santana was touching her back below the nape of her neck. after the movie and a stop at a shoe store, santana brought elizabeth back to his is home, what during further questioning, elizabeth explained how the touching occurred. elizabeth was sitting by herself on the couch watching television. santana, who was wearing pants and a shirt, went inside the bathroom and came out wearing only boxer shorts. he grabbed a blanket, sat down on the couch next to elizabeth, and covered the two of them with the blanket. their hands were underneath the blanket. santana grabbed , pulling her hand toward him, on direct examination by the prosecutor, elizabeth initially denied her hand s penis. she testified bashe described the sensation she later, on redirect examination, elizabeth testified the tip of her finger elizabeth felt scared as santana covered her with the blanket, grabbed her wrist, and made her touch him. when her finger made contact with his boxer shorts/penis, she swimming in a pool with him and his female friend. on the day it happened, elizabeth did not tell anyone about the incident with do something to [her] mom or something like her mother asked her why she did not want to hug santana on an occasion when he came told 5 elizabeth told a deputy about the incident on the day it occurred. a few days later, she spoke with a detective. she also met with counselors and told them about the incident. talked to her mother and g-with santana. elizabeth acknowledged her mother what happened, and they told her they thought santana should go to jail for what he did to her. prior to testifying, elizabeth spoke with her mother and grandmother about what was going to happen at trial. on cross-examiounsel, elizabeth stated she recalled at the preliminary hearing she testified her hand on redirect examination, elizabeth explained , and that is what she m nancy told creta deputy october 17, 2011 account she [elizabeth] said that her grandfather suspect santana, mr. santana, had taken her to watch a movie at a theater. they watched smurfs and then they returned to his residence and while sitting on the couch he pulled a blanket over them and grabbed her hand and put it over his groin and her tip of her fingers touched the penis, which she described to be hard as plastic and a circle, round. she pulled her hand away from the location and that was according to creta, elizabeth explained, elizabeth also told creta that santana 6 on october 20, 2011, detective anderson interviewed elizabeth at her elementary told you elizabeth stated, prior to this incident, santana had never touched her or tried to touch her in a way that made her feel uncomfortable. elizabeth did not tell anderson about santana touching her back during the movie. detective anderson interviewed nancy on november 3, 2011. nancy told him on december 1, 2011, when toledo was working as a school-based therapist, she spoke with elizabeth at her elementary school. nancy was not present. elizabeth told toledo elizabeth she told toledo that san pants were pulled down below his knees and above his ankles. she did not tell toledo that santana had gone inside the bathroom and taken off his pants. elizabeth told toledo about incidents during which santana touched her on her back. santana did not testify or call any witnesses in his defense. the parties stipulated under the age of eight. these ch verdict, court trial on prior conviction, and sentencing on march 27, 2013, the jury found santana guilty of committing a lewd act upon a child under the age of 14 years. after the reading of the verdict, the trial court set a date for the court trial on the allegations in the information conviction for continuous sexual abuse of a child in violation of section 288.5. the court 7 t people and everything or at the outset of the next hearing on april 23, 2013, the trial court stated prosecutor] has submitted to the court a certified copy . . . of the department of corrections packet, showing a conviction for reynaldo santana jr. of 288.5. [] there was also a picture of mr. santana, which is the same as the gentleman here in court. 3 have no evidence, your honor, only submit that the packet is insufficient without either fingerprint compa the following discussion ensued between the parties and the trial court: ] whether or not his client -- -- counsel]: one second, your honor. i did speak a moment ago about s indicating now it may be a non issue 3 we provide this detail regarding the hearing on the prior conviction allegations because, as discussed in more detail below, santana contends on appeal the trial court supply additional evidence, where the court already pronounced its judgment that the 8 after defense counsel and santana conferred off the record, defense counsel indicated santana wanted to admit the prior conviction. the trial court told santana the , santana admitted the prior conviction for continuous sexual abuse of a child in violation of section 288.5, and the court found the allegations in the information relating to that conviction to be true. the trial court sentenced santana to 55 years to life in prison: 25 years to life for the current sex offense due to the prior sex offense ( 667.61, subds. (a) & (d)(1)),4 doubled to 50 years to life under the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(1), 117012, subds. (a)-(d)), plus five years for the prior serious felony enhancement (667, subd. (a)(1)). discussion jury instructions santana contends the trial court had a sua sponte duty to give several additional jury instructions, as specified below. lesser included offenses santana did not ask the trial court to instruct the jury on attempted lewd conduct or battery. in his opening brief on appeal, he contends the court had a sua sponte duty to give instructions on these additional offenses because they are lesser included offenses of lewd conduct. we need only decide whether the court had a sua sponte duty to instruct on attempted lewd conduct. as santana acknowledges in his appellate reply brief, our 4 the minute order from the april 23, 2013 sentencing hearing and the abstract of judgment, incorrectly indicate the trial court imposed the term of 25 years to life under section 667.6, subsentencing hearing, the court correctly cited section 667.61 in imposing the term of 25 years to life for the offense, as alleged in the information. as set forth in the disposition below, we order the trial court to correct the minute order and abstract of judgment to reflect the correct statutory provision. there is a box that may be checked on the bottom rsuant three strikes law. 9 supreme court has concluded, (people v. shockley (2013) 58 cal.4 under california law, a lesser offense is necessarily included in a greater offense if either the statutory elements of the greater offense, or the facts actually alleged in the accusatory pleading, include all the elements of the lesser offense, such that the greater cannot be committed without also committing the lesserpeople v. breverman (19all theories of a lesser included offense which find substantial support in the evidence. on the other hand, the court is not obliged to instruct on theories that have no such id. any evidence, no matter how required whenever evidence that the defendant is guilty only of the lesser offense is r, was committed. ibid.) any person who willfully and lewdly commits any lewd or lascivious act . . . upon or with the body, or any part or member thereof, of a child who is under the age of 14 years, with the intent of arousing, appealing to, or gratifying the lust, passions, or sexual desires of that person or the child, is guilty of a felonypeople v. martinez (1995) 11 cal.4th 434, 442.) under the statute, the people are required to prove that the defendant touched the child in order to obtain immediate sexual gratificationid. at p. 452.) in re sylvester c. people v. meyer (1985) 169 cal.app.3d 496, 506.) commit a crime has two elements: the intent to commit the crime and a 10 direct ineffectual act done towards its commissionpeople v. davis (2009) 46 cal.4th 539, 606.) elizabeth consistently reportedto deputy creta, to detective anderson, to counselor joyce toledothat santana grabbed her wrist and pulled her hand to his penis, and she touched his penis over his boxer shorts. elizabeth testified consistently at trial.5 thus, the record contains evidence of a completed lewd act, not attempted lewd conduct. that her his intent in grabbing her wrist was to facilitate the subsequent touching of his penis, not for its own sake that is, if he did not intend sexual gratification from grabbing the wrist then a juror could have found that the crime was attempted lewd conduct, which was thwarted when [elizabeth] [her] but even without this clarification, the evidence, if credited, is while sitting next to her under a blanket and pulled her hand, he did so in order to obtain immediate sexual gratification that immediate sexual gratification. the trial court did not have a sua sponte duty to instruct on attempted lewd conduct. 5 al to our analysis of this issue. 11 unanimity santana contends the trial court had a sua sponte duty to give a unanimity instruction. the key to deciding whether to give the unanimity instruction lies in considering its purpose. the jury must agree on a [citation]; it would be unacceptable if some jurors believed the defendant guilty of one crime and other jurors believed h[im] guilty of another. but unanimity as to exactly how the crime was committed is not required. thus, the unanimity instruction is when conviction on a single count could be based on two or more discrete where multiple theories or acts may form the basis of a guilty verdict on o [citation.] in deciding whether to give the instruction, the trial court must ask whether (1) there is a risk the jury may divide on two discrete crimes and not agree on any particular crime, or (2) the evidence merely presents the possibility the jury may divide, or be uncertain, as to the exact way the defendant is guilty of a single discrete crime. in the first situation, but not the second, it should give the unanimity instructionpeople v. russo (2001) 25 cal.4th 1124, 1134-1135.) n his penis the jurors could have found santana guilty without unanimously agreeing which crime he we . as discussed above, the evidence demonstrates in order to obtain immediate sexual gratification. there is one discrete criminal event, one incident of lewd conduct. to the extent jurors could have divided about the trial court did not have a sua sponte duty to give a people v. russo, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 1135.) 12 omission of specific i the trial court instructed the jury, in pertinent part: act or conduct with a certain specific intent in the mind of the perpetrator. unless this specific intent exists, the crime to which it relates is not committed. elsewhere in these instructions. [caljic no. 3.31.] is accused of having committed the act of lewd act on a child, in violation of 288 of the penal code. lascivious act upon or with the body or any part or member thereof of a child under the age of 14 years, with the specific intent of arousing, appealing to, or gratifying the lust or passions or sexual desires of that person or the child, is guilty of the crime of committing a lewd act or lascivious act upon the body of a child in violation of 288(a). the age of 14, with the specific intent to arouse, appeal to or gratify, the sexual desires of either party. to constitute a lewd or lascivious act, it is not necessary that bare skin be touching -- be touched. the touching may be through the clothing of the child. does not require as an essential element of the crime that the lust, passion or sexual desires of either of such persons be actually aroused, appealed to, or gratified. was done with the specific intent to arouse, appeal to, or gratify touching be as discussed above, our 13 under the statute [ 288, subd. (a)], the people are required to prove that the defendant touched the child in order to obtain immediate sexual gratificationpeople v. martinez, supra, 11 cal.4th at p. 452.) while santana does not cite a case indicating a trial court ever has a duty to instruct a jury with this particular language, he argues of the proposed instruction this case: caljic no. 10.41 plainly informed the jury, to find santana guilty of the charged other words, santana had to intend sexual gratification at the time he touched elizabeth santana asserts. accordingly, the trial court did not have a sua sponte duty to instruct the jury with the additional language santana proposes. santana contends the trial court erred in overruling his objection to a grandmother said something to her on october 17, 2011, which caused elizabeth to make this (false) accusation against santana. in his rebuttal closing argument, the prosecutor stated, in pertinent part: he evidence that you received and apply that [to] the law that the judge gives you. upon again the testimony that you received and the evidence in this case. now what you see [defense counsel] doing, and again people have the burden of proof to prove the case sides can call witnesses. okay. both sides can call witnesses. now neither side called 14 grandma, okay. so, [defense counsel] makes a tremendous amount of -- takes a lot of time to talk about what happened with grandma, what happened with grandma. counsel] wants you to now take [sic] and sit there and talk about grandma. folks, would you be talking about evidence in this case if you did that? no. both sides could have called grandma. she is not here. she was not here. there was no testimony received. if the trial court overruled the objection and the prosecutor continued with his argument. inadvertently or maliciously influenced elizabeth to revisit the touching and interpret it as the prosecutor was merely commenting on the state of the evidence, and arguing evidence indicating the grandmother and elizabeth had spoken about santana prior to vidence demonstrating the grandmother harbored ill will toward santana, other than the bald fact -wife. the prosecutor was asking the jury not to speculate that the grandmother had i. the prosecutor did not commit misconduct and the trial court did not err in court trial on prior conviction santana contends his case on the prior conviction in order to supply additional evidence, where the court we already summarized above the relevant trial court proceedings on this issue. 15 santana concedes that his argument regarding a violation of the double jeopardy clause of the united states constitution has been resolved against him by the california supreme court, and that we are bound to follow that precedent. (people v. monge (1997) 16 cal.4th 826; people v. barragan (2004) 32 cal.4th 236, 241 in the noncapital sentencing context, retrial of a prior conviction allegation does not violate the double jeopardy clause of the federal constitution.) scretion under state law and the we address the issue on the merits even though defense counsel did not raise an objection below and santana admitted the prior conviction at the same hearing. santana argues his counsel was the trial court did not err in conducting this bench trial on the prior conviction ion to reopen a case to allow introduction of people v. ceja (1988) 205 cal.app.3d 1296, 1304.) the record makes clear there had been prior discussions between the parties about whether santana would admit the prior conviction or require the prosecutor to prove it. those discussions continued during the hearing. the court did not abuse its discretion in entertaining a brief, same-day continuance to allow the prosecutor to bring in fingerprint evidence. 16 disposition the trial court is directed to correct the minute order from the april 23, 2013 sentencing hearing, and the abstract of judgment to reflect santana was sentenced pursuant to 667.61, not 667.6. as so modified, the judgment is affirmed. the clerk of the superior court is directed to prepare an amended abstract of judgment and to forward it to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published. chaney, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. miller, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 