filed 8/22/14 p. v. medeiros ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. anthony joseph medeiros, defendant and appellant. b248686 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la070072) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, gregory a. dohi, judge. affirmed. allison h. ting, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and rama r. maline, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury convicted appellant anthony joseph medeiros of one count of attempted murder with premeditation and deliberation and one count of assault with a deadly weapon. in this appeal from the judgment of conviction, appellant contends that: (1) the trial court abused its discretion in admitting into evidence a recording of a jailhouse telephone conversation with his mother; (2) the court erred in denying his motion for a new trial based on alleged prosecutorial misconduct; and (3) there is insufficient evidence of premeditation and deliberation to sustain . we find none of his contentions meritorious and therefore affirm. factual and procedural background prosecution evidence appellant lived with his mother, tina shadley, and his stepfather, eugene hatfield, in an apartment in valley village. javier acuna lived in an apartment upstairs from appellant. often spent time at . the victim, mathew lorenceau, lived in on august 2, 2011, around 9:00 p.m., lorenceau heard firecrackers being . he went outside to lot, looked through a missing slat in the fence, and saw people throwing firecrackers. lorenceau yelled at them to stop, but they could not hear him. lorenceau then jumped on a wall to look over the fence and saw four men in the parking lot. the men responded by trying to get lorenceau to come fight with them. one of the men gestured toward another man whom lorenceau had not previously noticed. lorenceau saw the second man, later identified as appellant, 3 start running quickly toward him. appellant ran between two cars in the parking lot toward the fence where lorenceau was standing. appellant jumped and struck lorenceau in the chest twice. lorenceau tried to strike back at appellant but was unable to reach him. lorenceau noticed blood on his shirt and realized appellant had stabbed him. , and the neighbors called the police. lorenceau described the group white. t, bald head, however, lorenceau subsequently told officers that his attacker was a bald white man with a square jaw and semi-muscular build and tattoos on both arms. cisneros testified that, around 9:00 p.m. on august 2, 2011, he was in heard fireworks and yelling from the back of the apartment building. cisneros went downstairs to investigate the commotion because he was on parole and wanted to leave if anything was happening. cisneros saw appellant acting ed he would behave if he had don cisneros asked appellant what happened, and appellant told appellant cisneros advised stepfather to leave, which they did. lorenceau was in the hospital for six days. lorenceau told officers that his y arzate took a six-pack 4 photographic lineup to the hospital to show lorenceau. lorenceau immediately lorenceau also identified appellant at trial as his assailant. on august 6, 2011, appellant. in september 2011, timothy ohno, a peace officer for the state of california, was assigned to search for appellant. on january 31, 2012, agent ohno was coseen leaving the apartment, with hatfield driving and appellant in the passenger seat. appellant and hatfield were arrested. detective arzate arrested shadley at her apartment. appellant and shadley were placed in a patrol car together for transport to jail, and their conversation while they were alone in the car was recorded. in the course of the conversation, the following exchange occurred: ey]: take it easy. just get i told you that [] . . . . they bang you with this shit dude man. [inaudible] you and eugene you guys up, man. y they want me to do life maybe. you know?1 on march 2, 2012, appellant called his mother from jail. a recording of the conversation was played for the jury and a transcript provided. in discussing 1 the prosecutor played an excerpt of the conversation and provided a transcript of the excerpt for the jury. . defense counsel subsequently played the rest of the conversation, beginning from where the prosecution stopped the recording, and provided its own transcript for the jury. 5 ingness to plead guilty to a charge of assault with a deadly weapon, appellant made statements tending to acknowledge his guilt of the stabbing: come at me with some deal. you know? shadley: yeah. [appellant]: i might just take the first fucking deal. you know? fuck, come at me with 17. come at me with um 17 and under. i might fucking take it. [appellant]: shit. fuck. shit kills me. [appellant]: fuck shit. yeah, but i did that shit to myself. you know? i know. [appellant]: yeah stupid yeah, i agree. [appellant]: huh? i agree. [appellant]: yeah. yup. yup. yup. people played off my emotions and i fell for it. mhmm. damn. they got me. uh you know? defense evidence appellant presented two witnesses whose testimony called into question whether appellant had a tattoo on his neck at the time of the stabbing. 6 stepfather, hatfield, worked for him as a driver to pick up bodies. estephan testified that, on august 2, 2011, hatfield picked up approximately five bodies. around 8:30 or 9:00 p.m. that night, hatfield was sent to pick up a body in tehachapi and drive it to a mortuary in sylmar. estephan stated that hatfield took appellant with him on most of his calls, but he could not remember if appellant was with hatfield on august 2. hatfield testified that, on august 2, 2011, appellant accompanied him on two pick-ups, one at 5:00 p.m. and the other around 7:30 or 8:00 p.m. hatfield left for tehachapi around 8:00 pin lancaster, and then continued alone to tehachapi, returning around midnight. under cross-examination, hatfield acknowledged that he never told detective arzate that he had dropped appellant off in lancaster the night of the stabbing. he records. shadley testified that detective arzate had warned her she could be arrested while the police were searching for him. shadley believed appellant was innocent shadley also testified that, in the conversation that was recorded in the poli tony, i think appellant testified that tony wa believed that cisneros lied to the police when he told them that appellant was at home at the time of the stabbing. appellant testified that, on august 2, 2011, he was working with hatfield the entire evening and was not home. he asked hatfield to take him to lancaster 7 on the way to tehachapi, and he did not return until 6:00 the following morning. he denied stabbing lorenceau. according to appellant, his parole officer had threatened to find him in violation of parole if he did not enter a transition home. appellant explained that he did not turn himself in to the police for questioning because, when he had done so in the past, it resulted in his arrest for an offense he did not commit. procedural background appellant was charged by information with attempted murder (pen. code,  664/187, subd. (a)) (count 1) and assault with a deadly weapon (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(1)) (count 2). it was further alleged as to count 1 that appellant used a deadly and dangerous weapon (pen. code,  12022, subd. (b)(1)), and as to both counts that appellant inflicted great bodily injury (pen. code,  12022.7, subd. (a)). the information alleged that appellant had suffered a prior strike (pen. code,  667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)), had served three prior prison terms (pen. code,  667.5, subd. (b)), and had suffered a prior conviction of a serious felony (pen. code,  667, subd. (a)(1)). the jury found appellant guilty of both counts, found that the attempted murder was willful, deliberate and premeditated, and found true the weapon and great bodily injury enhancements. appellant subsequently admitted to all the prior conviction allegations. appellant filed a motion for new trial, which the court denied after hearing argument. the trial court sentenced appellant to a term of 14 years to life as to count 1, plus three years for the great bodily injury enhancement and five years for the prior serious felony conviction, for a total of 22 years. the court struck the prior prison term and deadly weapon allegations in the interest of justice. as to count 2, the 8 court imposed and stayed the sentence pursuant to penal code section 654. appellant filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion i. admissibility of telephone call appellant contends that the trial court abused its discretion in admitting into evidence the recording of the jail telephone call between appellant and his mother. he further contends that the admission of the telephone call violated his right to due process by rendering the trial fundamentally unfair. we disagree. a. the pertinent excerpts of the conversation, some of which we have previously set forth, are as follows: [appellant]: fuck this jail shit. i wanna go over to prison already. you know? mhmm. [appellant]: . . . to a 245 already, you know? yeah. [appellant]: uh huh. [appellant]: it is? [appellant]: with a gbi. you know? uh huh. 9 [appellant]: in all my paperwork, it says a 245 cutting 245, you know? a fucking adw, adw, adw assault with a deadly weapon, you know? all over all my paperwork. you know? i only got a couple pieces of paperwork says attempted murder, attempted murder. you know? but everything else is fuckin and that initial report is a fucking adw, a 245. you know? mhmm. [appellant]: so fuck. so they should just hurry up and drop that to a 245. come at me with some deal. you know? yeah. [appellant]: i might just take the first fucking deal. you know? fuck, come at me with 17. come at me with um 17 and under. i might fucking take it. okay. [appellant]: shit. fuck. shit kills me. yeah. [appellant]: fuck shit. yeah, but i did that shit to myself. you know? i know. [appellant]: yeah stupid . . . i agree. [appellant]: yeah. yup. yup. yup. people played off my emotions and i fell for it. mhmm. damn. they got me. mhmm. damn. yup. but uh shit. that way i can go wherever. you know? . . . [appellant]: you know i fucking hope they kill me. you know? shit. if then fuck more grief. . . . 10 [appellant]: yeah. you know? it should be a 245, man. i know eventually they gonna go to a 245, you know? yep. [appellant]: with a gbi, you know? [appellant]: yeah. like uh you said four years? yes. [appellant]: double up, eight prison prior enhancement is nine and then they throw you up for the uh for the weapon, on a three year enhancement. you know, so that brings that to twelve, you know? twelve years right there. you know? okay. [appellant]: i would take that. because upstate, uh oh okay. [appellant]: 80% . . . you know? oh. [appellant]: oh okay. [appellant]: yep. yeah, 8, 7 years. [appellant]: yep. yeah. you know, shit after doing that ten, seven sounds cool. i hear you. 11 [appellant]: you know? yeah, shit shoot it. i would like to take it all the way. you know? not liking the way i look. you know? get me. yeah. [appellant]: yep. i got that look. (italics added.) appellant objected to the introduction of the telephone call. the trial court held a hearing pursuant to evidence code section 402.2 defense counsel argued that the telephone call was inadmissible because it reflected settlement talks. the prosecutor argued that , pointing out that appellant never denied committing the offense during the conversation. the court initially expressed concern about the probative value of the evidence under section 352.3 the court noted that appellant never admitted committing a crime during the telephone call. instead, appellant only stated that he al code section 245, assault with a deadly weapon. the trial court subsequently listened to the recording again and decided that it was relevant. the court found the following statements by appellant to be 2 all unspecified statutory references are to the evidence code. 3 the statute the court in its discretion may exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury. 352.) 12 relevantthe court reasoned ssault with a deadly weapon, rather than attempted murder. the trial court accordingly held that those portions of the telephone call were admissible and that the entire conversation was admissible under section 356.4 we conclude that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the conversation. b. applicable law and discussion and all relevant evidence is admissible unless excluded under the federal or california constitution or by statute. [citations.] relevant evidence is defined in evidence code section disputed s.] [citation.] the trial court people v. fields (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 1001, 1016.) sweeping as to include any evidence the opponent finds inconvenient. evidence is not prejudicial, as that term is used in a section 352 context, merely because it 4 where part of an act, declaration, conversation, or writing is given in evidence by one party, the whole on the same subject may be inquired into by an adverse party; when a letter is read, the answer may be given; and when a detached act, declaration, conversation, or writing is given in evidence, any other act, declaration, conversation, or writing which is necessary to make it understood may also be given in evidence. 13 to do so is what makes evidence relevant. the code speaks in terms of undue prejudice. unless the dangers of undue prejudice, confusion, or time consumption section 352 applies to evidence which uniquely tends to evoke an emotional bias against the defendant as an individual and which has very little effect on the issues. people v. scott (2011) 52 cal.4th 452, 490-491 (scott).) discretion. (id. at p. 491.) appellant contends that the telephone conversation had no probative value because he did not admit guilt or provide any details about the crime. he further argues that his comments regarding the possibility of pleading guilty do not indicate that he was actually guilty, but only that he and his mother were we disagree. although appellant did not expressly admit guilt, his statements, reasonably interpreted, strongly suggest that he was acknowledging his guilt of stabbing lorenceau and blaming himself for his predicament. thus, in complaining about his situation and discussing his willingness to plead guilty to a charge of assault with a deadly weapon for the stabbing, he acknowledged that he was responsible and had been stupid: .apparently referring to the circumstances of the argument that preceded the stabbing and being directed by others to stab lorenceau, 14 yup. yup. yup. people played off my emotions and i fell for it. mhmm. damn. tended to prove that appellant found himself in custody for stabbing lorenceau, hoping for a negotiated sentence for assault with a deadly weapon, because he shit to myself. . . . yeah stupid. . . . yeah. yup. yup. yup. people played off my emotions and i fell for it. mhmm. damn. they got me. appellant relies on people v. duarte (2000) 24 cal.4th 603 (duarte) to argue that his statements were not sufficiently inculpatory to be admitted. duarte considered exception for declarations against penal interest. ( 1230.) to be admissible under interests [citation]. (people v. valdez (2012) 55 cal.4t hearsay admits some complicity but places the major responsibility on others) does not meet the test of trustworthiness people v. arauz (2012) 210 cal.app.4th 1394, 1400.) duarte is inapposite. appellant does not argue that his statements were inadmissible hearsay, and unlike in duarte, the prosecutor here was not required to specifically disserving to penal interests as to qualify as declarations against penal interest. rather, the inquiry here only required the trial court to determine in its discretion whether the asserted prejudice from introduction of the statements substantially outweighed trial court did not abuse its discretion. at trial, appellant sought to explain his incriminating statements. he testified that the reason he was that the original 15 charge was assault with a deadly weapon, not attempted murder. he was concerned about the charge because the sentence for attempted murder would be greater if he was convicted. . he explained that he wanted to go to prison because, unlike in jail, he could shave, shower, and not worry about constant fighting. appellant further reference to coming home and getting arrested. him into the transition home. detract from the fact that, on their face, the statements reasonably suggested that he was acknowledging his guilt of stabbing lorenceau. indeed, his testimony describing the meaning of his words tended to lessen any asserted prejudice by presenting the jury with an alternative explanation, one the jury apparently did not credit. in short, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the conversation. an abuse of discretion, we further conclude that the admission of the evidence did not render the trial fundamentally unfair. 16 ii. prosecutorial misconduct appellant contends that the trial court abused its discretion in denying his motions for a mistrial and new trial based on alleged prosecutorial misconduct.5 he argues that the prosecutor engaged in misconduct during rebuttal argument by accusing defense counsel of altering the transcript of the recording of conversation with his mother in the police car. a. both the prosecution and the defense provided transcripts of the recording of . because defense counsel played the full recording, his transcript contained the entire conversation. t by sic] (inaudible during closing argument, defense counsel addressed in the conversation with his mother in the police car. defense counsel argued that appellant told his mother during rebuttal argument, the prosecutor also addressed the conversation in the police car. he argu transcript that 5 respondent argues that appellant has forfeited this argument by failing to address it in his brief. we disagree. appellant addressed the argument and therefore has not forfeited it. 17 evidence [sic]. rue. that was paid for by the the themselves transcripts, go with what you hear. the transcripts are provided by each side as accurate. the people. , defense counsel asked to be heard as to his objection. i understand it, [the prosecutor] was talking about a transcript and suggesting that there was something in the audio that was not contained on the transcript. this is wrongdoing. mselves may not have written [the transcripts], they are presented by each side to help you certainly not finding that either side committed any type of misconduct in any way with 18 so when it comes to the issue of the transcripts, i think . . . me telling [the jury] that i have found no misconduct and [the prosecutor] . . . sayihe court did not ask for the transcript to be prepared. the coursomebody who the defense recommended, and to somehow suggest that this is a court prepared o, but you could say that was prepared by a third the transcript was misleading and that the misleading part came from defense counsel directly . he moved for a mist he attacked my credibility, attacked my integrity before the jury for no reason knowing way better that it was done by a third party, i had nothing to do with it. the court replied that its admonition to the jury that there was no misconduct in the preparation of the transcripts was sufficient to cure any harm. the court thus denied the motion for a mistrial. the court subsequently denied misconduct claim. 19 b. applicable law and discussion we review the denial of a motion for mistrial under the abuse of discretion standard. (people v. montes hapeople v. avila (2006) 38 cal.4th 491, 573 (avila).) for a new trial under a deferential abuse-of-court will not disturb the ruling absent a manifest and unmistakable abuse of that people v. lightsey (2012) 54 cal.4th 668, 729.) prosecutor who uses deceptive or reprehensible methods to persuade the jury commits misconduct, and such actions require reversal under the federal prosecutor who uses such methods commits misconduct even when those actions do not result in a fundamentally unfair trial. [citation.] (people v. parson (2008) 44 cal.4th 332, 359 (parson).) a mistrials parson, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 359.) comments were impropirreparably damaged by the comments. (avila, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 573.) 20 first, the trial court repeatedly admonished the jury that it was to rely on the recording of the conversation, not the transcripts provided by the parties. the jury thus was instructed to determine for itself what appellant said in the conversation. second, regarding the transcript gument that when the prosecutor made the disputed comment, he referred on its own interpretation of the recording, not the transcripts, which were created by the parties. third, as the trial court reasoned, the prosecutor himself stated before the jury that he did not intend to accuse defense counsel of wrongdoing in the preparation of the transcript. in addition, the trial court specifically told the jury, m certainly not finding that either side committed any type of misconduct in any thus, even if the tegrity, the admonition that there was no misconduct in the preparation of the transcripts sufficiently cured any possible prejudice to appellant. we therefore conclude that appellant has not met his burden of showing a federal constitutional violparson, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 359.) f such misconduct does not rise to the level of a federal constitutional violation, we that a result more favorable to defendant would have occurred absent the misconducpeople v. castillo (2008) 168 cal.app.4th 364, 386.) 21 comments made by the prosecutor before the jury, the question is whether there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury construed or applied any of the complained-of people v. ochoa (1998) 19 cal.4th 353, 427 (ochoa).) it is not reasonably probable that a result more favorable to appellant would have occurred absent the alleged prosecutorial misconduct. the conversation between appellant and his mother in the police car was only one piece of evidence in the trial. cisneros testified that appellant made incriminating comments after lorenceau testified that he had no doubt that appellant was the person who stabbed him. detective arzate similarly testified that lorenceau immediately identified appellant as his assailant when she showed him the photographic lineup. nor is there a reasonable likelihood that the jury construed the complained-of remarks in an objectionable fashion. (ochoa, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 427.) again, the trial court admonished the jury that it did not find any misconduct in the preparation of he did not intend to accuse defense counsel of wrongdoing. appellant relies on people v. bain (1971) 5 cal.3d 839 (bain), in which the california supreme court found that the prosecutor engaged in misconduct. in bainversion of the eventually engaged in consensual sex with him. beginning with voir dire and continuing through his closing argument, the prosecutor repeatedly stated that the the prosecutor also expressed his personal belief that the defendant was guilty, 22 declaring that he would not prosecute a man whom he did not believe to be guilty. a serious threat to objective deliberation by juro6 (id. id. combination of the two elements of such misconduct the unsupported assertion -of personal belief in defendants guilt, built on a racial foundation may well have swayed the jury in id. at p. 849.) this case is very different from bain, in which the prosecutor repeatedly personal belief that the defendant was guilty, and made comments based on race. unlike bain, in which the prosecutor explicitly and repeatedly accused defense counsel of fabricating a story, the prosecutor here specifically disavowed accusing defense counsel of misconduct. as discussed above, admonition, the enial that he was accusing defense counsel of misconduct, and the infected with such unfairness as to render his conviction a violation of due process. (parson, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 359.) 6 the prosecutor stated several times that he believed the defendant was guilty and bain, supra, 5 cal.3d at p. 846.) 23 iii. cumulative error appellant contends that the cumulative error rendered his trial fundamentally unfair, requiring reversal of his conviction. because we find no error, we reject this contention. iv. sufficiency of the evidence appellant contends that the evidence is insufficient to support his conviction for attempted first degree murder because there is insufficient evidence of premeditation and deliberation. we disagree. assessing a claim of sufficiency of the evidence is well favorable to the judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidence that is, evidence which is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable of every fact the trier could reasonably de (people v. gonzales and soliz (2011) 52 cal.4th 254, 294.) [cpeople v. perez murder, attempted first degree murder requires a finding of premeditation and people v. villegas (2001) 92 cal.app.4th 1217, 1223.) remeditated and deliberate if it occurred as the result of preexisting thought and reflection rather than unconsidered or rash impulse. [citation.] however, the requisite reflection need not span a specific or llow each other with great rapidity 24 (people v. stitely (2005) 35 cal.4th 514, 543.) appellant relies on people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15, 26-27 (anderson), which considered types of evidence found sufficient to sustain a verdict of premeditated and deliberate murder. anderson categories of evidence pertinent to the determination of premeditation and deliberation: people v. perez (1992) 2 cal.4th 1117, 1125 (perez).) appellant contends that there is insufficient evidence of these three factors to support the finding of premeditation and deliberation. the california supreme court has subsequently explained, however, that anderson guidelines are descriptive, not normative. [citation.] the goal of anderson was to aid reviewing courts in assessing whether the evidence is supportive of an inference that the killing was the result of preexisting reflection and weighing of considerations rather than mere unconsidered or rash impulse. [citation.] [] in identifying categories of evidence bearing on premeditation and deliberation, anderson did not purport to establish an exhaustive list that would exclude all other types and combinations of evidence that could support a finding of premeditation and deliberation. perez, supra, 2 cal.4th at p. 1125; see also people v. gonzalez (2012) 54 cal.4th 643, 663 [the anderson not all required [citation], nor are they exclusive in describing the evidence that .) we therefore consider t belaboring the bullet points of planning, motive, and manner of killing on which . . . anderson people v. gunder (2007) 151 cal.app.4th 412, 420.) 25 appellant contends that his case is similar to people v. boatman (2013) 221 cal.app.4th 1253 (boatman), which held that the evidence was insufficient to support the first degree murder elements of premeditation and deliberation. the facts of boatman are very different from those presented here. in boatman, the defendant shot his girlfriend while they were in a bedroom in the home at the time, but none of them witnessed the shooting. the defendant gave different versions of what happened, initially telling officers that his girlfriend accidentally shot herself, then stating that he accidentally shot her because he thought the gun was not loaded, and finally stating that he knew it was loaded, but she playfully pointed it at him, and he slapped it away. at trial, he testified that after she pointed the gun at him, he took it and pointed it at her and accidentally shot her. immediately after the shot, the defendant attempted to give her mouth-to-mouth resuscitation and told his brother to call the police. the boatman court concluded that there was no planning evidence presented. (boatman, supra, 221 cal.app.4th at p. 1267.) the court pointed out no evidence that defendant left the room or the house to get a gun, or that he even moved from his squattiibid.) the court further someone horrified and distraught about what he had done, not someone who had noting that he tried to resuscitate his girlfriend, told his brother to call the police, and could be heard crying in the background during the 911 call. (ibid.) the court concluded to support an inference of a plan to kill [his girlfriend], but strongly suggests a lack ibid.) 26 the court in boatman (boatman, supra, 221 cal.app.4th at p. 1267.) the only motive evidence was a text message from the victim to a friend, stating that she was having a fight with the defendant. the attorney general relied on this to argue that the jury may have and he was angry with [his girlfriend].id. at pp. 1267-1268.) this case is unlike boatmanboatman, supra, 221 cal.app.4th at p. 1271.) instead, there was sufficient evidence to establish that appellant had a motive for attacking lorenceau and had time to premeditate and deliberate before running through the parking lot to attack him. the evidence shows that appellant and other people were involved in an argument with lorenceau in which they repeatedly urged lorenceau to come over the fence to fight with them, thus establishing a motive. after someone gestured to appellant, he ran through a parking lot to the fence, jumped up and repeatedly stabbed lorenceau in the chest. appellant thus was armed with a weapon, and he had time during the argument with lorenceau to consider whether he would attack u, then took the time to run through the parking lot toward the fence. because lorenceau was standing on a wall to look over the fence, appellant needed to jump in order to reach lorenceau, and he jumped not once but twice, stabbing him in the chest both times. all of these actions support the finding of premeditation and deliberation. (see boatman, supra, 221 cal.app.4th at p. 1271 [distinguishing people v. harris (2008) 43 cal.4th 1269, which found deliberation and premeditation because the 27 service window and then considered the decision as he walked to the door to the test is not time, but reflection. thoughts may follow each other with great rapidity and cold, calculated judgment may be arrived at quickly. people v. mendoza (2011) 52 cal.4th 1056, 1069.) engaging in an argument with someone, running toward him through a parking lot, and jumping twice to stab him in the chest is sufficient evidence of premeditation and deliberation (ibid.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports willhite, acting p. j. we concur: manella, j. edmon, j.* *judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 