filed 3/11/14 p. v. salazar ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. kevin salazar, defendant and appellant. b248385 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba394464) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, jose i. sandoval, judge. modified in part and affirmed in part with directions. stephen m. hinkle, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, linda c. johnson and ana r. duarte, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 i. introduction a jury convicted defendant, kevin salazar, of two counts of attempted willful, deliberate and premeditated murder. (pen. code,  187, 664, subd. (a).)1 the jury found true gang benefit and firearm use allegations. ( 186.22, 12022.53, subds. (b), (c) & (d).) defendant was sentenced to an indeterminate term of 55 years to life plus a determinate term of 20 years. we modify the judgment and affirm as modified. ii. the evidence the attempted murders of s.m. and a.m. occurred near los angeles high school. a student at the high school. defendant and irving guevara did not attend the high school. there was evidence defendant, mr. arzu and mr. guevara were all three associates or members of a violent gang. although s.m. denied it, there was also evidence he was an associate or member of a rival gang. on the morning of february 24, 2012, s.m. argued with mr. arzu. during their a.v., was with him at the time. a.v. also heard mr. arzu claim his gang and disrespect the rival gang. both s.m. and a.v. thought there was a gun in mr. arzu backpack. s.m. and a.v. did not actually see a gun. but mr. arzu reached into his backpack in a manner that caused s.m. and a.v. to believe mr. arzu had a gun. a.v. testified mr. arzu held his backpack close and kept reaching for something inside it. she saw object. as this was happening, mr. a friend told a.v. to be careful because there were members of the violent gang behind the school. 1 further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 3 the attempted murders occurred later the same day, as the school day ended. s.m., a.v. and b.m. crossed the street from the high school to a park where they met a.m. defendant and mr. guevara suddenly appeared. defendant confronted, chased down and shot s.m. and a.m. s.m. suffered a gunshot wound to his leg. a.m. was shot in back. the gunshot wound left a.m. partially paralyzed, unable to walk and in constant pain. the gun was never recovered. when defendant first approached his victims, he referred to his gang. a.v. heard the time of the shooting. a.v. knew mr. guevara from middle school. she recognized him when she saw him. eyewitnesses observed that mr. guevara had red lips tattooed on his neck. mr. guevara tried to waive a.v. away. instead of leaving, a.v. tried to talk to defendant. she told defendant to stop. defendant asked her which one of her companions was her boyfriend. a.v. told defendant it was none of his business. defendant told a.v. it did not matter because he was going to kill both of them. after the shooting, a.v. saw mr. arzu come out from behind a bush close to the high school. mr. arzu followed defendant and mr. guevara as they ran away. the three eyewitnessess.m., b.m. and a.v.did not know defendant prior to the incident. but they saw him face-to-face at the time of the assault. he was only a few feet away. and the three eyewitnesses repeatedly and consistently identified defendant as the assailant. s.m. identified defendant, mr. arzu and mr. guevara. s.m. testified he looked directly at defendant during the argument. s.m. was face to face with defendant. three days after the shooting, detectives michael boyle and daniel talbot visited s.m. by this time, s.m. was at home. the detectives showed s.m. a photographic lineup. s.m. quickly, within 10 to 15 seconds, identified defendant as the person who fired the shots. detective boyle testified, him was the one who shot at me and 4 guerra] was with the shooter at the time this happen[ethe preliminary hearing and at trial. on cross-examination at trial, s.m. agreed that of the six photographs in the photographic lineup, defendant was the only person whose hairstyle was similar to that of the gunman. a.v. identified defendant, mr. arzu and mr. guevara. a.v. repeatedly identified defendant as the person who fired the shots. during the argument, a.v. had been within a few feet of defendant. a.v. had talked to defendant. the first time a.v. identified defendant was at the police station on the day of the shooting. detective ronald cade showed a.v. an individual photograph of defendant. a.v. testified she identified . a.v. did not hesitate at all. three days later, on february 27, 2012, detectives boyle and talbot went to los angeles high school. the detectives showed a.v. three photographic lineups. a.v. identified defendant as the person who shot the victims. a.v. also identified mr. arzu and mr. guevara. on cross-examination, a.v. admitted that when she first saw the photographic lineup, no individual looked familiar. after further consideration, referring also on or about february 27, 2012, detective cade visited a.v. at home. detective cade showed a.v. a photographic lineup. again, a.v. identified defendant s the guy saw his face; there was no question in her mind. a.v. identified defendant at the preliminary hearing and again at trial. ed it was defendant who fired the shots. b.m. saw defendant shoot a.m. from a distance of 15 feet. on february 27, 2012, when detectives 5 boyle and talbot visited the high school, b.m. identified defendant, mr. arzu and mr. guevara. b.m. identified defendant as the person who fired the shots. when shown the back. he also shot [spreliminary hearing as well as at trial. cellular telephone records showed defendant, mr. arzu and mr. guevara were in communication with each other. these communications occurred at times corresponding argument with mr. arzu and the subsequent shooting. each telephone had the text message to the person only identified as jenifer responded: between mr. guevara and a female gang member identified only an altercation involving mr. arzu and a rival gang. at 2:17 p.m., mr. guevara texted the person identified only as giggles: it. they jumped [mr. arzu] and a the defense rested on misidentification. mr. hammond cross-examined witnesses extensively with respect to the eyewitness identifications. dr. robert shomer testified for the defense. dr. shomer was a research psychologist. he testified concerning perception and memory and the unreliability of eyewitness identifications. 6 iii. discussion defendant sought a mistrial in the trial court due to the admission of certain evidence over defense objection. on appeal, defendant contends the trial court abused its rests on testimony from officers joshua rider and edgar muro. we find no due process denial. officer rider was among the first law enforcement personnel to arrive at the scene of the shooting. officer rider spoke with witnesses including a.v. officer rider conducted a field showup during which a.v. identified mr. arzu. a.v. identified mr. arzu as the person who had fought with s.m. earlier that day. officer rider testified, jordan subsequently asked officer rider to an in depth investigation. i know the detectives were going to follow up and the officers who were there would be handling the call. just in general, from the story that i goti i know that [mr. arzu] was involved in an argument that had taken place at school and that he brought a gun into the school that was used in the shooting. deputy public defender brock hammond that mr. arzu had a gun at school and the same handgun was used to shoot s.m. and a.m. the trial court revisited the issue several times. ultimately, however, the objection was overruled. officer edgar muro subsequently testified concerning the gang issues. officer muro believed mr. guevara was a gang member. officer muro my opinion is he showed up with - - with [defendant] to commit what i believe is a gang 7 [defendant] was pretrial court overruled the objection. defendant further asserts that because officer rider heard the statement from a.v., it defendant asserts, o claimed [the gang], there would be no objection; it is his statement that the other person was [defendant] that runs not prejudicial. defendant argues, however, that when considered in conjunction with knew that the jury did not know. an abuse of dpeople v. ayala (2000) 23 cal.4th 225, 283; accord, people v. burgener (2003) 29 cal.4th 833, 873.) further, particular incident is incurably prejudicial is by its nature a speculative matter, and the trial court is vested with considerable discretion in ruling on mistrial people v. haskett people v. avila (2006) 38 cal.4th 491, 573.) here, even if the evidence should have been excluded, it was harmless in light of defendant who shot s.m. and a.m. or some other person was the assailant; in other words, whether defendant was misidentified as the gunman. there was overwhelming motivation and cellular telephone usage. whether mr. arzu had a handgun in his backpack and defendant used that same gun to shoot the victims had no direct or significant bearing on the issue of guilt. defendant concedes as much. and no 8 o defendant as the individual who committed the attempted murders was consistent with the testimony of every other law enforcement officer who testified at the trial. the jury was certainly aware that those officers believed, based on the evidence, that defendant was the perpetrator of the crimes. there was no abuse of discretion and no due process denial. defendant asserts the trial court abused its discretion in denying his motion to continue the trial so he could locate a witness. we find no abuse of discretion. the present trial commenced on march 12, 2013, and continued through march 22, 2013. on march 1, 2013, prior to the start of trial, gilda juarez appeared in court. mr. hammond asked the court to order mswhat that means is when he calls you to to [sicgoing to be ordered to come here and give testimony. [] is that clear? [] witness ms. juarez: yes, i understand. [] the court: and we do it that way [so] tes on march 19, 2013, mr. hammond said he anticipated ms. juarez would testify the following afternoon. ms. mr. hammond an address for her. she has been cooperative. she appeared in court when the court ordered her back voluntarily. and when i had spoken to her previously she was very cooperative. i had put in a call to her, i believe it was the day before yesterday, left a 9 ask tbody attachment issued for ms. juarez. on march 21, 2013, mr. hammond was still attempting to locate ms. juarez. on the last day of trial, march 22, 2013, mr. hammond noted he had been unable dropped mr. salazar off in certain sections of los angeles that are pretty far from los angeles high school, and that when she dropped him off he was wearing a red shirt, tified that on the [next] morning [when] the police searched her house she was present and that, i believe, she said she saw identified [the shooter as wearing] a gray or dark navy blue shirt, . . . without a collar, without buttons, the testimony about mr. salazar wearing a shirt both when he was dropped off and when he was picked up later in the day by gilda juarez would have hammond noted he was continuing his attempts to locate ms. juarez. mr. hammond had attempted to leave a message for ms. juarez the previous morning. he encountered a recording stating the number was no longer in service. mr. hammond requested a continuance. the trial court denied the continuation about the red shirt. she may be subject to some impeachment because of her apparent close connection to the defendant. i undand balancing that as against all of the other testimony identifying him, recognizing s any reliable information indicating that the witness will be has any leads. you left messages. 10 this morning the message says that that phone is no longer in service. notwithstanding your representations that she is cooperative and eager to testify, she has not made herself available for whatever reason. she was here before, she knew where the trial was, she furthermhave one juror who spoke on record yesterday about having concerns about having the that on a showing of good cause. ( 1050, subd. (e).) the trial court has substantial discretion in ruling on midtrial motions to continue a case, and appellate challenges to a people v. jenkins (2000) 22 cal.4th 900, 1037; people v. beeler [(1995)] 9 cal.4th 953, 1003[, abrogated on another point as explained in people v. edwards (2013) 57 cal.4th 658, 704-705]people v. seaton (2001) 26 cal.4th 598, 660.) further; the attendance of a witness, the defeand not cumulative, that the testimony could be obtained within a reasonable time, and that the facts to which the wpeople v. howard which the moving party anticipates but also the likelihood that such benefit will result, the burden on other witnesses, jurors and the court and, above all, whether substantial people v. zapien reviewed for abuse of discretion. (people v. mickey (people v. jenkins, supra, 22 cal.4th at p. 1037; accord, people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 450.) 11 ontinuance motion. the trial had already gone longer than expected. one juror had already expressed concern about the trial interfering with a planned vacation. the witness, the d appeared in court and acknowledged she understood she was on call as a defense witness. however, she never telephoned mr. hammond. and ms. juarez failed to respond to mr. for ms. juarez was disconnected. the trial court could reasonably conclude it was not no doubt, misidentification defense. but she would, as the trial court noted, have been subject to impeachment given her relationship to defendant. c. sentencing errors 1. the firearm use enhancements the jury found defendant: personally used a firearm in the commission of the attempted murders charged in counts 1 and 2 ( 12022.53, subd. (b)); personally and intentionally discharged a firearm in the commission of the attempted murders charged in counts 1 and 2 ( 12022.53, subd. (c)); and personally and intentionally discharged a firearm and proximately caused great bodily injury in the commission of the attempted murder charged in count 1 ( 12022.53, subd. (d)). as to count 1, the trial court imposed a consecutive 25-year-to-life sentence under section 12022.53, subdivision (d). the trial court should also have imposed and stayed a consecutive 20-year sentence under section 12022.53, subdivision (c), and a consecutive 10-year sentence under section 12022.53, subdivision (b). (people v. gonzalez (2008) 43 cal.4th 1118, 1122-1123, 1130; people v. ybarra (2008) 166 cal.app.4th 1069, 1094.) the judgment must be so modified. the abstract of judgment must be amended to reflect: the foregoing modifications to the 12 judgment; that the enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (d), as to count 1 is 25 years to life; and that the trial court imposed and stayed a consecutive 10-year sentence under section 12022.53, subdivision (b), as to count 2. 2. the gang enhancement for the attempted premeditated murders charged in counts 1 and 2, the trial court imposed a sentence of life with the possibility of parole ( 664, subd. (a)) with a minimum term of 15 years ( 186.22, subd. (b)(5)). the trial court also imposed and stayed any additional term under section 186.22. the judgment must be modified to strike imposition of any 10-year term under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c). (people v. lopez (2005) 34 cal.4th 1002, 1004; people v. arauz (2012) 210 cal.app.4th 1394, 1404-1405.) 3. conduct credits the trial court gave defendant credit for 426 days spent in presentence custody. however, the trial court failed to award defendant any conduct credit. the parties agree that defendant was entitled to 63 days of conduct credit. ( 2933.1, subd. (c); see people v. rosales (2014) 222 cal.app.4th 1254, 1261-1262.) the judgment must be modified and the abstract of judgment amended to so provide. iv. disposition the judgment as to count 1 is modified to impose and stay the consecutive 10 and 20-year sentences under penal code section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (c) respectively. the judgment is further modified to strike any 10-year term imposed on counts 1 and 2 pursuant to penal code section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c). the judgment as to presentence custody credit is modified to award defendant 63 days of 13 conduct credit under penal code section 2933.1, subdivision (c). the judgment is affirmed in all other respects. the abstract of judgment must be amended in three respects to reflect: the modified judgment; that the enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (d), as to count 1 is 25 years to life; and that the trial court imposed and stayed a consecutive 10-year sentence under section 12022.53, subdivision (b), as to count 2. upon remittitur issuance, the clerk of the superior court is to prepare an amended abstract of judgment and deliver a copy to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published in the official reports turner, p.j. we concur: mosk, j. mink, j. retired judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 