filed 5/16/14 p. v. silagi ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jarris jay silagi, defendant and appellant. b248087 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sa082728) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, elden s. fox, judge. affirmed. doreen b. boxer, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and allison h. chung, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury convicted defendant jarris jay silagi of attempted second degree robbery (pen. code,  664, 211)1 (count 2). the jury found defendant not guilty of attempted grand theft from a person ( 664, 487, subd. (c)) (count 1). in a bifurcated trial, the jury found defendant had suffered three prior felony convictions within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). the trial court denied probation (pursuant to 1203, subd. (e)(4)), and sentenced defendant to a total term of five years in prison. in this appeal, defendant contends that the trial court erred when it denied his request for self-representation under faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806 (faretta). we readily conclude that defendant did not make an unequivocal request to represent himself, and therefore affirm the judgment of conviction. factual background because defendant does not challenge the sufficiency of the evidence to support s verdict, we need only briefly recite the facts of the crime. in august 2012, francisca cano sanchez was seated in an outdoor patio at a s cell phone from her hand. a restaurant employee pushed defendant back over the railing and held defendant on the ground to detain him until police arrived. the relevant proceedings after the jury was impaneled and the trial court read the initial instructions, the have a couple comments with you, mr. silagi. your attorney has a very difficult job. she is representing you. she is going to be examining witnesses. she is going to be 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 presenting your defense in this case. if you have make statements that these jurors can hear, it does not inure to your benefit. do you to counsel quietly than say something in open 2 the court asked if defendant she is going to do the best she can to defend you in this case, but outbursts are not going after taking a recess, the court reconvened and told defendant presencef you speak with your attorney, she certainly can assist in terms of any issues that you have with evidentiary objections, but ,. . . make sure you have a fair trial. defendant interrupted the court, repeatedly sayin the court told defendant that his counsel was there to protect his constitutional rights and present his defendant responded that he had the right to object. tmr. when the jury returned, the prosecutor gave a brief opening statement. the court the court asked defense counsel if she wanted 2 apparently defendant had interrupted the proceedings during jury selection, but a transcription of these outbursts is not included in the record on appeal. 4 to make her opening statement. defendant said, . . . the court warned defendant that if he continued he would be removed from the courtroom. know i have one. so i want to make my . . . . i have a right to make my own opening the court asked the jury to exit the courtroom for a moment, and they did so. turning to defems. tryfman is your attorney. she makes the opening statement. she will question the you about the c tryfman to defendant said. you said she talked to me. she has not talked to me. . . . i have no idea what my the court asked defense counsel if she was prepared to make an opening statement, and she replied that she was. ning statement, the court indicated defendant should be removed from the the following exchange ensued: defendant: i just want to make my own opening statement. may i have that right? the court: when you want to be quiet 5 defendant: do i have that right? the court: you can come back. [defendant]: i have the right to make my do i have a right to make an opening statement the court: defendant: for myself? the court: defendant: if she does not can i she has my opening statement for me. your honor. i have a right to make an opening statement for myself. the court: defendant: defendant was removed from the courtroom and the jury returned. the court for any purpose as it relates to as we proceed in this matter, and hopefully we will proceed once we complete the opening statement which has nothing [to] do with ms. defense counsel made a brief opening statement. the court asked the jury to step out for a moment and returned defendant to the courtroom. the court addressed silagi. i would like to have you present so that you can participate in this process with your counsel. help her long as you do not interrupt the proceedings and work through your counsel. will you do to object. i have a right i have defen6 the trial then proceeded. defendant continued to interject frequently, objecting and commenting on witn of her answer. initially the trial court was accommodating but defendant repeatedly demanded readbacks. the court told defendant he was not to tell the court reporter what to do, and ve the courtroom again or hear the case. defendant answered that he wanted to know if he had a right to hear. the court excused the jurors, then warned defendant that his right to be present was not absolute and that if he interrupted again, he would be removed. the court asked if he understood. the court ordered defendant removed. the ct yourself by interrupting these proceedings, i have a right to order that you remain outside the courtroom, meaning in the lockup, and the case can hear everythindo y the court expressed its opinion that defense some specific elements, and she is presenting a defense by examining witnesses that raises issues as to those elements. so i suggest you let your attorney who is very 7 honor, i understand niceties. i understand that, you know, these are professional people in here, you know. i just want my rights. i want just i want to have the right. i want the court said defendant was exercising his rights, including the right to counsel and to have the jury decide his guilt or innocence. watches you keep interrupting is going to get upset with you and that may affect their verdict in this case. do you understand that the court indicated counsel would get to that, but defendant indicated he wanted to hear it immediately. the court told defendant he needed to be quiet and not interrupt anymore, and ordered the jurors returned to the courtroom. as they were returning, defendant asked if he could have an answer to the question. the court called a lunch recess. when the trial resumed, defendant again asked if he had the right to hear the answer to the question. the court attempted to continue with the trial but when defendant persisted the court had him removed. the court addressed the jury: reflect the defendant has been removed from the courtroom. the court finds that by his actions and interruptions of the process he has voluntarily absented himself from these proceedings at t presence, and remained during the rest of the trial. closing argument and again while the court was reading the jury instructions. after the jury returned its verdict, defendant continued to obstruct the proceedings. defendant announced he wanted to file state and federal charges against the jury, the court, the prosecutor, and his counsel. he was removed from the courtroom during the bifurcated jury trial on his prior convictions because of his repeated outbursts. nt, certainly 8 defendant continued to speak out, saying, right to free speech and a right to defend himself. the court said he had a right to free speech to the extent he did not interrupt the court. the court sentenced defendant to a term of five years. this timely appeal followed. discussion defendant contends on appeal that the trial court erred when it denied his request to represent himself. we conclude that he did not unequivocally request self-representation and therefore reversal of his conviction is not warranted. although , at no time did he request self-representation or even substitution of counsel. at most, he tried to insist he had the right to speak when he wanted to speak during the proceedings. criminal defendants do not have an absolute right to speak when they want, and the record makes clear the court did not abuse its discretion by not allowing defendant to serve as cocounsel. we find no error and affirm the judgment. as part of the sixth amendment right to counsel, a defendant has a right to self-representation if the request is timely, unequivocal, and made after a knowing and intelligent waiver of the right to counsel. (faretta, supra, 422 u.s. 806, 819; people v. koontz (2002) 27 cal.4th 1041, 1069.) here, after the prosecutor gave an opening statement, defendant tried to insist on oing to defend myself. i on appeal, defendant contends that this exchange constituted an unequivocal request for self-representation. we disagree. defendant did not express that he wanted 9 to discharge his counsel and represent himself, or go pro. per. nothing in the record suggests that the trial court, counsel, interpreted his comments as being a request for self-representation under faretta, supra, 422 u.s. 806. the case of people v. danks (2004) 32 cal.4th 269 (danks) is instructive. at two following a lengthy discussion marsden3 motion, the defendant stated, want a trial. i want to defen, i would at least like to be cocounsel to where i could sit there, maybe i could just take the stand and tell (id. at p. 295.) on appeal, defendant contended the trial court erred in denying his motion for self-representation. the appellate court held that, in the context in which they were made, the -representation were equivocal, born primarily of frustration res requests for continuances and his desire to (id. at p. 296; see also p. 297.) similarly, in people v. marlow (2004) 34 cal.4th 131, 147 (marlow), the defendant is it possible that i just go pro[.] per[.] in my own defense and have someone appointed as co- the supreme court deemed the s comments to be a mere inquiry, not an unequivocal assertion of the right to self-representation. the court held tinformation, not a faretta stated that the fact s inquiry into a (ibid.; fn. omitted.) s remarks in the trial court were far more equivocal than those rejected as insufficient invocations of the right to self-representation in danks and marlow. mments to self-representation. there was no request to discharge or replace his attorney. he said he to mean that he wanted 3 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118. 10 to protect his interests by speaking whenever he wanted to speak, rather than seeking to serve as his own attorney.4 an opening statement, and continued at other times during the trial to request to make his own evidentiary objections and have evidence repeated, he never indicated he wanted to represent himself. because defendant failed to make an unequivocal request for self-representation, there was no sixth amendment error as defendant claims on appeal. a defendant has no right, under either the federal representation. as stated in people v. moore (2011) 51 cal.4th 1104, 1119-1120, footnote 7 (moore ii): y hybrid representation we mean one of three arrangements involving the presence of both a self-represented defendant and a defense attorney: (1) standby counsel, in which the attorney takes no active role in the defense, but attends the proceedings so as to be familiar with the case in the event that the defendant gives up or loses his or her right to self-representation; (2) advisory counsel, in which the attorney actively assists the defendant in preparing the defense case by performing tasks and providing as requests, but does not participate on behalf of the defense in court proceedings; and (3) cocounsel, in which the attorney shares responsibilities with the defendant and actively participates in both the preparation of the defense case and its presentation to a degree acceptable to both the defendant and the attorney and permitted by the court. a second major category of hybrid representation . . . occurs when a criminal defendant who has chosen to accept the assistance of counsel is permitted to serve as cocounsel to his or her attorney. in such cases, the attorney retains control of the tactical choices to be made, and the defendant participates only to (italics added.) it is the second category of hybrid representation that is at issue in the case before us. in any event, 4 we note that during sentencing he repeated this usage of the word, asking the court 11 people v. bloom [(1989)] people v. bradford (1997) 15 cal.4th 1229, 1368.) criminal defendants have the constitutional right to have an attorney represent them, and the right under the federal constitution to represent themselves, but these rights are mutually exclusive. (mckaskle v. wiggins (1984) 465 u.s. 168, 183 . . . ; people v. marlow[, supra,] 34 cal.4th 131, 147, fn. 6; people v. clark (1992) 3 cal.4th 41, 111 . . . ; people v. bloom[, supra,] 48 cal.3d 1194.)moore ii, supra, 51 cal.4th at pp. 1119-1120.) thus, [a] defendant has no absolute right to participate in the presentation of his case when he is represented by counsel. (people v. mattson (1959) 51 cal.2d 777, 789.) indeed, the decision whether to confer on a defendant cocounsel status is within the sound discrshould not permit a litigant both to have counsel and to actively participate in the conduct of the case . . . unless the court on a substantial showing determines that in the circumstances of the case the cause of justice will thereby be served and that the orderly and es business will not thereby be substantially hindered, hampered or delayed. (id., at p. 797.)people v. moore (1988) 47 cal.3d 63, 77-78 (moore i).) it is unclear whether defendant in the case before us wished to act as cocounsel throughout his trial. it seems he simply wished to speak out whenever he desired. his conduct was disruptive and defiant, and repeatedly hindered the orderly conduct of the proceedings. there is no doubt that the cause of justice would not have been served by permitting defendant to speak out whenever he wished to speak out. the trial court was respectful toward defendant and protective of his right to a fair trial, but also properly ensured that the progress of the trial wawe conclude the court exercised proper discretion in refusing to grant him de facto cocounsel status. 12 disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports edmon, j.* we concur: epstein, p. j. willhite, j. *judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 