filed 8/19/14 p. v. caballero ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. rodrigo caballero, defendant and appellant. b248232 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma043902) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, hayden zackey, judge. affirmed. verna wefald, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and jonathan j. kline, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________________ 2 this is an appeal after remand for resentencing. appellant, who was 16 years old at the time of his crimes, was originally sentenced to 110 years to life in prison. after this court affirmed his conviction, he successfully challenged his sentence as cruel and unusual punishment. the supreme court reversed, and we then remanded to the trial court for resentencing. he was sentenced to 40 years to life. he again claims this sentence violates the eighth amendment prohibition against cruel and unusual punishment because, he argues, the trial court failed to consider mitigating evidence, and that this sentence does not give him a meaningful opportunity for release based on demonstrated maturity and rehabilitation, as required under graham v. florida (2010) 560 u.s. 48 (graham) and miller v. alabama (2012) 567 u.s. ___ [132 s. ct. 2455]. he asserts recently enacted penal code section 3051, subdivision (b)(2),1 which provides for a parole hearing within 25 years for a juvenile offender sentenced to a term of 25 years to life, does not avoid the eighth amendment violation. he also argues these in the interest of judicial efficiency, we address the sentencing claims to forestall a later claim of ineffective assistance of counsel, tal illness and background, and the trial court acknowledged on the record that it had read these opinions. from this, we infer the trial court considered the relevant mitigating factors before imposing a greatly reduced sentence. we also conclude the 40 years to life sentence is not the functional equivalent of a sentence of life without possibility of parole, and that the provision for a parole hearing within 25 years under section 3051 provides appellant with a meaningful opportunity for release based on maturity and rehabilitation. his sentence does not violate the eighth amendment, and we affirm the judgment. 1 all statutory references are to the penal code. 3 factual and procedural summary in june 2007, appellant rodrigo caballero, then 16 years old, opened fire on three teenage boys who were members of a rival gang. one was hit in the upper back, the other two were not hit. a juvenile petition alleged three counts of attempted murder ( 664, 187, subd. (a)) and three counts of assault with a semiautomatic weapon ( 245, subd. (b)), with gang and weapon enhancements. the court and counsel declared a doubt as to mental competence to proceed. examining psychologists were of the opinion that appellant suffered that he lacked competence to waive his fitness hearing to determine if his case should remain in juvenile court. based on the reports and stipulation of counsel, the juvenile court found appellant mentally incompetent and criminal proceedings were suspended. a year later, after treatment with antipsychotic medication, appellant was found competent, and then found unfit to remain in juvenile court. the petition was dismissed and a complaint was filed in adult court. appellant was convicted of three counts of attempted murder. the jury found true the allegations that appellant personally and intentionally discharged a firearm ( 12022.53, subds. (c), (d)), inflicted great bodily harm on one victim ( 12022.7), and committed the crimes for the benefit of a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)). appellant was sentenced to 15 years to life for the first attempted murder count, plus a consecutive 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement. for the second attempted murder, the court imposed an additional consecutive term of 15 years to life, plus 20 years for the firearm enhancement. for the third attempted murder, the court imposed another consecutive term of 15 years to life, life. on appeal (people v. caballero (nov. 27, 2012, b217709) [nonpub. opn.]), appellant claimed his mental illness rendered the trial and ensuing punishment fundamentally unfair, he was denied effective assistance of counsel, and instruction on lesser included offenses would have affected the outcome of the trial. appellant also filed a habeas petition (in re rodrigo caballero (nov. 27, 2012, b221833 [nonpub. 4 opn.]) asserting that his incompetency rendered the trial and conviction fundamentally unfair, and that his counsel was ineffective for failing to assert his mental incompetency. at oral argument, appellant requested a remand for resentencing, in light of the united states supreme court decision in graham, supra, 560 u.s. 48, that it is unconstitutional to impose a life without parole sentence on a juvenile offender who did not commit murder. the parties were given an opportunity to brief the matter. in an opinion filed january 18, 2011, this court 110 years to life is cruel and unusual punishment under graham. we read graham to be limited to cases where a juvenile offender actually receives a sentence of life without the possibility of parole for a nonhomicide offense, we affirmed the judgment in its entirety and denied the habeas petition. the portion of the publication. the supreme court granted review. in people v. caballero (2012) 55 cal.4th 262 (caballero)offense to a term of years with a parole eligibility date that falls outside the juvenile ishment in violation of the eight (id. at p. 268.) under graham, the sentencing court must consider the mitigating circumstances time of the crime, the juvenile offenderime, and his or her physical and mental development, so that it can impose a time when the juvenile offender will be able to seek parole from the parole board based on maturity and rehabilitation. (id. at pp. 268-269.) the judgment was reversed and the case remanded to this court for reconsideration. to his conviction, but reversed the judgment and remanded the matter to the trial court for resentencing. we instructed the trial court rehabilitationgraham, supra, 560 u.s. at p. [75].) this is not to say that defendant 5 should not receive a sentence commensurate with the senseless violent shooting for which he is solely responsible. however, the sentence cannot foreclose the possibility that defendant may someday, within a reasonable timeframe considering his age and circumstances, have the opportunity to convince a parole board that he no longer poses a on remand, the people asked the court not to resentence appellant, but to set a parole hearing date. the trial court sentenced defendant to 40 years to life, as follows: on count one, 15 years to life with a consecutive 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement; on counts two and three, 15 years to life plus 20 years for the firearm enhancements, to run concurrent to the term for count one. appellant filed a timely appeal from the judgment. discussion i at his resentencing hearing, appellant did not object to his sentence on grounds that it amounted to cruel and unusual punishment, nor did he ask the trial court to consider evidence that he was diagnosed with schizophrenia as mitigating evidence. respondent correctly notes failure to raise these issues in the trial court forfeits the claims on appeal. (see people v. scott (1994) 9 cal.4th 331, 353.) although appellant has technically forfeited the issues on appeal by nreach the merits under the relevant constitutional standards, in the interest of judicial economy to prevent the inevitable ineffectiveness-of-people v. norman (2003) 109 cal.app.4th 221, 229-23people v. russell (2010) 187 cal.app.4th 981, 993.) ii appellant claims the trial court failed to consider mitigation evidence, as required under controlling supreme court law. in graham, supra, 560 u.s. 48, the high court e offender who did not commit homicide the eighth amendment forbids the sentence of life without parole(id. at p.74.) the court explained that as compared to an adult murderer, a juvenile offender who did not kill or intend to kill has 6 a twice diminiboth because of his crime and because of his undeveloped moral sense. (id. at p. 69.) lack susceproper v. simmons (2005) 543 u.s. 551,] 569-ologists to differentiate between the juvenile offender whose crime reflects unfortunate yet transient immaturity, and the rare juvenile offender whose crime reflects irreparable idbility be idgraham, supra, at p. 68.) in miller v. alabama, supra, 567 u.s. ___ [132 s.ct. 2455], the high court extended reasoning to homicide cases, forbids a sentencing scheme that mandates life in prison without possibility of parole for (id. at p. *2469.) precludes consideration of his chronological age and its hallmark featuresamong them, immaturity, impetuosity, and failure to appreciate risks and consequences. it prevents taking into account the family and home environment that surrounds himand from which he cannot usually extricate himselfno matter how brutal or dysfunctional. it neglects the circumstances of the homicide offense, including the extent of his participation in the conduct and the way familial and peer pressures may have affected him. indeed, it ignores that he might have been charged and convicted of a lesser offense if not for incompetencies associated with youthfor example, his inability to deal with police officers or prosecutors (including on a plea agreement) or his incapacity to assist id. at p. *hment (ibid.) in caballero, our supreme court found these precedents applicable to appellant, noting that miller thout parole sentences applies to all nonhomicide cases involving juvenile offenders, including the term-of-years 7 sentence that amounts to the functional equivalent of a life without parole sentence imposed in this case. (caballero, supra, 55 cal.4th at pp. 267-268.) as sentenced, appellant would have to serve a minimum of 110 years before becoming parole eligible, and thus realistic opportunity to obtain releasehis expected lifetime. (ibid.) enile offender for a nonhomicide offense to a term of years with a parole eligibility date that falls outside the juvenile of the eighth amendment. although proper authorities may later determine that youths should remain incarcerated for their natural lives, the state may not deprive them at sentencing of a meaningful opportunity to demonstrate their rehabilitation and fitness to reenter society in the future. under nonhomicide ruling, the sentencing court including but not limited to his or her chronological age at the time of the crime, whether the juvenile offender was a direct perpetrator or an aider and abettor, and his or her physical and mental development, so that it can impose a time when the juvenile offender will be able to seek parole from the parole board. the board of parole hearings will then determine whethegraham, supra,] 560 u.s. (caballero, supra, 55 cal.4th at pp. 268-269.) in challenging his sentence in this court and in the supreme court, the only mitigating factors appellant has pointed to are his age and mental illness, both of which were known to the trial court at his march 22, 2013 resentencing hearing. request, we have taken judicial notice of the briefing before the supreme court in caballerohealth problems and symptoms with specificity. the amicus curiae brief of pacific indicates his behavior was related to mental illness, not to an abusive family or life history. 8 the trial court indicated its familiarity with the supreme court opinion and the opinion of this court remanding the matter for resentencing. the supreme court decision caballero, supra-and rendered him incapable of cooperating with counsel. the opinion noted appellant initially had been found mentally incompetent in juvenile court, and the proceedings only resumed after he had regained competency through the use of antipsychotic medication. the opinion quoted the portion of the trial when appellant gave inconsistent answers regarding his desire to testify on his own behalf; the trial court was a party to that indicated it had discussed the matter of resentencing idea of where i was coming fr on this record, it is reasonable to infer the trial court gave the requisite consideration to the factors set out in graham and caballero maturity, and mental ability. unless the record affirmatively indicates differently, the trial court is deemed to have considered all relevant sentencing criteria, including mitigating factors. (people v. king (2010) 183 cal.app.4th 1281, 1322.) there is no requirement that the trial court expressly recite the mitigating factors considered, or any reasons for rejecting these factors. (ibid.) the trial court expressed frustration with the guidance provided by the supreme supreme court did not provide sufficient guidance to trial courts with respect to what to do when re-sentencing a minor convicted of a non-homicide related offense. for example, i think that if either of those courts had simply stated that the sentence may remain but the court meither the court of appeal or supreme court decision. 9 without a direct indication that setting a parole hearing date would overcome the in place of his original sentence of 110 years to life, appellant was resentenced to 40 years to life. this reduced sentence is not the equivalent of life without parole. appellant was 16 at the time of his crimes. with a 40-year-to-life sentence, he would be parole eligible by the age of 56; he presents no authority that this is outside his normal life expectancy. in people v. perez (2013) 214 cal.app.4th 49, 57-58, the defendant would be 47 at the time he became eligible for parole. [h]ow much life expectancy must remain at the time of eligibility for parole to satisfy the eighth amendment had not yet been fleshed out in the case law, the court concluded that at age 47, perez would have plenty of time left for a meaningful opportunity to obtain release based on demonstrated maturity and rehabilitation, as required by graham. at age 56, appellant also can expect to have sufficient normal life expectancy to permit a meaningful opportunity to obtain release based on his demonstrated maturity and rehabilitation, as required by graham and caballero. iii recent legislation assures appellant a parole hearing even sooner. section 3051 (stats. 2013, ch. 312,  4), provides dates certain for parole hearings for youth offenders. as pertinent to appellant, a juvenile offender sentenced to a life term of 25 years to life shall receive a youth offender parole hearing during his or her 25th year of incarceration. ( 3051, subd. (b)(3).) evaluations and risk assessment instruments, if used by the board, shall be administered by licensed psychologists employed by the board and shall take into consideration the diminished culpability of juveniles as compared to that of adults, the hallmark features of youth, and any sub3051, subd. (f)(1).) this statute was enacted to satisfy the concerns expressed by the united states supreme court in miller and graham, and by the california supreme court in 10 caballero. (see stats. 2013, ch. 312,  4.) appellant will be entitled to a parole hearing during his 25th year of incarceration; he will be 41 at that time. prohibition against cruel and unusual punishment. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. epstein, p. j. we concur: willhite, j. manella, j. 