filed 5/2/17 p. v. quintana ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. george angel quintana et al., defendants and appellants. b248542 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka098952) appeals from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, mike camacho, judge. reversed. sara h. ruddy, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant george angel quintana. deborah l. hawkins, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant corey antonio gardner. kamala d. harris and xavier becerra, attorneys general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson, david 2 c. cook, kathy s. pomerantz and scott taryle, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________ introduction george angel quintana (quintana) and corey antonio gardner (gardner) (collectively defendants) appeal from judgments of conviction entered after a jury found them guilty of second degree murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)) and found true the allegation the crime was committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang (id.,  186.22, subd. (b)). the trial court sentenced defendants to terms in state prison of 15 years to life. on appeal, defendants claim instructional error, insufficient evidence to support their convictions, and that their convictions were barred by double jeopardy, collateral estoppel and penal code section 6prosecution after an acquittal or conviction based on the same conduct. we agree with claim of instructional error and reverse on that basis. facts a. prosecution 1. the murder early in the morning on january 30, 2011, rene pichardo (pichardo) was having a gathering in the front yard of his house on howellhurst drive in baldwin park. maria robles (robles), benjamin gonzalez (gonzalez), athena scott (scott), and her boyfriend, diego sparling (sparling), were present at the house. 3 scott is cousin. scott testified at trial she considered gardner to be like a brother to her because her mother had helped raise him when he was a teenager. she also knew quintana because he had grown up with gardner and because she had lived in a house grandfather. scott had previously dated andrew aguilar (aguilar), but scott and aguilar had broken up a year before. according to scott, gardner and quintana were members of the eastside gang; sparling was a member of the northside gang and had a gang tattoo on his head. scott had been friends with pichardo since high school and knew he was not a gang member. there was no evidence at trial that pichardo was a member of any gang. late on the night prior to the murder, aguilar telephoned pichhim. robert warned him not to come over to the house because scott was there with sparling, her new boyfriend. with a group of friends when he saw quintana, gardner, and aguilar arrive at the house together. gonzalez testified tand they were not making eye contact with anyone. the three men s direction, and one of them yelled, s according to gonzalez, the three rling and began hitting him. sparling backed up and tried to defend himself by swinging back at them. as they fought, quintana, gardner, 4 aguilar and sparling stumbled through the gate at the head of the driveway and into the backyard.1 robles was in the backyard with scott and other friends when she heard the sound of a fight breaking out in the front yard. she walked toward the gate, but it swung open quickly and hit her in the back as she tried to move away. robles testified she turned and saw quintana, gardner and aguilar hitting pichardo in the stomach, chest, head, and lower back. pichardo was kneeling down, trying to protect his head.2 robles never saw a weapon. according to robles, at some point aguilar broke away from the fight and ran toward the back of the yard. quintana and gardner continued to hit pichardo. robles and scott tried to break up the fight by throwing beer bottles and shouting at the group, but they continued to fight. robles yelled for gonzalez and some of the other men to come help. gonzalez testified that he followed the fight through the gate and into the backyard where he saw pichardo struggling with someonegonzalez could not tell who that person was. the person was holding on to pichardo and throwing punches at pichardo put someone in a headlock, and gonzalez went over and hit that person to try to break up the fight. the person in the headlock held on to pichardo. other guests then came into the backyard, 1 at the preliminary hearing, gonzalez testified that he did not see quintana, gardner and aguilar rush sparling. he was unable to explain the discrepancy and stated that he did not remember his preliminary hearing testimony. 2 robles did not recall testifying previously that only two people were attacking pichardo. 5 and the fight ended with quintana, gardner and aguilar being chased out to the front yard. scott testified that she was standing in the backyard when the gate swung open to reveal three individuals fighting. she recognized quintana and pichardo, but not the third individual. fighting back, swinging at both men with his fists. quintana hit pichardo in the face, while the other person hit pichardo in the face and chest. even after pichardo put quintana in a headlock, quintana kept hitting pichardo in the chest, back and side.3 scott saw gonzalez and some of the other men, one of whom she acknowledged was a come into the backyard and join the fight. she saw gonzalez fighting with the person whom pichardo did not have in a headlock. these new men were not trying to stop the fight, she admitted. scott never saw a weapon being wielded by anyone that night. scott testified she could not see sparling anywhere. she and robles ran to the back of the yard, where they found aguilar and sparling hitting each other. aguilar and sparling stopped fighting. aguilar ran toward the gate, screamed f the house. scott and robles followed aguilar to the front of the house.4 3 in a february 14, 2011 interview, scott told the police that pichardo had the other person in a headlock, and she pushed or pulled quintana away from pichardo. robles testified that it was quintana in the headlock, but she previously testified that she did not know who pichardo had in a headlock. 4 scott did not recall testifying previously that she saw quintana still fighting with pichardo when she passed by them. 6 when aguilar stopped in the middle of the street, scott yelled at him and pushed him. gardner then drove up in a white car. according to robles, scott yelled at gardner5 gardner drove the car in reverse toward robles, scott and a group of people who were gathered in the street. people threw bottles at the car and hit and kicked it; sparling punched the car window. aguilar jumped into the car, and gardner drove away. quintana then got into a truck parked in front of the house. e did not care and drove away. pichardo walked to the front of the house, where he collapsed, bleeding from stab wounds to his chest and below his neck. the paramedics were called and took pichardo to los angeles county/usc medical center, where he immediately underwent emergency surgery. pichardo had been stabbed three times in the right chest; one of these stab wounds, near his neck, was superficial, but the other two penetrated his ribcage. he had been stabbed three times on his sides; one of the wounds was in the area of his liver and another by his kidney. five of the wounds were potentially fatal. pichardo died 11 days later as a result of his wounds. 2. the investigation and subsequent events detective gary breceda of the baldwin park police at about 5:30 a.m. he 5 scott testified that she did not say anything when she saw it was gardner driving the car. 7 spoke to scott, who told him quintana, gardner and aguilar had been at the house. detective breceda proceeded to vineland avenue in baldwin park. he observed a white nissan altima parked in front of the house. it had sustained damage to the rear tailgate, parts of which were founhouse. door. baldwin park police officer richard ogas interviewed quintana at queen of the valley hospital on january 30, 2011, where quintana was being treated for a stab wound to his hand. quintana stated that he and gardner were at a bar in west covina, where they were jumped by assailants in the parking lot. quintana told officer ogas that they had walked to the hospital for treatment. quintana did not say anything about being at detective breceda interviewed gardner at queen of the valley hospital on january 31, 2011. gardner had received emergency surgery for a stab wound to his upper torso. he also suffered multiple fractured ribs. he told detective breceda that he and quintana were walking near big dalton avenue, about half a mile from howellhurst drive, when they were jumped by a group of people. after the attack, he walked to the hospital, which was about two miles away. gardner said he had never use and was not injured there. the police never recovered the knife used to stab pichardo. on march 11, 2011, robles identified quintana and gardner from photographic lineups. regarding quintana, she 8 head to the right, prior to trial, scott received two telephone calls from blocked numbers. during the first call, a man told her not to testify and then hung up. during the second call, the caller said concer 3. dna evidence dna profiles obtained from a sweatshirt matched his dna profile. they did not match the dna profiles of quintana, gardner or aguilar. shoes and jeans matched his dna profile. they did not match the profiles of pichardo, gardner or aguilar. dna profiles from several bloodshoe and one on his jeans matched his dna profile but not those of any of the others. the dna profile from a small bloodstain on with pichardo being the major contributor. 4. gang evidence baldwin park police detective esteban mendez testified as an expert on the eastside bolen park and northside bolen park gangs. he testified in general regarding gang membership, gang territories, the importance of respect in gang culture, commission of crimes by gang members, and gang rivalries. 9 detective mendez testified that the eastside bolen park and was in eastside bolen park gang territory. detective mendez identified quintana and gardner as good friends and members of the eastside bolen park gang. both had gang tattoos on their bodies. the detective identified sparling as a member of the northside bolen park gang, with a gang tattoo on the top of his head. prior to 2008. he noted that gardner had not previously been arrested in connection with a violent crime, and gardner was in protective custody after testifying for the prosecution in an unrelated gang murder case. in response to a hypothetical question based on the facts of this case, detective mendez opined that the stabbing of pichardo was done for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang. by aiding a fellow gang member in a fight and escalating the fight by using a weapon, a gang member would enhance both his reputation within the gang and the s reputation for violence. such conduct aids the gang in creating an atmosphere of fear and intimidation, which, in turn, discourages witnesses and victims of gang crimes to cooperate with the police. the fact that the victim was not a gang member interference or disrespect by a non-rival gang member required a violence. 10 b. defense 1. quintana quintana did not testify but offered the testimony of baldwin park police officer jeffrey honeycutt, who had arrived interviewed gonzalez at that time. according to gonzalez in that interview, the three men walked up the driveway, began yelling, and attacked pichardo and another man whom gonzalez did not know. pichardo ran into the backyard. gonzalez ran into the backyard and saw the same three men hitting pichardo, whom they had cornered against a wall. gonzalez joined in the fight to try to help his friend. he struck one of the men in the face. the man he struck was six feet tall, with a mustache and a shaved head.6 the other two attackers were about five feet, five inches tall with shaved heads. while this was going on, other people in the backyard were throwing bottles to try to stop the attackers. gonzalez told officer honeycutt the three attackers eventually ran down the driveway to the street. gonzalez saw them leave in a white nissan altima. after the fight stopped, gonzalez saw that pichardo was bleeding from his chest. rose marie sauceda worked with quintana at a toy store warehouse, where quintana worked from september 2010 to april 2011. she described quintana as a respectable employee on whom coworkers could depend. 6 at trial, gonzalez denied telling officer honeycutt that the man he struck was six feet tall and had a mustache; he testified was very upset at the time he talked to officer honeycutt, and he could not recall who the attackers were or what they looked like. 11 2. gardner gardner testified in his own defense. he admitted he was a member of the eastside bolen park gang but claimed he did not engage in any criminal activity as a gang member and never carried a weapon. he admitted having one misdemeanor conviction for assault or battery and one for tagging. gardner was friends with sparling when they were younger, but that changed when he joined the eastside bolen park gang and sparling joined the northside bolen park gang. gardner had known quintana since elementary school and aguilar since junior high school. gardner left the gang life in 2010 and moved his family to fontana to get away from the gang. however, he moved back to baldwin park about a year later to help , who was having financial problems. on the night of january 29, 2011, gardner and quintana were , drinking beer. aguilar spoke to someone on the telephone and then asked gardner if he wanted to go see scott. gardner agreed even though he knew scott was dating sparling, a northside bolen park gang member, gang membership did not matter to him, and he did not know sparling would be . aguilar did not say anything about wanting to fight sparling. gardner drove to and aguilar drove there in an suv belonging grandfather. gathered in the driveway and on the front lawn. aguilar tripped over a box of beer on the ground, and someone caught him. gardner saw an arm swing at sparling, but he could not see 12 whose it was. gardner knew it was not aguilar who swung at sparling, because aguilar was directly in front of gardner. gardner made eye contact with sparling. a few seconds later, there was a loud noise, and sparling and some other people ran toward the back of the house.7 gardner followed the group to the backyard. as he entered the yard, a much bigger man punched him in the nose, and he fought back. gardner testified he and the other man hit each other in the face for ten seconds. other people joined the fight, and he was hit on the back of his head and the side of his face. gardner did not see pichardo or anyone else he recognized in the backyard. eventually, gardner was able to break away from the fight, and he ran to his car. he did not know he was injured until he sat down in the car and felt a burning sensation beneath his ribs. when he reached down, he felt wetness and realized he was bleeding. sparling ran to the car and tried to open the door, but it was locked. sparling began to punch the car window, and other people started to hit the car. gardner quickly drove away. he did not see scott, aguilar or quintana in front of the house. he , where another friend then drove him to the hospital. he remained hospitalized for four or five days. one month after the incidents leading to the death of pichardo, gardner testified against gang members in an unrelated murder trial where . as a result of his testimony 7 de 13 him, meaning he could be killed. gardner was concerned that he and his family might be attacked by gang members. gardner acknowledged giving a false statement to the police at the hospital but said he did so because he did not want anyone else to get in trouble. at that time, he knew quintana had been injured in the fight but did not know about pichardoinjuries. changed his life. he stopped spending time with gang members, although he remained friends with quintana. after gardner testified at the trial of the people who killed her brother, the family had to move due to concern for their safety. discussion a. double jeopardy and collateral estoppel 1. this was the second trial of the defendants. at the prior trial, a jury found both defendants not guilty of assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury as to sparling but the jury 8 pichardo was and probable consequence[]simple assault on sparling. at the retrial, the prosecution pursued only second degree murder charges against defendants. prior to the jury being 8 at the previous trial aguilar was convicted of assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury on sparling but acquitted of the murder of pichardo. 14 empaneled, reli9 in light of their acquittal of the aggravated assault on sparling. they claimed the prosecution should be collaterally estopped from relying on the simple assault on sparling as the target offense on which application of the natural and probable consequences doctrine was based. in the alternative, they requested that the jury be informed of the acquittal. the trial court stated it did not believe the people are collaterally estopped from relitigating perhaps a theory of liability that is perhaps inconsistent with the verdicts of the allow perhaps evidence of . . . the outcome of the first trial as evidence in our case. i think that would be very confusing for the that defendants were not guilty of an assault on sparling did not preclude the underlying theory of liability for 9 under the natural and probable consequences doctrine, an offense] but also of any other crime the perpetrator actually commits [nontarget offense] that is a natural and probable consequence of the intended crime. the latter question is not whether the aider and abettor actually foresaw the additional crime, but whether, judged objectively, it was reasonably should have known that the charged offense was a reasonably people v. medina (2009) 46 cal.4th 913, 920.) 15 precluded the people from pursuing the charge on which defendants were acquitted. 2. double jeopardy a double jeopardy claim must be raised at trial, or it is forfeited on appeal. (people v. holloway (2004) 33 cal.4th 96, 155, fn. 18; people v. williams (1999) 21 cal.4th 335, 343-344; people v. sullivan (2013) 217 cal.app.4th 242, 246.) defendants did not raise a double jeopardy claim at trial, nor plead it as an affirmative defense. they cite no authority to support their assertion that merely mentioning the prior acquittal of assault on sparling in connection with their collateral estoppel argument was sufficient to raise a double jeopardy claim. we conclude the claim has been forfeited on appeal. 3. collateral estoppel decided at the previous [proceeding] is identical to the one which is sought to be relitigated; (2) the previous [proceeding] resulted in a final judgment on the merits; and (3) the party against whom collateral estoppel is asserted was a party or in privity with a t is implicit in this three-prong test that only issues actually litigated in the initial action may be precluded from the second proceeding under the collateral estoppel doctrine. [citation.] an issue is actually litigated properly raised, by the pleadings or otherwise, and is submitted for determination, and is determined . . . people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1215, 1240.) the 16 to promote judicial economy by minimizing repetitive litigation; (2) to prevent inconsistent judgments which undermine the integrity of the judicial system; and (3) to provide repose by preventing a person from being ibid.) the people in essence concede that collateral estoppel barred retrial of the murder charges under the natural and probable consequences doctrine based on the assault on sparling. their position is that collateral estoppel does not apply because they tried defendants in the second trial on the theory that assault on pichardo himself. in a discussion on jury instructions, the following colloquy took place: theory of liability for the murder charged in count 1? proceeding under the theory that the simple assault, the target crime, is as to rene pichardo. some point in the trial that they felt the target crime, if any, was diego that that was the reason . . . the alleged perpetrators, including mr. aguilar, traveled to the pichardo residence was to confront perhaps diego sparling, certainly not mr. pichardo. so how do you rectify that or explain that away? [the prosecutor]: because the testimony, i believe, that was presented was that mr. pichardo came to the aid of diego sparling and he then became the focus of the and as detective mendez testified, anyone who helps out a rival 17 gang member . . . or simply a good samaritan, has to be dealt with in the same manner and fashion. argument given the evidence in the case. certainly another plausible argument would be the simple assault upon diego sparling, then perhaps a natural and probable consequence that anyone who interferes with that attack would also become a target as well. that is cthe people have elected to take diego sparling out of the equation, just focus on the person that came to the rescue of diego sparling as being then the intended assault target at that point in time. . . counsel for quintana did not wish to be heard on the that the people should not be allowed to change their theory of the case after the previous mistrial and claim that the target crime was the assault on pichardo, rather than the assault on sparling. he additionally argued that the jury instruction in this factual situation just identifying the target offense as an quintana objected to modifying the jury instruction in this manner. previously overruled your collateral estoppel argument with respect to the people changing their underlying theory of liability from the first trial to the second trial. i think they can pursue the same theory of liability but pursue it in a different avenue under the same doctrine of this accomplice liability instruction. 18 we will modify [calcrim no.] 403[,] however, consistent with what the parties have settled upon and that will be element no. 1 . . . . it will read the defendant is guilty of simple assault upon rene pichardo. . . the trial court instructed the jury pursuant to calcrim defendant is guilty of murder, you must decide whether he is guilty of simple assault. [] to prove that the defendant is guilty of murder, the people must prove that: pichardo; -participant in that simple assault committed the crime of murder; [] and [] l of the circumstances, a reasonable person in of the murder was a natural and probable consequence of the commission of the simple assault. . . s decision to definitely not the argument the prosecutor made to the jury. he [sparling] because he was a rival gang member, and [pichardo] was injured as a natural and probable consequence of assaulting statement and closing argument as supporting their claim. in his opening statement, the prosecutor told the jury that started beating up [sparling], hitting him several times while in 19 the front yard. at some point [pichardo] joined in to try to help [sparling] and the fight progressed. it went down [the] driveway . . progressed, all three of them in the backyard were attacking [pichardo]sparling, while the other fight with pichardo continued. the prosecutor also told the jury about the testimony they someone disrespects you, that you have to take action. the attacked rene pichardo, who was simply helping out someone who was at his house that evening. . . . he paid the ultimate price for it. the evidence will . . . show that these two men directly participated in t based on this statement, defendants argue on appeal that [t]rial [t]wo, just as in [t]rial [o] was (a) [defendants] assaulted [sparling] and (b) assaulting this is correct. however, in trial one the jury was instructed that it could find defendants guilty of murder if the murder was a natural and probable consequence of the assault on sparling. in trial two, the jury was instructed that it could find them guilty if they murder was a natural and probable consequence of their assault on pichardo. more impopening statement told the jury it could find defendants guilty of murdering pichardo if the murder was a natural and probable consequence of their initial assault on sparling. the opening 20 statement did not contradict applicable law in calcrim no. 403. impermissibly focused on an assault on sparling. they highlight the defendants did in this case, acting together as gang members, attacking a rival gang member and then attacking rene later in the same closing, the prosecutor stated: to [sparling] being the aggressor, there is no evidence at all that he was the one who started this fight. . . . [] testimony is that all three of them, including defendants and andrew aguilar, are the ones that rushed, yelled out east[s]ide bolen . . . the prosecutor doubled down on these improper references to the assault on sparling by stating in final rebuttal closing: [sparling] was the person the defendants started hitting first. before that attack, [eastside] bolen park was yelled out. [pichardo] comes in to help all of that because under the theory of natural and probable and considering the evidence as a whole, you are able to look at everything that was done beforehand[,] what the defendants knew, what type of lifestyle they had, what they knew about the gang, how the gang treats rivals, how the gang deals with their neigh defendants neglect to mention that immediately prior to these statements, the prosecutosaw defendant quintana hitting [pichardo] repeatedly. remove [sparling] out of the case because the target crime is the assault [sparling] at alls introductory statement, it is 21 unlikely the jury would have concluded, in contradiction with the could convict defendants of the murder of pichardo if they found that murder to be a natural and probable consequence of the initial assault on sparling. rather, the argument conveyed to the jury that it consider the initial assault in determining whether the murder was for the benefit of a criminal street gang. moreover, any confusion that may have been caused by the involvement in the events leading up to the altercation with pichardo was corrected by the jury instruction which expressly stated that the prosecution had to prove pichardo was the victim of the target offense. on this record, there was no collateral estoppel violation in allowing the prosecution to pursue charges for murder against the two defendants based on an alternative aiding and abetting theory from that pursued in the initial trial. b. penal code section 654 at oral argument, counsel for quintana requested permission to file a supplemental brief addressing the question whether the second prosecution was barred by penal code section 654, subdivision (a) (secan act or omission that is punishable in different ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the act or omission be punished under more than one provision. an acquittal or conviction and sentence under any one quintana acknowledges that he did not specifically object that the second prosecution for the murder of pichardo was 22 he cites no authority to suggest that his objection on collateral estoppel grounds was sufficient to preserve a section 654 issue for appeal, and the law is to the contrary. (people v. jones (1998) 17 cal.4th 279, 313). in any event, the claim is without merit. multiple prosecutions for the same act or omission where the defendant has already been tried and acquitted, or convicted and people v. davis (2005) 36 cal.4th 510, 557; see also kellett v. superior court (1966) does not bar all successive prosecutions, only those that follow an acquittal or a conviction and sentence. (in re r.l. (2009) 170 cal.app.4th 1339, 1344; see kellett, supra, at p. 827.) thus, section 65against multiple prosecution does not apply where there is but one prosecution; that is, a single criminal action. it prohibits only a subsequent prosecution for the same act or omission which means the filing and pressing of a new criminal action.burris v. superior court (1974) 43 cal.app.3d 530, 539, citing people v. seiterle (1963) 59 cal.2d 703, 712 and people v. tideman (1962) 57 cal.2d 574, 584-587; accord, people v. berutko (1969) 71 cal.2d 84, 95.) quintana cites people v. witcraft (2011) 201 cal.app.4th prosecution is or should be aware of more than one offense in which the same act or course of conduct plays a significant part, all such offenses must be prosecuted in a single proceeding unless joinder is prohibited or severance is permitted for good cause. 23 failure to unite all such offenses will result in a bar to subsequent prosecution of any offense omitted if the initial proceedings culminate in either acquittal or conviction and (id. at p. 666, quoting kellett v. superior court, supraneeded to prove one offense necessarily supplies proof of the other . . . the two offenses must be prosecuted together, in the interests id. at p. 667.) theory was that the murder of pichardo was a natural and probable consequence of the assault on pichardo, the prosecution, however, did not charge defendants with a separate assault on pichardo in either trial; it retried the murder charge on which no verdict had been returnedconsideration of the assault on pichardo as the target offense did not run afoul of section 654. (cf. people v. jones, supra, 17 cal.4th at pactivity as an aggravating factor at penalty phase did not violate for the prior r the jury was unable to reach a verdict as to that charge. the prosecution did not file a new criminal action after an acquittal, and section 654 did not bar the retrial. (kellett v. superior court, supra, 63 cal.2d at p. 827; burris v. superior court, supra, 43 cal.app.3d at p. 539.) 24 defendants were not retried for the assault on sparling, of which they were acquitted. section 654 therefore did not apply. (people v. jones, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 313.) c. exclusion of evidence of the previous acquittal of aggravated assault on sparling defendants contend the trial court erred in excluding evidence of their previous acquittal of aggravated assault on present its theory of natural and probable consequences, i.e.[,] of an assault on [sparling]relevant and its exclusion violated their right to present a defense. a faulty premise: that the of the murder of pichardo as a natural and probable consequence theory of the caseand the theory on which the jury was instructedwas that defendants were guilty of the murder of pichardo as a natural and probable consequence of the assault on pichardo. aggravated assault on sparling was not relevant to any of the issues here: whether defendants assaulted pichardo and whether his murder was a natural and probable consequence of that assault. evidence of disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination of the 210.) that a previous jury found 25 defendants not guilty of an aggravated assault on sparling did not tend to prove that defendants did not assault pichardo. additionally, it must be recalled that defendants were acquitted of the charge of assault on sparling by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury; the first jury was not asked to consider whether they were guilty of simple assault. presenting evidence of the jury verdict from the first trial would necessarily have required explaining to the jury the different elements of simple assault as compared to aggravated assault. these additional instructions likely would have been distracting or confusing to the jury. a nal right to present significant probative people v. homick (2012) 55 cal.4th 816, 865.) because the evidence of the prior acquittal was not relevant and may have been confusing, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in excluding it, and defendants were not deprived of their right to present a defense by its exclusion. (people v. thornton (2007) 41 cal.4th 391, 444-445; people v. roberts (1992) 2 cal.4th 271, 300-rocess clause does not entirely strip a trial court of its power to exclude d. instruction as to the natural and probable consequences doctrine defendants contend the trial court here erred in using the was inaccurate, and we cannot conclude that the error was 26 harmless beyond a reasonable doubt, requiring reversal of the guilty verdicts. 1. proceedings below as previously stated, the trial court instructed the jury pursuant to calcrim no. 403 that before it decided whether the defendant was guilty of murder, it had to decide if he was guilty of simple assault upon pichardo. the prosecution was required to prove, in addition to the simple assault, uring the commission of simple assault a co-participant in that simple assault committed the crime of murder; [] and [] under all of position would have known that the commission of the murder was a natural and probable consequence of the commission of the the instruction further stanatural and probable consequence is one that a reasonable person would know is likely to happen if nothing unusual intervenes. in deciding whether a consequence is natural and probable, consider all of the circumstances established by the evidence. if the murder was committed for a reason independent of the common plan to commit the simple assault, then the commission of murder was not a natural and probable c one of the jurors, juror no. 11, had previously told the court that he had to leave for a business trip on march 22. on the morning of thursday, march 21, in the midst of closing arguments, juror no. 11 sent the court a letter concerning his need to leave for the business trip the following day and the likelihood the trial would not be completed before then. in a , the trial court 27 and certainly mine. and this certainly places you in jeopardy of having this conflict. what i am willing to do if the parties are willing is to stipulate that we can excuse you and replace you and juror no. 11 agreed to participate in deliberations the following day. deliberations commenced mid-afternoon on march 21. late on friday afternoon, march 22, the jury sent a note to the for angel quintana 9 guilty 3 not guilty[,] [] [f]or corey gardner 7 guilty 5 not gprobability that this jury could reach a unanimous decision on one or perhaps both of t after noting that the jury had been deliberating for only one day and had not submitted any questions or requested any read back much too important just to . . . fold at the first impasse that is communicated to the court. . . . i also am taking into consideration, even if we replace [juror] no. 11 with our remaining alternate, given the numerical breakdown and the vote obviously rendered by a new alternate juror given the quintana or gardner in any way in terms of the court one day of deliberations is simply insufficient for any jury to throw in the 28 efense the court decided not to declare a mistrial and to require the jurors to continue deliberating with a replacement juror after the weekend. on monday, march 25, within an hour of the replacement juror being substituted for juror no. 11, the jury sent the court several questions and a request for a read back of certain are guilty of aiding & abetting, can we find both defendants guilty of 2nd degree murder without knowing who dealt the fatal blows? bably [sic] causeimplied malice with intent to do fatal harm. paragraph that[] st as to question number two, the trial court told counsel that try to clarify what it means and do my best. [] but what i will not do is incorporate any of the evidence in my explanation. just simply an explanation of the law, without any mention of the facts before the jury. they have to decide those facts and simply gardner, who was representing both defendants for purposes of the best way to approach this communication is to reread the law, 29 [calcrim] 400 series, aiding and abetting generally, aiding and abetting the intended crime, and the natural and probable consequence theory, which is a hybrid of aiding and abetting, but it still pertains to people who help the actual perpetrator in committing after rereading calcrim no. 400 on the general principles involved in aiding and abetting, the trial court and this kind of leads you into natural and probable consequencesif [the] evidence established that the aiding and abetting of one crime perpetrator commit, that person can only be found guilty of another crime which was a non-target crime if that crime was foreseeable, it could have happened under the circumstances, given all you know about the case. it was foreseeable as something not intended by the aider and abettor, but could have happened because the aider and abettor at least intended that target crime; that something else could have happened, given all consequence[s]dded.) the trial court then discussed calcrim no. 401, about aiding and abetting intended crimes. in connection with a hypothetical scenario involving an intended liquor store robbery in which money was also taken from a customer, the trial court commentand abetting the robbery of the customer which i did not plan on doing at all? i did not agree to that. i just wanted the loot in the 30 nder the natural and probable consequences theory, a jury would have to decide whether or not it was foreseeable that the actual gunman who went into the liquor store might take the opportunity to perhaps take other property from someone else other than the liquor store owner just to get even more booty, so to speak, more valuables, more fruit of that type of crime, if you find [that] it was a natural and probable consequence that committing a liquor store robbery might evolve to something even more. reasonable that it could happen. then i, being the getaway driver, could be convicted of not only what i helped out in doing, the liquor store robbery, but also the unintended crime, which was the other robbery of a customer, even though i did not agree to that, . . . that was not part of my intent. possible, foreseeable. if it was a natural and probable consequence, one that a reasonable person would know is likely to happen if nothing unusual intervenes. probable, consider all of the circumstances established by the the court continued by contrasting its hypothetical with one in which the robber who entered the store proceeded to set wheel man of the liquor store robbery, be convicted of an arson, of putting a match to the inventory in the back of the store? well, is a natural and probable consequence, then i could, as the getaway driver, . . . be guilty of the robbery itself, but not of that unintended crime, 31 another hypothetical kind of example to help you distinguish what might be foreseeable in one situation and what may not be foreseeable in another situation, the court then read calcrim no. 403, explaining the terms used in tunder all the circumstances, a reasonable person, objective, a that the commission of murder was a natural and probable consequence of the commission of simple assault. by doing the simple assault, under all the circumstances of the case, a person it foreseeable that the simple assault could escalate to the ultimate crime of murder under all the circumstances of the case. did a perpetrator or someone who aided and abetted the perpetrator commit the simple assault, and did the simple assault get out of hand, did it escalate to the crime of murder, and was it foreseeable that that could have happened. and again, you have to decide what the facts are of that particular after the questions were answered by the court, and a ad back, the jury continued deliberating. the jury reached its verdicts about 3:30 p.m. that afternoon. 2. applicable law and analysis [w]here . . . the original instructions are themselves full and complete, the 32 court has discretion . . . to determine what additional people v. dykes (2009) 46 cal.4th 731, 802.) however, where the trial court does give additional explanations, those explanations must be legally correct. (see people v. giardino (2000) 82 cal.app.4th 454, 467.) in c]omments diverging from the standaibid., quoting people v. beardslee (1991) 53 cal.3d 68, 97.) under the natural and probable consequences doctrine, an aider and abettor is liable for any offense which is a reasonably foreseeable consequence of the target offense. (people v. smith (2014) 60 cal.4th 603, 613-natural and probable consequencejudged objectively, the additional offense was reasonably foreseeable. [citation.] the inquiry does not depend on whether the aider and abettor actually foresaw the nontarget offense. should have known that the charged offense was a reasonably foresepeople v. chiu (2014) 59 cal.4th 155, 161-162.) reasonable foreseeability requires something more than that the it requires a finding that the resulikely to happen if nothing unusual ino. 403; people v. prettyman (2006) 14 cal.4th 248, 260 [doctrine responsible for the criminal harms they have naturally, probably and foreseeably put in motion]) 33 uirement that the consequence must have been reasonably foreseeable, and likely to have happened, and not merely possible. it thus was erroneous. error in instructing the jury as to the elements of the natural and probable consequences doctrine is reviewed under the chapman10 harmless beyond a reasonable doubt standard. (see people v. prettyman, supra, 14 cal.4th at pp. 271-272; people v. riva (2003) 112 cal.app.4th 981, 997-998 & fn. 58.) here, we cannot conclude that the error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. this was clearly a close case. the jury was deadlocked 9 to 3 and 7 to 5 on friday afternoon, after more than a day of deliberations. one juror was replaced on monday morning, but, as the trial court observed, that would not be enough to break the deadlock given the jurors respective positions as of friday afternoon. one hour after the alternate juror was empaneled, the jury requested a read back of certain testimony and further instruction, at which time the trial court provided the erroneous instruction on natural and probable consequences. the jury was able to reach its verdicts that afternoon. that the jury was deadlocked as to both defendants, received the additional instructions, and was able to reach its verdicts shortly thereafter suggests that those verdicts were based on the erroneous instructions. (see people v. brown (2016) 247 cal.app.4th 211, 10 chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 [87 s.ct. 824, 17 l.ed.2d 705]. 34 226.) moreover, the evidence was extremely conflicted in this case, with no eyewitness to the stabbing or retrieval of the murder weapon, disputed testimony as to whether pichardo at some point had the upper hand in the struggle, and uncontroverted evidence that both defendants were stabbed by an unknown person. therefore, instructing the jury in this case that a natural and probable consequence was one that could have happened was not harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (id. at p. 227.)11 11 as the people point out, neither defendant objected to the nevertheless, if the review the claim of instructional error even though defendants did not object to the instruction in the trial court. (pen. code,  1259; people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 1142, 1192; people v. valenzuela (2011) 199 cal.app.4th 1214, 1233.) here, 35 disposition the judgments are reversed. keeny, j.* we concur: perluss, p. j. zelon, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 