filed 9/29/14 p. v. sandoval ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jesus sandoval, defendant and appellant. b249138 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba402259) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. anne h. egerton, judge. affirmed and remanded with directions. joy a. maulitz, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii and robert c. schneider, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________________ 2 the people charged jesus sandoval with three counts of assault with a deadly weapon, (counts 1, 2 and 7) and one count of dissuading a witness (count 6). sandovfather was charged with two counts of making criminal threats (counts 3 and 4) and friend was charged with one count of assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury (count 5). during jury deliberations, the court dismissed juror no. 4 for failing to deliberate and replaced her with an alternate. the reconstituted jury found sandoval guilty of two of the assault counts, not guilty of the third count and not guilty of dissuading a witness. it acquitted father of one count of making a criminal threat and deadlocked on the other count. the jury found friend guilty of simple assault. (she is not a party to this appeal.) we affirm the record establishes as a demonstrable realityno. 4 failed to deliberate.1 facts and proceedings below sandoval, his father and his girlfriend were tried together. late in the first day of jury deliberations the foreperson sent a note to the court stating that the jury had reached a verdict on every count but one and the jurors all agreed the court did not respond to the note that day. when the jurors returned in the morning the court called them into the courtroom and asked the foreperson which count was still at issue, the numerical breakdown of the vote and whether there was anything the court or the attorneys could do to help the jury reach a verdict. the foreperson answered that the jury was divided 8 to 4 on count three court or the attorneys could do to help. the court then asked the foreperson whether the jury might be able to reach a verdict on count 3 if they deliberated further. the 1 because the court erred in sentencing sandoval to a three-year term for the great bodily injury enhancement on count 2, instead of one-third the full term as required by penal code section 1170.1, subdivision (a), we remand the case to the trial court for resentencing. 3 ay, verybody felt pretty settled into their decisions . . . but it has been one day. and there is the potential to further the discussion, at least to see, is morning to take another vote and see where the court asked the jury to return to its while longer soon after the jurors retired for further deliberations the foreperson sent a second note to the court. this note stated: one count. this count is the same one as this morning: count 3. we are split 7-5 on count 3 with all parties stating they are entrenched in their decision, with no foreseeable the record does not contain later, but still in the morning, the foreperson sent the court a third note that stated: number 4 as a member of our panel. she has admitted to bias and has expressed a sustained unwillingness to particip upon receiving this note the court interviewed juror no. 2 (the foreperson), juror no. 4 and other randomly selected jurors in chambers. counsel for the parties were present. juror no. 2, the foreperson, told the court that from the beginning of the deliberations on the first day juror no. 4 showed an unwillingness to partake in the discussions. in addition, she said, juror no. 4 all credibility to one side, and it was in a way that was extremely disparaging when juror no. 2 asked juror no. juror no. is just the way that juror no. 2 further stated that juror no. 4 want to participate, did not waver, was b the things she brought 4 later in the first day, juror no. 2 stated, juror no. 4 [d] her verdict to be in line with what the group juror no. no. 2 asked juror no. 4 if she was changing her verdicts because she wanted to leave, juror no. 4 denied this and listed as her reasons for her vote the same reasons the other jurors had expressed. juror no. 2 then described to the court what had transpired earlier that morning. when the jurors reconvened juror no. 4 came in late, did not sit at the table with the other jurors but instead sat on the couch and declined to participate in the discussion. when the bailiff brought the verdict forms into the jury room, juror no. 4 got up and went into the bathroom. when she returned, she sat back down on the couch. juror no. 2 stated she asked juror would like to join usnd juror no. 4 said, right here. juror no. 4 added, juror no. 2 responded that she did not feel ror no. 4 believed her answers. according to juror no. 2, when asked directly juror no. 4 admitbelieve my answers. i am biased and i do not want to be here. juror no. 2 told the court that she previously believed juror no. 4 had an ut she would go along with them to go back to this morning, however, juror no. 4 announced: juror no. 8 said that juror no. 4 did not participate in the discussion of the case the juror described juror no. juror no. 8 further observed that juror no. 4 offered her vwere prejudicial to the wholno. juror no. 5 juror no. number 4 has participated in good faith in the deliberations juror no. seemed as though [juror no. 4] had made up her mind before she even got into the room and it seems like even maybe right when everything stjuror no. 6 told the court that juror no. 4 did not discuss the ehe talks about the way she juror no. 6 also told the court that juror no. up her juror no. 6 corroborated the belief of juror no. 8 and juror no. 2 that juror no. 4 eventually decided to agree with the others juror no. 9 stated juror no. 4 had her mind made up - no. kind of just agreed and said something cause i need to get out of here[.]juror no. 4 did not try to explain to the rest of the jurors the reasons for her views or try to get them to see her point of view. she sat on the couch and refused the invitation to join the other jurors at the table. when the court interviewed juror no. 4 she gave a different version of deliberations. she told the court that she did not feel the other jurors listened to her views and that when the court asked her: with an open heart and s. contradicting the statements of the other jurors, juror no. 4 stated that she took her jury service and, in decisions. asked whether her no. 4 answered: i thought we had to go in with a she told the court: decision based on the inas to determine the believability of the witnesses and believability no. 4 told the court that she 6 listened to the opinions of the other jurors and argued with them but in the end she disagreed with them. the other jurors were not basing their decisions on the evidence and the instructions, she told the court, .she believed pages other jurors would fail to make findings on all the factors required by an instruction but cherry pickingcertain ones. no. st feel like the lone after the interviews with the jurors the people moved to dismiss juror no. 4 for failing to deliberate. the court granted the motion and appointed an alternate juror to take her seat. after deliberating for approximately three more hours the jury announced that it had reached a verdict on all but one count. the court declared a mistrial on that count. the court sentenced sandoval to consecutive prison terms totaling nine years for the assaults and inflictions of great bodily injury. discussion i. standard of review: test. penal code section 1089 states in relevant part: if at any time, whether before or after the final submission of the case to the jury, a juror dies or becomes ill, or upon other good cause shown to the court is found to be unable to perform his or her duty, or if a juror requests a discharge and good cause appears therefore, the court may order the juror to be discharged and draw the name of an alternate, who shall then take a place in the jury box, and be subject to the same rules and regulations as though the alternate juror had been selected as one of the original jurors. this statute has been interpreted to permit the court to remove a juror who refuses to deliberate on the theory that such a juror is unable to perform his duty(people v. cleveland (2001) 25 cal.4th 466, 474-475.) 7 although the standard of review is abuse of discretion, our review of the discharge of a juror during deliberations entails a more comprehensive and less (people v. barnwell (2007) 41 cal.4th 1038, 1052.) the reco (people v. williams (2001) 25 cal.4th 441, 447-448.) in people v. barnwell, supra, our supreme court explained how this heightened standard of review should be applied. the demonstrable reality test . . . requires a showing that the court as trier of fact did rely on evidence that, in light of the entire record, supports its conclusion that bias was established. it is important to make clear that a reviewing court does not reweigh the evidence under either test. under the demonstrable reality standard, however, the reviewing court must be confident that the trial courts conclusion is manifestly supported by evidence on which the court actually relied. [] . . . [] the evidence bearing on the question whether a juror has exhibited a disqualifying bias during deliberations may be in conflict. often, the identified juror will deny it and other jurors will testify to examples of how he or she has revealed it. [citation.] in such a case the trial court must weigh the credibility of those whose testimony it receives, taking into account the nuances attendant upon live testimony. the trial court may also draw upon the observations it has made of the jurors during voir dire and the trial itself. naturally, in such circumstances, we afford deference to the trial courts factual determinations, based, as they are, on firsthand observations unavailable to us on appeal. (people v. barnwell, supra, 41 cal.4th at pp. 1052-1053.) ii. the record establishes reality that juror no. 4 refused to deliberate. people v. cleveland, supra, is the leading california case concerning the discharge of a juror who refuses to deliberate. the court defined refusal to deliberate as a jurors unwillingness to engage in the deliberative process; that is, he or she will not 8 participate in discussions with fellow jurors by listening to their views and by expressing his or her own views. examples of refusal to deliberate include, but are not limited to, expressing a fixed conclusion at the beginning of deliberations and refusing to consider other points of view, refusing to speak to other jurors, and attempting to separate oneself physically from the remainder of the jury.(people v. cleveland, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 485.) the court also recognized the possibility that the impetus for a jurormight stem from s case. the court stated that it agreed with federal circuit court opinions holding that dismiss a juror during deliberations because that juror harbors doubts about the sufficiency of the prosecution (people v. cleveland, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 483.)2 nevertheless, the court rejected the position that a trial court may not dismiss a juror if there merits of the case provided the impetus for the removal. (ibid.) to established california law authorizing a trial court, if put on notice that a juror is . . . and to unwilling to (id. at p. 484.) in the case before us the trial court discharged juror no. 4 for failing to deliberate because it deliberations. the record supports conclusion. it is clear from people v. cleveland that a finding of inability to perform the duties of a juror may not be based on the juror taking a position contrary to that of the other 2 the court was referring to the opinions in u.s. v. brown (d.c. cir 1987) 823 f.2d 591, 596, u.s. v. thomas (2d cir. 1997) 116 f.3d 606, 622, and particularly the ninth u.s. v. symington (9th cir. 1999) 195 f.3d 1080, 1087.) (people v. cleveland, supra, 25 cal.4th at pp. 480-483.) 9 jurors or questioning the sufficiency of the prosecutions evidence. (people v. cleveland, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 483.) here, however, the record supports the trial courts conclusion that juror no. 4 when asked whether her no. 4 answered: stened very carefully to [the and i felt like i arrived at my decision based on the instructions[.juror no. to deliberate was also shown by her comments on several occasions that she did not want to be deliberating and that she changed her votes to go along with the other jurors just so that she could leave and get back to work. the other jurors the court interviewed were unanimous in telling the court that juror no. 4 did not consider their opinions. finally, juror no. bathroom when it was time for a vote further demonstrated her failure to deliberate the issues with her fellow jurors. expressing a fixed conclusion at the beginning of deliberations, refusing to consider other points of view and separating herself physically from the other jurors are all cogent examples of refusal to deliberate. (people v. cleveland, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 485.) 10 disposition affirmed. the case is remanded for resentencing. not to be published. rothschild, p. j. we concur: chaney, j. miller, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 