filed 5/22/15 p. v. amio ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. richard m. amio et al., defendants and appellants. b249694 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba362872) appeal from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county. michael e. pastor, judge. affirmed. david m. thompson, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant richard m. amio. john a. colucci, for defendant and appellant evan s. samuel. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and william h. shin, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________ 2 los angeles police department (lapd) officers richard m. amio and evan s. samuel were convicted of perjury and conspiring to obstruct justice when their testimony regarding the circumstances leading to the arrest of guillermo alarcon was belied by videotaped footage of the event. appellants challenge their convictions on appeal, citing to insufficient evidence, juror misconduct, evidentiary error, and the from prosecuting their case. none of these purported deficiencies warrant reversal. we affirm the judgments. facts amio and samuel were members of the hollywood gang enforcement detail of the lapd in 2007. on july 6, 2007, at approximately 11:40 p.m., they participated in the arrest of alarcon for a narcotics violation along with officer manuel ortiz,1 who also belonged to the hollywood gang enforcement detail. in the course of their duties, the three officers prepared written reports and offered testimony about the events leading to against alarcon, the three officers provided a consistent story: amio and samuel encountered alarcon while on patrol that night. he ran when they shined their spotlight on him. they gave chase and saw him throw a black item away during the chase. the black item hit a dumpster and broke open, revealing narcotics. samuel recovered the black item and the narcotics. at trial, the jury viewed a videotape which showed a different sequence of events. in , ortiz is seen locating described. the video tape also contained audio of an officer suggestingyour writing, oh, yeah. sin duda. . . .2 a different officer added, . . . .the case against alarcon was dismissed. 1 ortiz was charged alongside samuel and amio, but was not convicted. 2 the parties stipulated that the spanish phras 3 samuel, amio, and ortiz were charged on october 6, 2009. a second amended information dated october 18, 2012 contained five counts.3 in count 1, all three were charged with conspiracy to commit an act injurious to the public health, to public morals, and to pervert and obstruct justice, and the due administration of the laws. (pen. code,  182, subd. (a)(5).)4 in counts 2 through 5, the officers were charged with committing perjury in the probable cause declaration (samuel, count 2), at the preliminary hearing (samuel and ortiz, count 3), at the motion to suppress hearing (samuel and amio, count 4), and at trial (samuel and amio, count 5). ( 118, subd. (a).) the codefendants were tried together from october 17, 2012 to november 6, 2012. investigation: amio prepared the incident report; samuel prepared the affidavit of probable cause to arrest alarcon;5 samuel and ortiz testified at the preliminary hearing; samuel and amio testified at the suppression motion hearing; and all three testified at . relevant portions of their trial testimony were read to the jury in the motion to suppress. because their statements were consistent throughout the hearings, reports, and trial, we will only set forth their trial testimony below. the jury in this case heard samuel testify at trial that he and amio had they were driving southbound on ardmore street in a marked patrol car on july 6, 2007, at approximately 11:40 p.m. when they recognized alarcon standing in front of an apartment building, looking up and down the street. samuel and amio had encountered 3 additional counts of perjury and conspiracy against ortiz were alleged in a separate third amended information dated september 25, 2013. the jury could not reach a verdict as to ortiz and the court declared a mistrial. 4 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 5 an affidavit of probable cause is prepared in each case an arrest is made without a warrant. 4 alarcon twice before. they once detained him because they believed him to be a suspect in a crime, but he was later let go. they shined a spotlight on him and he appeared startled. he then immediately turned and fled through a walkway to the back of the building. amio gave chase. they observed a black object in his right hand as he ran. alarcon turned the corner into the carport behind the building with amio in pursuit. samuel also engaged in pursuit after he parked the patrol car. they observed alarcon shut the door to a laundry room of the building and throw the black object away from him. it hit the dumpster and broke open. alarcon attempted to hide behind the lone car parked in the carport. alarcon was detained by samuel and amio. that [alarcon] had thrown, and it appeared to be broken open . . . from him throwing it. and it appeared to be paper bindles which are consistent as a way of holding a powdered the box held 12 bindles and what appeared to be rock cocaine. alarcon was arrested for possession of cocaine for sale. afterwards, four or five other people came out of the apartment building. samuel called for additional units to assist them for purposes of officer safety. ortiz was one of those responders. testimony was also read to the jury in this case and it duplicated . amio testified he and samuel were on patrol on july 6, 2007, in an area with high narcotic activity. thus, they were suspicious when they spotted alarcon looking up and down the street. they shined the spotlight on him and he turned to flee to the back of the building. amio exited the patrol car and gave chase. according to amio, he was at most 1 to 2 seconds behind alarcon during the chase. amio also noticed a small black obas they ran toward the back of the building, amio saw alarcon slam a door closed and throw the object he had in his hand to his right. the object hit the dumpster and cracked open. alarcon was detained and later arrested. amio testified samuel picked up the object that had been thrown. they called for backup for officer safety and ortiz was one of the officers who responded. amio denied ortiz was the one who found the black box. amio confirmed he wrote the police report and included all of the events leading up to the arrest in it. samuel testified he reviewed 5 report many times and did not believe there were any important facts missing from it. sed the existence of a video reamio and samuel had denied all of the discussions and events shown in the video during their testimony. the 28-minute video depicted , during which red of doing that if you keep playing. remember what i told you last time? i gave you some the officers then tried to get a key to the laundry room because they believed f you samuel also asked a visitor, miguel cortez, if he had a key to the laundry room. cortez replied he did not since he did not live there. when they were able to enter the laundry room, they began a search for the object. at some point, ortiz found a key holder in the carport near the dumpster, but it was closed. the officers discussed how to open it, with one suggesting, ng after it was opened, the officers confirmed it was narcotics. by then, there were several officers at the scene. they engaged in the following conversation: officer jim tumbeiro]: be creative in your writing. [unidentified officer]: y. sin duda (without a doubt). [unidentified officer]: beautiful. [unidentified officer]: come on, this is a man who put a case on somebody who . . . (unintelligible laughing) two years. [unidentified officer] [unidentified officer]: yeah . . . gonna want the container. [unidentified officer]: (inaudible) the d.a. will fucking us that. [unidentified officer]: known to be on probation . . . [unidentified officer]: he ran, threw it and it broke open . . . 6 [unidentified officer]: door open . . . [] . . . [] [unidentified officer]: [unidentified officer]: nothing else in there, right; no money? [unidentified officer]: did he have money on him? [amio]: you know what? he was fucking walking back. he was like this. i saw maria alarcon, his sister, and maria chavez, his mother. maria alarcon testified the apartment building had four security cameras hooked up to a television with a video recorder. two cameras showed different angles of the parking area, one showed the front of the apartment, and one showed the walkway. while the security cameras were always on, the video recorder was not and someone had to press record on the vcr to activate it. on the night of heard her dog barking so she immediately put in a cassette and recorded the video feed from the security cameras. she then heard alarcon yelling not to open the door. sometime later, samuel came to their door and asked for the keys to the laundry room. when alarcon was released after his arrest, his sister told him that he needed to see the video she had recorded. maria alarcon denied editing or changing anything on the videotape. she lived in one apartment with ala while alarcon lived with his wife in a separate apartment in the same building. alarcon asked his mother for the videotape after he was released. when they found it on a shelf in her living room, maria chavez marked the distinguish it from the others. alarcon testified that he was in front of his apartment building that night. he had turned to walk back to the carport when the police shone a spotlight on him. he continued walking to the carport and was followed by samuel and amio, who handcuffed and arrested him. alarcon testified he made copies of the videotape and sent the original 7 to mexicali for safekeeping because he was afraid the lapd officerhe was originally confused as to which was the original tape, but his mother told him she he believed the gang enforcement detail was targeting and harassing him, particularly after his arrest. approximately two weeks before his criminal trial, ortiz was among a group of officers who stopped alarcon to search him and take pictures of his tattoos. additionally, amio pulled alarcon over and asked him about accepting a plea prior to his trial. lieutenant stacy spell from t division was assigned to lead the investigat. spell examined the key holder in question and opined the container had irregular marks that appeared to be a result of someone attempting to pry it open with a sharp object. spell also received a vhs tape from the deputy public defender who represented alarcon at his trial. spell g. because alarcon made several copies and initially did not know which one was the original, the fbi and the lapd received several copies of the video which proved not to be the original. an original of the tape was eventually sent to the fbi. at trial, an expert on audio and video electronics opined that the video at issue was an original recording. the defense presented evidence of inconsistencies between alarcon and his prior statements to the lapd and prosecutors. specifically, alarcon told a prosecutor assigned to investigate the charges against the defendants that he had gone into the laundry room to hide from the police officers. his sister also told the investigator that she was watching tv when she heard her dog barking. when she looked outside and saw police officers, she went into the bedroom and pressed the record button on the surveillance system. sister said she could not recall telling the prosecutor that she looked outside and saw police before she began the recording. john fede, a forensic analyst and electronic technician, testified as the defense expert. fede opined the original tape had been very heavily edited, but on cross-examination, acknowledged there were no edits within the pertinent 28-minute portion of videotape at issue, only before and after. 8 the defense also presented testimony from officer lance perkins, who had been perkins testified he and his partner responded to the call for backup on the night of told him it would open any lock. perkins used the opportunity of the locked laundry room door to try it out. when he arrived at the apartment complex, there were several officers already there. perkins did not find the officers acting unusually or secretively. the defense also presented testimony from sergeant duane aikens and retired lieutenant charles wampler. they were both veterans of the lapd and had been involved in the gang enforcement detail in particular. they testified to the character of the defendants and opined the officers acted appropriately in ensuring the investigation was complete and no possible firearms or narcotics was missed. a call for additional units on the night in question. after briefly speaking with samuel, the officers began to search the area for additional evidence. tumbeiro testified his he did not observe any of the defendants acting in a secretive or unusual manner. the defense also presented character testimony for each of the defendants. each witness testified to the integrity and honesty of the defendants. the jury found amio and samuel guilty as charged. the trial court suspended sentence and placed samuel on probation for three years. he was ordered to perform 750 hours of community labor and pay a $1,000 restitution fine pursuant to section 1202.4, subdivision (b), among other fees and fines. the trial court also suspended sentence and placed amio on formal probation for three years. he was ordered to perform 500 hours of community labor and pay a $600 restitution fine pursuant to section 1202.4, subdivision (b), among other fines and fees. amio and samuel both timely appealed and we consolidated their appeals on february 26, 2014. 9 discussion although amio and samuel have submitted separate briefs, there is considerable overlap among the issues they raise. indeed certain portions of their briefs are identically worded. moreover, each has joined in any issues raised by the other. we therefore address both appeals in one opinion. we find none of the issues raised warrant reversal. i. sufficiency of the evidence appellants first contest the sufficiency of the evidence to show a conspiracy to obstruct justice, contending there was no direct evidence samuel or amio agreed to devious plan to falsely accuse appellants appear to argue that declaration of probable cause were merely cut and pasted from police report, and were not an agreement to commit perjury. moreover, perjured testimony independently contemplated and committed to protect their fellow officers, n the scope of our review for whether evidence is sufficient to support a conviction is a very narrow one. (people v. kraft (2000) 23 cal.4th 978, 1053.) we will not disturb the trier of fact's determination of the credibility of witnesses and the truth or falsity of the facts on which that determination depends. (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206.) instead, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the verdict and determine whether there is evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable juror could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. davis (1995) 10 cal.4th 463, 509.) circumstantial evidence may be sufficient to prove the defendant's guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. stanley (1995) 10 cal.4th 764, 793.) commit the offense, a specific intent that one or more conspirators will commit the elements of that offense, and (people v. johnson (2013) 57 cal.4th 250, 266.) the elements of conspiracy may be proven with circumstantial evidence, e defendants carrying out the agreed-upon [citations.] to prove an agreement, it is not necessary to establish the parties 10 spiracy may be shown by direct or circumstantial evidence that the parties positively or tacitly came to a mutual (people v. vu (2006) 143 cal.app.4th 1009, 1024-1025.) we find ample here, appellants were partners and members of the same specialized unit within the lapd, the hollywood division gang enforcement detail. they were present and active participants in the search. the video shows the officers engaged in a discussion which could reasonably be seen as an agreement about how to document the arrest and discovery of narcotics. when tumbeiro suggestedother officers immediately repliedbroke open. . . .although it is unclear whether amio or samuel made any of those comments, they were there, they listened to the comments without objection, and applied the suggested story to their later testimony. this storythat alarcon was on probation, he ran, threw an object, and it broke open to reveal narcoticsis repeated consistently by amio and samuel in the police report, in the declaration of probable cause, at the preliminary hearing, at the hearing on the motion to suppress, and at trial. in fact, a comment made by an unidentified officer indicated this was not a new scenario to them since . . . time . . . two while tumbeiro testified his suggestion to be creative was a joke, the jury was not required to accept his testimony and could draw its own conclusions. the conclusion it reached was reasonable. differently does not warrant a reversal of the conviction. ii. juror misconduct a. background after the jury returned its verdicts, samuel moved for a new trial based, in part, on juror misconduct. amio joined. the basis for the juror misconduct rested on a declaration by juror no. er the jury verdict. juror no. 8 reported: 11 this is an exact quote of what juror #7 said in [sic] deliberations. [] i brought this up to that juror and asked the only one to raise this issue in the jury at the hearing on the new trial motion, the trial court found juror no. declaration established a prima facie case of prejudice and invited the parties to move to unseal confidential juror information to conduct an evidentiary hearing on the issue. in a later written order, the trial court reversed its position and found the statements attributed to juror no. 7 to be hearsay and to have failed to establish a prima facie case of misconduct. however, the trial court admitted the declaration for the sole purpose of supporting the new trial motion and allowed the defense to subpoena juror no. 8 to testify under oath. juror no. 8 testified because she was the hold out juror for ortiz. she stated she was sorry to have caused a it was a copy/paste juror no. 8 recalled the jurors deliberated well and tried to pay attention through the first few days of deliberations. at some point, juror no. 7 offered to write down all the issues and points raised about each count on the white board. while the jury considered the perjury count against samuel, the foreperson asked for a moment to go through one of the stipulations. in the ensuing lull, juror no. 11 made a comment to which juror no. 7 replied, she disliked the lapd and distrusted them. the following day, juror no. 8 confronted juror no. 7 about her statement, asking: all law enpoint, the other jurors told her to settle down. juror no. 8 felt she was the lapd. 12 the trial court found a prima facie showing of juror misconduct had been made. letters were sent to juror nos. 7 and 11, requesting they come in to testify. both jurors testified. juror no. 7 denied saying she disliked the lapd, but admitted she said she distrusted them; she and i believe this person we had some heated discussions. and i said i would use video. as a matter of fact, i trust anybody. i would use video, too. [] and those were the words i recall saying. and within the context of trying to move the deliberations on forward and saying how i would do something if i, you know, needed is going on in something. juror no. 7 further indicated she had no bias against the lapd and truthfully affirmed during voir dire that she could be fair to lapd officers. she recalled the juror who confronted her as a smoker who did not appear to like juror no. 7. her comments were made because the juror who had confronted her did not want to view the videotape or rely on it. juror no. 8 was trying to make her understand that not going to trust the juror no. 11 did not recall any juror stating a distrust of the lapd or law enforcement. the trial court denied the motion for new trial, finding there was no juror misconduct on the part of juror no. 7 and the presumption of prejudice had been overcome. noting there may have been a personality dispute between the two jurors, it expressly found juror no. 7 credible and juror no. 8 not credible. because juror no. 8 had demonstrated remorse for anvictions, it he credibility of [juror] no. 8. b. applicable law a unbiased verdict. (people v. thomas (1990) 218 cal.app.3d 1477, 1484.) a defendant accused of a crime has a constitutional right to a trial by unbiased, impartial jurors. (u.s. const., 6th and 14th amends.; cal. const., art. i,  16; people v. nesler (1997) 16 cal.4th 13 561, 578 (nesler).) an imparcapable and willing to decide the case solely on the evidence presented at trial. (smith v. phillips (1982) 455 u.s. 209, 217; in re carpenter (1995) 9 cal.4th 634, 648, 656.) a new trial under section 1181 is warranted s actual bias was concealed and not discovered until after the verdict. (nesler, supra, at p. 581.) what constitutes actual bias of a juror varies according to the circumstances of the case. (ibid.) in assessing whether a juror is impartial for federal constitutional purposes, the united states supreme court has stated: impartiality is not a technical conception. it is a state of mind. for the ascertainment of this mental attitude of appropriate indifference, the constitution lays down no particular tests and procedure is not chained to any ancient and artificial formula. (united states v. wood (1936) 299 u.s. 123, 145-146.) the theory of the law is that a juror who has formed an opinion cannot be impartial. [citation.] (irvin v. dowd (1961) 366 u.s. 717, 722-723, quoting reynolds v. united states (1878) 98 u.s. 145, 155.) once the defendant establishes juror misconduct has occurred, a rebuttable presumption of prejudice is created. (in re carpenter, supra, 9 cal.4th at p. 657; people v. majors (1998) 18 cal.4th 385, 417.) the presumption of prejudice may be rebutted by an affirmative evidentiary showing s examination of the entire record to determine whether there is a reasonable probability of actual harm to the complaining party resulting from the misconduct. (hasson v. ford motor co. (1982) 32 cal.3d 388, 417.) on appeal, deference is given to s factual findings and credibility determinations if supported by substantial evidence. (people v. danks (2004) 32 cal.4th 269, 304.) however, the determination whether juror misconduct was s (id. at p. 303.) c. analysis here, the trial court found a rebuttable presumption of prejudice had been raised as the trial court made express findings about the credibility of juror nos. 7 and 8 in reaching its ruling that the presumption had been 14 rebutted. appellants challenot based on substantial evidence. in making their argument, appellants merely attempt to reweigh the evidence and re-determine credibility. for example, appellants contend that the context surrounding cowe accept the trial courts credibility determinations and findings. (nesler, supra, at p. 582.) su indeed, appellants acknowledge juror no. 7this evidence includes the entirety of juror no. 7 made the comments while trying to make a point about the weight to be given to the video. comments out of context. there was no juror misconduct. appellants further contend the trial court erred in failing to compel juror no. 3 and the foreperson to appear and testify. the trial court has wide discretion to conduct an evidentiary hearing to resolve allegations of juror misconduct. (people v. hedgecock (1990) 51 cal.3d 395, 418-419.) it did so here and made factual findings and credibility determinations, which we accept. the trial court was not further obligated to conduct additional heid. at p. 419.) appellants have provided no evidence that further comments. hearing involving other jurors there is no evidence anyone other than juror no. 8 heard the comments at issue. juror no. 11, who purportedly prompted comments, could not recall hearing any juror state he or she distrusted the lapd. there was no indication that any other juror participated in the conversation. there was also no indication the comments were stated in any context other than what juror no. 7 described. in short, there was no dispute about what happened. the comments attributed to juror no. 7 by juror no. 8 were not prejudicial and did not show bias. any arguments to the contrary are speculation. 15 this matter is very different from people v. castorena (1996) 47 cal.app.4th 1051, a case relied upon by appellants. there, one juror was accused of not deliberating by a group of other jurors. however, she contended it was just an excuse for them to push her out because the jury was deadlocked 11-1 on the matter. the trial court refused to conduct a hearing regarding the hold-this to be an abuse of discretion. (id. at p. 1066.) there was a dispute as to what actually happened, necessitating an evidentiary hearing. (id. at pp. 1064-1066.) here, an evidentiary hearing was conducted and the trial court made its findings, which we accept. iii. prior to trial, samuel moved to exclude the two comments on the ground they were inadmissible hearsay. in the alternative, he sought a jury instruction that the statements should not be admitted for their truth. amio joined in the motion. ement and the response were admissible as nonhearsay and as hearsay exceptions under evidence code sections 1221 and 1223.6 the trial court held a hearing on the motion to exclude the evidence. it allowed admission of the contested statements on the grounds articulated by the people. noting that it did not need to determine at that point in the proceedings whether there was proof 6 party is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule if the statement is one of which the party with knowledge of the content thereof, has by words or other conduct manifested evidence code section 1223 relates to the admissions of a co-conspirator . it hearsay rule if: (a) the statement was made by the declarant while participating in a conspiracy to commit a crime or civil wrong and in furtherance of the objective of that conspiracy; (b) the statement was made prior to or during the time that the party was participating in that conspiracy; and (c) the evidence is offered either after admission of evidence sufficient to sustain a finding of the facts specified in subdivisions (a) and (b) or, in the court's discretion as to 16 beyond a reasonable double of a conspiracy, only whether a prima facie case of one had been made, the trial court believed thof a statement in furtherance of a conspiracy and can demonstrate the opening salvo in terms of any agreements that any defendant may have had with regard to following up on conspiracy. nonhearsay command or order and as an adoptive admission under section 1221 of the evidence code. required. on appeal, samuel7 contends we disagree. hearsay evidence is of course generally inadmissible. hearsay statements by coconspirators, however, may nevertheless be admitted against a party if, at the threshold, independent evidence to establish prima facie the existence of . . . [a] conspiracy. [citations.] once independent proof of a conspiracy has been shown, three preliminary facts must be established: (1) that the declarant was participating in a conspiracy at the time of the declaration; (2) that the declaration was in furtherance of the objective of that conspiracy; and (3) that at the time of the declaration the party against whom the evidence is offered was participating or would later participate in the conspiracy. [citation.] (people v. hardy (1992) 2 cal.4th 86, 139; evid. code,  1223.) only prima facie evidence of a conspiracy is required to permit the trial court to admit evidence under the coconspirators exception. this fact need not be established beyond a reasonable doubt, or even by a preponderance of the evidence. . . . the conspiracy may be shown by circthe agreement may be inferred from the conduct of the defendants mutually carrying out a common purpose in violation of a penal statute. (people v. olivencia (1988) 204 cal.app.3d 1391, 1402-l403.) 7 although amio failed to raise this issue in his brief, he expressly joined in the issues raised by samuel. 17 we review evidentiary order for abuse of discretion and find none. (people v. martinez (2000) 22 cal.4th 106, 120.) as discussed above, substantial evidence supports a finding beyond a reasonable doubt that a conspiracy to obstruct justice existed. this is more than sufficient to establish a prima facie case of conspiracy. the same evidence supports a finding that appellants later participated in the conspiracy by committing perjury on the witness stand and in the declaration of probable cause. the conspiracy. that neither tumbeiro nor the unidentified officer were charged in the conspiracy is irrelevant. samuel has failed to, and we have not found, any legal support for the proposition that the declarant must also be charged as a coconspirator in order for the e comments at issue were made prior to any conspiracy being formed. according to samuel, the earliest point a conspiracy could have formed was when amio prepared a false report. not so. that was merely an overt act committed in connection with the conspiracy, not its beginning. the conspiracy. as a result, this case is distinguishable from people v. jurado (2006) 38 cal.4th 72, 117-tatement that she needed a gun was made one or two days before the three codefendants reached any agreement to kill the victim. because we find both statements to be admissible as a statement by a coconspirator, we need not address the remaining grounds for admissibility identified by the trial courtit fell under the adoptive admission exception under evidence code 1221. iv. ument, to which amio also joins, is that the trial court erred in failing to recuse the entire office on his section 1424 motion. samuelmotion to recuse was based on the failure of the los angeles county district attorneys 18 office to opposa finding of factual innocence under section 851.88 without further investigating the authenticity of the videotape. samuel argued that the circumstances of the case demonstrated a reasonable possibility that the district attorneys office may not exercise its discretionary function in an even handed manner. alleged the perjury embarrassed the office and created an incentive for the district attorney to make an example out of them. thus, samuel sought to either disqualify the entire prosecutorial office or conduct an evidentiary hearing to amplify the record on the decision making process to not oppose the factual innocence motion and dismiss a. the trial court summarily denied the motion, finding samuel had failed to establish the existence of a conflict of interest or that any conflict was so grave as to render it unlikely that any defendant would receive fair treatment. the california supreme court has articulated the standards for a section 1424 ruling and our review of it on appeal as follows: of interest exists that would render it unlikely that the defendant would receive a reasonable possibility that the das office may not exercise its discretionary (ibid.) 8 as noted by samuel, the parties mistakenly cited section 851.6, a provision relating to certificates describing arrest without warrant as a detention, in the papers below. in fact, section 851.8 is the correct section dealing with factual innocence. it accusatory pleading has been filed, but where no conviction has occurred, the defendant may, at any time after dismissal of the action, petition the court that dismissed the action for a finding that the defendant is factually innocent of the charges for which the arrest 19 is not sufficient to require recusal of the district attorney. [citation.] section 1424 does not authorize disqualification merely because the defense has shown that the proseappear improper, or would tend to reduce public confidence in the impartiality and integrity of the criminal [citats burden to allege facts which, grave fair trial unlikely. [citation.] treatment exists, while the second half of the inquiry asks whether any such possibility is so great that it is more likely than not the defendant will be treated [citation.] 1424 prescribes a two-stage process. at the first stage, the defendant must file a notice of motion containa statement of the facts setting forth the grounds for the claimed disqualification and the legal authorities relied upon by the moving party, and those alaffidavits of witnesses who are competent to testify to the facts set forth in the affidavit. ( 1424, subd. (a)(1).) in opposition to the motion, the district attorney and the attorney general may also file affidavits. (ibid.) after considering the motion and affidavits, the trial court then decides whether or not the second stage, an evidentiary hearing, is necessary. (ibid.) an evidentiary hearing may be ordered if the defendants affidavits establish a prima facie case for recusalthat is, if the defendants affidavits, if credited, would require recusal. packer v. superior court (2014) 60 cal.4th 695, 709-710 (packer).) decision whether to hold an evidentiary hearing is reviewed for an abuse of that discretion. (packer, at p. 710.) under this standars findings of fact are reviewed for substantial evidence, its conclusions of law are reviewed de novo, and its application of the law to the facts is reversible only if arbitrary 20 and cap (haraguchi v. superior court (2008) 43 cal.4th 706, 711-712, fns. omitted.) applying this standard, w . samuel presented established that deputy district attorneys would be material witnesses in his case. well settled that merely because an employee may be a potential witness and credibility of that witness may have to be argued by the prosecuting attorney, there is no sufficient basis for that reason alone to recuse an entire prosecutorial office. [citations.] this rule has been applied even to cases wherein one or more deputy district attorneys are (people v. merritt (1993) 19 cal.app.4th 1573, 1580; people ex. rel. younger v. superior court (1978) 86 cal.app.3d 180, 211 [without more, recusal of the entire prosecutorial office is not justified even if a deputy from that office testifies as a material witness].) thus, the fact that case may testify as material witnesses is insufficient grounds for recusal of the entire office. acknowledging he he has demonstrated a prima facie case for recusalde not to oppose factual innocence petition. adistance the office from appellants to avoid being lack any factual support. his section 1424 motion was submitted with the interview summaries of deputy district attorney liza tom, the trial prosecutor , and deputy district attorney robert wallace, toin the trial against alarcon. they did not disclose the decision to file criminal charges against appellants. this is because tom and wallace were not 21 involved in that decision. lieutenant spell conducted the investigation concerning appellants and the decision to prosecute them was made by deputy district attorney there was no indiccharged appellants because it intended to make an example of them further, there was no evidence deputy district attorney tom did not properly dismiss the case against alarcon, given the state of the evidence, or that she failed to oppose the factual innocence motion for an improper reason. the video footage clearly showed to be false. the subsequent discussion including ran, threw it and it broke open. . . are sufficient to warrant dismissal of the charges against alarcon. there was no indication the videotape was fabricated and, indeed, the defense expert admitted at trial that the relevant 28-minute segment in the middle of the tape was not edited in any way. the cases cited by samuel are inapposite. in each, the prosecutors were not only witnesses, but circumstances inherent to those cases made it more likely that the in people v. conner (1983) 34 cal.3d 141 (conner), for example, a deputy district attorney witnessed the defendant attempt an and shooting the deputy. the defendant also shot at, but missed, the deputy district attorney. the deputy district attorney discussed the event with many of the personnel at the santa clara county district the entire office was recused although the new deputy district attorney assigned to prosecute the crime was not in the same unit. (id. at p. 145.) in upholding the recusal, the supreme court found substantial evidence supported the dramatic and gripping nature of the circumstances, the pervasiveness of the communications regarding [the deputy district attorneys] relationship to the incident, and the difficulty in gauging their cumulative effect(conner, supra, at p. 148.) substantial evidence also supported 22 a finding the conflict was so grave as to render it unlikely the defendant would receive fair treatment communicat. (ibid.) in packer, supra, 60 cal.4th at page 695, the supreme court found the trial court abused its discretion when it failed to order an evidentiary hearing usection 1424 motion to recuse the lead prosecutor in the case. the petitioner submitted affidavits showing the prosecutor knew the victim, whom the petitioner allegedly raped -wife. thalso potential witnesses because they knew the petitioner and his daughter had dated the id. at p. 711.) there were clear factual disputes regarding how often the petitioner socialized with the prosecutoin the service of a subpoena to his daughter. (id. at p. 714; see also people v. gamache (2010) 48 cal.4th 347 [victim people v. superior court (greer) .) e in conner nor as personal as those in packer. indeed, it would appear that officer misconduct is a common enough occurrence in los angeles county that an entire division specializes in those types of cases. neither is the los angeles county district attoffice composed of 25 attorneys, like the santa clara county district conner. the decision to prosecute appellants was made by a specialized unit. unlike in parker and conner, samuel has presented no evidence to establish a prima facie case the district attorney relied on improper grounds in prosecuting them. anticipating our conclusion, samuel argues he was entitled to use compulsory process to uncover the necessary evidence. he contends the procedures set forth in section 1424 violate his right to compulsory process and due process under the 23 constitution by conditioning the right to an evidentiary hearing on a showing made solely through affidavits. the united states riminal defendants have the right under the compulsory process clause to the governments assistance in compelling the attendance of favorable witnesses at trial and the right to put before a jury evidence pennsylvania v. ritchie (1987) 480 u.s. 39, 56.) however, the right to compulsory process has only been applied as a trial right and has never been extended to pretrial proceedings. (ibid.) noting it is not at all whether or to what extent the confrontation or compulsory process clauses of the sixth amendment grant pretrial discovery rights to the accused[,] the california (people v. hammon (1997) 15 cal.4th 1117, 1126-1127; people v. webb (1993) 6 cal.4th 494, 517-assume a pretrial right to compulsory process which both the united states supreme court and the california supreme court have been reluctant to confer. disposition the judgments are affirmed. bigelow, p.j. we concur: rubin, j. flier, j. 