 filed 3/3/15 p. v. montoya ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. richard ronald montoya, defendant and appellant. b249369 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba396513) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, rand s. rubin, judge. remanded, with directions. law offices of james koester and james koester, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii, deputy attorney general, steven e. mercer and alene m. games, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant, richard ronald montoya, appeals a court order requiring him to reimburse the county for the cost of legal assistance it provided for him. montoya was acquitted following a jury trial on charges of making two criminal threats (pen. code,  422).1 the matter is remanded to the trial court for further proceedings. background montoya was charged with two counts of making of criminal threats ( 422). following a jury trial, he was acquitted on both counts. thereafter, the trial court ordered him, pursuant to section 987.8, to reimburse the county $10,274 for the cost of legal assistance. on january 31, 2013, when it initially announced its intention to order montoya to make reimbursement in this amount, pay for the services of the office of the public defender. the new fees for the public defender, and this just came out: felony trial, attorne [so he can] fees 2013 . . . office of the financial evaluator today before you leave th on march 5, 2013, a financial evaluator with the revenue enhancement unit of the status. the report describes montoya as a 47-year-old single man, currently residing in scottsdale, arizona, who assistance in the form of food stamps in the amount of $200. [] in addition, he claims to supplement his income performing odd jobs or labor work earning $600 to $800 a 1 all further references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 3 month. furthermore, [montoya] claims he is in the entertainment industry as an actor. the report included an various non-entertainment employers from 1997 through 2007, that he owed the u.s. department of education almost $28,000, and that he owned a 1999 bmw worth almost $5,000 in fair condition (although montoya claimed it was worth only$2,500). the financial evaluator concluded [he] has the ability to seek and hold employment in order to reimburse the county for the legal services rendered by the court [sic]. [] in addition, based on county guidelines the defendant has the present ability to concludedthe defendant to make payments of $25 a month for the legal services rendered; or on the on april 17, 2013, montoya returned to court and was shown a copy of the it had read the report based on the county guidelines, i find the defendant has the present ability to meet the financial obligation of payment of $25 a month. i will order the defendant to pay attorney fees of $9,249 and investigator fees of $1,025 to the county of los angeles at a rate of $25 a montoya now appeals this order requiring him to reimburse the county by making on-going monthly payments. contentions 1. the trial court had no jurisdiction to order montoya to make monthly payments for more than six months. 2. there was insufficient evidence to support the finding montoya owed the county $10,274. 3. there was insufficient evidence to support the finding montoya had the ability to pay the court-ordered reimbursement amount. 4 discussion 1. trial court did not err by ordering montoya to make on-going monthly payments. montoya contends the trial court had no jurisdiction to order him to reimburse the county for the legal assistance it provided by making monthly payments of $25 for more than six months. this claim is meritless. a. legal principles. section 987.8, subdivision (b), provides: provided legal assistance, either through the public defender or private counsel appointed by the court, upon conclusion of the criminal proceedings in the trial court, or upon the withdrawal of the public defender or appointed private counsel, the court may, after notice and a hearing, make a determination of the present ability of the defendant to pay all or a portion of the cost thereof. the court may, in its discretion, hold one such additional hearing within six months of the conclusion of the criminal proceedings. the court may, in its discretion, order the defendant to appear before a county officer designated by the court to make an inquiry into the ability of the defendant to pay all or a subdivision (g) of section 987.8 provides: rtive services including, but not limited to, medical and psychiatric examinations, investigative services, expert testimony, or any other form of services provided to assist the defendant in the preparation ans case. means the overall capability of the defendant to reimburse the costs, or a portion of the costs, of the legal assistance provided to him or her, and shall include, but not be limited to, all of the following: s present financial position. s reasonably discernible future financial position. in no event shall the court consider a period of more than six months from the 5 date of the hearing for purposs reasonably discernible future financial position. unless the court finds unusual circumstances, a defendant sentenced to state prison shall be determined not to have a reasonably discernible future financial ability to reimburse the costs of his or her defense. c) the likelihood that the defendant shall be able to obtain employment within a six-month period from the date of the hearing. ich may bear upon the s financial capability to reimburse the county for the costs of the legal as our supreme court said in people v. flores (2003) 30 cal.4th 1059, 1063: e pockets of those who have directly benefited state from fraudulent concealment of assets and false assertions of indigency. many states, moreover, face expanding criminal dockets, and this court has required appointed counsel for indigents in widening classes of cases and stages of prosecution. such trends have heightened the burden on public revenues, and recoupment laws reflect legislative efforts to recover some of t b. discussion. montoya contends section 987.8 limits the time within which a defendant may be ordered to make reimbursement payments to, at most, six months. in support of this claim, he cites the language of the reimbursement statute and the holding in people v. viray (2006) 134 cal.app.4th 1186. neither source supports claim. subdivision (g)(2)(b) of section 987.8 provides that, in making a determination regarding the financial ability to reimburse the county for legal assistance, s reasonably discernible future financial from the date of the hearing for purposes s reasonably discernible future financial position.s this language as prohibiting a court 6 from ordering monthly payments for longer than six months. we cannot agree with this uage. the statute merely says that, in determining the ability to make reimbursement payments in the future, a trial court may look no further ahead than six months. we agree with the attorney general that [n]othing in section 987. people v. viray, supra, 134 cal.app.4th 1186, is equally misplaced. montoya correctly states viray reversed a reimbursement order in part because there was insufficient evidence the defendant would be able to complete the ordered $9,200 payment within six months of the hearing. viray concluded, . . . a dearth of evidence that defendant would be able to pay $9,200 in defense costs over the id. at p. 1217). but montoya is ignoring the fact the trial court in viray apparently ordered the defendant to complete the reimbursement within six months. as the court of appeal explained: defense counsel [for viray] . . re asking the court to assess attorney2 counsel referred to a written request seeking $9,200 in fees. after reviewing the request, the court o s fees . . . in the sum of $9,200 . . . as of july the 29th id. at pp. 1193-1194, italics added.) viray did not hold the trial court erred by extending reimbursement payments for longer than six months. rather, viray held there was no evidence the defendant had the financial ability to pay back the county the full amount of $9,200 within six months, 2 reimbursement order was addressed by viray in the context of a waiver claim by the at an appellate forfeiture can properly be predicated on the failure of a trial attorney to challenge an order concerning his own fees. it seems obvis attorney stands before the court asking for an order taking money from the cliens employer, the representation is burdened with a patent conflict of interest and cannot be relied upon to vicariously attribute counsels omissions to the client. in such a situation the attorney cannot be viewed, and indeed should not be permitted to act, as the clis representative. (people v. viray, supra, 134 cal.app.4th at p. 1215.) 7 which is apparently what the defendant had been ordered to do. hence, viray does not help montoya because he was not ordered to complete reimbursement within six months. indeed, montoya himself complains the trial court in effect gave him 34 years to complete reimbursement at the rate of $25 per month.3 hence, we conclude the trial court did not err by ordering montoya to complete his section 987.8 reimbursement by making monthly installments of $25. 2. there was insufficient evidence of the total actual costs to be repaid. montoya contends there was insufficient evidence to support the determination he owed the county $10,274, arguing: pert witnesses fees it office. . . . this simply was not sufficient to have established the claimed $10,474 as montoya maintains, it appears that when section 987.8 talks about ordering a . 987.8, subd. (g)(2)), the statute is referring to the actual cost incurred by the county. (see people v. viray, supraby evidence that the amount requested by the public defender . . . represents the actual costs to the county of the services provided to defenpeople v. poindexter (1989) 210 cal.app.3d 803, 810-penal code section 987.8 gives the trial court discretion s ability to pay the cost to the county of legal services provided 3 montoya also complains that over this period of time he will actually have paid approximately $35,000 after taking into ac[t]he penal code does not provide for accrual of interest on restitution fines, attorney fees and probation costs. the penal code only permits enforcement of the order for such amounts in the manner provided for enforcement of money judgments. accordingly, the trial court may not order entry of a money judgment with its accompanying interest for the finepeople v. hart (1998) 65 cal.app.4th 902, 906, italics added and omitted.) 8 and to set the manner of payment, but does not give the court any discretion to determine the reasonable value of those services. [citation.] the court must review evidence of the actual costs to the county before s fees to the defendant.]; people v. cruz (1989) 209 cal.app.3d 560, 565 [purpose of section 987.8 is best served people v. harrison (1981) 118 however, questions apparently remain as to how, exactly, those sshould be computed. people v. cruz, supra, 209 cal.app.3d at p. 566, held: [t]he criminal defendant as represented by a pro ras budget. in to the county established by the evidence, s fees and expenses, expert witness fees or expenses, long distance telephone expenses, etc.viray disputed the accuracy of this method[i]f the public s entire budget is used to determine the pro rata hourly cost, then an additional an hourly rate from the s budget for labor costs, add a pro rata share of fixed office overhead (e.g., rent), and then add any additional expenses shown to have been incurred. an even more reliable determination of actual costs could be made, with seemingly minimal burden on the public defender, by deriving hourly labor costs from the actual compensation paid to persons working on the case. we do not decide, however, whether some such more precise approach should be required. so long as there is substantial evidence of the actual cost attributable to the case in question, an order allowing that or a people v. viray, supra, 134 cal.app.4th at p. 1217, fn. 16.) montoya complains that in his case mized breakdown of the hours that the public defender expended . . . . the only reference is to 9 some sort of public defender fee calendar that the court apparently examined following cruz and viray, there was not substantial montoya adds the attorney general repliescruz and viray] have required itemized statements to justify reimbursable trial costs and expenses, that is not the only reasonable manner to determine the appropriate costs. . . . [] . . . [] here, the trial court used an approved fee schedule authorized by the county to assess however, on the state of the record before us, it is unclear if that fee schedule reflects actual costs, or how those actual costs are calculated. we seem to have only this off-office of the costs that are being recovein these circumstances, it is appropriate to remand this matter to the trial court for a clarification of its basis for fixing reimbursement amount at $10,274. 3. there was sent amount. montoya contends there was insufficient evidence he was financially able to reimburse the county for the cost of the legal assistance he received. this claim is meritless. nancial individual who was currently homeless4 and unemployed and with a spotty employment history, who had current assets of no more than $6000.00 and current debts totaling $28,000.00. this is hardly an individual who could reasonably be determined to have been able to reimburse the county for the entirety of the claimed $10,274.00 costs within 4 montoya told the financial evaluator he had received an eviction notice on february 5, 2013, for non-payment of rent. 10 a six month period following the hearing, without suffering some sort of undue but, as we have already discussed, ante, the trial court did not order montoya to pay the total reimbursement amount within six months; the court only ordered montoya to pay $25 per month. we do not see why that should cause him undue hardship. when -time job now on a court said to montoya: sic] role in a television although montoya shows he was employable. we conclude there was sufficient evidence montoya had the financial ability to repay the county at the rate of $25 per month. 11 disposition the matter is remanded to the trial court for further proceedings in order to determine if the amount montoya was ordered to reimburse the county under section 987.8 has been properly calculated. not to be published in the official reports edmon, p. j. we concur: kitching, j. aldrich, j. 