filed 6/17/14 p. v. sedillo ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. julian sedillo, defendant and appellant. b249224 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na089924) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mark c. kim, judge. affirmed. kevin d. sheehy, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, jonathan j. kline and jonathan m. krauss, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 appellant julian sedillo was convicted of attempted voluntary manslaughter and shooting at an occupied motor vehicle. he contends the trial court improperly excluded evidence and limited his cross-examination of the alleged victim during the trial; in addition, he maintains his counsel rendered ineffective assistance. he also asks that we independently review the transcript of in camera hearing regarding certain police records potentially subject to discovery under brady v. maryland (1963) 373 u.s. 83, 87 (brady). we of the in camera hearing, ascertain no improperly withheld evidence. we therefore affirm. relevant procedural background on march 1, 2012, an information was filed, charging appellant with the attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder of david lopez (pen. code,  187, subd. (a), 664), and shooting at an occupied motor vehicle (pen. code,  246). accompanying the charges were gun use allegations, including an allegation that appellant personally discharged a handgun, thereby causing great bodily injury to lopez. (pen. code,  12022.53, subds. (b) - (d).) appellant pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. prior to trial, appellant sought disclosure of so-brady contained in the records of the of trial court conducted an in camera review of the investigation records for evidence ordered the disclosure of one report containing a confidential . a jury found appellant not guilty of attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder, but found him guilty of the lesser included offense of attempted voluntary manslaughter (pen. code,  192, 664), and found true the 3 allegation that he personally used a handgun in the commission of that crime (pen. code,  12022.5, subd. (a)). the jury also found appellant guilty of shooting at an occupied motor vehicle, and found true the accompanying allegation that he personally and intentionally discharged a handgun, thereby causing great bodily injury to lopez. on june 3, 2013, the trial court sentenced appellant to a total term of imprisonment of 30 years to life. factual background a. prosecution evidence in august 2011, david lopez lived in wilmington, drove a red 2010 dodge challenger, and dated erika nolan. according to lopez, prior to august 27, 2011, he did not know appellant, although he had sometimes seen him with other males near nolan, which was located on dolores street. on those occasions, when he visited nolan, even though []him, that is, stare at him in a hostile manner. lopez testified that on august 27, 2011, he and nolan planned to go to the beach. between 4:00 and 4:15 p.m., lopez drove to a service station for gas, in preparation for their beach trip. asaw appellant driving a green chrysler 300 closely behind him. lopez did not know why appellant was following him. lopez decided to drive pas and turned around in the parking lot of a nearby church. after entering the parking lot, lopez began to back up, but was blocked by appellant pointed a gun at him. lopez ducked and heard six gunshots, one of which struck his shoulder and lodged in his neck. lopez lost consciousness for several moments. 4 when he regained consciousness, appellant had driven away. nolan drove lopez to a hospital emergency room, where he received treatment for his injuries. lopez further testified that while hospitalized, he was visited by his cousin, mallory guillen. when lopez described the shooter and his car, guillen found some facebook and myspace pages based on scription. the facebook and myspace pages displayed photographs of appellant holding firearms. after recognizing appellant as the shooter, lopez brought the facebook page to the attention of investigating police officers, and told them that appellant might belong to a gang. lopez later identified appellant as the shooter in a photographic six-pack and at the preliminary hearing. lopez stated that he knew of someone named james dominguez, but denied ever threatening him. lopez also stated that he neither threatened appellant nor displayed a gun to him prior to the shootingappellant during the shooting. lopez further testified that approximately one month after the shooting, he bought a gun in order to protect himself. according to lopez, he was too young to own a registered gun, and suffered a conviction for carrying the gun as a concealed weapon. david galvan testified that he lived on dolores street. on august 27, 2011, between 4:00 and 4:15 p.m, galvan returned home after riding his motorcycle. as he walked out of his garage, he saw a burgundy challenger driving slowly along dolores street, side-by-side, with a light blue or green chrysler 300, which was in the lane for oncoming traffic. according to gavlan, tout a gun, fired several shots into the challenger, and sped away. the challenger pulled into a church parking lot, reversed, struck a parked truck, and moved a short distance before stopping in front of a house. a girl then ran from the house to the car. when the driver said that he needed to see a doctor, the girl entered the car, which drove away. 5 erika nolan testified that while she waited for lopez to return from the gas station, she watched dolores street through windows in her house. she saw lopez drive by the house and enter the church parking lot, tailgated by a green chrysler. when lopez tried to back out of the parking lot, the chrysler blocked him, and nolan heard shooting. as she ran from her house toward lopez, she saw the chrysler drive away. she then drove lopez to an emergency room. 300 and three firearms, including a .40 caliber smith and wesson semiautomatic handgun that he bought in may 2011.1 at the time of the shooting, appellant lived access to the .40 caliber smith and wesson, which was stored in appell room. according to los angeles police department officer jaroen hitanukulkit, six .40 caliber smith and wesson shell casings were found at the scene of the shooting. after the shooting, hitanukulkit met lopez in the emergency room. while hitanukulkit the shooter was appellant. later, after hitanukulkit returned to his office, he received a phone call from lopez, who said that mallory had located facebook page. los angeles police department detective matthew maffei testified that he although the officers discovered .40 caliber ammunition in the house, they found only an empty .40 caliber smith and wesson handgun usually stored in that box was never located. 1 scott marman, a manager of a hunting equipment store, also testified that in may ht a .40 caliber smith and wesson semi-automatic handgun. 6 facebook page. according to back in the hood, up to no good, were [sic] are those haters at? miss my boy . b. defense evidence appellant testified that he and dominguez were close friends, and that he believed that lopez had murdered dominguez. appellant had known lopez for approximately five years prior to the murder, which occurred at a gas station in may 2011. on one occasion, lopez threatened appellant and dominguez at a party, and on two other occasions, lopez displayed a gun to appellant. furthermore, although appellant was not present when dominguez was killed, a gas station attendant had told him that lopez killed dominguez. appellant further testified that on august 27, 2011, at approximately 3:30 p.m., he drove from his home to visit his friend ricky white, who lived on dolores street. appellant had a handgun that his father had bought -protection. he became alarmed when a red challenger began following him, as dominguez had been killed by gunshots from a red challenger. appellant later saw that lopez was driving the challenger. appellant further testified that when he turned left at an intersection, lopez made a sharper left turn and pulled alongside appellant. appellant saw that lopez had a gun, braked sharply, an although fearful of lopez, appellant continued to drive behind lopez, maneuvering as needed to prevent lopez from having a clear line of fire at him. as he and lopez approached turned into a church parking lot and pointed his gun at appellant. appellant stopped his car, ducked, and fired his own gun six times. according to appellant, he had no intent to kill lopez, and acted solely in self- 7 appellant sped away. c. rebuttal officer hitanukulkit testified that only six .40 caliber smith and wesson bullet casings were found at the scene of the shooting, and that no gun was recovered from lopez or his car. discussion appellant contends that the trial court made erroneous evidentiary rulings during the trial, and that defense counsel rendered ineffective assistance during the preliminary hearing and the trial. he also asks that we independently examine the transcript of the in camera hearing regarding the dominguez murder investigation for hitherto undisclosed brady material. as explained below, we see no reversible error, and our independent review of the in camera hearing has revealed no new evidence subject to disclosure. a. no error in evidentiary rulings appellant contends the trial courtrights of due process and confrontation under the united states and california constitutions. he argues that the court erred in limiting his cross-examination of lopez regarding the dominguez murder investigation, and barring him from presenting evidence that lopez was a suspect in that investigation. he maintains those rulings impaired his affirmative defense of self-defense and his ability to impeach lopez. for the reasons discussed below, we reject his contentions. 8 1. governing principles the trial courts determinations of relevance under evidence code section 351 are reviewed for abuse of discretion (spolter v. four-wheel brake serv. co. (1950) 99 cal.app.2d 690, 699), as are its determinations under evidence code section 352 the probative value of particular evidence is outweighed by concerns of undue prejudice, confusion or consumption of time (people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 1124-1125).2 generally, that discretion permits the court to control the cross-examination of witnesses (people v. ardoin (2011) 196 cal.app.4th 102, 118) and the presentation of impeachment evidence (people v. riccardi (2012) 54 cal.4th 758, 808-809 (riccardi)). absent an abuse of discretion, the exclusion of evidence under sections 351 and 352 ordinarily contravenes no constitutional rights. (people v. desantis (1992) 2 cal.4th 1198, 1249 (desantis); riccardi, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 809.) riccardi, supra, at p. 809; desantis, supra, 2 cal.4th at p. 1249.) he confrontation clause guarantees an opportunity for effective cross-examination, not cross-examination that is effective in whatever way, and to whatever extent, the defense might wish. [citation.] [citations.] the confrontation clause allows trial judges . . . wide latitude . . . to impose reasonable limits on . . . cross-examination based on concerns about, among other things, harassment, prejudice, confusion of the issues, the witness safety, or interrogation that is repetitive or only marginally relevant.n.]thus, a trial court may properly restrict cross-examination on the basis of sections 351 and 352. (people v. king (2010) 183 cal.app.4th 1281, 1314-1315; desantis, 2 all further statutory citations are to the evidence code, unless otherwise indicated. 9 supra, 2 cal.4th at p. 1249.) in view of these principles, our focus is on whether the court abused its discretion in theory of self-defense and to impeach lopez. as we elaborate below (see pt. a.2.c., post), appellant offered a theory -defense founded on his testimony that he shot at lopez only because he reasonably believed lopez was about to shoot him. in support of that theory, appellant sought to question lopez regarding the dominguez murder investigation, and introduce evidence that lopez had been a suspect in that investigation. generally, r-defense constitutes a complete exoneration from the crimes alleged against appellant, namely, attempted murder and shooting into an occupied motor vehicle. (see people v. rhodes (2005) 129 cal.app.4th 1339, 1346.) the upon the existence of actual danger, but rather depends upon appearances . . . . (people v. clark (1982) 130 cal.app.3d 371, 377, abrogated on another ground in people v. blakeley (2000) 23 cal.4th 82, 92.) to establish the defense, the defendant need only show an honest and reasonable belief in the need to defend himself . . . . (people v. rodarte (2014) 223 cal.app.4th 1158, 1168 (rodarte).) -defense ordinarily operates merely to reduce attempted murder to attempted voluntary manslaughter (people v. szadziewicz (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 823, 833-834; see rodarte, supra, 223 cal.app.4th at p. 1171 [imperfect self-defense does not shield defendant from liability for offense of shooting from a motor vehicle (pen. code,  26100, subd. (c)].) one acting in imperfect self-defense . . . actually believes he must defend himself from imminent danger of death or great bodily injury; however, his belief is unreasonable. (people v. randle (2005) 35 cal.4th 987, 994, overruled on another ground in people v. chun (2009) 45 cal.4th 1172, 1201.) 10 as we elaborate below (see pt. a.2. post), appellant also sought to cross-examine lopez regarding the dominguez murder investigation in order to discredit which was a key element of case against him. generally, be impeached with evidence that they committed uncharged crimes of moral turpitude, a category that includes murder (in re kelley (1990) 52 cal.3d 487, 494; people v. lepolo (1997) 55 cal.app.4th 85, 89-92). in addition, to determine the credibility of a witness, the trier of fact may consider biases and motives in testifying, and veracity with respect to collateral factual matters. ( 780, subds. (f), (i).) under section 352, the trial court has the discretion to admit or exclude evidence offered for impeachment with respect to those subjects. (people v. pearson (2013) 56 cal.4th 393, 455 (pearson); people v. mayfield (1997) 14 cal.4th 668, 748.) 2. underlying proceedings a. brady hearing in august 2012, at appellant request, the trial court examined the los dominquez for specified brady material, namely, evidence linking lopez to that murder. following the examination, the court ordered the disclosure of a single report containing statements from a confidential informant, with redactions to protect the informantidentity. b. rulings prior to the presentation of evidence on april 3, 2013, during jury selection, the trial court conducted a hearing -examine lopez regarding the report disclosed at the brady hearing ( 402). according to the report, the confidential 11 when the trial red challengers were common cars, the following discussion occurred: [defense counsel]: true, but not within the realm of wilmington . . . . [the c]onfidential informant . . . copped to [sic] that david and andrew were involved in . . . . . . . . . . so you are saying that a confidential informant named david lopez as involved in a homicide? defense counsel acknowledged that lopez had never been charged with that murder, but argued that he should be permitted to cross-examine lopez regarding s crimes were an attempt 3 although the prosecutor maintained that the proposed cross-examination was irrelevant to the issues in the case, he acknowledged that he planned to elicit some testimony from lopez regarding the dominguez murder investigation, namely, that lopez was never arrested for that murder, although police officers 3 name, stating that his private investigator had tracked down the person most likely to be the informant and discovered that he was dead. the trial court ruled that the request for meet with police investigators during the lunch break and confirm whether the informant was dead. the upshot of that inquiry is not expressly reflected in the record, as there was no discussion regarding the informant after the lunch break, but defense counsel never because appellant does not challenge the ruling of error regarding it. 12 questioned him concerning it. when the trial court noted that on those subjects might open the door to defense counsel to examine lopez regarding his potential role in the murder, the prosecutor stated that he would forego questioning lopez regarding the dominguez murder investigation, and instead for shooting at lopez solely through facebook page. following that remark by the prosecutor, the trial court asked defense counsel to explain why the report would be admissible over a hearsay objection. defense counsel argued, inter alia, that he intended to show that lopez had threatened appellant. the following colloquy then occurred: . . . death, i am not going to have a trial within a trial unless you could make a proffer, you could connect the dot[s]. . . . [i]f [the prosecution] . . . open[s] the door just a crack, i am going to pretty much want to take it. if they open up the door, then you could certainly rephrase the . . . homicide[] can be linked to this case[] with evidence that can actually be admitted, without that, on [section] 352 . . . . [] ing . . . . . the than dominguez was killed. . . . laterfacebook entries were admissible. in the course of their discussion, defense 13 counsel suggested that the prosecution had decided not to refer to dominguez at all. the court replied[] . . . [] the ruling is [that] they could use that as a motive, but if they are going to get into the facts of the the court explained its prior m not going to allow parties to ask . . . lopez about . . . . . . unless you could [show] . . . that he, in fact, was [a] participant [in] that particular crime. . . . [] . . . [] the ruling is . . . dominguez, but if you want to talk about, did . . . lopez kill . . . dominguez[?], . . . there has to be [a] proffer of evidence. so far i [have] heard three: one, . . . lopez drives a similar type of car . . . .; two, somebody said that james [sic] lopez may have been involved; and three, there was someone [who] said david may be involved. [] . . . [] so, if that is it, . . . . . . [i]t is an impeachable offense, but before you could do that you have to make a proffer to the court that you have evidence to link [him] up to that particular charge. and if that is made, then we have other issues that we need to discuss at that point, but we shortly before opening statements, the prosecutor asked the court whether his presentation of evidence that lopez was a suspect in the dominguez murder investigation would permit defense counsel to examine lopez regarding his role in that murder. at the same time, defense counsel inquired whether he would be permitted to ask lopez whether the police had interviewed him regarding plied [w]hether or not . . . lopez was involved in the death of . . . ing to be presented unless the defense made an adequate proffer of evidence linking lopez to that crime, which defense counsel had not then done. 14 not going to have a trial within a trial without sufficient evidence to impeach in response, defense counsel stated that he planned to present an affirmative defense based on self- the following colloquy then occurred: . . [w]hether or not . . . lopez was investigated by the police about the death of . . . . . . lopez, if . . . lopez had made threats against him and . . . dominguez. -- if his testimony is, . . . i was threatened by . . . . . . dominguez was threatened, thapply. : c. rulings during the presentation of evidence in examining lopez, the prosecutor asked no questions regarding dominguez, the investigation of his murder, or facebook page. on cross-court permitted to lopez to testify that he knew of dominguez, and never threatened him. the court suquestions defense counsel posed to lopez regarding dominquez, and to an inquiry after defense counsel inquired regarding discovery facebook page, the prosecutor addressed that subject during his re-direct examination of lopez. 15 later, in examining detective maffei, the prosecutor sought to present the facebook page, including emarkboy james . . . . sic defense counsel objected to the . . . dominguez issue . . . .the trial . . . . defense ] and explained that he intended to do so in order to establish why appellant needed a gun for self-protection. [a] different issue. if you want to bring that up, we could do [an evidence code section] 402 motion so you could make [an] argument as to why i should ourt then overruled facebook page. after the prosecution completed its case-in-chief, the trial court asked it s]eems that we are going to get into the james dominguez issue. and the court ruled on a court replied: with . . . lopez unless there was a proffer . . . . when the court asked whether the prosecutor intended to object to testimony from appellant regarding dominguez, the prosecutor answered that he had none to testimony that lopez had threatened appellant and dominguez. the court remarked that if appellant planned to testify regarding self-defense, appellant after that remark, defense counsel asked whether he would be permitted to question the contacts with lopez. the following colloquy then occurred: 16 bout what police investigation is ongoing. so what happened with the police investigation is irrelevant as to what . . . . because . . . self-defense goes to [the] state of mind of your client. rue. [] . . . [] but it has to be reasonable, and if the police are running a parallel or they are running along -- on what your client knew, not reasonable based on what is going on . . . . [] if you could lay the foundation that your client was at the police station with the detectives, . . . so he had detailed information about the police investigation of [the] murder . . . , clearly that comes in. but if he has no knowledge, . . . he could only testify as to what he personally saw and . . . dominguez-free in response, the court again explained that references to dominquez were not necessarily precluded by its ruling, which directed only that lopez could not be questioned regarding . the court [a]s to other issues about self-defense, . . . i did not make any ruling on that d. subsequent proceedings appellant testified that he shot at lopez in self-defense because lopez pointed a gun at him. regarding his state of mind at the time, appellant testified that had threatened appellant and dominguez, and also displayed a gun to appellant; that appellant knew 17 drove a red challenger; and that a person who worked at the scene of the murder had told him lopez killed dominguez. following the presentation of evidence, the jury received instructions on perfect and imperfect self-defense. during closing arguments, defense counsel urged the jury to find appellant not guilty because he acted in self-defense. the jury found appellant not guilty of attempted murder, but guilty of attempted voluntary manslaughter and shooting at an occupied motor vehicle. 3. analysis s evidentiary rulings improperly hamstrung oss-role in that crime. we disagree. as explained below, to the extent appellant sought to introduce evidence regarding those subjects -- through the cross-examination of lopez or in some other manner -- in order to establish his theory of perfect self-defense, the court correctly determined that evidence of the police investigation was furthermore, to the extent appellant sought to introduce evidence regarding to impeach lopez as a witness, the court did not abuse its discretion by requiring an offer of hich appellant never provided.4 4 in a related contention, appellant suggests that the trial court improperly hamstrung his defense by permitting the prosecution to rely on his facebook page to establish his motive for the shooting. as he offers no argument to support that contention, he has forfeited it. (people v. stanley (1995) 10 cal.4th 764, 793.) 18 to begin, the trial court properly -examination of lopez, insofar as they were intended to establish claim of perfect self-defense. generally, that defense pearance of imminent peril . . . .(people v. gleghorn (1987) 193 cal.app.3d 196, 201-202.) as our supreme court has explained, the crucial inquiry reasonably under the (people v. minifie ibid., italics deleted.) here, the trial court accurately specified the offer of proof needed to show the relevance of perfect self-defense, but appellant made no such offer. furthermore, appellanttestimony showed that he that he had no personal knowledge of the investigation, including whether officers regarded lopez as a suspect. the court thus correctly barred evidence and cross-examination regarding any facts concerning the dominguez murder and its investigation tawareness, including whether lopez had killed dominquez or been investigated by the police. cross-examination of lopez, insofar as they were intended to impeach lopez. although the record does not specify , it appears that he sought to show that lopez had committed an uncharged crime of moral turpitude, or alternatively, to that he never threatened dominguez or appellant. however, regardless of appellanttheory of impeachment, the trial court acted well within its discretion in requiring -- at a minimum -- an adequate offer of proof 19 that lopez, in fact, . (see pearson, supra, 56 cal.4th at pp. 454-456 [trial court properly denied defendant leave to cross-examine prosecution witness regarding fraud charges against witness that had been dismissed, as defendant offered no proof that the witness had committed fraud]; people v. sapp (2003) 31 cal.4th 240, 289-290 [trial court properly precluded -examination of prosecution witness regarding unproven fraud charges]; people v. stone (1983) 139 cal.app.3d 216, 224-225 [trial court properly -examination of police officers intended to show they falsely testified regarding their grounds for search, as defendsupported only speculation].) nor is -- killers a confidential informant reported that appellantappellant being one of the murderers -- reasonably regarded as adequate. appellant maintains that the improperly prevented him from dispelling the impression [he] was the unwitting victim of a senseless and unprovoked shooting with no previous he argues that had he been permitted to cross-examine lopez regarding his role in the dominguez murder, the jury would probably have seen lopez invoke his privilege against self-incrimination, and thereby credible. however, the evidence that appellant offered to support the proposed cross-examination -- the evidence noted above, coupled with the fact that police officers -- was manifestly insufficient to show either that lopez participated in that crime or that lopez provoked appellant to shoot hi]he jury may not draw any inference from a (pearson, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 456;  913, 20 subd. (a)the proposed cross-examination would require a time-consuming inquiry into connect the dot[s] davis v. alaska (1974) 415 u.s. 308 (davis) and delaware v. van arsdall (1986) 475 u.s. 673 (van arsdall) is misplaced. in davis, the defendant was charged with a burglary involving the theft of a safe. (415 u.s. at pp. 309-311.) the key prosecution witness was a juvenile, who testified that he saw the defendant near where the abandoned safe was found. (id. at pp. 309-310.) although the juvenile was on probation for burglary, the trial court barred the defendant from cross-examining him regarding whether his probation had motivated him to make an ill-founded identification of defendant, either because he hoped to shift suspicion away from himself, or because the police had applied undue pressure to him. (id. at p. 311.) the united states supreme court held that the ruling contravened , as it prevented him from raising a significant inference of witness bias. (id. at pp. 316-321.) for the reasons discussed above, t-examination of lopez imposed no similar constraint on his ability to establish his theory of self- because appellant admitted that he shot at lopez, his focus at trial was on the reasonableness of his state of mind when he fired at lopez. however, appellant failed to show that his proposed cross-examination was relevant to that issue. furthermore, because appellant made no adequate offer of proof that lopez murdered dominguez, the -examination did not deny him a material challenge 21 in van arsdall, the defendant was charged with murder. (van arsdall, supra, 475 u.s. at p. 674.) prior to the trial, one of the prosecution witnesses agreed to speak to the prosecutor regarding the murder in exchange for the dismissal of a pending drunk driving charge against the witness. (id. at p. 676.) at trial, the court barred the defendant from cross-examining the witness regarding that agreement. (id. at pp. 679-680.) the united states supreme court concluded him th . . . .id. at p. 680.) as explained above, that is not the case here. in sum, appellant has shown no dominguez murder and its investigation. b. no ineffective assistance of counsel appellant contends his defense counsel rendered ineffective assistance during the preliminary hearing and at trial. regarding the preliminary hearing, appellant maintains that defense counsel improperly failed to defeat the there was a gun in his car when appellant shot him. regarding the trial, appellant maintains that defense counsel improperly failed to confront lopez with his preliminary hearing statement. appellant further argues that his theory of self-defense at trial, as it prevented appellant from corroborating his own testimony that he saw below, appellant has failed to show ineffective assistance of counsel. must below an objective standard of reasonableness . . . under prevailing professional 22 performance or lack thereof. [citations.] prejudice is shown when there is a the proceeding would have been different. a reasonable probability is a probability sufficient (people v. jennings (1991) 53 cal.3d 334, 357.) 1. preliminary hearing lopez was the sole witness called at the preliminary hearing. on direct examination, he testified that appellant followed him to the church parking lot, where appellant fired a gun at him. during the cross-examination, after questioning lopez regarding the shooting, defense counsel asked lopez several questiappellant in a photographic line-up. the following colloquy then occurred: [prosecutor]: objection; relevance. -- relevant. shortly afterward, when the prosecutor completed his brief re-direct examination of lopez, defense counsel told the court that he intended to offer no affirmative defense. later, at trial, appellant was the only witness who testified that lopez pointed a gun at him before he shot at lopez. appellant challen 23 defense of reasonable self-defense. generally, regarding such decisions, ineffective assistance is not shown counsel . . . failed to act in the manner challenged, unless counsel was asked at trial for an explanation and failed to provide one, or unless there could be no (people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 1037.) this is because ineffective assistance is demonstrated cannot be explained on the basis of any knowledgeable choice of tactics. (people v. shoals (1992) 8 cal.app.4th 475, 501.) accordingly, the key issue is whether the record affirmatively shows that defense counsel contravened professional in our view, the record does not do so. to begin, defense counsel cannot be faulted for refraining from trying tstatement -defense by reference to testimony. lopezin no way suggested that at the time appellant shot him he was holding a gun, much less pointing it at appellant. indeed, nothing suggested that he provoked the shooting or displayed any weapon to appellant. because the testimony precedinregarding the gun afforded defense counsel no reasonable basis to argue that appellant acted in self-defense, defense counsel properly declined to make that argument. (people v. price (1991) 1 cal.4th 324, 387 [counsel does not render ineffective assistance by failing to offer arguments that counsel reasonably determines would be futile].) the focus of our inquiry, therefore, is on whether defense counsel erred in making no offer of proof to . because appellant was the sole witness presented at trial to support his theory of self-defense, it appears that any such offer of proof at the preliminary hearing would 24 have required defense counsel to call appellant as a witness. however, [a]dvising [a criminal defendant] not to testify does not in and of itself constitute inadequate . . . many good reasons, including a desire to shield the defendant from potentially damaging cross-examination. (see people v. trotter (1984) 160 cal.app.3d 1217, 1221-1225.) accordingly, appellant has failed to show that his counsel rendered ineffective assistance at the preliminary hearing. 2. trial garding the trial. appellant argues that preliminary hearing statement or to offer it into evidence constituted deficient representation. generally, prior inconsistent statements may be admitted for impeachment purposes and as substantive evidence, provided the witness is afforded an opportunity to explain them. (people v. brown (1995) 35 cal.app.4th 1585, 1596-1597;  770, 1235.) such statements need not have been testimony admitted into evidence at a prior hearing. (people v. ochoa (2001) 26 cal.4th 398, 445, abrogated on another point by people v. prieto (2003) 30 cal.4th 226, 263, fn. 14; see people v. corella (2004) 122 cal.app.4th 461, 470-472 [testimony striken at preliminary hearing was admissible at trial for impeachment purposes under section 1202].) here, the record does not establish that defense counsel lacked a satisfactory basis for failing to confront lopez with his preliminary hearing statement. at trial, lopez acknowledged that he had bought a gun for self-protection a month after the shooting, but was too young to register it, and suffered a conviction for carrying it i 25 te defense never owned a gun, as he previously testified to having done so. furthermore, regardless of whether the preliminary hearing statement was admissible as an inconsistent prior statement, defense counsel may reasonably have refrained from attempting to examine lopez regarding it. the transcript of the preliminary hearing discloses that occurred after he had examined lopez concerning certain events following the shooting, and that the question itself did not specify the relevant time frame for the presence of the gun. lopez replied to the question in the affirmative and began to elaborate his answer, but was prevented from doing so by the objection, sustained by the court with the observation that the mere presence of a gun in the car was irrelevant. defense counsel may thus have concluded that lopez would explain his preliminary hearing statement, either by stating that he had referred to the gun bought after the shooting, or by offering another explanation consistent with his trial testimony that he in no way provoked appellant by pointing a gun at him. z with his preliminary hearing statement. because appellant acknowledged that he shot at lopez, the key factual issue at trial was whether lopez pointed a gun at him, not whether lopez had a gun in his car. he fired his gun at lopez reach for what he believed was a gun; rather, it was that he shot lopez because lopez was aiming a gun at him. atestimony, he saw n dolores street, but shot at lopez in self-defense only when lopez pointed his gun at him. thus, even an acknowledgment 26 from lopez that he had a gun somewhere in his car would not have materially elf-defense. in sum, appellant has failed to show that his counsel rendered ineffective assistance. c. no undisclosed brady material transcript of the in camera hearing on the domin and determined that it identifies no hitherto undisclosed brady material subject to disclosure. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports manella, j. we concur: willhite, acting p. j. edmon, j.* *judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 