filed 11/17/14 p. v. sanders ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. marvin sanders, defendant and appellant. b249682 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma051056) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, john murphy, commissioner. affirmed. fay arfa for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., supervising deputy attorney general, connie h. kan and john yang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury convicted defendant and appellant marvin sanders of attempted murder (pen. code,  664/187, subd. (a)1) and assault with a semiautomatic firearm ( 245, subd. (b)). the jury found true the allegations that the attempted murder was committed willfully, deliberately, and with premeditation ( 664, subd. (a)), and that defendant personally used ( 12022.53, subd. (b)) and personally discharged ( 12022.53, subd. (c)) a firearm in the commission of the offense. as for the assault with a semiautomatic firearm offense, the jury found true the allegation that defendant personally used a firearm in the commission of the offense. ( 12022.5, subds. (a) & (d).) the trial court sentenced defendant to life in prison with the possibility of parole plus a consecutive 20-year term. on appeal, defendant contends the trial court erred in denying his wheeler/batson2 motion, insufficient evidence supports his attempted murder conviction, insufficient evidence supports with premeditation, insufficient evidence supports his assault with a semiautomatic firearm conviction, the prosecution failed to disclose exculpatory evidence, defense counsel provided ineffective assistance of counsel by failing to investigate and present exculpatory evidence, evidence that he was a gang member improperly was introduced, the trial court erred in failing to give the jury a unanimity instruction, and the cumulative effect of the errors rendered his trial fundamentally unfair. we affirm. 1 all statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 2 people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258 (wheeler); batson v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 79 (batson). 3 background i. a. selina guadiana lived with her mother, carrie ortega, on stanridge avenue in los angeles county. sin, jessica shirley, visited the guadiana home. that night, guadiana and shirley went to the grocery store. when they returned home, guadiana noticed that there was a party near her house. there were about 50 people at the party. it was dark outside when they returned home. guadiana took the groceries inside the house. shirley stayed outside and smoked a cigarette. after she put away the groceries, guadiana went outside. guadiana and shirley walked to the front of the house. guadiana looked in the direction of the party. she saw a crowd of people who appeared to be fighting. guadiana and shirley heard loud yelling and cussing. guadiana turned around to return to her house and heard a gunshot from that area. guadiana looked back at the party and saw the crowd running away. she testified that she did not see who fired the shot. she an object that she thought was a gun. the man with the gun ran up the street and got into a white car. shirley called 911. guadiana testified that she spoke with detectives tony delia and daniel farrell on october 25, 2010. the detectives showed her a six-pack photographic lineup and asked if she could identify the shooter she did not identify anyone in the lineupphotographic lineup and was asked to identify older brother. after she selected one photograph, detective delia asked which photograph she would select if she had to select again. guadiana then selected and circled a second photographphotograph no. 6.3 she told the detectives that the photograph she circled was a photograph of pauly brother. she did not say that the photograph was of the person she saw shoot the gun. 3 4 guadiana did not see anyone in the courtroom that she knew as paco sanders4 or marvin sanders. cousin. according to guadiana, the sanders family, including defendant, lived on stanridge avenue. guadiana met mandaapparently amanda encinaswhen guadiana went to court in response to a subpoena. they spoke about the case. guadiana told encinas that she because the police wanted her b. shirley testified that as she stood in the front yard smoking a cigarette, she thought she saw a male holding a gun. guadiana. guadiana left the house to see what was happening and shirley followed her. shirley saw a male with an object in his hand that appeared to be a gun, but could have been anything. she then heard two gunshots or fireworks. after hearing the shots, shirley saw two black males jump inside a car and leave. shirley called 911. shirley told the 911 operator that a black man had a gun and was shooting it at people. the shooter had come out of a house and fired at people in the front yard. the she said that the shooter got into a new, white nissan car that did not have a license plate. the operator asked if she knew the shooter. shirley responded, paco, they kept calling paco.she explained that when she told the operator that the shooter was paco, she was just repeating what others said. on november 4, shirley spoke with detective farrell. shirley testified that she identified as the shooter from a six-pack 4 5 photographic lineup. she claimed that detective farrell had making a false identification by threatening to take her into custody on outstanding warrants. according to shirley, once she made the false identification, the detective allowed her to remain out of custody. she did not report detective farrell to his superiors. shirley admitted that she was using methamphetamine around the time of the shooting. she did not remember if she used methamphetamine on the night of the shooting. c. law enforcement testimony deputy corey reddy testified that he responded to stanridge avenue about 9:30 or 9:40 p.m. on october 21, 2010. there, ortega told him that she heard glass break, people arguing, and two gunshots. guadiana told deputy reddy that she saw a ding to guadiana, paco sanders walked to a cara white nissan cubeand pulled out a black handgun. as the crowd started to run away from him, he fired two rounds at the crowd. deputy reddy testified that shirley told him that she heard several people arguing after she and guadiana had returned from the store and parked in the driveway. she said a male yelled at the crowdthe male then pulled out a black handgun in front of a white nissan cube and fire two rounds at the crowd. the man got into the vehicle and sped away. deputy reddy and others entered the house in front of which the crowd had argued to search for injured or dead persons. the house, which belonged to rosa leon, was empty. the deputy found a pack of cigarettes in the kitchen. a glass table in the kitchen was shattered, and a trail of blood led out the front door. deputy reddy followed the trail of blood out of the house. the trail first led to a nine-millimeter shell casing about 15 feet from the front door, then to a kitchen knife near the front gatethere was no blood on the knife, then to a second kitchen knifealso with no blood on itand finally to the walkway leading to 6 front door. deputy reddy called nearby hospitals and determined that no one had come in with a stab or gunshot wound. deputy reddy requested that the knives, the nine-millimeter shell casing, and the cigarette pack be examined for fingerprints. a fingerprint on the cigarette pack belonged to 14-year-old ruben abelar. abelar was a member of a gang. deputy reddy said that ortega, guadiana, and shirley reported that there were 10 people in the crowd in front of the residence. detective farrell testified that he conducted a follow-up interview with guadiana four days after the shooting. guadiana was reluctant , and did not want to talk with detective farrell. detective farrell showed guadiana a six-pack photographic lineup. guadiana quickly glanced at after detective farrell returned to the station, he reviewed the 911 call concerning the incident and concluded that guadiana had withheld information from him. he returned to house and advised her that she was on active probation and that one of the conditions of her probation was that she was supposed to cooperate with law enforcement. guadiana said that she understood, but did not want to talk at her house. she agreed to speak with detective farrell at the station. at the station, detective farrell showed guadiana a six-pack photographic lineup and asked if she could identify the shooter in the lineup. guadiana identified defendant. guadiana told detective farrell that she saw defendant walk out of a house and into the yard where he yelleddefendant raised a black handgun, pointed it at the crowd of people arguing on the sidewalk, and fired one shot. guadiana said that after the people fled, defendant walked into the street and fired two more shots at the fleeing people. defendant looked at guadiana and said, [bb] detective farrell showed shirley a six-pack photographic lineup. he denied that he threatened her with arrest warrants when she did not select whom he wanted. instead, he assured her that he was not there to arrest her for her warrants, and said that he was 7 there only to talk about the shooting and her 911 call. shirley then identified defendant as the shooter from the photographic lineup. discussing the incident, shirley told detective farrell that she smoked a cigarette . she said defendant stood in the middle of the yard and watched the group of males. another male came up behind defendant and handed him a handgun. defendant held the gun next to his right thigh as if he was trying to conceal it. defendant continued to listen and . defendant fired one shot at the group. the group fled, and defendant walked into the street and fired a second shot at the group. defendant got into a white car and left. detective farrell spoke with ortega. --pack in the neighborhood during the on november 17, 2010, defendant was taken into custody. during an interview after his arrest, defendant told detective farrell that he was not present during the shooting. describing his relationship with the people who lived on stanridge avenue, defendant said that he hated everyone who lived on that block. according to defendant, one of the families had a son who was . that person may have d on stanridge avenue and shot at while she was outside. defendant said that when he sees people on that blo; he ; they shot at my mom; they claimed did not like him. a tis someone who uses methamphetamine. mother visited defendant , she arrived in a white defective farrell believed that the vehicle was consistent with the vehicle that the witnesses described. 8 ii. three children together. on october 21, 2010, she was at home with defendant. according to encinas, she and defendant finished eating dinner together about 7:00 or 8:00 p.m. after dinner, encinas prepared their children for bed while defendant played video games on the couch. she put the children to bed between 9:30 and 10:00 p.m. and fell asleep with them. encinas could hear defendant playing video games as she put the children to bed. when she saw defendant the next day, he was sleeping on the couch. two weeks prior , guadiana approached encinas and said that she , and she jusguadiana said that she said that it teresa magdelatestified that she was in arizona visiting relatives on october 21, 2010. she had driven there in her white nissan versa. she left arizona about 8:00 p.m. on october 21, 2010, and arrived in california about 6:00 a.m. on october 22, 2010. magdelano never let defendant drive her car, and defendant did not have access to magdelan. discussion i. wheeler/batson motion defendant contends that the trial court erred when it denied his wheeler/batson motion. he argues that the prosecutor failed to give legitimate, race neutral reasons for excluding prospective juror no. 15 (juror no. 0353), who was black, during the selection of the alternate jurors.5 the trial court did not err. 5 during the course of the trial, the trial court excused two jurors and seated both alternate jurors. 9 a. background in her voir dire responses, prospective juror no. 15 stated that she lived in lancaster, was married to a barber, formerly was a dental office manager, and had an adult daughter who was a night auditor for marriott. she had no prior jury experience. her cousin was a los angeles police department detective. another cousin had been a correctional officer in a connecticut prison. that cousin was murdered by persons whom he had assisted in smuggling drugs into the prison. she did not own a gun and did not approve of civilians owning guns, but would decide the case based on the evidence. fifteen or 16 years earlier, prospective juror no. 15seriously injured outside of a convenience store. about 17 years earlier, her 19-year-old son was convicted of auto theft and sentenced to prison. she believed that her e information from in her voir dire responses, prospective juror no. 17 stated, in relevant part, that daughter were not treated well by the responding deputy sheriffs. she believed that they had been treated as though they were the criminals and not the victims. she stated that according employer would not pay her beyond that day of voir dire. the trial court told the prospective juror that serving on a jury sometimes caused a financial burden and that are selected as a juror in this case, the fact that you are not being paid, is that going to weigh so heavily on you and any financial obligations you havewould that take your pretty much live check to check, so being away from work for almost a week, that would bei 10 not excuse prospective juror no. 1, the prosecutor used a peremptory challenge to excuse the prospective juror. the prosecutor and defense counsel then accepted the panel as seated. after the parties accepted the panel, the trial court began selection of the alternate jurors. with his first and second peremptory challenges, the prosecutor excused prospective juror nos. 15 and 17. defense counsel asked to approach the trial court and e that the prosecution has just other black prospective jurorsi mean any other black people who could possibly sit on appropriate. i guess you might say this is in the nature of a wheeler motion and/or to osecutor her on the panel at least once and i notei would ask the court to note that the only time i excused her was after she mentioned the fact that she would not be paid and that she would likely be distracted by the fact that shes missing a paycheck for a whole week. otherwise i accepted her on the panel. [] as for juror no. 0353 [prospective juror no. 15], she was the first alternate that i excused. and throughout my observations, her arms are crossed. she did not want to be here. and if anyone else noticed when i excused her, she thanked me. and that was exactly my suspicion; she did not want to be here. as for the prospective juror no. 17, the prosecutor explained, concern with her, she said when law enforcement spoke with her and her daughter, they were treated the key tactics, i believe, that the defense is going to take is my witnesses gave original statements. they are now recanting those statements, and they will say, from 11 what i understand, law enforcement are making all this up and they are mistreating us. that against law enforcement, so those are my b. application of relevant principles defendant contends that the trial court erred in denying his wheeler/batson motion because prospective serve as a juror. those responses showed, he contends, that prospective juror no. 15 - the state and federal constitutions prohibit an advocate from using peremptory challenges to exclude jurors based on race. (people v. lenix (2008) 44 cal.4th 602, 612 (lenix), citing batson, supra, 476 u.s. at p. 97 and wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d at pp. 276-ethnicity is an error of people v. silva (2001) 25 cal.4th 345, 386.) parties are presumed to make peremptory challenges on constitutionally permissible grounds. (wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d at p. 278.) batson/wheeler inquiry, of course, is on the subjective genuineness of the race-neutral reasons given for the peremptory challenge, not on the objective reasonableness people v. reynoso (2003) 31 cal.4atters is that the [stated] reason for exercising the peremptory challenge is sincere and legitimate, legitimate in the sense of being reason that does not deny equal protibid.wheeler/batson motion is deferential, examining only whether substantial evidence supports its conclusions. [citation.] . . . so long as the trial court makes a sincere and reasoned effort to evaluate the nondiscriminatory justifications 12 (lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th at pp. 613-614.) a trial court employs a well-defined procedure for resolving a wheeler/batson motion. first, the trial court must determine whether the defendant has made a prima facie showing that the prosecutor exercised a peremptory challenge based on race. (lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 612.) if a trial court asks the prosecutor to justify his or her peremptory challenges, the question of whether a prima facie showing has been made request. (people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 745-746.) second, if the defendant made a prima facie showing, the burden shifts to the prosecutor to demonstrate that the challenges were exercised for a race-neutral reason. third, the court determines whether the defendant has proven purposeful discrimination.(lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 612.) at the third the race-neutral explanations to be credible. credibility can be measured by, among other factors, the pro demeanor; by how reasonable, or how improbable, the explanations are; and by whether the proffered rationale has some basis in accepted id. within a trial id. at p. 614.) explanation for excusing prospective juror no. 15 was her reluctance to serve on the jury. as set forth above, thhere. and if anyone else noticed when i excused her, she thanked me. and that was exactly my suspicion; she did not want to be reluctance to serve on a jury is a nondiscriminatory reason supporting a peremptory challenge. (people v. garceau (1993) 6 cal.4th 140, 172, disapproved on another ground in people v. yeoman (2003) 31 cal.4th 93, 117-118; people v. walker (1998) 64 cal.app.4th 1062, 1070.) the trial i.e., that 13 excusing a juror was credible, we hold that the trial court did not err in denying wheeler/batson motion. (lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 614.)6 ii. sufficiency of the evidence in support of defe conviction defendant contends that insufficient evidence supports his willful, deliberate, and premeditated attempted murder conviction because the prosecution failed to present sufficient evidence of his intent to kill. he further contends that insufficient evidence sufficient evidence supports conviction . a. standard of review conviction, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the (people v. lindberg (2008) 45 cal.4th 1, 27 [82 cal.rptr.3d 323, 190 p.3d 664].) ter viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could (jackson v. 6 although defendant does not contend that the trial court erred in denying his wheeler/batson to prospective juror nos. 1 and 17, the prosecutor had legitimate, race neutral reasons for excusing prospective juror no. 1 (people v. chambie (1987) 189 cal.app.3d 149, 155, 157 [financial hardship was a nonracial ground for using a peremptory challenge to excuse a prospective juror]) and prospective juror no. 17 (people v. turner (1994) 8 repeatedly upheld peremptory challenges made on the basis of a prospective jurors negative experience with law enforcement. [citations.]], overruled on other grounds in people v. griffin (2004) 33 cal.4th 536, 555, fn. 5). 14 virginia (1979) 443 u.s. 307, 319 [61 l.ed.2d 560, 99 s.ct. 2781].) in so doing, a (people v. kraft (2000) 23 cal.4th 978, (people v. edwards (2013) 57 cal.4th 658, 715.) insufficient evidence s verdict. (people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357.) evidence includes circumstantial evidence and the reasonable inferences flowing (people v. ugalino (2009) 174 cal.app.4th 1060, 1064.) logical inferences that the jury might have drawn from the circumstantial evidence. (people v. zamudio, supra, 43 cal.4th at pp. 357-358.) in evidence, resolve conflicts in the evidence, draw inferences contrary to the verdict, or (people v. little (2004) 115 cal.app.4th 766, 771, citing people v. jones (1990) 51 cal.3d 294, 314.) we review a claim that insufficient evidence supports an enhancement using the same standard that we apply to a conviction. (people v. wilson (2008) 44 cal.4th 758, 806.) b. application of relevant principles 1. intent to kill defendant claims that there is insufficient evidence of intent to kill because the prosecution did not present evidence about the distance between defendant and the group of people at which he shot, that he intended the bullet to reach a member of the group, or that a bullet nearly struck a member of the group. he also claims that his case should be of him as the shooter were inherently unreliablethey could not see the shooting and detective farrell coerced them into making their identifications. there is sufficient evidence of intent to kill, and the identifications were not inherently unreliable. 15 attempted murder requires the specific intent to kill and the commission of a direct but ineffectual act toward accomplishing the intended killing. (people v. superior court (decker) (2007) 41 cal.4th 1, 7; people v. nelson (2011) 51 cal.4th 198, 212.) [a] person who intends to kill can be guilty of attempted murder even if the person has no specific target in mind. an indiscriminate would-be killer is just as culpable as one who targets a speci (people v. stone (2009) 46 cal.4th 131, 140; people v. perez (2010) 50 cal.4th 222, 230 rational trier of fact could find that defendants act of firing a single bullet at a group of eight persons from a distance of 60 feet established that he acted with intent to kill someone .) the act of firing toward a victim at a close, but not point blank, range in a manner that could have inflicted a mortal wound had the bullet been on target is sufficient to support an inference of intent to kill . . . .people v. smith (2005) 37 cal.4th 733, 741.) otive is often probative of an intent to killpeople v. houston (2012) 54 cal.4th 1186, 1218.) the evidence shows that defendant had a motive to kill and was in close proximity to the crowd of people into which he fired his gun. defendant hated the people who s mother. he stepped out of the house and engaged in an argument with the crowd of people in the front yard. defendant yelled, the crowd when he fired his gun. defenclose proximity to the group of people at which he shot provided the jury with sufficient evidence of an intent to kill. (people v. stone, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 140; people v. perez, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 230; people v. smith, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 741; people v. houston, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 1218.) the shooter were inherently unreliable also fails. the evidence shows that guadiana and shirley could see the shooting because they witnessed the shooting from a short distancemoreover, 16 guadiana was close enough to defendant after the shooting that defendant could speak to herguadiana told detective farrell that defendant looked at her after the shooting and credibility issues or evidentiary conflicts concerning whether detective farrell coerced (people v. jones, supra, 51 cal.3d at p. 314; people v. little, supra, 115 cal.app.4th at p. 771.) 2. premeditation defendant argues that there is insufficient evidence of premeditation because the evidence showed that thpeople v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15, 26-27 (anderson), defendant argues that the prosecution failed to show premeditation through evidence of planning activity prior to the shooting, a motive to kill based on his prior relationship or conduct with the victim, and the manner of the attempted killingi.e., whether the manner of the attempted killing indicated a preconceived design to kill in a certain way. there is sufficient evidence of premeditation. an intentional killing is premeditated and deliberate if it occurred as the result of reflection rather than unconsidered or rash impulse. [citations.] however, the requisite reflection need not span a specific or extended period of time. thoughts may follow each other with great rapidity, and cold, calculated judgment may be arrived at quickly. [citations.]people v. nelson, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 213.) the anderson, supra, 70 cal.2d at pages 26-27, factors are not the exclusive means for establishing premeditation and deliberation. (people v. lenart (2004) 32 cal.4th 1107, 1127.) anderson for a definition of premeditation (people v. thomas (1992) 2 cal.4th 489, 517.) a conviction will be upheld on any reasonable theory supported by substantial evidence. people v. nelson, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 213.) 17 as discussed above, the evidence shows that defendant had a motive to killhe said he hated the people who lived on stanridge avenue and believed one of them had shot at him and his mother. defendant stepped out of the house and engaged in an argument with the crowd of people in the front yard. as defendant stood in the front yard, another male approached him from behind and handed him a gun. defendant held the gun next to his right thigh as if he was trying to hide it. at some point, defendant fired one shot at the crowd. as the crowd fled, defendant walked into the street and fired a second shot at the crowd. such evidence sufficiently the result of reflection rather than unconsidered or rash impulse.people v. nelson, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 213.) iii. sufficiency of the evidence in support of with a semiautomatic firearm conviction defendant argues that there is insufficient evidence to support his assault with a semiautomatic firearm cwillfully committed an act that by its nature would probably and directly result in a the trial court instructed the jury on the elements of assault with a semiautomatic firearm as follows: the defendant did an act with a semiautomatic firearm that by its nature would directly and probably result in the application of force to a person; the defendant did that act willfully; when the defendant acted, he was aware of facts that would lead a reasonable person to realize that his act by its nature would directly and probably result in the application of force to someone; when the defendant acted, he had the present ability to apply force with a 18 defendant fired a gun into a crowd of people with premeditation and the intent to kill. the willful firing of a semiautomatic gun into a crowd of people from a short distance was an act that a reasonable person would realize would directly and probably result in the application of force to someone. thus, there is sufficient evidence to support his conviction for assault with a semiautomatic firearm. iv. disclosure of exculpatory evidence defendant claims that his due process and fair trial rights were violated when the prosecution failed to disclose exculpatory crime scene photographs in violation of brady v. maryland (1963) 373 u.s. 83 (brady).7 defendant raised this issue in the trial court in a motion to dismiss or for a new trial. thus, although not expressly stated, defendant contends that the trial court erred in denying his motion to dismiss or for a new trial. because there was no brady violationmotion. a. background after the verdict, defendant filed a motion to dismiss or for a new trial.8 the motion alleged that on october 23, 2012, long after trial, 7 s under miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436) and its late disclosure of the results of the fingerprint examination of the cigarette pack, but he never explains how that evidence was favorable to him or how he was prejudiced by the failure to produce the signed shad form or to produce earlier the fingerprint resultsi.e. how they were brady violations. accordingly, defendant has forfeited any claimed brady violation with respect to the shad form or fingerprint results. (people v. fiu (2008) 165 cal.app.4th 360, 381, fn. we reject claims that are not carefully enough developed to be discrete contentions; contentions raised in such [a] perfunctory fashion [are] waived[citations.] 8 defendant retained new defense counsel after the verdict who filed the motion to dismiss or for a new trial. 19 among other things, the photographs showed knives, a broken glass table, pieces of broken glass, marks on the ground that defendant contends were blood drops, and a bullet casing. the motion alleged that the photographs were taken at night, depicted the crime scene close in time to the shooting, and would have allowed the defense to impeach prosecution witnesses by showing that the witnesses could not have seen anyface or the shooting. the motion further alleged that the photographs would have corroborated the b. application of relevant principles the prosecutions suppression of evidence that is favorable to an accused, including impeachment testimony, violates the fourteenth amendment due process clause where it is material either to issues of guilt or punishment, irrespective of the good faith of the prosecutor. (brady, supra, 373 u.s. at p. 87; united states v. bagley (1985) 473 u.s. 667, 675-676) (bagley); see also people v. ochoa (1998) 19 cal.4th 353, 473 (ochoa ).) evidence is favorable to an accused if the defense could use it either to impeach the states witnesses or to exculpate the accused. (bagley, supra, 473 u.s. at p. 676; ochoa, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 473.) probability that, had the evidence been disclosed to the defense, the result of the proceeding would have been differen (kyles v. whitley (1995) 514 u.s. 419, 433-434.) (united states v. bagley, supra, 473 u.s. at p. 678 [105 s.ct. at p. (ochoa, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 473.) thus, a brady evidence at issue must be favorable to the accused, either because it is exculpatory, or because it is impeaching; that evidence must have been suppressed by the state, either willfully or inadvertently; (strickler v. greene (1999) 527 u.s. 263, 281-282 [4 l.ed.2d 286, 119 s.ct. 1936].) under this standard prejudice the materiality of the evidence to the issue of guilt or innocence. (united 20 states v. agurs [(1976)] 427 u.s. [97,] 112, fn. 20.) in the case of impeachment evidence, materiality requires more than a showing that using the suppressed evidence to discredit a witnesss testimony might have changed the outcome of the trial. [citation.] (people v. salazar [(2005)] 35 cal.4th [1031,] 1043, italics added.) rather, the evidence will be held to be material only if there is a reasonable probability that, had the evidence been disclosed to the defense, the result of the proceeding would have been different. (united states v. bagley (1985) 473 u.s. 667, 682 [87 l.ed.2d 481, 105 s.ct. 3375].)people v. lucas (2014) 60 cal.4th 153, 274.) as in the trial court, defendant contends that the photographs were material because they showed the crime scene after the shooting, which, he claims, defense counsel could have used to impeach the prosecution witnesses by showing that they the photographs showed, defendant asserts, the scene at night and a garage that obstructed the view of the front of the house where the shooting took place. defendant also contends that the photographs would have corroborated the cient, defendant witnesses to show them where everything happened, eight of the pictures showed broken glass and some blood drops on the floor. the pictures fail to show any blood trail leading to the ortega house. the pictures show two knives on the ground, in two separate places, but with no context where the police found the knives. . . . the police failed to place markers behind or next to any of the evidence depicted so that the evidence could be the photographs were not material, and thus there was no brady violation because there is no reasonable probability that the result would have been different if the photographs had been disclosed to defendant. (people v. lucas, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 274.) while some of the photographs apparently depicted the crime scene as it appeared shortly after the shooting, those photographs merely show that it was dark outside. guadiana testified that it was nighttime and dark outside when she and shirley returned home from the store. that it was dark outside did not establish that guadiana and shirley 21 were unable to see and identify defendant. moreover, guadiana told detective farrell that after defendant followed the group into the street fired two shots, defendant looked at that is, that defendant had moved close enough to guadiana to speak to her. the photographs also do not show exactly where guadiana and shirley stood relative to the shooter and the group of malesi.e., whether they stood even if defendant could have used some of the photographs to corroborate that the was deficient, those photographs were not material because two eyewitnessesguadiana and shirleyindependently identified defendant as the shooter. that is, notwithstanding any deficiencies in the investigation, there is no reasonable probability that the result would have been different if the prosecution had disclosed the of defendant as the shooter. (people v. lucas, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 274.) v. ineffective assistance of counsel defendant contends that defense counsel provided ineffective assistance of counsel by failing to visit and take photographs of the crime scene. based on photographs taken by his cousin after the verdict and over two years after the shooting, he claims that crime scene photographs would have proved that guadiana and shirley could not have seen the shooter due to obstructions and poor lighting.9 ineffective assistance is made on direct appeal, and the record does not show the reason for counsels challenged actions or omissions, the conviction must be affirmed unless there could be no satisfactory explanation. (people v. anderson (2001) 25 cal.4th 543, 569.) ineffective assistance in such a (people v. mendoza tello (1997) 15 cal.4th 264, 266-267.) the record on appeal does not reveal whether defense counsel visited the crime scene or whether he took photographs of the crime 9 the photographs were taken at the request of defense counsel who substituted in 22 scene. it also does not reveal why defense counsel did not visit the crime scene if he did not visit or why he did not take and introduce photographs of the crime scene if he did visit. accordingly, any claim of ineffective assistance with respect to the claimed deficiencies is better suited to a petition for writ of habeas corpus. (people v. anderson, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 569; people v. mendoza tello, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 267.) vi. gang evidence defendant contends that he was denied a fair trial and due process when detective because the trial court immediately struck detective and subsequently instructed the jury to disregard and not consider for any purpose testimony that the trial court had ordered stricken, defendant suffered no prejudice. a. background on cross-examination, defense counsel and detective farrell engaged in the following colloquy: [] this young man, ruben abelar, is he a member of a gang? - what is c.k.f.? en? l]: your honor, i move to strike the answer with respect to rivals. i just asked if he was a member of a gang. cn. [defense counsel]: so, what gang do you know abelar to be a member of? 23 the court: that answer is stricken as well. at the end of the case, the trial court instructed the jury that it was to disregard and not consider for any purpose testimony that the trial court ordered stricken. b. application of relevant principles evidence that a criminal defendant is a gang people v. gurule (2002) 28 cal.4th 557, 653.) accordingly, a trial court should not admit such evidence if it is only tangentially relevant because of the possibility that the jury will improperly infer that the defendant is guilty of the charged offense due to a criminal disposition.10 (ibid.) the shooting as part of a gang rivalry. according to defendant, the gang reference showed although the trial court struck the objectionable testimony, defendant instruction to the jury to disregard the testimony were inadequate to cure the prejudice, the only adequate cure would have been a mistrial. defense counsel did not, however, move for a mistrial. . detective farrell did not state about that gang, its activities, 10 although this case concerns the unsolicited introduction of gang evidence that was stricken of gang membership information would appear to be the same regardless of how the jury received such information. 24 statement testimony, apparently on the ground that it was non-responsive to defense , the trial court ordered the gang reference stricken. later, the trial court instructed the jury to disregard and not consider for any purpose testimony that the trial court ordered stricken. we presume that jurors understand and follow the trial courts instructions. (people v. pearson (2013) 56 cal.4th 393, 414.) defendant does not cite any part of the record that indicates that the jury was unable to or failed t(people v. martin (1983) 150 cal.app.3d 148, 163 juries often hear unsolicited and inadmissible comments and in order for trials to proceed without constant mistrial, it is axiomatic the prejudicial effect of these comments may be corrected by judicial admonishment; absent evidence to the contrary the error is deemed cured. [citations.]].) vii. unanimity instruction defendant contends that the trial court erred in failing, sua sponte, to give the jury a unanimity instruction11 because the prosecutor argued that the shooter fired three shots unanimity instruction, the jurors could amalgamate the evidence of the number of shots and the nthe trial court did not err. as a general rule, when violation of a criminal statute is charged and the evidence establishes several acts, any one of which could constitute the crime charged, either the state must select the particular act upon which it relied for the allegation of the information, or the jury must be instructed that it must agree unanimously upon which act to base a verdict of guilty. (people v. diedrich (1982) 31 cal.3d 263, 281 [182 cal.rptr. 354, 643 p.2d 971].) there are, however, several exceptions to this rule. for example, no unanimity instruction is required if the case falls within the continuous-course-of- 11 calcrim no. 3500 provides in part: resented evidence of more than one act to prove that the defendant committed this offense. you must not find the defendant guilty unless you all agree that the people have proved that the defendant committed at least one of these acts and you all agree on 25 conduct exception, which arises when the acts are so closely connected in time as to form part of one transaction (people v. crandell (1988) 46 cal.3d 833, 875 [251 cal.rptr. 227, 760 p.2d 423]) . . . . there also is no need for a unanimity instruction if the defendant offers the same defense or defenses to the various acts constituting the charged crime. (people v. carrera (1989) 49 cal.3d 291, 311-312 [261 cal.rptr. 348, 777 p.2d 121].)12 (people v. jennings (2010) 50 cal.4th 616, 679; people v. ervine (2009) 47 cal.4th 745, 755, 788 [in a prosecution for three counts of attempted murder eputies over 10 to 15 seconds, the the jurors should have been required unanimously to agree which act or event established each count of attempted murder]; people v. bui (2011) 192 cal.app.4th 1002, 1011 [the continuous conduct exception is meant to apply not to all crimes occurring during a single transaction but only to those where the acts testified to are so closely related in time and place that the jurors reasonably must either accept or reject the victims testimony in toto. [citation.] [citation.]; people v. percelle (2005) 126 cal.app.4th 164, 181-it is immaterial that the two acts might have been charged as two separate attempts. if there was no evidence from which the jury could have found defendant was guilty of one attempt and not the other, the instruction is not required. .) the trial court has a sua sponte duty to give the jury a unanimity instruction when appropriate under the facts of the case. (people v. riel (2000) 22 cal.4th 1153, 1199.) the trial court did not err in not giving the jury, sua sponte, a unanimity instruction. the evidence showed that defendant shot at the group of males three times in a short time span. defendant fired the first shot in the front yard. when that shot caused the group to run, he followed the group into the street and fired two additional shots. the three shots fired at a group of people within a brief period of time were part of a course of conduct that constituted one transaction. also, defendant provided the same alibi defense to all three gunshotshe was at home with his wife and children at the time of the 12 people v. crandell, supra, 46 cal.3d 833 was abrogated on another ground in people v. crayton (2002) 28 cal.4th 346, 364-365. 26 shooting. because the three gunshots were part of a continuous course of conduct and defendant provided the same defense to each of the gunshots, the trial court did not err in not giving the jury, sua sponte, a unanimity instruction. (people v. jennings, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 679; people v. ervine, supra, 47 cal.4th p. 788; people v. bui, supra, 192 cal.app.4th at p. 1011; people v. percelle, supra, 126 cal.app.4th at pp. 181-182.) viii. cumulative error defendant contends that even if any of the claimed errors individually does not mandate reversal, the cumulative effect of such errors denied him his due process right to a fair trial. because contended errors, there is no cumulative prejudicial effect justifying reversal. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. mosk, j. we concur: turner, p. j. kriegler, j. 