filed 8/25/14 p. v. frances ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. robert jonathan francis, defendant and appellant. b249476 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba405929) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, barbara r. johnson, judge. reversed. patrick morgan ford, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, mary sanchez and david zarmi, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______________________ 2 introduction challenge on one of the four african-american prospective jurors she challenged, the trial court stated that the only reason the court could see that the prosecutor exercised the the fact that he was a black manbatson v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 79 [106 s.ct. 1712, 90 l.ed.2d 69] and people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258 (batson/wheeler motion) african-american prospective jurors on the basis of race, the trial court denied the motion. we reverse. factual and procedural background on the afternoon of july 18, 2012 defendant robert jonathan francis, who is african-american, was riding a bus in los angeles when he grabbed a necklace worn by a fellow passenger. the passenger fought to keep her necklace, but francis broke free and got off the bus, taking the necklace with him. once outside, francis realized that he left his shopping bag on the bus. the victim, struggle, walked to the front of the bus, spoke to francis through the open door, and told him that she would give him his shopping bag if he returned her necklace. francis got back on the bus, kicked the victim in the leg, and then fled, leaving his bag behind. a surveillance camera on the bus recorded the entire incident. bag to the police. inside was some chicken and a jacket with the name francison the label. the people charged francis with robbery. during jury selection the prosecutor, trudi white-black, who also is african-american, used her first, third, fourth, and sixth peremptory challenges to excuse prospective juror nos. 2, 4, 16, and 21, four of the five african-american prospective jurors in the 35-person venire. after the 3 peremptory challenge, counsel for francis, richard ewell, asked to approach, and the following exchange occurred at side bar: mr. ewell: your honor, at this time, i want to bring a batson/wheeler motion. the prosecutor has kicked off juror no. 2, who is a male black; juror no. 4, who is a female black; juror no. 16, female black; and juror no. 21, female bbeing racially prejudiced against black jurors who maybe she feels that they are more sympathetic to my client. the court: all right. i think that you have established a reason for the people to people, as to [no.] 21. ms. white-black: juror no. 16 was an attorney, and i immediately marked her off because as soon as she sat down. so she was a goner just by virtue of the fact that she was an attorney. black male that was seated [in] seat two originally, when the court made inquiry of him, he was slow to respond and seemed to not be as quick to grasp the concepts as some of the other jurors, in my opinion. i also noted when court called a break, when he was walking out of the courtroom, that he had his pants hanging low and they were sagging. when i saw that, that pretty much sealed his fate as far as i was concerned. . . . . . . was also slow to respond and not as quick to understand some of the concepts. she appeared to me to be hesitant in answering many of the questions. i those are the reasons that i kicked her. yes, juror no. 21, the registered nurse that i just kicked, um, the last hypothetical that i gave her where she factored in this whole idea that the her inability to process circumstantial evidence. want on my case. so those are the reasons that i kicked that last juror. 4 the court: okay. juror no. 2, the black male that was first excused, gave correct answers. his attitude was correct. he was a young man which i was very impressed in terms of serving jury duty on. . . . understood what your questions were, but i think that they were certainly reasonable in her explanation of them in terms of circumstantial evidence. she knew the law. she defendants [sic] have been. black ng up, no. 13 so of all of your six peremptories, five of them have been from racial minorities, so to speak. and, for the record, although the court can see, you are a black attorney, the prosecutor. the defendant is a black defendant. the defense may have a valid concern with knocking off all the people, although the defense has knocked off also two asian males, both of them i can see why he would in terms of those people. t language here. i think that the justification has not been sustained. i think that the defense has shown a prima facie case. we can either reseat no. 21 or declare a mistrial and start over. ms. white-black: your honor, if i could just respond. i think a wheeler/batson requires only that there be some nonracially-motivated reason for kicking the jurors. these peremptories that were made by the people were not based on race. each juror the court: there [is] only one other black person still on the jury, none in the audience remaining. ms. white-blackwheeler/batson that says the racial makeup of the jury has to have any specific number of of any racial or protected class. it only requires that the motivation for excusing a juror not be racially motivated or be motivated by some protected class. i did not make any peremptories based on race. i made peremptory challenges based on nonrace-based reasons. and 5 merely because the court or defense counsel has a different opinion about my reasons or they may not have used the court i am questioning your basis. but it appears to me i have to also evaluate the reasoand in my evaluation of the jurors that have been excused, all but one of them, the attorney and an attorney, just because her answers are elaborate and not really she did worse that a regular non-attorney juror. and it seems to me that except for her, there was not really any great reason. how a person dresses or sags no. 2. i looked at him and thought he was a working man, looked appropriate for court, anything like that. to me that that is the reason. so we can either reseat [prospective juror no. 21] or ms. white-black: venire. the courtws at batson/wheel ms. white-black: well, your honor, my . . . reasons for kicking these jurors are fact that they happened to be bstandard the appearance of motivation just looking at the color of the skin, i believe is the incorrect analysis under wheeler/batson. the correct analysis under a wheeler/batson [motion] is whether the motivation for exercising the peremptory was based on race, not simply because they happen to be of the same race. the court and i must make a sincere and reasonable attempt to understand why these people and evaluate an explanation. 6 of this case and in light of the manner in which you were asserting these peremptories, the first one, two, three, four four, not no. 20 mr. ewell ms. white-black: she was also. juror no. 21 and [no.] 20 are in the same boat. they both had responses to the questions that illustrated to me that they did not grasp the concept. juror no. 21 was talking about beyond a shadow of a doubt; and, similarly, juror no. 21, when i presented her with the hypothetical with circumstanteven understand what reasonable inference was. less there is cause. and peremptories, i rarely even have this discussion with attorneys. but it seems to me, looking at the whole panel, looking at the first six peremptories which were all even that is not so unusual in l.a. because most of the remaining panel are either hispanic or asian, but it seems to me with the panel that we have 35 and, one, looking at the audience now, only one black female remains in the the first 18 and none in the audience. and ms. white-black: your honor, again, i iven your explanation. why i think that i have to sustain his wheeler motion. the exchange between the trial court and the prosecutor continued, after which counsel for francis asked the court to call for a new panel of jurors. because it was lunch time, the trial court stated, ask them to cstatements, the voir dire, with the reporter. after the lunch recess, batson/wheeler motion resumed. the court recapped that it case for having the people explain . . . their excusing of four challenged jurors who were black jurors, and the 7 the court further explained that over the lunch hour had the opportunity . . . to go back over the discussions with the court reporter [as] to what was said. and, apparently, in its research, one of the reasons for excusing juror no. 2 was because of his dress and attire. there is a case that says dress and attire can be a reason for peremptory challenges. i read over his statements. his statements were not out of the ordinary. . . tory challenge, the hernandez v. new york [(1991)] 500 u.s. 352 [111 s.ct. 1859, 114 l.ed.2d 395]. but in the california case, people v. silva [(2001)] 25 cal.4th 345, if the reason for excusing a juror is plausible, the court may accept the reasons and not require to question the prosecutor to make a detailed finding. i think that this and this is only after going back and reading the transcript and particular questions and particular answerresponses to my ruling after the prima facie had been shown, only then have i come to the conclusion that, while . . . batson/wheeler should be denied a fine line, but i think that the case law that says peremptory excusals, then it should not be granted. uded. and so we will proceed from there with a caution to the people after the court denied the batson/wheeler motion, the prosecutor belatedly stated that she had also challenged prospective juror no. 4 because she was a postal worker. jthe prosecutor further stated that she decided to challenge the remaining african- 8 american prospective juror on the panel, no. 6, 1 during the ensuing discussion, the trial court returned its attention to prospective juror black man who answered correctly, and your reason for kicking him is because his pants the court stated, that he said, nothing that he did, no way that he dressed except the fact that he was a black man that following the completion of jury selection, the clerk swore in the panel and the evidentiary portion of the trial commenced. the jury convicted francis of first degree robbery (pen. code,  211). the trial court sentenced him to state prison for 16 months, one-third of the middle term of four years, to be served consecutively to a previously imposed five-year-term for an unrelated robbery conviction. discussion a. the applicable law and standard of review a criminal defendant is deprived of his federal constitutional right to equal protection (batson v. kentucky, supra, 476 u.s. at pp. 84-89) and his state constitutional right to be tried by a jury drawn from a representative cross-section of the community (people v. wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d at pp. 276-277) when a prosecutor exercises a peremptory challenge to remove a prospective juror on the impermissible basis of race or ethnicity. (people v. williams (2013) 58 cal.4th 197, 280; see people v. silva (2001) 25 cal.4th 345, 386.) -stage procedure that applies to batson/wheeler 1 ultimately, the prosecutor did not use a peremptory challenge to ask the court to excuse prospective juror no. 6 from the jury. 9 mad-neutral justifications for the strikes.[2] -neutral explanation is tendered, the trial court must then decide . . . (people v. sattiewhite (2014) 59 cal.4th 446, 469, quoting johnson v. california (2005) 545 u.s. 162, 168 [125 s.ct. 2410, 162 l.ed.2d 129]; see people v. montes (2014) 58 cal.4th 809, 847.) this case involves the third stage of the batson/wheeler analysis. at this stage, -neutral explanations to be credible. credibility can be measured by, among other factors, the by whether the proffered rationale people v. lenix (2008) 44 cal.4th 602, 613, quoting miller-el v. cockrell (2003) 537 u.s. 322, 339 [123 s.ct. 1029, 154 l.ed.2d 931].) batson/wheeler inquiry . . . is on the subjective genuineness of the race-neutral reasons given for the peremptory challenge, not on the objective reasonableness . . . (people v. jones (2013) 57 cal.4th 899, 917, quoting lenix, supra, at p. 613.) wheeler/batson motion is deferential, examining only whether substantial evidence supports its 2 a challenge for cause, and juror may be excused based upon facial expressions, gestures, hunches, and even for b]ut race-based decisions are not people v. dehoyos (2013) 57 cal.4th 79, 102.) 10 justifications for exercising peremptory challenges we presume that a prosecutor uses peremptory challenges in a constitutional manner and sham excuses. [citation.] so long as the trial court makes a sincere and reasoned effort to evaluate the nondiscriminatory justifications offered, its conclusions are entitled to people v. lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th at pp. 613-614, fn. omitted; see hernandez v. new york, supra, 500 u.s. at pp. 364-365; people v. montes, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 847; people v. williams, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 281; people v. silva, supra, 25 cal.4th at pp. 385-386.) deference does not, however, preclude relief. (miller-el v. dretke (2005) 545 u.s. 231, 240 [125 s.ct. 2317, 162 l.ed.2d 196]; lenix, supra, at p. 616.) b. the peremptory challenges on appeal francis juror 16. francis challenges only the puse of peremptory challenges to ask the court to excuse prospective juror nos. 2, 4, and 21. prospective juror no. 2 lived in south central los angeles. he worked as an underground utility locator. he was single, had no children, and had no prior jury experience. the prosecutor exercised a peremptory challenge and asked the court to excuse quick to grasp the concepts as some of the other jurors, because of the way he dressed. when the trial court called a recess, the prosecutor observed that prospective juror no. 2 [were] hanging low and they were sagging,which for the prosecutor pretty much sealed his fate . . . the trial court saw prospective juror no. 2, and his pants, differently. the court pants, the court stated that it had 11 the court stated that not only had francis has not been concerns about the constitutional propriety of the prose prospective juror no. 2 initial batson/wheeler motion, the court later changed its mind after finding case is a legitimate basis for a peremptory challenge.3 significantly, however, the trial court never changed or withdrew any of its factual findings. to the contrary, even after denying batson/wheeler motion, the trial court repeated its findings and stated its belief that the peremptory challenges were based on race. the court stated that prospective juror no. 2black man who answered correctly, and your reason for kicking him is because his pants were sagging. and that is where we get the court concluded, understand why you kicked no. 2. there is nothing that he said, nothing that he did, no way that he dressed except the fact that he was a black man the 3 the trial court correctly determined that dress and attire can be a race-neutral basis for exercising a peremptory challenge. challenge may be predicated on a broad spectrum of evidence suggestive of juror partiality. the evidence may range from the obviously serious to the apparently trivial, from the virtually certain to the highly speculative. [] for example, a prosecutor may fear bias . . . - [citation.] (people v. rushing (2011) 197 cal.app.4th 801, 808, quoting people v. wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d at p. 275; see people v. cruz (2008) 44 cal.4th 636, 658 long, unbuttoned flannel shirt, thereafter arrived at the peremptory challenge hearing in a plain white t-shirt, and people v. ward (2005) 36 cal.4th 186, 202 the trial courts implied deference where.) 12 only reasonable construction of this statement is that the trial court believed that the facially race-neutral, were not credible or subjectively genuine. (see people v. jones, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 917; people v. lenix, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 613.) although some of the statements suggest that the court understood its obligations under batson/wheeler, the court did not conduct the third stage of the analysis properly. in light of the trial court finding that prospective juror no. 2 was b batson/wheeler motion with respect to this particular prospective juror. (see people v. silva, supra[t]he exclusion by peremptory challenge of a single juror on the basis of race or ethnicity is an error of constitutional magnitude requiring reversal].) francis is entitled to a new trial. disposition the judgment is reversed and the matter is remanded for a new trial. segal, j.* we concur: perluss, p. j. zelon. j. * judge of the los angeles superior court assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 