filed 10/26/15 p. v. gonzalez ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. horacio gonzalez et al., defendants and appellants. b249598 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa070627) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, dalila c. lyons, judge. affirmed as modified. linn davis, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant horacio gonzalez. matthew d. alger, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant cristian a. adame. brett harding duxbury, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant samantha rodriguez. john steinberg, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant myra rangel. kamala d. harris, attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey, zee rodriguez, louis w. karlin, and mary sanchez, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury found defendants horacio gonzalez, cristian a. adame, samantha rodriguez, and myra rangel guilty of conspiracy to commit murder, attempted premeditated murder, and shooting at an occupied vehicle in connection with an incident that occurred on march 15 and 16, 2010. it further found defendants gonzalez and adame guilty of one count of murder, five additional counts of attempted premeditated murder, five counts of assault with an automatic firearm, and one count of street terrorism arising from a separate incident that occurred on march 23, 2010. the jury also found gonzalez guilty of one additional count of attempted premeditated murder in connection with a third shooting incident that occurred on march 24, 2010. the jury found true all of the special allegations against all four defendants, including the allegation that the charged crimes were committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang. all four -years to--years to-life. all four of them have timely appealed on a host of different grounds. we direct the trial court to correct the abstracts of judgment for adame and rodriguez and to stay the enhancements imposed on counts 2 and 3. we affirm the judgment in all other respects. factual and procedural background i. procedural history filed a 17-count amended information against defendants gonzalez, adame, rodriguez, and rangel. counts 1-4 named all four defendants and concerned an alleged shooting incident that took place on or between march 15 and 16, 2010. in count 1, the people alleged that all four defendants conspired to commit murder (pen. code,  182, subd. (a)(1) & 187, subd. (a)).1 in counts 2 and 4, the people charged all four defendants with attempted premeditated murder ( 187, subd. (a) & 664). in count 3, the people charged all four defendants with shooting at an occupied vehicle ( 246). the people further alleged, 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 with respect to all four defendants on all four of these counts, that a principal personally used a firearm ( 12022.53, subds. (b) & (e)(1)), personally and intentionally discharged a firearm ( 12022.53, subds. (c) & (e)(1)), and personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury ( 12022.53, subds. (d) & (e)(1)). gonzalez and adame were the alleged principals; the information alleged they each personally used a firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (b)), personally and intentionally discharged a firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (c)), and personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury ( 12022.53, subd. (d)). the information further alleged the personal use above offense[s, counts 1-4,] to become a serious felony pursuant to penal code section 1192.7(c)(8) and a violent felony within counts 5-15 pertained to a separate incident that occurred on or about march 23, 2010 and named only gonzalez and adame. in count 5, the people charged gonzalez and adame with murder ( 187, subd. (a)) and alleged that the offense was a violent and serious crime ( 667.5, subd. (c), 1192.7, subd. (c)) to which section 186.22, subdivision (b)(5) applied. in counts 6-10, the people charged gonzalez and adame with attempted premeditated murder ( 187, subd. (a) & 664). the people further alleged that gonzalez and adame each personally used a firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (b)), personally and intentionally discharged a firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (c)), and personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury or death ( 12022.53, subd. (d)) in connection with counts 5-10, rendering those counts serious felonies within the meaning of section 1192.7, subdivision (c)(8) and violent felonies within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (c)(8). in counts 11-15, the people charged gonzalez and adame with assault with a semiautomatic firearm ( 245, subd. (b)), a serious offense within the meaning of section 1192.7, subdivision (c), alleged that gonzalez and adame each personally used a firearm ( 12022.5) and further alleged as to counts 11, 12, 14, 4 and 152 that gonzalez and adame personally inflicted great bodily injury on the victims ( 12022.7, subd. (a)), causing the offenses to become serious felonies within the meaning of section 1192.7, subdivision (c)(8). in count 17, the people charged gonzalez and adame with street terrorism ( 186.22, subd. (a)) in connection with their charged march 2010 activities. count 16 named only gonzalez. in that count, the people charged gonzalez with attempted premeditated murder ( 187, subd. (a) & 664) in connection with a shooting incident that occurred on or about march 24, 2010. the people further alleged in connection with count 16 that gonzalez or a principal personally used a firearm ( 12022.53, subds. (b) & (e)(1)), personally and intentionally discharged a firearm ( 12022.53, subds. (c) & (e)(1)), and personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury or death ( 12022.53, subds. (d) & (e)(1)). the people alleged that counts 1-16 were committed for the benefit of or in association with a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subds. (b)(1)(c) & (b)(4)). they also alleged that adame had suffered one prior serious or violent felony conviction ( 667, subds. (b)-(i) & 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)). all four defendants were jointly tried by a single jury. the jury found all four defendants guilty as charged and found true all of the special allegations included on the verdict forms. after a subsequent bench trial, the court found true the prior strike allegation against adame. gonzalez was sentenced to a total term of 380 years to life on the indeterminate counts, with an additional 100 years on the determinate counts imposed and stayed pursuant to section 654. adame, whose prior strike rendered him subject to a doubling of parole-eligibility periods, was sentenced to a total of 480 years to life in prison for counts 1, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10. additional terms were imposed and stayed for the remaining counts and sentence enhancement findings. rodriguez and rangel each were sentenced 2 the victim named in count 15 was not injured, and the verdict forms did not include this allegation for count 15. 5 to a total of 75 years to life on counts 1 and 4, with additional terms imposed and stayed for counts 2 and 3. all four defendants timely appealed. ii. a. background defendant gonzalez belonged to the pacoima flats gang. he was a friend of defendant adame, nicknamed who belonged to another gang, the pacoima project boys. both the flats and the project boys were rivals of a third pacoima-based gang, the pacoima knock knock boys. the knock knock boys expressed their contempt for project boys and flats members by calling them he origins of these gangs in the san fernando gardens housing projects. defendants or members of the project boys and flats. members of the project boys and flatnt. 3 was a methamphetamine addict who knew perez was friendly with sergio abrego, a member of the knock knock boysphone abrego did not like rangel due to her association with the project boys and flats and accordingly perez telephonically introduced abrego to fellow methamphetamine user alexis garcia, a long-time friend of perez and rangel, a week or two before march 15, 2010. 3 perez . at the time of trial nearly three years later, perez identified as female, preferred to be known as consistency, and not out of disrespect, we refer to perez using the male pronouns he and others used at the time of the incidents. 6 garcia, who went by the moniker ,had spoken to abrego on the phone once as a result of perez, but had not met him in person. b. the march 15-16 incident (counts 1-4) garcia stayed at rangel in march 2010. she left sometime on march 15, 2010 rangel and perez remained at the apartment. perez was coming off a methamphetamine binge that had kept him awake for three days. he fell asleep in his bedroom sometime after nightfall. cell phone was plugged into an outlet in his bedroom. edroom door did not lock, and he and borrow his cell phone when rangel needed to use it. sometime after perez fell asleep, abrego instead of speaking with the sleeping perez, abrego spoke with a female who identified herself as abrego and the speaker woodman street in pacoima. abrego and his friend, miguel castro, drove to the designated meeting spot . meanwhile, garcia returned to sometime between 11:00 p.m. and 12:00 a.m. garcia testified under a grant of immunity that she as she garcia did not know rodriguez, whom the but recognized casper (gonzalez) and fresh (adame). garcia garcia testified that her perceptions were not clouded by her. rangel told garcia that perez was asleep in the apartment and the door was locked, so garcia should leave with them. garcia joined the group and got into the backseat of a dark-colored, four-door car with rangel. rodriguez got into the front 7 passenger seat. another member of the pacoima flats gang, ernesto aguayo, known as garcia saw gonzalez and adame get into a white car with a sunroof. she recognized the car as adame. adame drove and gonzalez sat in the front passenger seat. aguayo drove the dark-colored car to the area of canterbury avenue and filmore street.4 during the short drive, garcia saw rangel give a cell phone to rodriguez. rangel directed rodriguez to make phone calls. garcia heard rodriguez saying things there was only one cell phone in the car, and cell phone records introduced at trial documented numerous phone calls between p phones on march 15 and 16. abrego also testified that he rangel told garcia and rodriguez to get out of the car near the intersection of canterbury and judd street, which garcia testified was about 37 feet away from canterbury and filmore. aguayo and rangel drove away once garcia and rodriguez exited the car. rodriguez also made a call and asked garcia saw a van with about ten minutes after abrego and castro set out to meet ,nd woodman. they did not see any girls waiting. several changes to their rendezvous point. abrego became concerned that he was being set up and told castro to leave the area. when the van was near the intersection of canterbury and filmore, abrego and garcia saw a white car drive past on filmore. roof of the white car. 4 filmore street turns into lassen street near canterbury avenue. some of the testimony at trial 8 abrego, who did not have a gun with him, ducked down when the shooting started. he heard about nine or ten shots. castro steered the van down filmore and the white car drove away. shortly after the shooting ended, the dark-colored car driven by aguayo returned to the corner of canterbury and judd to pick up garcia and rodriguez. when garcia and rodriguez got into the car, rangel laughed and . rangel also informed garcia that rodriguez had been talking to scrappy from the knock knock boys on the cell phone. aguayo drove to a nearby jack in the box restaurant. there as well, and surveillance footage showed both cars at the restaurant. after the cars left the restaurant but before they arrived at the house that was their next destination, when the two cars arrived at the house, garcia saw adame and gonzalez emerge, respectively, seats of the white car. the occupants of both cars went inside the house, and gonzalez and adame told someone there about the shooting. gonzalez talked about how he had shot from the sunroof, and adame talked about the shooting generally. they mentioned that they had shot out the abregowitness, testified that he realized after the shooting ended that he had been hit in both of his legs. castro, who had not been hit, attempted to drive abrego to a hospital but could not do so because his van had sustained 15 bullet impacts, a shattered windshield, numerous shot-out windows, and a flat tire in the shooting; abrego testified it drive no more. castro called his friend humberto rodarte for a ride. rodarte picked up castro and abrego and drove to holy cross hospital, where he dropped off abrego. los angeles police officer stephen koyle was dispatched to the hospital to speak with abrego. abrego was reluctant to talk about the incident but told koyle he had been shot near canterbury and filmore. officers who subsequently responded to that intersection discovered skid marks, broken glass, 18 shell casings, and o9 projectile bullet. fifteen of the casings were from a .45 caliber gun, and three were from a .40 caliber gun. a firearms analyst testified that the casings had to have come from two different guns. after speaking to castro and rodarte on the morning of march 16, 2010, police detectives located an astrovan parked in the driveway of a home on kewen street, where the van, which was registered to castro, had a blown-out tire, shattered windows, and bullet impact mar a criminalist who specialized in firearms analysis examined the van and concluded that all but one of the bullet impacts on the vehicle came from the outside. she could not tell where that one bullet originated because the window it traveled through was completely blown out. police detective eric reade interviewed abrego after abrego was released from the hospital. reade testified that abrego initially was evasive and uncooperative during that interview. eventually abreg5 on the phone, that he had told them he belonged to the knock knock boys, and that he planned to meet them in the area of woodman and lassen. abrego told reade that hispanic males in a white car opened fire on the van he and his friend castro were in, and that they had to call rodarte to pick them up. abrego further told reade that rodarte dropped him at holy cross hospital, where he received additional during one of those phone calls, about 15 or 16 minutes shot you, you punk moth abrego told reade and, like perez, also directly testified that he called perez a few days after the shooting to find out what had happened and to see if perez had set him up. according to reade, perez told abrego that to this testimony were overruled.) 5 10 perez told detectives that he learned from whisper (garcia) that rangel and in the apartment with some guys from pacoima while he slept on march 15-16. perez also heard from whisper that guys named fresh and sparks or sparky were involved. whisper further told perez that his phone had been used to set up abrego; this upset perez because he had known abrego for a long time and cared for him. perez also told detectives that rangel laughed and said something to the effect of, when he confronted her about setting up abrego. rangel also made garcia mad when she laughingly told garcia that they used her lure scrappy (abrego) to canterbury and filmore. erick davalos, whom she referred to as her little brother, testified at trial that he was pmarch 15-16. davalos testified under a grant of immunity that he recalled being at the apartment with rangel, adame, gonzalez, and rodriguez and seeing gonzalez use . garcia was not there. rangel, adame, gonzalez, and rodriguez left the apartment without davalos. rangel told davalos they were going to get food at jack in the box. estepanie -girlfriend, was not present on march 15 or 16 (or on march 23 or 24). she testified under a grant of immunity that gonzalez confided in her after his arrest on april 1, 2010. he told her that he and fresh (adame) drove and shot at some guys in another car. gonzalez further told her that one of the guys they shot at was named scrappy, and that he had usedd girl, and whisper to get in contact with scrappy to set him up. in a recorded jailhouse conversation with cortez that s not even going to be alive on me. cortez testified that gonzalezstatement referred to whisper (garcia), whose house was shot at after she testified at a preliminary hearing in the case. 11 gonzalez also asked cortez to save a letter rangel wrote to him. in that letter, which cortez read to the jury, rangel the police about the incident. gonzalez characterized the letter as c. the march 23 incident (counts 5-15) davalos testified that he was hanging out with gonzalez and adame on march 23, 2010. on filmore street in pacoima and hung out in the backyard. gonzalez was wearing black. at some point after dark, about four to six hours after they began hanging out in the backyard, gonzalez said, gonzalez and adame then left davalos alone in the yard for about 20 minutes. while they were gone, davalos heard something that sounded like shooting. on cross-examination but not on direct or at the preliminary hearing, davalos testified that gonzalez and adame had firearms in their hands when they left.6 according to davalos, gonzalez and adame returned to the yard less than ten minutes after davalos heard the shooting noises. davalos testified that when gonzalez and adame reentered the yard, gonzalez was holding two guns and adame was holding his arm as if it were injured. davalos described one of the guns as a handgun and said that the other looked like an assault rifle. board that was leaning against it. gonzalez and adame then began trying to figure out how to get to a hospital. gonzalez eventually made a phone call and a woman named arrived at the house, picked up gonzalez, adame, and davalos, and drove them to brotman hospital. during the approximately 30-minute drive to the hospital, which was more 6 davalos also admitted on cross-examination that he had added details to his story each time he met with police, including during a meeting the week before he took the stand at trial, and that he had lied during the preliminary hearing. 12 than 25 miles away, adame, who continued to hold his arm, said that he and gonzalez had opened fire on a group of black people on pinney street because them niggas according to davalos, adame said that he and gonzalez walked away from the on, at, them. davalos testified that adame also said that he was injured when people in the group shot back. los angeles police officer nicholas torres testified that he was dispatched to brotman hospital to speak to a shooting victim at approximately 11:50 p.m. on march 23, 2010. he identified that victim as adame. torres that he had been shot near venice beach, on ocean front walk and washington. neither torres nor another police officer who testified, kevin pierce, received any other reports of a shooting in the venice beach area that evening. the police did receive multiple reports of a shooting on pinney street near pala avenue in pacoima at around 10:00 p.m. on the evening of march 23. then-detective corey farell was dispatched to the scene, which was approximately four blocks from north of san fernando gardens, at about 11:00 p.m. farell observed 23 nine-millimeter cartridge casings near the corner of pinney and pala, a pool of blood on the sidewalk of pinney, and a trail of blood up the walkway of the home at 13205 pinney. farell and other officers who secured the scene also found bullet impact marks, four bullet fragments, two bullet jackets, and abandoned cans, bottles, and other personal effects including a purse and clothing outside of 13205 pinney. the ballistic evidence suggested that two people shot in one direction. farell also spotted graffiti, , farell, who had worked as a uniformed gang officer for two years, testified that those letters were associated with the pacoima flats and project boys gangs. farell looked for but did not find any weapons associated with the incident. none of the 18 firearms later recovered during a search of after concluding his initial examination of the scene, farell traveled to holy cross hospital to speak with some of the shooting victims. farell was unable to speak with the victims there; terry caver was in surgery and vanessa rankins, who later died from the 13 single shot to the head to mission community hospital to speak to anthony jones, who had been shot in the leg, and to u.s.c. medical center to speak to eric bradshaw. farell eventually spoke with caver, jones, and bradshaw several weeks later. he and farell also interviewed uninjured witnesses kenneth perry, whom and anthony jackson, who was cooperative. several of the individuals farell interviewed testified at trial. perry, an african-american man, testified that he, his girlfriend vanessa rankins, and his cousin and front street crips member near pinney street and pala avenue at around 9:30 or 10:00 p.m. on march 23, 2010. they met there. three others, terry caver, an african-american perry knew only ,later. perry testified that rankins was sitting on a planter and everyone else was standing around. no one in at some point, perry noticed a dark gray car with darkly tinted windows swerve first down nearby ralston shortly thereafter, perry saw two men wearing black hoodies walking down pala avenue. perry estimated that they were both about five feet nine inches tall and slim, though he could not be certain because their dark clothing was loose. when the men reached the corner of pala and pinney, one of them looked like other pushed him and the duo continued to walk down pala. at some point they stopped; direction. around that same time, about 10-15 minutes after perry and rankins arrived at the house of caver drove up. perry asked caver to watch the two men and went to tell everybody that something was up. perry had just reached the group when he turned around and saw the two men standing shoulder-to-shoulder. 14 perry then back down the sidewalk of pinney street toward the two men. as perry was walking, he saw one of the men pull a gun from his waistband. perry saw from one gun perry took cover between some cars parked along pinney and was not hit. when the shooting stopped about 15 seconds after it began, perry perry also saw that bradshaw, jones, and rankins had been shot. bradshaw and bradshaw had been hit in the leg, jones in the leg and perry saw the dark gray car come back about 15-20 seconds after the shooting and turn right on van nuys boulevard. perry did not see the two men get into or out of the gray car. terry caver testified that, on the night of march 23, 2010, he drove to 13205 pinney street to visit someone staying there. a lot of people often hung around outside the front of that house, and caver had heard that the house had some connection to drug activity. when caver pulled up, he saw a crowd of people outside the house but only recognized perry and happy jack. caver parked his car on pala. when he got out of his car, he saw two unfamiliar people across the street, on the opposite corner of pala and pinney. caver noticed the two people, who were wearing all black and had hoods on, as caver began to walk to the house, perry ran toward him. caver testified that perry seemed to be trying to get his attention, but ran back toward the house before saying anything. caver heard a yell from the group standing outside the house and looked behind him. he saw the same two people he had noticed earlier with guns in their hands. the two people opened fire, with what caver believed to be automatic or semi-automatic weapons because of the speed with which they shot. caver was shot nine times. he hopped toward the house, leaving a trail of blood on the concrete. when caver reached the gate, two girls helped him get inside the house. 15 tthat he had been shot in the stomach. off at the scene and transported him to holy cross hospital, where he stayed for fifteen days before being discharged on april 7, 2010. caver recognized his own handwriting on a hand-drawn diagram and vaguely recalled speaking to detectives during his stay at the hospital, but did not remember much about the interviews he recalled telling officers that the shooters had been wearing all black. he also recalled being shown six photographs, but could not remember what, if anything, he told the officers about them. caver recognized his own voice on a tape of his interview with detectives, portions of which were played for the jury; he indicated that his voice on the tape was on the tape, caver told photos looked familiar. caver also said on the tape that the shooters were about his height, five feet nine inches tall, and looked young. caver did not remember making when he was in the hospital because the events were very recent. caver further testified that medication made him drowsy but did not make him lie. eric bradshaw testified that on march 23, 2010, he was hanging out in front of a house at 13205 pinney street with several other people, including ken don perry, terry, chubs, green eyes, and happy jack. at some point that evening, bradshaw saw caver walking down the sidewalk toward them and away from pala. as caver was bradshaw comments. bradshaw could not tell the race of the thinly built individuals, but estimated them to be between five feet six inches and five feet nine inches tall. from what sounded like a heavy gun. he saw caver and chubs fall to the ground. 16 bradshaw was shot three times in the legs. bradshaw was transported to u.s.c. medical center, where he was treated and released the next day. he spoke with detectives several months later. detective farell testified b during that interview, but went down. bradshaw told detectives that the shooters were hispanic males and that he saw them produce guns and begin firing. he also said that one of the photos in the six-pack farell that of gonzalezand that he recognized another as adame, a man from the neighborhood. bradshaw did not remember saying these things at the interview, but testified that he had been forthcoming and honest at the time. detective farell agreed that bradshaw had been forthright and candid. the people also called lamar brown, a relative whose family . brown was not present at the shooting but had heard about it from his family and from ken don, with whom he told police he had a phone conversation on the evening of march 23. during his march 27, 2010 interview with police, brown, who was on parole at the time, told officers that ken don was a front according to brown, ken don fought with a member of the project boys on the afternoon of march 23 after the project boy on. later that day, ken don ken don told brown that he thought the individuals were going to shoot at him and his friends, and that they proceeded to do just that. ken don told brown that one of the shooters pulled an assault rifle from his pants and that the other was armed with a handgun. ,i.e., a gun. girlfriend vanessa rankins was hit in the face, one person was hit in the legs, and another was shot in the stomach. perry further denied knowing anyone named lamar brown. perry also denied dealing drugs, belonging to the front street crips, having personal problems with the pacoima project boys or flats, and arguing or fighting with any members of the project boys. perry denied ever seeing 17 defendant gonzalez before or recognizing anyone in the courtroom from the night of the shooting. he also stated at the preliminary hearing. estepanie cortez testified at trial that gonzalez confided in her about this incident as well. and fresh walked up to and shot at a because gonzalez gonzalez also told cortez that he and adame ran from the scene and ultimately had someone pick them up and drive them out of the city. during a recorded jailhouse call, gonzalez discussed an alibi that conformed to these facts and asked cortez to assist him with it. gonzalez wanted to get cortez and another woman g shot while they were walking on venice beach. cortez also discussed the venice beach alibi with adame and . d. the march 24 incident (count 16) on march 24, 2010, edwin henriquez, a member of the north hollywood locos gang, planned to meet his friend, danny perez. perez had arranged for a female to give . when the car arrived to pick up henriquez, the female was accompanied by three males. henriquez recognized one of the males, the driver, as casper, whom he identified in court as gonzalez. trippy as rangel in court. brother at his house. he testified that he did not remember anything beyond that point but knew he was shot in the head that day. he also testified, however, that snitches can get killed and that was why he said he did not remember anything on the stand and also why he said the same thing to police officers who spoke to him at the hospital. henriquez was in the hospital for over two months, lost an eye, and continues to have seizures as a result of the shooting. erick davalos testified that he was one of the passengers in the car. gonzalez and a male from the north hollywood locos that davalos knew as (henriquez) also 18 were there. according to davalos, rachel, the owner of the car, was sitting in the front passenger seat, and a man was driving. gonzalez was in the back with davalos and darky. two gang experts explained eliciting violence if the respondent is from a rival gang. arky, darky said he was from the north hollywood locos. the north hollywood locos were not active rivals of the project boys and flats, before the car arrived there, however, it stopped near desmond street in pacoima. gonzalez and darky got out of the car and walked toward desmond street. they were gone for about five minutes. davalos heard gunshots, and gonzalez came running back to the car. darky did not come back. gonzalez told everyone in the car that he and darky had been shot at and that darky had run the other way. gonzalez told them to get away from the area, and the car drove off. davalos never saw darky again after that, but heard from adame a few days later that darky was in the hospital. adame also told davalos that gonzalez shot darky. during a jailhouse phone conversation with cortez, gonzalez stated that davalos cern about him snitching. detective david hunt testified that he and his partner were dispatched to the area of desmond street and telfair avenue at around 11:20 p.m. on march 24, 2010. hunt saw a hispanic male lying on the sidewalk with a bullet wound in the side of his face. blood. hunt recovered six bullet casings and two bullet fragments from the scene of the crime. a firearms analyst opined that all of the casings came from a single nine-millimeter gun. she further opined that the casings came from an automatic or semi-automatic weapon and matched some of the casings recovered from the pinney and pala shooting the day before. the type of gun that ejected the casings could sound like a chainsaw when fired. 19 e. gang evidence according to the two gang experts who testified, the pacoima flats gang originated in the 1970s in the san fernando gardens apartment complex. it had about 250 members at the time of trial. was founded later but had about 300 members at the time of trial. the area of pinney street and pala avenue, which had high levels of drug activity, was within the territory of both gangs. both gangs used symbols and abbreviations to represent themselves. members also wore pittsburgh steelers and pirates attire because they had for pacoima on them. the they frequently wore new york jets ansignal. members of both gangs signifieby getting aztec-themed tattoos. gonzalez had the letter p tattooed on one arm and f on the other. he also had an f adame had aztec-thegang hand signals in several photographs. gangs have female members and associates. associates are individuals who have not been formally initiated into a gang but still hang out with the members. the female associates often are the girlfriends of male gang members. they assist the gangs by driving vehicles, acting as lookouts, hiding contraband, providing alibis, and passing messages in and out of jail. performing these and other tasks allows females to demonstrate their loyalty to and elevate their status within the gang. rodriguez, an associate of the project boys, member danny orozco, was murdered in 2009. rangel was a known associate of the project boys and flats. sometimes male gang members used force or threats to get female associates to commit crimes. the commission of crimes, from petty vandalism to more serious drug, robbery, and assault offenses, was a primary activity of both the project boys and the 20 flats. serious crimes merited more recognition or respect from the gang. gang members typically committed crimes in the presence of other members or associates, both to verify the commission and to have assistance available if necessary. it was not unusual for members and associates of the project boys and flats to commit crimes together; their reputations within both gangs would be elevated if they were successful. certified court records showed that a member of the project boys and a member of the flats were convicted of murder together. certified court records further showed two additional convictions for murder, one by a project boy and one by a flats member, as well as the conviction of a flats member for being a felon in possession of a weapon. the project boys and flats both disliked african americans. they also had similar rivals, including the knock knock boys. both gangs identified rivals by asking unfamiliar individuals th if the unknown person belonged to a rival gang, he or she would be subject to a violent response. violent retaliation also typically followed when a rival did something to a gang member. prompt retaliation to rivals was required to avoid being perceived as weak. gang members also retaliated against ed in court. gang members would tolerate the presence and criminal activity of non-rivals within their territory if the when presented with hypotheticals based on the facts of the three incidents charged in this case, gang expert rodolfo rodriguez opined that all three crimes were committed for the benefit of the project boys and flats gangs. iii. defense evidence defendants gonzalez and rodriguez presented evidence. defendants adame and rangel did not. a. defendant gonzalez gonzalez called one witness, eduardo ceballos, who testified that he lived up the street from occasionally played basketball there. he 21 test completely enclosed by a wooden fence that was 7-8 feet tall. he also said that there was a second, chain-link fence near the house. this case, which contradicted detective eric reade b. defendant rodriguez defendant rodriguez called prosecution witnesses alexis garcia and detective byers. garcia testified that she did not know anything about the march 23, 2010 shooting at pinney and pala. byers testified that he had spoken to davalos on january 31, 2013, about a week before davalos took the stand at trial. at that time, davalos told byers that he met danny girl, defendant rodriguez, through her boyfriend about two weeks prior to the events in this case. uncontroverted evidence admitted earlier at trial showed that , a year before the events in this trial. rodriguez also called pathologist and toxicology expert dr. marvin pitruszka. pitruszka explained that methamphetamine has both short- and long-term effects. immediately after ingesting the drug, users typically become alert, euphoric, energetic, and may have heightened perceptions of light and sound. over hours and days, however, methamphetamine tires and injures the body, causing drowsiness, confusion, and difficulty in concentrating, remembering, and decision-making. about being stupid, they these effects render users [s]clear observations. when presented with a hypothetical about a methamphetamine user who shared the usage patterns and physical characteristics of alexis garcia, pitruszka opined that the hypothetical individual would have injured brain cells and compromised abilities to process and remember information. on cross-examination, pitruszka conceded that the effects of methamphetamine could vary from user to user. -16 shooting. at about 11:45 p.m. on 22 february 8, 2013, reynoso visited the location from which garcia testified she viewed the shooting. he observed and took photographs of the intersection, as well as wrought iron fences and seven-to-nine-feet hedges around the houses where garcia was standing. the court also took judicial notice that there was a new moon on march 15, 2010. discussion all four defendants have appealed. because each defendant filed his or her own briefs and raised separate issues, we have organized our discussion by defendant. we note, however, that each defendant has joined and adopted by reference the arguments his or her benefit. (see california rules of court, rule 8.200(a)(5); people v. smith (1970) 4 cal.app.3d 41, 44.) accordingl (people v. smith, supra, 4 cal.app.3d at p. 44.) we will clarify the scope of our analyses as necessary throughout. i. defendant gonzalez defendant gonzalez contends that several instances of improper conduct by his counsel, the prosecutor, and the court deprived him of a fair trial. for the reasons explained below, we disagree and affirm his convictions. a. ineffective assistance of counsel gonzalez contends that he was denied his state and federal constitutional rights to effective counsel because his privately retained counsel, natalie dodson, suffered from actual conflicts of interest that caused her to place her own interests above his. according to gonzalez, these alleged conflicts consisted of protect her own professional reputation and avoid criminal prosecution under section 1045.2, subdivision (a). gonzalez argues that these conflicts trial in a variety of ways. after his preliminary hearing and that [sic] thereafter, as her actual conflict compromised her ability to effectively represent appellant, should have asked to be relieved due to her gonzalez further contends that 23 dodson concealed from him the true extent of her conflicts, which prevented him from making a timely motion to discharge her. 1. background a. fee arrangement gonzalez retained dodson at some point prior to the initial preliminary hearing in october 2010.7 dodson represented gonzalez from the time of that first preliminary hearing through his sentencing in june 2013. the terms of their fee arrangement and representation agreement are not in the record. however, dodson did make two relevant comments on the record, outside the presence of the jury, toward the end of the three-month trial. on another, during a hearing to show cause for her untimely arrival at trial one day, dodson stated tha the court sanctioned dodson $250 for her tardiness. b. disclosure of witness names to cortez was a prosecution witness at the second preliminary hearing and at trial. cortez attended but did not testify at the first preliminary hearing. immediately upon taking the stand at the second preliminary hearing, cortez testified that dodson had given her documents related to the case. including those of alexis garcia and defendant rangel, and cortez testified that she had relayed to gonzalez the names of individuals who made statements about him. section 7 the people initially charged gonzalez, rodriguez, and rangel in 2010. defendant adame, who had fled to mexico, was not charged in the initial information. after adame was apprehended, the people dismissed the first information and re-filed the case against all four defendants in 2011. 24 number of a victim or witness whose name is disclosed to the attorney pursuant to the lead prosecutor, tannaz mokayef, noted that agreed with flanagan that a hearing might be warranted. the court asked dodson to consider over the lunch hour whether there was any reason that the preliminary hearing could not proceed. none of the defendants was present when the hearing reconvened after lunch. no one objected to their absence or requested their presence, and the court heard argument in their absence. flanagan expressed concern that dodson could become a witness in the case tes a he emphasized orney, because she would need to clarify when she gave the reports to cortez. brandt also she did not violate section 1054.2, subdivision (a), by providing improper information to information not from him but from the documents dodson shared with her. mokayef argued that cross-examining cortez should be sufficient to reveal the source of her information. mokayef also noted that it was not clear how detailed the documents were, whether they were redacted, or whether dodson engaged in any wrongdoing by sharing them with cortez.8 mokayef did not believe that the issue would affect the preliminary hearing. dodson 8 dodson maintained that the police reports she shared with cortez were redacted and did not contain any prohibited information. the documents are not in the record before us. we express no opinion as to whether the reports were redacted, whether section 1054.2, subdivision (a), was applicable, or whether dodson may have violated that or any other statute or rule by sharing documents with cortez. 25 declined to be heard on the issue. behalf of ms. rangel after the court ruled on the issue. the court ruled that the preliminary hearing could proceed. instead, it defendants returned to the courtroom, and the hearing proceeded. flanagan cross-examined cortez about her receipt of documents. cortez conceded formation she testified to came from gonzalez, the previous preliminary hearing, or the documents she received from dodson. she made similar concessions at trial. c. pretrial motion regarding disclosures to cortez at a pretrial hearing on the eve of trial, with defendants present, dodson made an oral motion pursuant to evidence code section 402. she informed the court (now eliminary hearing where ms. mokayef accused me of turning unredacted copies of the police report to my client, dodson represented that she had received only redacted copies of the reports and requested that no questions be al in the sense of trying to intimidate and get at witnesseswitnesses, and the way he knows of these witnesses is because he has been provided those witnesses by his attorney. mokayef further indicated that she planned to so that he can get the witnesses to pass out [sic], and then there is another recording where he actually talks about the witnesses to other people he has called, asking for them to get at the witnesses. 26 ]ot in mokayef suggested that she could say that cortez got the documents dodson said that was fine with her. the court accordingly ordered the people [o]r any potentially becoming a witness in the case. d. jailhouse recordings during trial, the people played several recordings of jailhouse conversations involving gonzalez. it is undisputed that transcripts of the recordings were provided to defense counsel in discovery. dodson did not file any pretrial motions to exclude the recordings. 9 one of the recordings contained a lengthy conversation involving danny perez, gonzalez, and various third parties. dodson objected to the recording on relevance grounds, well into the playing of the approximately 80-minute recording. she also objected that the tape was cumulative and a waste of time. the court overruled all of her objections and permitted the people to play the recording in its entirety. according to the transcript of the recording, gonzalez told an unidentified male bitch is hard to get a hold of. but i finally got a -ass - - later still, gonzalez and perez reached the following 9 dodson previously had made a motion under evidence code section 352 to exclude a conversation in which gonzalez and perez phone sex. the court ultimately permitted the people to introduce the fact that gonzalez and perez had a sexual 27 voicemail message: ed attorney natalie dodson, please leave me a message and i will call i [sic after the recording finished playing, dodson objected that it she also reiterated her objections that the recording was cumulative and irrelevant. the court disagreed. all of the taped calls gonzalez made during the three years he had been in custody, and noted that dodson responded that she did not know that the court would permit the people to play lengthy recordings in their entirety when only small portions were relevant. the court agreed with the court is the people also played for the jury several recorded conversations between gonzalez and cortez. dodson objected to the first recording as irrelevant, prejudicial, and cumulative, but only after part of it already had been played for the jury. the trial prejudicial under evidence code section 352. the jury consequently heard gonzalez say e could try to later during the call, gonzalez asked cortez if his - 28 dodson objected to the next recorded call before it was played, but the court overruled her objection on evidence code section 352 grounds. the jury thus heard gonzalez that bitch is smoked out. before the next tape was played, dodson asked f at sidebar, dodson complained that she had credibility with th she have already lost too much credibility, and if this tape is allowed to be played, i will the court indicated that it dodson that the negative, cumulative comments made by her client are really, at this the court accordingly ordered the people to redact several negative comments about dodson, the court also reiterated its earlier ruling that dodson was not to be mentioned by name as the source of the documents cortez received, even as flanagan his planned cross-examination of cortez. the court denied motion for mistrial ditional argument that dodson could become a witness if the the court cautioned counsel that it would not be entertaining further 402 motions in the middle of testimony. the court offered to hear any remaining 402 motions the next morning before the jury arrived. dodson advised the court that she had reviewed the e next morning. accordingly. the record does not reflect that any attorney took 29 offer to hear evidence code section 402 motions early the next morning; the transcript picks up at 9:30 a.m. with testimony from cortez. the following day, the people played a recording in which cortez and gonzalez visible tattoo he had gotten while in custody. your butt cheek or on your you-know-10 the jury also heard that cortez gave springsidebar, the court, the people, and dodson all agreed that it was unclear whom cortez and saimuch stuff, i think the d pretty much ineffective. the court stated for the dodson e. to discharge dodson the court took up that issue during a break later that day, the 43rd day of trial (including jury selection). have me as his lawyer any 10 the people stopped the recording at that point, which means, contrary to , the jury did not hear gonzalez state that dodson suggested she and gonzalez take a hiking trip together once she got him out of custody, said she loved l hyper and the unredacted transcripts were admitted into evidence, however. 30 to defend myself to the jury and my colleagues in this courtroom, as opposed to me to her full 100 percent, and i think she might hold it against me, and so would the jury. while you guys keep going to the back and doing sidebars, they are reading and laughing. you are in the back. even if it is off the record, they are still reading it. it is still in their hands. i think that is prejudicial and will affect me in -calling on the recordings did not render dodson ineffective. to say the to discharge dodson as untimely and likely to significantly prejudice him and unreasonably disrupt the trial. the court cited people v. ortiz (1990) 51 cal.3d 975 in support of its decision. the court also advised gonzalez that it had instructed the jury not to read the transcripts during sidebar, that it presumed the jury followed the instructioreading two days later, dodson put the following statement on the record outside the presence of the defendants and the jury: if i said that, i meant it in the context of i believe i had been prejudiced with the jury regarding the comments that mr. gonzalez said on the telephone, not that i felt like my lawyering or my strategies or my representation of him was ineffective. just that i felt i your comments were limited to the jury hearing the dodson agreed, and the court thanked her again for clarifying. f. cortez cross-examination during her cross-examination of cortez, dodson asked a series of questions about cortez denied ever discussing doing 31 anything illegal with the reports or setting up a story with the lawyer. she also agreed [cortez] receiving those reports [was] to flanagan also addressed the issue of the reports while cross-examining cortez. he asked cortez if it was correct that mr. process . . cortez affirmed the correctness of all these statements. gonzalez she also testified that she had observed the initial g. additional alleged instances of ineffective representation gonzalez characterizes five additional incidents as exemplary first, he notes that dodson asked one of the s gonzalez had been convicted - - mokayef interrupted dodson midsentence with an objection, and dodson explained in chambers that gonzalez never had been convicted of the court sustained 11 second, dodson opened her cross-examination of sergio abrego, who was in custody and wearing a prison-issued jumpsuit at the time he testified, by asking him, x-boyfriend for - - mokayef objected. orange jumpsuit for her ex- 11 we note that the jury already had heard evidence that gonzalez had at least one prior contact with the criminal justice system. during her direct examination of danny perez, mokayef asked perez where he met gonzalez, and perez 32 dodson apologized again and continued her cross-examination without further incident. third, dodson left offer of proof as to certain testimony he sought from alexis garcia. it is not clear from the record why dodson left. the short hearing, which was held at the end of the day outside the presence of the jury, continued without her. defense witnesses were unsuccessful, and she did not call the neighbor she originally suggested she would. the sole witness dodson ultimately called testified only that urrounded by a wooden fence and additionally had a chain-link fence in the back. nodding at the jury. to nod, she also stated that she thought it the court denied observing any other attorney 2. applicable law const., 6th amend.; cal. const., art. i,  15) include the right to effective legal assistance. when challenging a conviction on grounds of ineffective assistance, the defendant must to satisfy this burden, the defendant must first show reasonableness under prevailing professional norms. second, the defendant must show performance, the outcome of the proceeding would have been different. when 33 reasonable tactical decisions, and there is a presumption counsel acted within the wide range of reasonable professional assistance. it is particularly difficult to prevail on an appellate claim of ineffective assistance. on direct appeal, a conviction will be reversed for ineffective assistance only if (1) the record affirmatively discloses counsel had no rational tactical purpose for the challenged act or omission, (2) counsel was asked for a reason and failed to provide one, or (3) there simply could be no satisfactory explanation. all other claims of ineffective assistance are more appropriately resolved in a habeas corpus proceeding. (people v. mai (2013) 57 cal.4th 986, 1009 (mai).) the federal and state constitutional right to counsel in a criminal case also includes the right to representation free of conflicts of interest that may compromise the (e.g., glasser v. united states (1942) 315 u.s. 60, 69-70; people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 417 (doolin).) for both state and federal purposes, a claim of conflicted representation is one variety of claim that counsel provided ineffective assistance. hence, to obtain reversal of a criminal verdict, the defendant must demonstrate that (1) counsel labored under an actual conflict of interest that reasonably probable the result of the proceeding would have been different. (mickens v. taylor (2002) 535 u.s. 162, 166 (mickens); doolin, supra, 45 cal.4th at pp. 417-418, 421; see strickland v. washington (mai, supra, 57 cal.4th at pp. 1009-1010.) even where an attorney labors under an actual conflict of demonstrate deficient performance. (mickens, supra, 535 u.s. at p. 171.) additionally, prejudice is not presumed unless defense counsel was representing two or more defendants concurrently. (people v. almanza (2015) 233 cal.app.4th 990, 1006; doolin, supra, 45 cal.4th at pp. 428-429.) rest adversely affected but where a conflict of interest causes an attorney not to do something, the record may not reflect 34 such an omission. we must therefore examine the record to determine (i) whether arguments or actions omitted would likely have been made by counsel who did not have a conflict of interest, and (ii) whether there may have been a tactical reason (other than (people v. cox (2003) 30 cal.4th 916, 948- (doolin, supra (mai, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 1010.) essentially, we examine whether the alleged conflict she might have absent the conflict. (doolin, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 418.) ained counsel of choice issubject to certain limitationsguaranteed under the sixth amendment to the federal constitution. (u.s. v. gonzalez-lopez (2006) 548 u.s. 140, 144, 151-152; people v. ramirez (2006) 39 cal.4th 398, 422.) in california, this righattorney, but also his decision to discharge an attorney whom he hired but no longer (people v. ortiz (1990) 51 cal.3d 975, 983 (ortiz); see code civ. proc.,  284.) the right to discharge a retained attorney is, however, not absolute. (ortiz, [supra, 51 cal.3d] at p. 983.) the trial court has discretion to deny such a motion if discharge will result in significant prejudice to the defendant [citation], or if it is not timely, i.e., if it will result in disruption of the orderly processes of justice(ibid.; see u.s. v. gonzalez-lopez, [supra, 548 u.s.] at p. 152 [a trial court has wide latitude in balancing the right to counsel of choice against the needs of fairness and against the demands of its calendar].) (people v. verdugo (2010) 50 cal.4th 263, 310-311; see also people v. maciel (2013) 57 cal.4th 482, 512.) 3. analysis a. dodson did not have an actual conflict d counsel suffered from an actual conflict because she believed, whether correctly or not, that she could be called as a witness, that it was necessary for her to defend herself because the prosecutor had accused her of a crime and to do so admittedly put her own personal interest ahead of defending her client, and 35 because she had not been paid to do this trial she would not file 402 motions prior to trial reject these contentions. there is no evidence in the record that dodson at any time believed that she would be called as a witness. the trial . appear on any witness lists, flanagan successfully cross-examined cortez without calling dodson as a witness, and there is no indication that the people took any follow-up action on the potential section 1054.2 issue raised during the preliminary hearing. dodson explained that her comment about needing to defend herself which she made outside the presence of the jury pertained on the record before us, we are not persuaded that people v. ayala (2000) 23 cal.4th 225, 285), or that ethical duty to ask the court to relieve her as counsel in that there was a real probability the suggestion that intractable conflict is even less persuasive. as our supreme court has observed, [a]lmost any fee arrangement between attorney and client may give rise to a case on beyond the point of maximum benefit to the client. [] the contingent fee rney or the client needs a quick settlement while the others interest would be better served by pressing on in the hope of a greater recovery. infinite. fortunately most attorneys serve their clients honorably despite the opportunity (maxwell v. superior court (1982) 30 cal.3d 606, 618- (doolin, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 416.) 36 us on direct appeal rather than in a petition for habeas corpus, the record sheds little light on his fee arrangement with dodson. (see people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 1031.) we know only that dodson said she was and that she was the flat fee dodson allegedly received is minimal compensation for a trial of the magnitude and duration of a case such as thisit barely exceeds $100 per day of the trial. the relative lack of compensation alone does not give rise to an impermissible conflict of interest, however. (people v. castillo (1991) 233 cal.app.3d 36, 61-62.) more importantly, nothing in the record suggests that dodson was proceeding unwillingly. (see ortiz, supra, 51 cal.3d at p. 985.) to the contrary, she did not move to withdraw due to a lack of compensation, and insisted on persevering through trial even after enduring a vicious, disfiguring dog attack so serious that she was hospitalized and her doctor ordered her not to work for a week. b. gonzalez [a]was deficient and it is reasonably probable because we find that no actual conflict existed, we necessarily reject this argument. we also note that there is nothing in the briefs or the record linking the alleged conflicts to ient performance, let alone demonstrating that the alleged (doolin, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 423.) for instance, there is nothing to suggest that dodso purported fear of being called as a witness or her financial distress motivated her two most inappropriate actions, nodding at the jury and insulting witness abrego. even if there were performance, gonzaperformance, deficient or not, resulted in such prejudice to him that it is reasonably probable the result of the proceeding would have been different absent the alleged errors. 37 of counsel can be determined on the ground of lack of prejudice, a court need not decide whether counsel(in re crew (2011) 52 cal.4th 126, 150; people v. banks (2014) 59 cal.4th 1113, 1170, overruled in part by people v. scott (2015) 61 cal.4th 363, 391, fn. 3.) we take that approach here, noting that 12 performance nonetheless prejudiced him because civilian witness called by the prosecution was threatened by either law enforcement or the prosecutor, had a motive to lie and admitte although we agree with gonzalez that the physical evidence implicating him was minimal and that many of the witnesses had potential credibility problems, we cannot conclude on this record that there is a reasonable probability that the outcome would have been different absent relation to the substantive evidence against gonzalez, but that evidence also was strong and substantial. uncontroverted. each eyewitness, biased or not, told a story that generally hung together with those of the other witnesses, despite cross-examination by multiple defense attorneys. olvement in the march 15-16 shooting was corroborated by testimony from davalos, abrego, cortez, and reade. 12 recordings in which gonzalez disparaged her character constituted deficient performance, supports his contention that dodson did not review the tapes. to the contrary, dodson, an officer of the court (people v. palmer (2013) 58 cal.4th 110, 119), affirmatively represented twice that she had reviewed the transcripts. she indirectly made the same representation numerous times throughout the trial, both through statements demonstrating knowledge of their contents and by moving to exclude certain portions of them. 38 three victims of the march 23 incident gave accounts found corroborecorded jailhouse discussion of alibis. 24 incident also lined up with the testimony of officer huntand davalos. on this record, we are satisfied that there is no reasonable probability that the verdict would have been different had dodson not harbored alleged conflicts of interest. c. the trial court properly denied counsel alleged conflicts of interest. he claims that he hearing or just prior to trial that there was a conflict of interest which would cause his the implication is that if he h and obtained alternative counsel in a more timely fashion, at the pretrial conference on november 26, 2012, rather than waiting until the 43rd day of trial to try to discharge dodson. we reject these contentions. as discussed above, dodson was not laboring under an actual conflict of interest. but even if she wereabsence from a single sidebar conference memorialized in roughly 10 pages of transcript deprived him of the knowledge needed to make a timely request to obtain new counsel. to consider whether to remove his counsel for conflict of interest or any other reason, (people v. perry (2006) 38 cal.4th 302, 313.) here, however, gonzalez was present when the potential conflict initially was raised, and was fully aware that dodson shared information with cortez at his request. he also was present during a pretrial hearing at which dodson addressed the issue and 39 attacks gonzalez has not explained, and we do not discern, why his knowledge of and presence at these events was insufficient to protect his rights. further, his eventual request to discharge purported conflicts of interest. rather, gonzalez complained about the negative comments that he made about dodson on the jailhouse recordings and expressed concern gonzalez, who made the disparaging comments in the first place, cannot plausibly claim he had no knowledge of them until 43 days into the trial. nor can he claim that a motion made on the eve of trial necessarily would have been timely. motion i ([people v. ortiz (1990) 51 cal.3d 975, 983]; see u.s. v. gonzalez-lopez, [supra (people v. verdugo, supra, 50 cal.4th at pp. 310-311.) our supreme court recently held that a motion made six weeks prior to trial may be untimely, where, as here, (people v. maciel, supra, 57 cal.4th at pp. 512-513.) accordingly, we do not conclude that the trial court abused its discretion by deeming untimely a motion made more than a month into trial. b. prosecutorial misconduct saresulting convictions constitute a denial of federal due process.13 he identifies several 13 under state law, a prosecutor who uses such methods commits misconduct even when those actions do not result in a (people v. williams (2013) 56 cal.4th 630, 671.) to demonstrate error under state law, a defendant must show that 40 ing asking improper questionsconduct order. gonzalez has forfeited many of these claims because he did not raise proper objections at trial. as to the two claims that may be considered on appeal, we conclude that no misconduct occurred. 1. alleged instances of misconduct a. withholding of information to gain unfair advantage as discussed above, dodson orally moved to exclude mention of her name in connection with the transmission of documents to cortez. prosecutor mokayef offered to dodson agreed. mokayef did noon two of the tapes she intended to play to the jury nor did she redact these references on later, when the tapes were played, the court ordered the people to redact several negative comments about dodson after finding them to be cumulative and prejudicial. b. head shaving on the second day of voir dire, gonzalez was brought to court with his head shaved. a four- or five-inch tattoo of the wof his head. and moved for a continuance based on the prejudice that could result from his appearance before prospective jurors with his head shaved and tattoo visible. disabatino and flanagan joined the motion on the basis of prejudice to their clients, rangel and adame. mokayef opposed the motion, but defendant would have been reached without the misconduct. (people v. davis (2009) 46 cal.4th 539, 612.) we do not consider whether the alleged misconduct here may have violated state law because gonzalez does not argue that the alleged prosecutorial misconduct violated any of his rights under state law, or that it is reasonably probable that a different result would have been reached absent the misconduct. 41 the court denied the continuance. it explained that it was bringing jurors in one at a time that day and would ensure that they entered from the other side of the room so as dodson argued that solution was unsatisfactory because his shaved head alone could cause gonzalez prejudice. she proposed that gonzalez waive his appearance until his hair grew out. mokayef lodged a standing objection on the that request could have been made the court accepted h regards to gonzalez did not return to court until january 2, 2013, 11 trial days later. c. improper questions gonzalez identifies three instances of questioning as improper. the brandt objected to the question on vagueness grounds. even though the court overruled the objection, mokayef moved on to another question before officer rodriguez could answer. gonzalez contends that the question only was found on a le the single record citation he offers does not support that contention. he did not seek an offer of proof or other justification for the query at the time it was posed. zalez points is an exchange between mokayef and danny perez. after perez answered several the courtroom and speaking with dodson. when perez answered yes, mokayef asked, - - perez said, no counsel 42 objected to any portion of this exchange, and dodson revisited the topic with perez during cross-examination. gonzalez contends that mokayef did not have a good faith f allegedly improper questioning involves a colloquy we include the challenged exchange14 with witness erick davalos in full: [mokayef]: after you went to brotman hospital and after the next day when you had seen darky and darky and defendant gonzalez got out of the car and you heard shooting - - so after march 24, 2010, did you see defendant gonzalez again, other than in court? out on the streets, did you see defendant gonzalez again? [davalos]: march 26. [mokayef]: okay. where did you see him on march 26? [davalos]: at emergency. [mokayef]: at a hospital? [davalos]: emergency. [mokayef]: at emergency? [davalos]: at emergency. [mokayef]: at the murder scene.[15] [davalos]: when he killed - - at a murder scene on pierce and laurel canyon. at a murder scene on pierce and laurel canyon. 14 defendant adame also challenges the denial of his mistrial motion prompted by this exchange. (see post.) 15 two slightly different versions of this exchange appear in the transcript. in the first, which we have included here because it is the contemporaneously recorded rather than read-back version, the record reflects that mokayef was the first to speak the phrase the second version, which the court read into the record at a 402 the form of a question. 43 [mokayef]: at a murder scene on pierce and laurel canyon? why do you call that a murder scene? davalos: mokayef: are you referring to sebastian calderon? davalos: yes. flanagan: can we approach on this? the court: in chambers, mokay she claimed that she did not know that davalos was going to say what he did he saw mr. gonzalez on the 26th mokayef further explained that she asked davalos about gonzalegonzalez and adame fled to mexico shortly after the charged incidents. all four defendants moved for a mistrial, which the court denied. the court ordered all counsel to refrain from asking davalos further questions about march 26, and mokayef resumed her examination by asking if davalos knew whether gonzalez left the country. later, at a 402 hearing on the issue, davalos said he did not know who killed including gonzalez, around the body. defendants again moved for a mistrial, which the court denied. the court explained that a invitation to reopen cross-examination of davalos to clarify that he was not referring to any of the defendants. redirect examination of davalos, 11 transcript pages after the mention of the murder scene. the court admonished: previously and we came back. i forgot to tell you. the answer the witness gave is stricken from the record, and you are not to consider that. that was the answer given to the last question before we took a sidebar regarding march 26. 44 from [sic] the jury and stric d. violations conduct order counse the order itself is not in the record. partway through trial, the court admonished all counsel, with the exception of second-chair prosecutor hilary williams, at that time, the court reminded counsel to refrain from interrupting one another and making speaking objections of more gonzalez contends that mokayef willfully numerous the first cluster of examples inthe court and other counsel. for instance, after brandt requested that the court conduct order, mokayef responded, have counsel here say those orders are ridiculous when things are being taken out of order, out of context. ated, in-chambers debate over the admissibility of certain done that. stop. that is the court in the presence of a juror who was being questioned after apparently falling asleep in court, mokayef to question the juror. finally, mokayef accused both flanagan (outside the presence of gonzalez also contends that mokayef violated the order numerous times by making speaking objections. at least one of the speaking objections interrupted 45 -examination of a witness. the final two instances of alleged misconduct involve mokayef okayef, and straying from the lectern during her direct examination of danny perez. 2. applicable law he standards governing review of misconduct claims are settled. who uses deceptive or reprehensible methods to persuade the jury commits misconduct, and such actions require reversal under the federal constitution when they infect the trial (darden v. wainwright (1986) 477 u.s. 168, 181; see people v. cash (2002) 28 cal.4th 703, 733.) . . . . in order to preserve a claim of misconduct, a defendant must make a timely objection and request an admonition; only if an admonition would not have cured the harm is the claim of misconduct preserved for review [citation.] (people v. williams, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 671.) failure to object also may be excused if an objection would be futile. (people v. clark (2011) 52 cal.4th 856, 960.) 3. analysis a. most of the people contend that gonzalez failed to preserve his prosecutorial misconduct claims for review by failing to object at trial to virtually all of the conduct he now challenges. misconduct is deemed waived or forfeit[ed] on review under people v. clark[, supra,] 52 cal.4th [at p.] he also suggests that an we agree with the people that gonzalez has forfeited most, if not all, of his prosecutorial misconduct claims by failing to object and seek admonitions with regard to nduct at trial. the only cited incidents to which dodson 46 raised any objection were the head timony about the sebastian calderon murder. in both instances, she argued only that gonzalez was unfairly prejudiced. despite her failure to object on the precise grounds raised here, we nonetheless will reach the merit (people v. bonin (1988) 46 cal.3d 659, 689, overruled in part on other grounds by people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 823 fn.1.) no magic words are required to preserve the objection for appellate review (people v. ward (2009) 173 cal.app.4th 1518, 1527- efforts to obtain a continuance (in connection with the head shaving) and a mistrial (in connection with the calderon questioning) gave thher client. (people v. bonin, supra, 46 cal.3d at p. 689.) other incidents are forfeited, however. we are not persuaded ion that to object stemmed from her alleged conflicts, nor are we convinced that it constitutes further evidence of her inefficacy. conceivable objection. litigation is a series of tactical choices about which there are no (people v. anzalone (2006) 141 cal.app.4th 380, 394-395.) dodson (and the other defense counsel) may well ha best interest for her to continually behavior, particularly where the court co-prosecutor engaged in improper conduct at some point during the months-long trial. to mokayefwould have been futile. the court admonished mokayef and defense counsel alike for violating the conduct order,16 and 16 gonzalez did not identify these comments as potential misconduct, so we do not consider them here. we note only (1) that people v. pigage generally is 47 there is nothing in the record to suggest that the court would have declined a request to do so at the identified junctures. b. the head-shaving incident cannot be attributed to the prosecution we need not decide whether gonzalez waived his right to challenge the head-shaving incident by executing a written waiver of his right to appear during jury selection, because his claim of prosecutorial misconduct cannot succeed even if it is not waived. rather than asking for a court order, ms. mokayef directed the he further asserts this on its own,s needed to be exposed and where it was, and these speculative contentions cannot carry the day. nothing in the record suggests, even inferentially, that mokayef (or co-prosecutor .17 the absence of a in [the head (people v. jacinto (2010) 49 cal.4th 263, 270-271.) department was no more than the custodian of [defendant gonzalez.] in this case, it was not part of the frowned upon (ibid.ibid.) [from all counsel] smith v. superior court of los angeles county (1968) 68 cal.2d 547, 558) is indicative of good judicial temperament. (id.; people v. pigage, supra, 112 cal.app.4th at p. 1374-1375.) 17 head-shavi the record does not reflect whether any such report was ordered or, if it was, what it showed. 48 (id. at p. 271.) accordingly, we conclude that the head-shaving incident did not constitute prosecutorial misconduct. c. the testimony about the calderon murder was not the result of improper questioning mony that appellant was involved although we are troublebefore us that it is attributable to improper questioning by mokayef. [citat[citation.] such misconduct is exacerbated if the prosecutor continues to elicit such evidence after defense counsel has objected (people v. smithey (1999) 20 cal.4th 936, 960.) nonresponsive answer that the prosecutor neither solicited nor could have anticipated. (people v. valdez (people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 1035; see also people v. harris prosecutor knows here, there is no indication that mokayef intentionally elicited the testimony that mokayef informed the court in chambers that even know that davalos, who had not been interviewed by police in connection with the calderon murder, was present at the calderon murder scene. into doubt, mokayef further clarified, consistently, that she had been attempting to elicit davalos, a potential accomplice to the charged crimes. the trial court appears to have credited specific date when she initiated the line of questioning. we further note that 49 davalos would say.18 gonzalez acknowledges explanations, which were made in her capacity as an officer of the court, but, like flanagan did at trial, suggests they were disingenuous. the mere suggestion of impropriety, however, does little to refute the record evidence that mokayef did not anticipate or affirmatively solicit the contested calderon murder with davalos or any other witness, and did not raise the matter during argument, which further demonstrates that she was not inadmissible evidence or prejudice defendants. gonzalez also contends that the trial court was ineffective at remedying any we disagree. the trial court promptly held an in-chambers conference about the testimony, at which it prohibited all counsel from further mentioning any murders aside from those charged. the court subsequently instructed the jury not to consider and struck from the record what it appeared to believe was the offending testimony. although both gonzalez and adame now contend, rightly, that the court failed to strike the most troubling portion of sought clarificattrial. s invitation to reopen cross-examination of davalos after the 402 hearing. they accordingly have forfeited any claim of error stemming from th 18 the record reflects that the court and counsel had difficulty hearing and understanding davalos throughout his testimony because he was chewing gum, speaking softly, and not speaking into the microphone. this further suggestrepetition of not contrivances or machinations but rather genuine indications of an inability to hear or understand davalos. 50 c. judicial error denied him the fair trial to which he is entitled under the united states constitution. we are not persuaded that any of the incidents gonzalez identifies, individually or cumulatively, constituted judicial misconduct or deprived him of a fair trial. 1. alleged judicial errors a. denial of continuance based on head shaving as described above, gonzalez came to court on the second day of voir dire with his head shaved and a large tattoo of the word the court denied his motion to continue on the grounds that gonzalez would not be prejudiced because the potential jurors would not be able to see the tattoo. he subsequently executed a waiver of his right to be present for jury selection, which he claims he was forced to do to prevent the violation of his fourteenth amendment right to appear before the jury in civilian attire. b. during the voir dire of potential alternate jurors, in front of the seated jurors, prospective juror no. 26 juror in 1989. prospective juror no. 26 explained that the defense attorney at the previous trial was indicted by a grand jury for his actions during the trial. the defense attorney was convicted and sentenced to three years in prison, although his conviction was overturned on appeal. prospective juror no. 26 nonetheless viewed that attorney as a -he had nhis case. all counsel stipulated to excuse prospective juror no. 26 for cause. 51 two days later, the people asked their first witness, gang expert officer rodolfo l the ladies and gentlemen of the jury a little bit about the concept of he further stated that the flanagan, moved for a mistrial on the grounds that officer character already had been impugned by prospective juror no. 26. counsel for the other flanagan, brandt, and disabatino indicated that they had never, in their many years of experience as criminal defense attorneys, the court denied the motion for mistrial on the grounds that it stopped questioning prospectsic it also held an evidence code section members attorneys. he did not have documentation and refused to disclose the names of the informants. close of the 402 hearing. c. inadequate courtroom security during the second week of testimony, six jurors and one alternate juror expressed concern that a male spectator wearing a pittsburgh steelers hat may have been taking photographs with an iphone during trial. the court indicated that it remembered seeing the spectator with the phone but did not see him point it toward the jurors or anywhere else in the courtroom. concerns and informed the jurors that it was going to order the matter investigated. happened, can you put that aside and continue to be objective and keep an open mind and 52 be fair in this all of them responded affirmatively. because the affected jurors also indicated that they had discussed the matter with the other members of the jury, the court posed substantively the same question to the remaining jurors and alternates. all of them stated they could continue to be fair. flanagan reserved and subsequently made a motion for mistrial, which counsel for all defendants joined. steelers hat, the jurors may have concluded that the spectator was a gang member and out of fear would be unable to remain impartial. the court denied the motion. d. biased enforcement of courtroom rules ma 2. analysis a. the court properly denied the motion for continuance [citation.] [citation.] so arbitrary as to violate due process. the answer must be found in the circumstances present in every case, particularly in the reasons presented to the trial judge at the time the requ (people v. mungia (2008) 44 cal.4th 1101, 1118.) abuse of discretion, and an order denying a continuance is seldom successfully attacked. [citation.] [] under this state law standard, discretion is abused only when the court exceeds the bounds of reason, all circumstances being considered. (people v. beames (people v. hajek (2014) 58 cal.4th 1144, 1181.) 53 wrefusal to grant a continuance to . the possi- - where the tattoo the court thus implicitly concluded that the mitigated risk of prejudice to gonzalez was outweighed by the detriments associated with certain delay that would affect all participants in the trial if a continuance were granted. balancing of these competing interests was reasonable and well within its discretion, particularly since there was no evidence that the people were responsible for the head-shaving and the we also that the court erred by forcing him into the unenviable dilemma of waiving one constitutional right to protect another. first, it is not clear that gonzalez had a constitutional right to attend court wearing a particular hairstyle. though it is well-fourteenth amendment, compel an accused to stand trial before a jury while dressed in estelle v. williams (1976) 425 u.s. 501, 512), gonzalez has not pointed to a single case holding that a defendant may not be compelled to stand trial with a shaved head. a shaved or bald head particularly when the tattoos it displays are concealed from the jury is not itself a badge of custody, gang membership, or guilt. second, even if there were such a right, it was waivable (people v. taylor (1982) 31 cal.3d 488, 495) and was waived in this case. gonzalez signed a written waiver of his right to appear for jury selection and to appeal that waiver, in compliance with section 977, subdivision (b), and the court engaged him in a colloquy before accepting the waiver. there is no evidence that the court forced or even encouraged gonzalez to waive his appearance, or that the waiver was made involuntarily. the court expressly informed gonzalez that his right to appeal the waiver of appearancewhich he also waived[sicreserved. 54 b. incurable by admonition or instruction. [citation.] whether a particular incident is incurably prejudicial is by its nature a speculative matter, and the trial court is vested with [citation.] a motion for a mishave been irreparably damaged. [citation.] although most cases involve prosecutorial or provide the basis for a finding of incurable prejudice. [citation.] (people v. dement (2011) 53 cal.4th 1, 39-40.) the trial court did not abuse its discretion or otherwise err in denying the motion the testimony did not, as gonzalez and adame suggest, degrading statements about defense attorneys. occurred on the morning of january 7, 2013, two full days before testimony on the morning of january 9, 2013. even if these statements about defense attorneys had been closer in time to one another, there is no indication that the a fair trial. prospective juror no. the jury, and we accordingly presume the jury did not consider them when determining (people v. jackson (2014) 58 cal.4th 724, 767.) we also cannot conclude that any minimal prejudice to defendants resulting from those statements or testimony officer itly impugn the integrity of the defense attorneys in this case. to the contrary, officer rodriguez testified at least twice that he this testimony, as flanagan acknowledged during trial, mitigated the risk of the jury drawing a prejudicial inference from his earlier, more general testimony. 55 we similarly conclude that the court did not err in denying motion to strike the testimony from the record as irrelevant. d motive for the march 23, 2010 shooting incident: that the victims were attacked because they defendants. people v. riccardi (2012) 54 cal.4th 758, 815), and the background evidence co the court accordingly did not err in declining to strike the testimony from the record. c. courtroom security was not inadequate gonzalez contends that the court erred by not implementing measures to ensure that devices capable of photography were not taken into the courtroom. we disagree. discretion. [citation.] (people v. lomax (2010) 49 cal.4th 530, 558.) we discern no approach to courtroom security. the court established ness the bailiffs were to provide the rules to spectators, whose names would be recorded under seal. the record reflects that the court enforced these rules throughout the trial. the fact that one spectator may have circumvented the rules by bringing in an iphone and rt should have their i.d. checked and noted, each being told to keep their cell phones in their pockets otherwise they will be seized and not returned, and that they were to remove all hats or no security measure is 100 percent lly would have prevented the 56 under the circumstances. so too was the courectator. indicated that it would take steps to investigate the matter. (see people v. mendoza (2011) 52 cal.4th the court also responded to concerns about prejudice: it asked all of the jurors whether they could remain objective and fair. all of the jurors responded affirmatively. the trial court found these representations satisfactory, and so do we. [w]e cannot, as a general matter, simply assurances of his impartiality based on a cynical view of the human propensity for self-justification. (people v. rountree (2013) 56 cal.4th 823, 841.) gonzalez has not identified any reason for us to doubt the veracity of de that the conclude that the spectator issue did not cloud their perception of the evidence or foster d. the court did not exhibit bias against gonzalez like all criminal defendants, gonzalez had a due process right to an impartial judge under the state and federal constitutions. (people v. guerra (2006) 37 cal.4th 1067, 1111, disapproved on another point in people v. rundle (2008) 43 cal.4th 76, 151.) tribunal before a judge with no actual bias against the defendant or interest in the (guerra at p. 1111.) based on actual observation of the witnesses and evidence in the courtroom do not (ibid.) even when erroneous do not establish a charge of judicial bias, especially when they are 57 (id. the presentation of evidunnecessarily usurp[ed] the duties of the prosecutor . . . and in so doing create[d] the (people v. harris, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. have been better left unsaid. was so prejudicial that it denied [the defendant] a fair, as opposed to a perfect, trial. (ibid.) to preserve the issue for review, a defendant must object to the alleged instances of bias or seek a jury admonition regarding the alleged judicial intemperance. (people v. snow (2003) 30 cal.4th 43, 78.) here, we need not decide whether gonzalez properly preserved his claim of judicial bias because the record does not reflect that the judge was biased against him or any of the other defendants. although it is true that the court on occasion refrained from reprimanding mokayef for making speaking objections or otherwise deviating from its conduct order, gonzalez neglects to note instances in which the court overlooked similar transgressions by defense counsel. just as a numerical tally of objections sustained or overruled that favors one party does not itself establish bias (united states v. pisani (2d cir. 1985) 773 f.2d 397, 402), a simple numerical tally of reprimands during the course of a months-long trial is not alone indicative of bias. friction between court and counsel, while not desirable, are virtually inevitable in a long people v. snow, supra, 30 cal.4th at pp. 78-79), and the coadmonishments of counsel strike us as par for the course. evidentiary rulings regarding the jailhouse recordings. although the court overruled he tapes, it granted her request to prohibit mention of her name in connection with the delivery of documents to cortez, and also required the people to redact certain derogatory statements contained in the recordings. examined as a whole rather than in p58 tapes appear evenhanded. objections during the playing of the tapes despite its numerous reminders that these sorts of objections should have been made earlier further negates the suggestion that the judge (people v. harris, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 347.) ii. defendant adame defendant adame challenges both his convictions and his sentence. as to the denial of his mistrial motions deprived him of a fair trial. he also specifically challenges his conviction for the attempted murder of miguel castro (count 4) on the grounds that the court incorrectly instructed the jury that he could be convicted . as to his sentence, adame argues that the trial court improperly imposed multiple enhancements for the same firearm use and infliction of great bodily injury, and that the abstract of judgment must be corrected sentence. for the reasons explained below, we enhancements. we agree with adame (and the people) however, that the abstract of judgment and accordingly direct the trial court to correct the abstract of judgment by ordering the enhancements imposed pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (d), on counts 2 and 3 stayed. a. the trial court did not abuse its discretion by mistrial motions like gonzalez, adame contends that he was incurably prejudiced by the volunteered testimony of two witnesses: officer rodriguez, who testified that gangs use ante, discussion, subd. (i)(c)(1)(b)), and erick (see ante, discussion, subd. (i)(c)(1)(b).) adame moved for mistrial in connection with both of these incidents, but the trial court denied his motions. he now argues that the trial court abused its discretion 59 when it denied his mistrial motions and that he was prejudiced and deprived a fair trial as a result. we find no abuse of discretion and affirm. prejudice that it judges incurable by admonition or instruction. [citation.] whether a particular incident is incurably prejudicial is by its nature a speculative matter, and the [citation.] a motion for a mistrial should be granted when receiving a fair trial have been irreparably damaged. [citation.] although most volunteered statement can also provide the basis for a finding of incurable prejudice. (people v. dement, supra, 53 cal.4th at pp. 39-40.) for the same reasons discussed above (ante, discussion, subd. (i)(c)(2)(b)), we conclude that the trial court did not abuse its discretion by denying the mistrial motion we likewise conclude that the trial court did not abuse its discretion by denying calderon murder scene. we adopt and reiterate here our previous discussion concerning the calderon murder testimony (ante, discussion, subd. (i)(b)(3)(c)), in particular our observation that adame did not object to, seek clarification of, or propose an alternative to what he now contends was a faulty and ineffectual curative instruction by the trial court. as adame acknowledges, curative instructions to disregard improper testimony ordinarily are sufficient to protect defendants from the injury associated with the admission of such testimony (people v. navarrete (2010) 181 cal.app.4th 828, 834), and we are not convinced that the testimony about the calderon murder scene, which did not directly refer to or inculpate adame, warrants an exception to this general rule. nor are we persuaded that the jury , which was prompted by a query about gonza whereabouts, that adame some way responsible for the murder on march 26, 2010 adame is correct that the or at least 60 attempted to do soindeed, it is the overwhelming nature of the evidence against him that undermines his claim of irreparable prejudicebut the jury also heard evidence that gonzalez acted alone in shooting edwin henriquez. adame was not an omnipresent moreover, adame learned at sidebar that davalos did n, but elected not to apprise the jury of that information. in light of all of these circumstances, it was not an abuse of discretion for b. the challenge to calcrim no. 600 is forfeited and would not be successful if properly preserved adame next contends that the trial court incorrectly instructed the jury with a modified version of calcrim no. 600 such that he may have been found guilty of the attempted murder of miguel castro (count 4) based upon gonzalehis own. we disagree and affirm his conviction on count 4. 1. background in count 4 of the information, adame and the other defendants were charged with the attempted premeditated murder of miguel castro, who drove sergio abrego to meet in the early hours of march 16, 2010. explicit intention to kill or injure castro. instead, they sought to convict defendants under the ich as a means of killing a targeted individual, to kill everyone in the area in which the targeted individual is (people v. mccloud (2012) 211 cal.app.4th 788, 802 fn. 6 [emphasis in original].) the people thus accurately characterized the kill zone theory in their closing argument when they told the jury that kill sergio abrego; and they were going to take him out, no matter how or who was with (see people v. bland (2002) 28 cal.4th 313, 329-330.) the people also argued in lacked the requisite specific intent, none of the defendants objected to these arguments. 61 tions on aiding and abetting (calcrim nos. 400, 401, and 403), or the specific instruction adame challenges here, a modified version of calcrim no. 600 which included a discussion of the kill zone theory19 and specific victim or victims and at the same time intend to kill everyone in a particular zone in order to convict a [sic] defendants gonzalez, adame, rodriguez and rangel, of the attempted murder of sergio abrego as charged in count 2 and of attempted murder of miguel angel castro, as charged in count 4, the people must prove that the defendants or a principal, not only intended kill to [sic] sergio abrego, but also either intended to kill miguel angel castro as charged in count 4, or that the defendants or a principal, intended to kill everyone within the kill zone. if you have a reasonable doubt whether the defendants [sic] intended to kill sergio abrego and miguel angel castro by killing everyone in the kill zone, then you must find the defendant not guilty of the attempted murder of sergio abrego and of the attempted murder of miguel notably, the court sua sponte raised the issue of abetting theory on that nadded language or more generally to the concurrent use of the aiding and abetting and kill zone theories. 19 the jury may draw in a people v. bland, supra, 28 cal.4th at p. 331 fn. 6; see also people v. stone (2009) 46 cal.4th 131, 137-138; people v. smith (2005) 37 cal.4th 733, 746.) impossible for a trial court to commit error, much less prejudic (people v. mccloud, supra, 211 cal.app.4th at p. 803 [emphasis in original].) it is possible, however, for a trial court to err by delivering a kill zone instruction; division 1 of this district recently held that a trial court committed prejudicial error by delivering the caljic instruction on the kill zone theory, caljic no. 8.66.1. (people v. sek (2015) 235 cal.app.4th 1388.) 62 interpof the attempted murder of castro canterbury and fillmore [sic] adame does not broadly challenge the concurrent use of both the aiding and abetting and kill zone theories; to the contrary, he suggests that it was proper for the jury to find that rodriguez and rangel derived their intent to kill castro from gonzalez.20 the problem in his view stems from the instrcategory into which he claims he does not fall because the people did not expressly characterize him as an aider or abettor. 2. analysis to the modification of calcrim no. 600 is forfeited because he did not request a clarification instruction. may not complain on appeal that an instruction correct in law and responsive to the evidence was too general or incomplete unless the party has requested appropriate [citation.] (people v. hudson (2006) 38 cal.4th 1002, 1011-1012.) gmake it clear that only to a defen adame urges that his challenge is exempt from this general rule because the instruction incorrectly stated the law (people v. hudson, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 1012) and failed to adequately apprise the jury of all elements of the charged offense (people v. flood (1998) 18 cal.4th 470, 481). we are not persuaded. the court instructed the jury 20 rodriguez and rangel do not dispute this suggestion or otherwise challenge their convictions on count 4 on this basis. the people likewise appear to assume and indeed, argued at trial we accordingly are not presented with a challenge to and do not consider the correctness of this fundamental premise. 63 ive to prove the defendants guilty of attempted murder. (calcrim no. 600.) the jury thus correctly was apprised of the elements of the charged crime (people v. houston (2012) 54 cal.4th 1186, 1217) and we note that neither adame nor any of the other defendants contend that the instruction was improper as to the other seven counts of attempted murder. the court also accurately instructed the jury on the principles of aiding and abetting liability. (people v. smith (2014) 60 cal.4th 603, 616; calcrim nos. 400, 401). adame acknowledges, and we agree, ructions applied argument is not evidence and the theories suggested are not the exclusive theories that (people v. perez (1992) 2 cal.4th 1117, 1126.) jury should not be constrained by the fact that the prosecution and the defense have chosen to focus on cert (people v. barton (1995) 12 cal.4th 186, 203.) applying these principles, we do not sfocus their aiding and abetting argument specifically on adame rendered that instruction or the instructions as a whole (people v. lucas (2014) 60 cal.4th 153, 282, 287, disapproved by people v. romero and self (2015) 62 cal.4th 1, 53, fn. 19) incorrect or inadequate. in other words, the jurors were free to apply what the parties agree was a legally correct it. the evidence here did warrant it. the evidence showed adame was the driver of a vehicle from which a barrage of gunshots was fired at a van containing a rival gang member lured to the scene. even if, as adame vehicle and therefore likely fired fewer gunsevidence amply supports the conclusion that adame was fully aware of what gonzalez was doing and aided as gonzalez riddled 64 demonstrative of a concurrent intent to kill everyone inside it. (people v. bland, supra, 28 cal.4th at pp. 330-331; people v. carrasco (2014) 59 cal.4th 924, 968-969 [discussing aiding and abetting liability].) moreover, the purported instructional error was harmless, even if it did omit or misdescribe an element of the charged offense. (see people v. flood, supra, 18 cal.4th at pp. 487, 490 [misdirection of the jury], including incorrect, ambiguous, conflicting, or wrongly omitted instructions that do not amount to federal constitutional error, are reviewed under the harmless error standard set forth in people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836; people v. mil (2012) 53 cal.4th 400, 409 [test articulated in chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 applies if jury instructions omit an essential element of the offense].) the evidence overwhelmingly supported a finding that adame himself harbored the specific intent to kill everyone in aich is underscored by the adame does not dispute that he drove to a designated meeting with a rival gang member, and personally shot large caliber bullets at an at close range, eventually rendering the van disabled. (see people v. smith, supradischarged a lethal firearm at the victims, both of whom were seated in the vehicle, one behind the other, with each directly in his line of fire, can support an inference that he act c. the court properly imposed and stayed enhancements for firearm use and great bodily injury on counts 11-15 adame next argues that the trial court should not have imposed and stayed the sentencing enhancement for great bodily injury ( 12022.7, subd.(a)) on counts 11, 12, and 14, or the sentencing enhancement for the use of a firearm ( 12022.5) on counts 13 and 15. citing people v. rodriguez (2009) 47 cal.4th 501, 508-509 (rodriguez), and people v. gonzalez (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 1325, 1332, adame contends that the court violated section 1170, subdivisions (f) and (g) by double counting the enhancements: using them once to render his convictions on counts 11-65 enhancements a second time to further enhance his punishment. he argues that section 1170.1, subdivisions (f) and (g) authorized the court tapplicable enhancements, which in this case was the ten-year enhancement for committing a violent felony for the benefit of a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)). for the reasons that we explain below, we conclude that section 1170.1, subdivisions (f) and (g) prohibit imposing and executing duplicative sentence enhancements based on firearm use or great bodily injury. here, the court imposed and stayed the contested enhancements and accordingly did not violate section 1170.1, subdivisions (f) and (g). 1. background in counts 11-15, adame was charged with assault with a semiautomatic firearm ( 245, subd. (b)) in connection with the march 23, 2010 shootings near pinney street and pala avenue. the jury returned a guilty verdict on all five of these counts. the jury also found true for all five counts the special allegations that adame personally used a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.5, subdivisions (a) and (d), and committed the offenses for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further and assist in criminal conduct by gang members within the meaning of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c). with respect to counts 11, 12, and 14, the jury also found true the special allegation that adame personally inflicted great bodily injury section 12022.7, subdivision (a). after the jury trial, the court found that adame suffered a prior strike conviction. the trial court sentenced adame identically on counts 11, 12, and 14. the trial court imposed a base term of 12 years for each count, derived by imposing the midterm of six the court imposed an additional and consecutive midterm sentence of six years on each of these counts for conse66 , subd. (b)(1)(c)), and then imposed and stayed the three-year enhancement for great bod, which prohibits multiple use of the same enhancements thus, adame received a total of 28 years on each of counts 11, 12, and 14, plus an additional three years from the great bodily injury enhancement that were stayed. the court stayed the sentences on counts 11, 12, and 14 the court imposed aggregate sentences of 22 years on each of counts 13 and 15. the court imposed and doubled the midterm of six years, for a 12-year base term on each of these counts. to each 12-year base sentence, the court added an additional and consecutive term of 10 years for the gang allegation ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)) offense is a violent felony, due to the firearm enhancement under penal code section 12022.5. the court then imposed and stayed an additional and consecutive midterm of six years for use of a semiautomatic firearm firearm enhancements cannot be used twice under the limitation of multiple use of counts 13 and 15 pursuant to section 654, because they concerned the same act and victims as indeterminate counts 8 and 10. 2. analysis adame contends that the trial court violated section 1170.1, subdivisions (f) and (g), by imposing and staying the great bodily injury enhancements on counts 11, 12, and 14, and the firearm enhancements on counts 13 and 15. he argues that these enhancements enhan in other words, he punishment associated with the gang enhancement, ren applicable 67 enhancements, and could not impose (and stay) them again without violating section 1170.1, subdivisions (f) and (g). imposing two or more weapon enhancements for the same offense (subd. (f)) and two or more great-bodily- (people v. ahmed (2011) 53 cal.4th 156, 165.) section 1170.1, subdivision (f), provides: two or more enhancements may be imposed for being armed with or using a dangerous or deadly weapon or a firearm in the commission of a single offense, only the greatest of those enhancements shall be imposed for that offense. this subdivision shall not limit the imposition of any other enhancements applicable to that offense, including an similarly, section 1170.1, subdivision (g), provides: infliction of great bodily injury on the same victim in the commission of a single offense, only the greatest of those enhancements shall be imposed for that offense. this subdivision shall not limit the imposition of any other enhancements applicable to that offense, including an enhancement for being armed with or using a dangerous or deadly the supreme court explained the proper application of section 1170.1, subdivision (f) in rodriguez, supra, 47 cal.4th at pp. 508-509. in rodriguez, a jury found the defendant guilty of three counts of assault with a firearm and further found that he personally used a firearm ( 12022.5, subd. (a)) and committed the assaults to benefit a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)). (rodriguez, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 504.) the trial court relied upon the firearm findings to conclude that each assault was a the punishment associated with the gang enhancements from two-to-four years to 10 years ( 186.22, subds. (b)(1)(a), (b)(1)(c)). (rodriguez, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 505.) the trial court then imposed and executed both the firearm enhancements and the gang enhancements. (id. at p. 506.) the supreme court held that the double use of the enhancements violated section 1170.1, subdivision (f). (id. at p. 504.) the supreme 68 court noted that defendant became eligible for the 10-only section 12022.5 ( 667.5, subd. (c)(8)). (rodriguez, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 509.) ction because the firearm use was punished under two different sentence enhancement 10-year gang enhancement. (rodriguez, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 509.) the rodriguez of the section 12022.5 firearm enhancement violated section 1170.1, subdivision (f), and remanded the matter for resentencing to allow the trial court to restructure its sentencing choices. (ibid.) the court of appeal later applied rodriguez to conclude that imposition and execution of both a great bodily injury enhancement ( 12022.7, subd. (a)) and a 10-year gang enhancement based on the great bodily injury finding ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)) violated section 1170.1, subdivision (g). (people v. gonzalez, supra, 178 cal.app.4th at pp. 1327-1328, 1331-1332.) here, the assaults of which adame was convicted in counts 11-15 ( 245, subd. (b)) qualified as violent felonies subject to heightened 10-year gang enhancements only because the jury found true allegations of great bodily injury (counts 11, 12, and 14;  12022.7, subd. (a)) and personal use of a firearm (counts 13 and 15;  12022.5, subds. (a) and (d)). ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c).) accordingly, imposing and executing both the 10-year gang enhancement and the great bodily injury or firearm enhancements used to elevate the gang enhancement to 10 years would violate section 1170.1, subdivisions (f) or (g), under the reasoning and holdings of rodriguez and people v. gonzalez, supra, 178 cal.app.4th at pp. 1327-1328, 1331-1332. yet unlike those cases, in which the trial courts imposed and executed the firearm and great bodily injury enhancements, the trial court here imposed and stayed those enhancements (and, moreover, stayed the sentences on counts 11-15 completely under section 654). this is a critical difference in our view. 69 it appears to be a critical difference in the eyes of the supreme court as well. in people v. gonzalez (2008) 43 cal.4th 1118, 1122 (gonzalez), the supreme court than one enhancement per person is found true under this section, the court shall impose that the enhancements providing stayed or the gonzalez court concluded that the aremaining section 12022.53 firearm enhancements and any section 12022.5 firearm (gonzalez, 43 cal.4th at p. 1123.) the gonzalez court arrived at this conclusion by (id. at p. 1126.) accordingly, the gonzalez court ts that only one enhancement may be imposed and then executed per person for each crime, and allows a trial court to impose and then stay all other prohibited enhancements. (gonzalez, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 1127.) even though it did not rely upon california rules of court, rule 4.44721 in its analysis (id. at p. 1130), the gonzalez court also noted that the rationale underlying that rule and section 654 preservation of the possibility that a stayed portion of a sentence could be imposed if the unstayed portion is reversed on appeal also was served by its construction of section 12022.53, subdivision (f). (id. at pp. 1128-1129.) 21 an enhancement may be stricken or dismissed because imposition of the term either is prohibited by law or exceeds limitations on the imposition of multiple enhancements. the sentencing judge must impose sentence for the aggregate term of imprisonment computed without reference to those prohibitions and limitations, and must thereupon stay execution of so much of the term as is prohibited or exceeds the applicable limit. restrictions may prohibit or limit the imposition and cites among the exemplar statutory restrictions section 1170.1, subdivisions (f) and (g), and section 12022.53, subdivision (f). (advisory com. com., cal. rules of court, rule 4.447.) 70 recently, in people v. le (2015) 61 cal.4th 416 (le), the court applied the principles articulated in rodriguez while implicitly endorsing the impose-and-stay procedure articulated in gonzalez. in le, the defendant was convicted of assault with an automatic firearm ( 245, subd. (b)), and the jury found true allegations that the defendant personally used a firearm ( 12022.5, former subd. (a)(1)) and committed the offense for the benefit of a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)). (le, at p. 420.) rodriguez (id. at p. 421.) the trial corodriguez, it could not impose terms felony under section 667.5, thereby making the applicable enhancement the same 10-year term under 186.22, s-year term for that enhancement, but stayed any sentence enhancement under section 12022.5, le, supra, at pp. 421, 422 [italics added].) the court of appeal s imposition and stay of the section 12022.5 enhancement. (id. at p. 422.) the supreme court likewise affirmed, court is precluded from imposing both a firearm enhancement under section 12022.5, subdivision (a)(1) and a serious felony gang enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(b) when the crime qualifies as a serious felony solely because it (le, at p. 429.) thus, it concluded that enhancements are not impermissibly double-counted where any duplicative enhancement is imposed and stayed. we find the reasoning of gonzalez persuasive in the context of section 1170.1, subdivisions (f) and (g), which contain similar language to that construed in gonzalez and appear alongside secomment to california rules of court, rule 4.447. we therefore interpret section 1170.1, subdivisions (f) and (g) as the trial court here did: as prohibiting the imposition and execution of more of great bodily injury. accordingly, like the supreme court in le, we conclude that the trial court did not err by imposing and staying the firearm use and great bodily injury 71 enhancements at issue here after using them to heighten the gang enhancement. the sentences on counts 11-15 are affirmed. d. oral pronouncement of sentence on counts 2 and 3 ion is that his abstract of judgment, which shows that firearm enhancements ( 12022.53, subd. (d)) were imposed but not stayed as to counts 2 and 3, must be amended to conform to the indicated that these 25-years-to-life enhancements were stayed. the people concede that adame is correct. we likewise agree that the abstract of judgment must be amended. merely summarizes and cannot add to or modify the judgment. (people v. mesa (1975) 14 cal.3d 466, 471; people v. hartsell (1973) 34 cal.app.3d 8, 14.) we accordingly direct the trial court to correct the abstract of judgment by ordering the enhancements imposed pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (d), on counts 2 and 3 stayed. the judgment and sentence on those counts are otherwise affirmed. iii. defendant rodriguez defendant rodriguez argues that the trial court deprived her of her federal right to due process in four ways. first, she contends that the trial court denied her the right to confront witnesses against her by prohibiting her from cross-examining alexis garcia about or introducing evidence of a statement that she, rodriguez, made outside of court. second, she asserts that the trial court improperly instructed the jury on the natural and probable consequences doctrine. third, she contends that the trial court erred in refusing to instruct the jury on the defense of duress. she is joined in her duress argument by defendant rangel. finally, rodriguez contends that the trial court deprived her of due process (and violated section 654) by imposing and executing sentences for conspiracy and the murder attempt against castro. we reject these contentions and affirm with regard to her sentence, however, we agree with rodriguez (and the people) that the abstract of judgment deviates from the trial accordingly direct the trial court to correct 72 the abstract of judgment by ordering the enhancements imposed pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivisions (d) and (e)(1), on counts 2 and 3 stayed. a. the challenged evidentiary rulings were proper and did not deprive rodriguez of her constitutional right of confrontation 1. background alexis garcia provided testimony that strongly implicated rodriguez as a knowing participant in the march 16, 2010 drive-by shootings of sergio abrego and miguel castro. on direct examination, over defense objections including hearsay, garcia testified garcia also testified that rodriguez was on the cell phone in the car during the drive to canterbury and filmore, saying things , garcia testified that rodriguez (whom she referred to by her nickname, danny girl) got out of the car with her near canterbury and filmore, continued to talk on the cell phone and eventually instructed garcia to get back into the dark-colored car in which they had been driven to the area. garcia initially was unable to remember whether rodriguez said anything when the van containing abrego and castro passed by. after having her recollection refreshed with the transcript of her interview with detective reade, however, garcia recalled and testified that rodriguez sa garcia also recalled after reviewing the transcript that rangel directed rodriguez to call scrappy (abrego), that rodriguez directed garcia to get out of the car, and that rodriguez changed the location at which scrappy was supposed to meet them. on cross-were standing near canterbury and filmore. the trial court sobjection that the question called for hearsay not offered by a party opponent. it added, brandt onclusion that the statements 73 were hearsay. instead, he .the court remained firm in prohibiting what it deemed later, the court sustained a hearsay objection twho was in the front seat of the car . . . said anything about - - after the shooting to you - - the court permitted brandt to ask lly truthfully say what the words were today that at a sidebar conference prior to redirect examination of garcia, -to questions: he wanted the jury to hear testimony that garcia gave at the second preliminary hearing. in particular, he wanted the jury to hear that when rodriguez talked to abrego on the phone after the shooting, she said only brandt argued that should be admitted as a spontaneous statement uttered in the aftermath of the shootingthat is, as a hearsay statement that is admissible under an exception to the hearsay rule (see evid. code,  1240) the court disagreed and further added that brandt could not introduce the statement under evidence code section 1220 because rodriguez (the declarant) was not a party opponent. during their redirect examination of garcia, the people played a tape of her interview with detective reade. (a full transcript of the interview also was admitted into evidence.) calling, when she [rodriguez] called him [abrego] and told him that we were right there, to g called them [abrego and castro] after that and was like, what happened? i heard that, acting stupid. [t during recross-examination of garcia, hearsay objections to his questions about what rodriguez said about the van and what she said while she was on the phone. the court explained that 74 detective reade question. transcript, to which the court responde after sustaining what rodriguez said, the court [the interview tape], but you are not to ask anything in violation of evidence code [section] 1220. the court further the jury accordingly did not hear . it heard only the more descriptive statement heard that, brandt did not ask garcia to explain or clarify her testimony about testimony that rodriguez was when she asked pened, i heard thatter the comments,what happened? i heard that,going to occur and was not party to an agreement to set up or shoot abrego. in their testimony. after rejury, co-prosecutor hilary williams told the juryalexis garcia meant. you all heard it. you heard the inflection in her voice. you heard the way she was trying to mimic what samantha rodriguez said. o happen. condescending way, saying like, oh, where are you? just a bystander. i thought we w 2. analysis we begin by observing that rodriguez does not challenge ther out-of-court statements were hearsay. she instead makes her arguments from the 75 garcistatements she personally heard rodriguez making was not hearsay, however. testifying at the hearing that is offered to prove the truth of the m (evid. code,  1200, subd. (a).) (evid. code,  1200, subd. (b).) they were offered to prove what was said or done, not whether those things were true or false. rodriguez has forfeited any arguments that the statements were not hearsay or that the court erred in so ruling by failing to raise them in her briefs. accordingly, we proceed to the arguments she did raise. a. confrontation clause -examine garcia on the statements she attributed to appellant in her interview with readeher constitutional right to confrontation. she argues that garcia to reade, it was obligated to permit appellant to impeach t we disagree. shall enjoy the right . . . to be confronted with the witnes this federal constitutional right to confront adverse witnesses in a criminal prosecution applies to the states [citation] and is also guaranteed independently by the california constitution (cal. const., art. i,  15) and by statute ( 686). the primary reason an accused is entitled to confront adverse witnesses is to permit cross-examination. [citations.] confrontation and cross-examination is an essential and fundamental requirement for the kind of fair trial which is this countrys constitutional goal. indeed, . . . to deprive an accused of the right to cross-examine the witnesses against him is a denial of the 76 (people v. wilson (20violation of the confrontation clause by showing that he was prohibited from engaging in otherwise appropriate cross-examination designed to show a prototypical form of bias on the part of the wury the facts from which jurors. . . (people v. lucas, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 271.) , that the confrontation clause of the sixth (people v. wilson, supra, 44 cal.4th at pp. 793-generally speaking, the confrontation clause guarantees an opportunity for effective cross-examination, not cross-examination that is effective in (id. at p. 794.) s the defendant can show that the prohibited cross-examination would sixth ame (people v. lucas, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 271.) (people v. riccardi, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 809.) -examine garcia. to the contrary, the could cross-examine garcia by asking about the statements she made during her interview with detective reade, including the statements the trial court classified as hearsay. the trial court also even if the court did err by not permitting rodriguez to elicit from garcia testimony about her own out-of-court statements, rodriguez has not shown that introducing those statements would have produced a significantly different impression of to t77 she has not shown how the admiss i heard rodriguez that the result would have been different, particularly where rodriguez had ample opportunity to cross-examine garcia about her testimony, including her use of the b. evidentiary rulings in the alternative, rodriguez claims that the trial court misapplied evidence code section 1220 by prohibiting her from cross-examining garcia about the out-of-court statements that already were in evidence. she further contends that, under evidence code section 1202, she statement as recounted by garcia in the [preliminary hearing] to impeach the other inculpatory statements garcia attribudirecting garcia to get out of the car. rodriguez did not invoke evidence code section 1202 at trial, however, so she has forefeited this argument on appeal. (see people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 434-435; evid. code,  353.) even if we were to consider her argument about evidence code section 1202 on the merits, we would reject it, along with her contention about evidence code section 1220. evidence code section 1220 provides in pertinent part inadmissible by the hearsay rule when offered against the declarant in an action to which he is a party in either his individual or representative capacity rodriguez does not dispute the propriety of the on this code section to admit the statements garcia overheard rodriguez make on the cell phone. instead, relying on west v. bechtel corp. (2002) 96 cal.app.4th 966, 983 (westintroduced according to section 1220, it is elemental that the party is permitted to cross- we agree with the people that west-sentence discussion of this issue does not 78 in west, the plaintiff introduced under evidence code section 1220 hearsay statements made by his supervisor at defendant bechtel corporation. (west, supra, 96 cal.app.4th at pp. 973, 982.) the west court summarily claim that the defendant corporation could not cross-stat (id. at p. 982.) we fail to see how the west -established right to cross-examine a party concerning statements made to him by a party opponent assists rodriguez here. (see cal. law revision com. com., evid. code (1995 ed.) foll.  1220, p. 71.) in fact, the trial court repeatedly cross-examine garcia and permitted him to inquire ccurately recall the events surrounding the shooting. couns failure to make these inquiries was not a result of any error by the trial court. belated reliance on evidence code section 1202 and people v. baldwin (2010) 189 cal.app.4th 991, 1003 (baldwin), overruled in part by people v. black (2014) 58 cal.4th 912, 919.) evidence code section [e]vidence of a statement or other conduct by a declarant that is inconsistent with a statement by such declarant received in evidence as hearsay evidence is not inadmissible for the purpose of attacking the credibility of the declarant though he is not given and has not had an opportunity to explain or to deny such inconsistent statement or other conduct. any other evidence offered to attack or support the credibility of the declarant is admissible if it would have been admissible had baldwin evidence code section 1202] permits a criminal defendant to attack his own credibility as a hearsay declarant . . . by offering evidence of an inconsistent statement . . . , even though the defendant is available to testify for the defense but cannot be called by the prosecutibaldwin, supra, 189 cal.app.4th at p. 1004), subject to the limitations of evidence code section 352 (id. at p. 1005). the baldwin court inconsistent 79 ac (id. at p. 1005.)22 here, however, regardless of whether the statements were hearsay, rodriguez was trying to undermine credibility, not her own. the crucial wowhich garcia volunteered in her interview but not during the preliminary hearing, were . thus, rodriguez could not rely upon evidence code section 1202 to introduce evidence of her own purportedly inconsistent statements. she could, however, as the trial court repeatedly advised, cross-examine garcia about her and her ability to hear or accurately remember rodriguez largely failed to avail herself of these opportunities. onstrate her own lack of knowledge of the abrego set-up and impeach garcia generally. despite the admission of that very statement on redirect, however, rodriguez did not make any attempt on recross-examination to cross-examine garcia about it. moreover, during closing argument, rodriguez in fact made the very arguments she now claims she was prohibited from makingclaim she was 22 in baldwin, we urged 1202 should be amended to exclude criminal defendants seeking to attack their own (baldwin, supra, 189 cal.app.4th at p. 1005, fn. 11.) 80 b. rodriguez was not prejudiced by the jury instructions pertaining to assault likely to produce great bodily injury and the natural and probable consequences doctrine rodriguez next contends that [ed] a bait-and-switch on the jurorshe and rangel could be guilty of attempted murder even if they only intended to aid and abet a beating a beating she emphasizes never in fact occurred. rodriguez further deception by firearm and with a deadly weapon other than a firearm; she claims that assault with a firearm is a materially different offense than assault with a deadly weapon other than a firearm. permitted the jurors to . . . convict appellant for the natural and probable consequences of . she acknowledges that errors involving the natural and probable consequences doctrine often are harmless but contends that this error was prejudicial in light of another instructional error concerning the conspiracy count. we reject her contentions. 1. background rodriguez was charged with four crimes relating to the march 16 shooting of abrego and castro: one count of conspiracy to commit murder ( 182, subd. (a)(1) & 187, subd. (a)), two counts of attempted murder ( 187, subd. (a) & 664), and one count of shooting at an occupied vehicle ( 246). it is undisputed that rodriguez did not personally fire at the van containing abrego and castro. evidence at trial concerning her foreknowledge that firearms would be involved in the incident was disputed, however, so the people invoked the natural and probable consequences doctrine as an alternative to direct aiding and abetting liability. and rangel] believed that it was just to assault him, just beat him up bad, the fact that they went with gangs, the fact that they knew that there was a rival coming, shows you that the natural and probable consequence of whatever beating they knew was going to the people further argued he girls 81 natural and probable consequence given the gang consequence and the gang nature of this th the people argued that if the jurors subscribed to this theory, they should acquit rodriguez and rangel of conspiring to commit murder but sic d probable consequences [only non-ls had any intent the court overruled these objections the only ones raised as to the proposed instruction and ultimately delivered a modified version of calcrim no. 403 which stated, incorrectly, that conspiracy to commit murder could be a natural and probable consequence of assault likely to produce great bodily injury. the people concede this error.23 the court described the uncharged target offense of assault to the jury with a t with deadly weapon or force likely to produce great bodily injury [pen. code,  240, 245(a)(1)- no one objected to the instruction, which provided in pertinent part: that [sic] the crime of assault with force likely to produce great bodily injury, the people must prove that: the defendant did an act that by its nature would directly and probably result in the application of force to a person, 23 subsequent to the close of briefing in this case, people v. smith, supra, 60 cal.4th at pp. 613-617 invalidated another statement included in the delivered instruction. that error operated in favor of defendants, however, such that it could not result in harm to them. 82 the force used was likely to produce great bodily injury. the defendant did that act willfully; when the defendant acted, he was aware of facts that would lead a reasonable person to realize his act by its nature would directly and probably result in the application of force to someone; when the defendant acted, he had the present ability to apply force likely to produce great bodily injury deadly weapon other than a firearm or with a firearm [sic] the court instructed the jury on conspiracy using a modified version of it instructed deliberation and nd on shooting at an occupied vehicle rodriguez does not contend that any of these instructions were inaccurate. the jury found rodriguez guilty of all four charged counts. the jury further found that both counts of attempted murder were committed willfully, deliberately and with premeditation. 2. analysis rodriguez contends that the court instructed the jury on a legally invalid theory e was no beating, and thus no crime upon which to base natural and she further claims the error was compounded by the muddled reference in modified calcrim no. 875 likely to produce great bodily injury deadly weapon otencompassed two distinct crimes, assault by means of force likely to produce great injury ( 245, subd. (a)(1)) and assault with a firearm ( 245, subd. (a)(2)). she contends that roven only to have formed the intent to aid and abet the formerthat 83 is, if appellant intended to aid and abet a beating but not a shootingshe was not liable s first contention is predicated on a flawed understanding of the natural and probable consequences doctrine, which does not require the target offense to be committed. (people v. ayala (2010) 181 cal.app.4th 1440, 1451-1452 (ayala).) natural and probable consequences doctrine is based on the principle that liability extends [that] . . . aiders and abettors should be responsible for the criminal harms they have (people v. chiu (2014) 59 cal.4th 155, 164-165.) attenuated if the target criminal act is only contemplated and never committed, (ayala, supra, 181 cal.app.4th at p. 1452.) like the ayala court, we recognize that in some circumstances it may be unreasonable for a defendant who intended to assist with a fistfight to expect one of his compatriots to use a gun. as in ayala (ibid.); instead, the plan was to lure a known gang rival to an intersection late at night under the false pretense of meeting whisper in person. recognized that the gang-related nature of an assault even one without weapons may provide the trier of fact with sufficient ev (people v. medina (2009) 46 cal.4th 913, 922- (ayala, supra, 181 cal.app.4th at p. 1452.) immersed in the gang culture is unaware of these realities, and we see no reason the (people v. montes (1999) 74 cal.app.4th 1050, 1056.) second contention likewise cannot carry the day. the trial court has a sua sponte duty to identify and describe uncharged target offenses that form a part of the 84 applies the law to the evidence addu (people v. prettyman (1996) 14 cal.4th 248, 267.) notably, however, the jury need not unanimously agree on the particular target offense the defendant aided and abetted. (id. at pp. 267-268.) here, the trial court inartfully but without objection from any of the defendants instructed the jury that it could find rodriguez and rangel guilty of attempted murder if it found they aided and abetted the other defendants force likely to produce great bodily injury [with a] deadly weapon other than a firearm or with a to the extent this language may be read to describe legally distinct target offenses of a beating and a shooting, a point which the parties dispute, the evidence unequivocally supported the conclusion that defendants intended to assault abrego with or without a firearmand the jurors did not have to agree on any particular target offense. all potential target offenses supported by the evidence, but only those that the prosecution wishe[d] the jury to (people v. prettyman, supra, at p. 269.)) uncontroverted evidence demonstrated that gang members routinely subject their rivals to physical violence for no reason beyond their opposing affiliations, to avoid being perceived as weak. the circumstances of the encounter between defendants and abrego compelled the inference that defendants intended to inflict violence upon rival gang member abrego when they posed as whisper to lure him to an intersection late at night. as rodriguez herself puts gang confrontations, it is immaterial whether [rodriguez] specifically knew [her people v. montes, supra, 74 cal.app.4th at p. 1056) or intended to raise the stakes beyond fisticuffs. in any event, the remaining elements of the instruction as given are equally applicable, whether the force used was generated by a fatal shooting is the natural and probable consequence of any of these types of force in the gang context. this is not to say that we are not troubled by the instructional issues rodriguez raises here. we also agree with rodriguez and the people that the inclusion of 85 conspiracy to commit murder among the crimes within the ambit of the natural and probable consequences doctrine was erroneous. nonetheless, we do not find it reasonably likely that the jurors understood the (people v. hajek, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 1246.) n essential element in one instruction [citat(people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 328.) proper instruction that the conspiracy count required the people to prove defendants additionally, the people repeatedly invited the jury to acquit rodriguez and rangel on the conspiracy count if it applied the natural and probable consequences doctrine. and its findings that the attempted murders were willful and premeditated and not simply an escalated consequence of a target offenseindicates that it rejected the natural and abetting. c. rodriguez and rangel were not entitled to a duress instruction rodriguez and rangel both contend that the court deprived them of their right to present a defense by denying their request to instruct the jury with calcrim no. 3402, which sets forth the complete defense of duress. (see  26, subd. six) the court denied the request on two grounds: lack of substantial evidence and people v. anderson (2002) 28 cal.4th 767, 771-783, which holds that duress does not constitute a defense to murder. rodriguez and rangel contend that both of these grounds were faulty. we need not resolve the latter issue (see people v. vieira (2005) 35 cal.4th 264, 290 [leaving open the question whether duress may be a defense to conspiracy to commit murder]); even if the defense of duress is legally applicable to the charged crimes in the abstract, rodriguez and rangel have not presented substantial evidence justifying the instruction in this case. duress is available as a complete defense to a defendant who commits a crime 86 believe their lives ( 26, subd. six; see also people v. vieira, supra, 35 cal.4th at pp. 289-290.) (people v. petznick (2003) 114 cal.app.4th 663, 676.) needs to raise only a reasonable doubt that he acted in the exercise of his free will. [citation.] in order to show that his act was not the exercise of his free (ibid.) ause of the immediacy requirement, a person committing a crime under duress has only the choice of imminent death or executing the requested crime. the person being threatened has no time to formulate what is a reasonable and viable course of conduct nor to formulate criminal intent. . . . (ibid. [emphasis added].) immediacy and imminency of the threatened action: each represents the situation of a present and active aggressor threatening immediate danger; none depict[s] a (people v. vieira, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 290.) f there is (people v. wilson (2005) 36 cal.4th 309, 331.) any evidence is (ibid.) the evidence rodriguez and rangel rely on simply does not support the inference march 15 or 16. collectively, it consists of the following: gang expert rodolfo gang expert fernando avila testified that male get them to commit crimes. -girlfriend, testified that rodriguez and rangel to call scrappy (abrego). she also gave conflicting testimony as to whether gonzalez told her that to set up scrappy; at one point she said that she 87 z told her that (no one asked cortez to explain what she underst in one of the tape-recorded calls cortez made to gonzalez, she told him that rangel had told her that gonzalez cortez further testified at trial gonzalez had to threaten rangel, he likely had to threaten [her] a both rangel none of this evidence, considered separately or together, raises a reasonable inference that gonzalez or or threatening (people v. vieira, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 290) to prompt rodriguez or rangel to play a role in the abrego shooting. there is no indicia of an immediate threat to their lives or limbs; the vague terms d (ibid.) moreover, the evidence demonstrates that rodriguez and rangel overcame any reluctance they may have had. both of them continued their active participation in the scheme and continued to lure abrego to canterbury and filmore even when they were in a separate car from gonzalez and adame. (see people v. petznick, supra, 114 cal.app.4th at p. 677.) their suggestion that their participation was coerced by an imminent threat to their lives is not supported by evidence. the trial court did not err in refusing to give the duress instruction. d. the court sentenced rodriguez to a total of 50 years to life on count 1, the section 12022.53(d) and (e)(1ing section 654, the court imposed and stayed sentence on counts 2 and 3, the attempted murder of abrego and shooting at an occupied motor vehicle, because those counts involved the same intent, act, and victim as count 1. the court imposed and executed an additional sentence of life plus 25 years to life on 88 count 4, the attempted murder of castro, and ordered the sentence on count 4 to run emanded a different outcome. it required that the trial court either (a) impose and execute punishment on the conspiracy while staying punishment on both attempted murders, or (b) impose and execute punishment on both attempted murders while staying punis this is so, she argues, because the object of the charged conspiracy was to create a kill zone around abrego. we disagree. section 654, subdivision (a) that is punishable in different ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case this provision bars multiple punishments for separate offenses arising out of a single occurrence where all of the offenses were incident to a single objective. (people v. mckinzie (2012) 54 cal.4th 1302, 1368, overruled in part by people v. scott, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 391, fn. 3.) intents and objectives for multiple offenses if it is supported by substantial evidence. (ibid.) section 654 does not apply where a single act results in acts of violence against multiple individuals. (people v. oates (2004) 32 cal.4th 1048, 1063.) this is because defendant who commits an act of violence with the intent to harm more than one person or by a means likely to cause harm to several persons is more culpable than a defen (ibid.) attempted premeditated murder qualifies as a crime of violence for purposes of the multiple-victim exception. (ibid.) here, the people argued and the evidence overwhelmingly established that defendants, including rodriguez, agreed to and set out to kill abrego. there is nothing in the record suggesting that their conspiratorial aims extended beyond him. the jury instruction tim rival gang indeed, the people readily conceded to the jury that they would -pressed to stand up in front of you and say they left that apartment wanting to kill miguel angel castro. el angel castro was 89 there likewise is no evidence in the record suggesting that defendants agreed on and incorporated into their conspiracy a specific means by which to accomplish their goal. rodriguez points to a few statements made by the people, but those comments are not evidence. (people v. perez, supra, 2 cal.4th at p. 1126.) even if they were, the comments him and ell as anyone in his group, do not establish a conspiratorial objective to kill castro or anyone else in addition to abrego. the means by which defendants sought to kill abrego, using semiautomatic firearms to pump a barrage of bullets into the van in which he was riding, were likely to cause harm to others near abrego. planeload of passengers in danger, or results i.e., creates a kill zone (see people v. bland, supra, 28 cal.4th at pp. 329-330) greater punishment than a defendant who chooses a means that harms only a single (neal v. state (1960) 55 cal.2d 11, 20, disapproved by people v. correa (2012) 54 cal.4th 331, 334; see also people v. ramirez (1992) 6 cal.app.4th 1762, 1767.) in implicit conclusion that defendants harbored separate objectives for the conspiracy and the attempted murder of castro, but also because their acts of violence caused harm to multiple victims. e. oral pronouncement of sentence on counts 2 and 3 firearm enhancements ( 12022.53, subds. (d) & (e)(1)) were imposed but not stayed as to counts 2 and 3, must be amended to conform sentence, which indicated that these 25-years-to-life enhancements were stayed. the people concede that rodriguez is correct. for the same reasons stated above in ante discussion, subd. (ii)(d)), we agree and direct the trial court to correct the abstract of judgment by ordering the enhancements 90 imposed pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivisions (d) and (e)(1), on counts 2 and 3 stayed. the judgment and sentence on those counts are otherwise affirmed. iv. defendant rangel defendant rangel raises three arguments in addition to the duress argument already discussed. (see ante, discussion, subd. (iii)(c).) first, she contends that her trial counsel was ineffective for failing to move to sever counts 1-4 from counts 5-17 and that such a motion should have been granted to ensure her right to due process and a fair trial. second, she contends that her sentenceshe received a total of 75-years-to-lifeis the functional equivalent of a life sentence without the possibility of parole and amounts to cruel and unusual punishment in light of her age and culpability. finally, she argues that other principals violates constitutional guarantees of equal protection and due process. we reject these contentions and affirm conviction and sentence in all respects. a. severance 1. rangel was not ineffective for failing to move to sever the sole ground on which rangel claims her trial counsel, frank disabatino, was ineffective is his failure to move to sever the trial of counts 5-17, in which she was not charged, from trial of the charges in counts 1-4, in which she was charged along with gonzalez, adame, and rodriguez.24 to prevail on this claim, rangel must make a two- reasona (mai, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. , a reasonable probability that, but 24 counsel moved to sever on the third day of jury voir dire but the court denied the motion as untimely and did not consider its merits. it appears from the exchange surrounding this motion charges against her from the first information filed against gonzalez, rodriguez, and rangel, but did not refile the motion after the first information was dismissed and the second information naming all four defendants in an entirely new case became operative. our conclus 91 diff (ibid.) a reasonable probability is one sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome. (people v. brown (2014) 59 cal.4th 86, 109.) (mai, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 1009.) move for the sic] making we have some doubts that this assertion is sufficient to satisfy rangelof establishing deficient performance, however. reviewing courts matter of on why counsel acted or failed to act in the manner challenged, an appellate claim of ineffective assistance must be rejected unless counsel was asked for an explanation and fa (people v. gamache (2010) 48 cal.4th 347, 391.) here, that presumption is particularly strong, since the trial court would have been well within its discretion to deny a motion to sever, (people v. gutierrez (2009) 45 cal.4th 789, 804-805.) section 954 authorizes the joinder of multiple offenses of the same class of crimes or offenses in a single accusatory pleading. it also vests the trial court with discretion to nt offenses or counts set forth in the accusatory pleading be tried separately or divided into two or more promotes efficiency, joinder is the preferred course of action. when the statutory (people v. scott 92 (2011) 52 cal.4th 452, 469.) that is, joinder is erroneous only when its benefits are outweighed by the potential prejudice to the defendant. (people v. soper (2009) 45 cal.4th 759, 775.) [citations.] (1) the evidence would be cross-admissible in separate trials, (2) some charges are unusually likely to inflame the jury against the defendant, (3) a weak case has been joined with a strong case, or with another weak case, so that the total evidence may unfairly alter the outcome on some or all charges, and (4) one of the charges is a capital offense, or (people v. scott, supra, at pp. 469-culpability of one or more defendants must be such that the jury will find the remaining defendants guilty simply because of their association with a reprehensible person, rather tha (people v. bryant (2014) 60 cal.4th 335, 383.) rangel does not dispute that joinder of counts 1-4 with counts 5-17 was proper under section 954. we disagree. we begin our analysis with the second factor, whether the joined charges were -admissibility did not support consolidation of the cases, the absence of cross-admissibility alone would not be sufficient to establish prejudice where (1) the offenses were properly joinable under section 954, and (2) no other factor relevant to the assessment of prejudice dem (people v. capistrano (2014) 59 cal.4th 830, 849-850; see also people v. myles (2012) 53 cal.4th 1181, 1201.) here, the joined charges included one count of murder, six counts of attempted murder, five counts of assault with a semiautomatic firearm, and one count of street terrorism. these charges are no more egregious or inflammatory than those rangel herself faced: conspiracy to commit murder, attempted murder, and shooting at an occupied vehicle. (see people v. soper, supra, 45 cal.4th at 93 p. 780.) rangel asserts that the injuries suffered by the victims in counts 5-16 were far more serious than those suffered by abrego and castro and therefore rendered those counts unduly inflammatory. she does not cite any authority for this proposition, and we are not persuaded by it. the relative lack of injury to abrego, who suffered only a through-and-through bullet wound, and castro, who emerged from the march 16 shooting unscathed, was due to chance, not the nature of the charged offenses. underlying the march 23 shooting by an accused murderer towards the victim, is relevant evidence in a murder or murder and [w]hile offensive, the use of such language by a defendant is people v. quartermain (1997) 16 cal.4th 600, 626), let alone his codefendants who had nothing to do with that particular crime. in any event, the jury heard evidence that rangel personally used the same racial slurs in a letter she sent to gonzalez apologizing for talking to the police about the march 16 shooting which it presumably would have heard even if the counts pertaining to the march 23 and 24 incidents had been severed. likewise, the firearms and alibi fabrication evidence related to counts 5-16 was not so inflammatory as to suggest that the trial court would have abused its discretion in denying a motion to sever. evidence that gonzalez possessed 18 firearms none of which was tied to any of the charged crimes was not unduly prejudicial to rangel. nor was the evidence suggesting that gonzalez and adame sought to contrive an alibi for the police about her involvement in the march 16 incident. in short, it does not appear that a reasonable jury would have found the additional charges against gonzalez or adame and the evidence pertaining only to those charges so inflammatory to warrant convicting rangel of distinct counts simply because of her association with gonzalez and adame, 94 rather than because her individual guilt had been proven (see people v. bryant, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. the third and final relevant factor is whether a weak case has been joined with a strong case, or with another weak case, so that the total evidence may unfairly alter the outcome on some or all charges. (people v. scott, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 469.) rangel contends this factor required the severance of counts 1-4 from counts 5-17 because an accomplice, alexis garcia, to establish that appellant was involved in luring abrego to we are not persuaded. testimony from witnesses with credibility problems every count in this case. the only testimony that definitively linked gonzalez and adame to the march 23 and march 24 shootings came from erick davalos, who, like garcia, was a potential accomplice in the events to which he testified and was granted immunity in exchange for his testimony. to individual (people v. soper, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 781.) here, however, we are not convinced that any imbalance in the strength of the cases, or the alleged strength in numbers associated with trying all of the counts in a single proceeding, was likely to sway the jury to convict rangel on improper grounds. because an analysis of the pertinent factors indicates that the trial court would not have abused its discretion in denying a motion to sever had one been timely made, we cannot conclude that there was a reasonable probability that the outcome would have been more favorable to rangel had disabatino made the motion, which likely would have been futile in any event. (people v. hawkins (1995) 10 cal.4th 920, 941.) we accordingly reject her ineffective assistance of counsel claim. 95 2. joinder did not result in gross unfairness to rangel does not immediately end our inquiry into the severance issue. ven when a trial (people v. myles, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 1202; people v. merriman (2014) 60 cal.4th 1, 46.) rangel suggests we n the first instance. (people v. rogers (2006) 39 cal.4th 826, 851.) like the supreme court in people v. rogers available in the absence of a motion to sever or an objection to joinder, for even if such (ibid.) there is no indication that the evidence relating to counts 5-17 was so inflammatory or otherwise prejudicial to rangel as to call into question the integrity of her conviction on counts 1-4. the evidence implicating rangel in the conspiracy, attempted murders, and drive-by shooting in which she was charged was strong. garcia test danny perez, detective reade, and even her cousin erick davalos gonzalez inculpated her in the march 16 incident. the gang evidence about which rangel primarily complains was directly relevant to material issues in the counts against her, all of which included gang enhancements. (people v. burnell (2005) 132 cal.app.4th 938, 947; people v. montes (2014) 58 cal.4th 809, 859.) isolated characterization that the people impermissibly used joinder to bootstrap the case against rangel, nor does it constitute a violation of . b. does not constitute cruel and/or unusual punishment rangel was sentenced to a total term of 75-years- to-life plus a life term with the possibility of parole. on count 1 (conspiracy to commit murder), the court imposed a 96 sentence of 25-years-to-life, plus a consecutive 25-years-to-life for the enhancements under section 12022.53, subdivisions (d) and (e)(1). the court imposed and stayed the other section 12022.53 enhancements associated with count 1. on count 2 (attempted murder of abrego), the court imposed a life term plus a consecutive 25 years to life for the enhancements under section 12022.53, subdivisions (d) and (e)(1).25 the court imposed and stayed the other section 12022.53 enhancements, and stayed the entire sentence on count 2 pursuant to section 654. on count 3 (shooting at an occupied motor vehicle), the court imposed a life sentence pursuant to the gang enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4)(b). the court imposed an additional term of 25 years to life pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivisions (d) and (e)(1), and imposed and stayed other enhancements under section 12022.53. the court stayed the entirety of count 3 pursuant to section 654. on count 4 (attempted murder of castro), the court imposed and executed a life term, plus an additional 25-years-to-life for the enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivisions (d) and (e)(1). the court ordered the sentence on count 4 to run consecutive to the sentence on count rangel contends that her sentence amounts to cruel and/or unusual punishment in light of her young age and limited culpability. we disagree. the eighth amendment to the united states constitution (which is applicable to the states (people v. caballero (2012) 55 cal.4th 262, 265 fn. 1 (caballero)) and article i, section 17 of the california constitution both prohibit cruel and/or unusual punishment. cruel and unusualcruel or unusual purposeful and substantive rather than merely semantic. [citation.] as a the federal constitution. [citation.] [citation.] this does not make a difference from an analytic perspective, however [citation], and defendant does not contend the provisions 25 the court did not orally state that the enhancements under section 12022.53, e. rangel does not challenge the accuracy of her sentence. 97 (people v. palafox (2014) 231 cal.app.4th 68, 82.) subject to our independent review, but underlying disputed facts must be viewed in the (ibid.; see also people v. mantanez (2002) 98 cal.app.4th 354, 358.) the touchstone under either provision is gross disproportionality. (people v. palafox, supra, 231 cal.app.4th at p. 82.) in determining whether a sentence conscience in re lynch (1972) 8 cal.3d 410, 424, fn. omitted), we examine the nature of the offender and offense, compare the punishment with those imposed in california for more serious crimes, and compare the punishment with those imposed for the same offense in other jurisdictions. (id. at pp. 425-427; people v. meneses (2011) 193 cal.app.4th 1087, 1092.) rangel focuses primarily on the first prong of the tripartite test. relying on graham v. florida (2010) 560 u.s. 48, 82, miller v. alabama (2012) 132 s. ct. 2455, 2467-2468, and caballero, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 268 for the proposition that the eighth amendment prohibits sentencing juveniles to even de facto life imprisonment without the possibility of parole, she argues that her sentence cannot stand because rangel acknowledges that the prohibition on life sentences without the possibility of parole in these cases has been strictly limited to juveniles under age 18, but asserts that her relative proximity to that critical age, coupled with the indirect nature of her participation in the shooting, renders the punishment she received unconstitutional. we expressly rejected the first portion of her argument in people v. argeta (2012) 210 cal.app.4th 1478, 1482, and, despite rangthere, we reach the same conclusion here. as we explained in argeta years of age is subject . . . to the objections always raised against categorical rules . . . [, it] is the point where society draws the line for many purposes between childhood and [citations.] making an exception for a defendant who committed a crime 98 just five months past his 18th birthday opens the door for the next defendant who is only six months into adulthood. such arguments would have no logical end, and so a line must be drawn at some point. we respect the line our society has drawn and which the united states supreme court has relied on for sentencing purposes, and conclude graham, miller, or caballero (people v. argeta, supra, 210 cal.app.4th at p. 1482.) rangel was an adult (and a mother) at the time of the incident, and her attempts to equate her situation to cases involving juveniles are not persuasive. on that her role in the march 16 incident renders her culpability below that necessary to warrant the lengthy sentence she received. legislature has determined those who aid and abet and those who actually perpetrate the offense are principals and e (people v. smith, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 613; see  31.) on in the shooting itself does not mitigate her culpability, which was readily apparent from the evidence adduced at trial. rangel played an instrumental role in facilitating the march 16 shooting even though she did not personally pull the trigger. she had access to , a member of a rival gang who had called he she provided encouragement throughout the incident, directed rodriguez to make phone calls (even if she did not make them herself), ordered rodriguez and garcia out of the car at the appointed meeting place, and laughed about the incident. these actions plainly aided and abetted the shooting and culpability. we agree riddled with bullets. that neither abrego nor castro died was merely a mixture of poor marksmanship and sheer luck. reflects her culpability and does not (in re lynch, supra, 8 cal.3d at p. 424.) 99 nor is it grossly disproportionate when compared to sentences imposed for the more severe crime of first degree murder in california.26 the statutorily prescribed punishments for that crime which, we reiterate, did not transpire here only because of lucky circumstances range from a low of 25 years to life to a high of death. ( 190, subd. (a).) imposed and executed sentence of 75 years to life for two convictions of attempted murder, one conviction of conspiracy to commit murder, and one conviction of shooting at an occupied vehicle, is in line with these prescribed punishments, particularly in light of her active and ready participation throughout the incident. people v. chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th 155, sentencing an aider and abettor who may have been convicted under the natural and probable consequences doctrine, absent proof of intent to kill, to a harsher sentence than a defendant was is [sic] properly convicted of first-degree does not persuade us otherwise. people v. chiu did not alter the longstanding rule that aiders and abettors may still be convicted of first degree murder based on direct aiding and abetting principles (people v. chiu, supraguilty verdict on the conspiracy count and findings that the attempted murders were willful and premeditated indicate that it rejected the natural and probable consequences theory in favor of moreover, chiu . . . is not applicable to conspiracy to commit inapplicable juvenile cases in support of her claim that she received a harsher punishment than a murderer who succeeded in killing his victims. c. protection or due process rights the people alleged and the jury found true that counts 1-4 were committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang with the 26 rangel does not compare her punishment to those imposed for the same offense in other jurisdictionsexcessive punishment fminimally relevant under the circumstances here. 100 specific intent to promote, further, and assist in criminal conduct by gang members within the meaning of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c). the jury further found true as to all four 12022.53, subdivisions (d) and (e)(1). as a consequence of these findings, the sentences imposed and executed on counts 1 and 4 each included a firearms use enhancement of 25 years to life. ( 12022.53, subds. (d) & (e)(1)). rangel contends that these enhancements violate her equal protection and due process rights because she did not wield the weapons or know of their presence. she aiders and abettors in gang shootings for drastically harsher treatment than aiders and abettors in non-gang shootingsther asserts process, by drastically increasing the punishment for aiders and abettors without any requirement that the jury find the aider and abettor knew or intended that the crime would be committed by the use or discharge of a firearm. rangel acknowledges that courts have rejected these arguments. our district and division of the court of appeal is among them. (see people v. gonzales (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 1 (gonzales).) we see no basis here to ignore our previous rulings, or to depart from the well-reasoned ruling issued by another division of our court. (see people v. lujano (2014) 229 cal.app.4th 175, 190.) in gonzales, supra, 87 cal.app.4th at p. 13, we concluded that an equal protection challenge to section 12022.53, subdivision (d) failed because aiders and abettors of gang members are not similarly situated to aiders and abettors who are not members of a criminal street gang. thfurthering the (ibid.) another division within our district also rejected the precise equal protection argument rangel raises here. it concluded that there is a rational basis for the resultant disparity in punishment between gang and non- (people v. hernandez (2005) 134 cal.app.4th 474, 481 101 (hernandez).) as the court in hernandez however, a legislature acting within its proper field, is not bound to extend its regulation to all cases which it might possibly reach. it may direct its attention to those classes of cases where the need is deemed to be clearest. in enacting the street gang legislation in 1988 the legislatin los angeles county alone there were 328 gang-related murders in 1986, and that gang homicides in 1987 have increased 80 percent over 1986. when the legislature enacted section 12022.53 ten years later and made aiders and abettors of gang crimes involving gun use equally liable with the actual perpetrator it did so in recognition of the serious threats posed to the citizens of california by gang members using firearms. as our supreme court has stated, the legislature is not prohibited by the equal protection clause from striking the evil where (hernandez, supra, 134 cal.app.4th at p. 482, footnotes omitted.) we find this reasoning persuasive. we likewise agree with the hernandez conclusion this e whether the aider and abettor was a hard- (hernandez, supra, 134 cal.app.4th at p. 483.) in gonzales we also rejected the underdeveloped due process argument rangel raises here: that section 12022.53, sections (d) and (e)(1) are unconstitutional because they do not require the jury to find that the aider and abettor knew or intended the target crime to be effectuated by the use or discharge of a firearm. (see gonzales, supra, 87 cal.app.4th at p. 15.) we noted imprisonment for willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder even if he or she did not (id. at p. 14.) the supreme court recently reiterated that principle in people v. chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th at 166-167. the same is true in the context of the challenged enhancement: it need only be foreseeable, not necessarily known, to the aider and abettor that the principal may seek to accomplish the shared goal by using a firearm. (see people v. garcia (2002) 28 cal.4th 1166, 1177 102 .) process argument. disposition judgment as to counts 2 and 3 by ordering the enhancements on those counts stayed in accordance with its oral pronouncements. the clerk is directed to forward the amended abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. as modified, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. willhite, j. 