filed 6/24/14 p. v. robinson ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. rashad robinson, defendant and appellant. b250815 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta125118) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, john t. doyle, judge. affirmed. rachel varnell, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and jonathan j. kline, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury convicted defendant rashad robinson of two counts of second degree robbery. ( 211.)1 the trial court imposed a two-year state prison sentence. in this appeal, defendant contends that his convictions must be reversed because he evidence was insufficient [because] it did not reveal either of the takings the judgment. statement of facts defendant committed the first robbery on september 18, 2012.2 at approximately 12:40 p.m. that day, irma lima was walking toward a food 4 less market. lima saw defendant leaning against a pillar, staring at her. lima walked in front of him, proceeding to where the shopping carts are kept. lima wore a gold chain with a crucifix around her neck. as lima began to take a shopping cart, quickly took the gold chain from around lim. he lima the scratch on her . defendant quickly fled.3 1 all statutory references are to the penal code. 2 all subsequent dates refer to 2012. 3 -examination touched only briefly upon the forcible taking. inger touches 3 defendant committed the second robbery on september 23. at approximately 11:20 a.m., soccoro estrada, accompanied by her teenage daughter guadalupe campos, stopped at a voting table in front of a food 4 less market, the same market where the first robbery had occurred. estrada, who wore a gold necklace with a pendant, intended to change her voting address. estrada testified that as she bent over the table to complete the requisite form, defendant grabbed area under her chin . . . about two inches apart, cut the chain to her gold necklace, took the jewelry, and fled. estrada . . campos testif a videotape of the estrada robbery was introduced into evidence and played ing argument. the videotape shows defendant grabbing estrada, pushing her up against the window of the store, taking the necklace, and fleeing.4 the defense presented no evidence. the jury was instructed about the elements of robbery and the lesser included offense of grand theft from the person. (calcrim nos. 1600 & 1800.) in closing argument, defense counsel primarily argued that the people had 4 on our own motion, we augmented the record on appeal to include the superior court file containing the videotape. (cal. rules of court, rule 8.155(a)(1)(a).) we have viewed the videotape. 4 ] took the necklaces, whether one or more than one person, what they did was commit . . . a grand theft person because there discussion d her neck. we disagree. another, from his person or immediate presence, and against his will, accomplished 211.) the actual degree of force used is immaterial. (people v. jones (1992) 2 cal.app.4th 867, 871.) all that is required is that the property from the person of the victim, and [that] is a question of fact to be resolved by the jury[.] people v. wright (1996) 52 cal.app.4th 203, 210.) stated another wayeven a snatching may be robbery if it is forcible, as by tearing something attached to clothing, & epstein, cal. criminal law (4th ed. 2012) crimes against property,  99, p. 137.) [i]f the taking is by a secret picking of a pocket, or by a hasty snatching of a purse without resistance, the crime is only [grand theft] from the ibid., italics added.) w the evidence in the light most favorable to the people . . . and we must presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier of fact could 5 people v. roberts (1976) 57 cal.app.3d 782, 787.) people v. roberts, supra, 57 cal.app.3d 782 is instructive in considering . there, the defendant approached the victim from the rear as she removed jerked iid. at p. 785.) on appeal, the id. at p. 787.) that the purse was grabbed with such force that the handle broke supports the ibid.) by a parity of reasoning, substantial evidence lima testified that defendant approached her from behind, put his fingers on her neck so deeply that he left a scratch that remained for a week, tugged the gold chain she was wearing until it broke, took the chain, and fled. because defendant applied enough force not only to injure lima but also to break the chain so that he could immediately flee with it, he used enough force to sustain a robbery conviction. (see people v. jones, supra, 2 cal.app.4th at p. 871 [although the estrada testified that defendant approached her from the rear, grabbed her, placed his fists around her neck, cut the chain to her necklace and fled. in addition, pushed her mother up against the window of the store. taken together, the implied finding that defendant took the jewelry by force because he physically 6 restrained estrada before he cut and took the necklace. (people v. mungia (1991) 234 cal.app.3d 1703, 1708-1709 [element of force established where defendant first shoved the victim and, then, in a separate motion, snatched a purse from her shoulder].) to a large extent, dhing more than requests that we reweigh the evidence and substitute our judgment for that of the jury. we decline to do so. to reweigh evidence or redetermine witness credibility. in fact, it would distort the process if this court, reading trier of fact who saw and heard the live witnesses. our role is to determine the legal sufficiency of the found facts and not to second guess the reasoning or people v. lashley (1991) 1 cal.app.4th 938, 946.) defendant also urges that the evidence is insufficient to establish that either victim sustained adequate fear to support a robbery conviction. the argument misses the mark. the people are required to prove only that the taking was accomplished by force or fear. (people v. russell (1953) 118 cal.app.2d 136, 138.) because substantial evidence supports the verdicts on the theory of a taking by force, there is no need to determine whether the verdicts can also be supported on a theory of a taking by fear. (see, e.g., people v. memro (1985) 38 cal.3d 658, 695.) 7 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports willhite, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. edmon, j.* *judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 