filed 11/3/14 p. v. fijar ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. ismael fijar, defendant and appellant. b250544 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba398445) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, richard s. kemalyan, judge. affirmed. david h. goodwin, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and david zarmi, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________ 2 appellant, ismael fijar,1 appeals from the judgment on his conviction of two counts of lewd act on a child under 14 years of age in violation of penal code2 section 288, subdivision (a). on appeal, appellant contends that (1) the trial court erred by instructing the jury with calcrim no. 1110 for the offense of lewd act on a child, and (2) the trial court erred by failing to instruct the jury on the lesser included offense of attempted lewd act on a child. . accordingly, we affirm the judgment. factual and procedural background i. appellant has two daughters and a son. the older daughter has four children. appellant also has many nieces and nephews. the victims of the crimes at issue in this appeal are a nieces, julia and jacqueline. a. jacqueline from a young age. jacqueline socorro f., who passed away in 2001. when socorro was alive, jacqueline with her cousin. the usual sleeping arrangement was that both jacqueline and her cousin would sleep in a single bed with appellant and socorro. jacqueline would sleep on the side farthest from appellant and next to her cousin. after socorro died, when jacqueline was about nine years old, jacqueline slept over at a one last time. jacqueline woke up that night to appellant fondling her breasts under her clothing. his breath smelled like alcohol. appellant tried to force his hand into her jeans, but jacqueline were too tight for his hand to fit. appellant 1 remaining record. 2 the references to statute are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 was unable to reach jacquelinewhen jacqueline began to cry, appellant appelr daughter came into the room and asked jacqueline what was wrong. jacqueline continued to cry and did not respond. jacqueline jacqueline did not tell anyone about the abuse until she was 16 years old when she confided in her boyfriend and told him that appellant had molested her. jacquelineboyfriend encouraged jacqueline to tell her parents, but she did not want to because she was afraid they would not believe her or that they would be angry with her for not saying anything sooner. two years later, in october 2010, jacquelinejacquelinethat jacqueline had been molested by a family member. when jacqueline finally told her parents about the molestation, her mother contacted jacquelines including julia the cousins had a meeting where jacqueline shared her story about having been molested by appellant. each of the girls also shared something that had happened to them. the young women filed a police report on september 25, 2011, and the police interviewed each young woman individually. in october 2011, los angeles police detective kathleen roditis had jacqueline make two pretext phone calls to appellant in an effort to get him to admit to what he had done. recordings of the calls were played for the jury at trial. among other things, appellant told jacqueline to fondle her when he was sober and, when appellant also asked for jacquelineforgiveness. b. julia julia, also . in 1998, when julia was 11 years old, after julia had prepared food for the other children, appellant came in the room and started rubbing his erect penis on her thigh through his pants. julia tried to fend him off with her elbow, but he continued to rub her for three minutes. when one of the other 4 children present [juliappellant stopped. although julia was uncomfortable with what happened, she did not tell anyone about it. in october 2011, detectives kathleen roditis and hilda smith interviewed appellant, a recording of which was played for the jury. appellant admitted in the interview that jacqueline slept over a lot, but said that he did not remember molesting her. when asked about julia, appellant said that he did not remember the babysitting incident at all. also during the interview, appellant described an incident where juliasister, sophia asked him for a ride home in his truck. he said that he let sophia in the truck and told her that she looked pretty. he also admitted to grabbing her breasts, but nothing else. ii. the trial appellant was arrested and charged with four counts of lewd act on a child under 14 years of age ( 288, subd. (a)), in counts 1, and 3-5; and in count 2, continuous sexual abuse of a child under 14 years of age in violation of section 288.5. during the trial, in addition to jacqueline and julia about conduct, sophia testified to prior bad acts committed by appellant. sophia recalled two incidents when appellant allegedly touched her. in one incident, while she was spending the night at appellappellant reaching up to her from the sophiaaway. in another incident, when sophia was 14 years old, appellant picked her up from school in his single-bench pickup truck. as appellant was driving, he leaned over, put his hand on sophiaone at a time. s older daughter, who lived in aher son, testified that she only remembered jacqueline ce. she testified that jacqueline never spent the night at her house in 1995, 1996, 1997, oolder daughter also said that sophia other daughter 5 testified that she did not remember jacqueline ever spending the night. grandson testified that he did not remember anyone babysitting him as julia had claimed. ppellant for a while growing up. she testified that she never felt uncomfortable around appellant, and that she did not remember jacqueline ever sleeping over. another family friend also testified that appellant never made her feel uncomfortable. finally, one of a-nieces testified that appellant never said or did anything that made her feel uncomfortable. the jury found appellant guilty as charged in counts 3 and 5 involving jacqueline and julia of the offense of lewd act on a child under the age of 14 years in violation of section 288. the jury found appellant not guilty in counts 1, 2 and 4, but found appellant guilty of the lesser included offense of battery in counts 1 and 2.3 appellant was sentenced to a total of 30 years to life in state prison. this appeal followed. discussion i. the trial court properly instructed the jury using calcrim no. 1110 appellant contends the trial court erred by instructing the jury using calcrim no. 1110 for the offense of lewd act on a child. he argues that this instruction is considerationnamely the requirement that the touching be conducted in a lewd manner. a. standard of review we determine whether a jury instruction correctly states the law under the independent or de novo standard of review. review of the adequacy of instructions is determining whether error has been committed in giving or not giving jury instructions, we must consider the instructions as a whole . . . [and] assume that the jurors are intelligent persons and capable of understanding and correlating all jury instructions 3 the court dismissed the convictions in counts 1 and 2 in the interest of justice. 6 judgment rather than defeat it if they are reasonably susceptible (people v. ramos (2008) 163 cal.app.4th 1082, 1088.) b. section 288, subdivision (a) does not require that the touching be conducted in a lewd manner appellant argues that a conviction under section 288, subdivision (a), lewd act on a child, requires proof that the touching was conducted in a lewd manner. as a result, appellant contends the trial court erred by instructing the jury with calcrim no. 1110 because the form instruction removed an element of the crime that the act be committed lewdly . section 288, subdivision (a) provides commits any lewd or lascivious act . . . upon or with the body, or any part or member thereof, of a child who is under the age of 14 years, with the intent of arousing, appealing to, or gratifying the lust, passions, or sexual desires of that person or the child, is guilty of ( 288, subd. (a).) calcrim no. 1110 in effect at the time of trial in this case and as given to the jury, provided in relevant part: the defendant is charged in counts 1,3,4 and 5 with committing a lewd or lascivious act on a child under the age of 14 years. to prove that the defendant is guilty of this crime, the people must prove that: 1. the bare skin or through the clothing; 2. the defendant committed the act with the intent of arousing, appealing to, or gratifying the lust, passions, or sexual desires of himself or the child; and 3. the child was under the age of 14 years at the time of the act. the touching need not be done in a lewd or sexual manner. 7 someone commits an act willfully when he or she does it willingly or on purpose. it is not required that he or she intend to break the law, hurt someone else, or gain any advantage. actually arousing, appealing to, or gratifying the lust, passions, or sexual desires of the perpetrator or child is not required for lewd or lascivious conduct. under the law, a person becomes one year older as soon as the first minute of his or her birthday has begun. (original italics.) appellant takes issue with the seeming contradiction between the crime as described in section 288, subdivision (a) and calcrim no. 1110 because the penal code section imposes criminal liability on lewdly commits instructs ( 288 subd. (a), emphasis added.) as a result of this apparent contradiction, appellant argues that instructing the jury with calcrim no. 1110 removed an essential element of the offense from the namely, that the touching be conducted in a lewd manner. therefore, he argues, his sixth amendment right to a jury trial and fifth and fourteenth amendment due process rights were violated. as we shall explain, we disagree. the language in calcrim no. 1110 at issue in this case comports with the statutory elements of the offense of lewd or lascivious act on a child. in discussing the upreme court has explained that section 288 itself declares that to willfully ns to do with the intent of arousing, appealing to, or gratifying the lust or passions or sexual des (see people v. martinez (1995) 11 cal.4th 434, 444; see also in re smith (1972) 7 cal.3d 362, 365.) the focus of the offense is on the intent of the perpetrator. of sexually motivated contact with an underage child. has always been the defendants intent to sexually exploit a child, not the nature of the 8 people v. martinez, supra, 11 cal.4th at p. 441). [t]he purpose of the perpetrator in touching the child is the controlling factor and each case is to be examined in the light of the intent with which the act was done. . . . if [the] intent of the act, although it may have the outward appearance of innocence, is to arouse . . . the lust, the passion or the sexual desire of the perpetrator [or the child,] it stands condemned by the statute. . . [citat (id. at p. 444.) thus, the court in martinez rejected an interpretation of section 288 which would have required proof that the touching be committed in a lewd manner. (id. at p.442.) in view of the supreme court precedent, the sentence to which appellant objects here correctly states the law and makes it plain to the jury the physical act of touching involved need not be seen as lewd or offensive in and of itself. even a physical touching that may appear innocent, if done with the requisite statutory intent, can be found to be a in re] smith, we can only conclude (people v. martinez, supra, 11 cal.4th at p. 449; accord, people v. lopez (1998) 19 cal.4th 282, 289 [any touching of a child under the age of 14 violates section 288, subdivision (a), even if the touching is outwardly innocuous and inoffensive, if it is accompanied by the intent to arouse or gratify the sexual desires of either the perpetrator or the victim].) in short, calcrim no. 1110 does not improperly negate a statutory element of section 288. as both the respondent and appellant here acknowledge, other courts have examined identical language in calcrim no. 1120, which instructs on section 288.5 (continuous sexual abuse of a child under the age of 14). in people v. sigala, division five of this district, relying on martinez, concluded that a violation of section 288.5 done in a lewd or sexual manner. (people v. sigala (2011) 191 cal.app.4th 695, 700-701.) as a result, the sigala court concluded that the statement in calcrim no. 1120, which instructed the jury that the touching need not be done in a lewd or sexual manner 9 was a correct statement of the law. (ibid.) the sigala court furtht follows from our holding that the identical definition of lewd or lascivious conduct in calcrim no. 1110, defining a violation of section 288, is also a correct statement of law under martinez.id. at p. 701, fn. 5.) here, appellant argues that sigala suffers from a fatal problem because it relied on lopez and martinez both of which were decided before calcrim no. 1110 was created; and they parsed a caljic instruction that did not contain the language challenged here. we are not persuaded. the fact that calcrim no. 1110 did not exist at the time lopez and martinez were decided is irrelevant. the crux of appellant's argument is that there needs to be a lewd touching, that is, the act itself must be inherently lewd; martinez specifically rejected the argument section 288 is violated only if a defendant touches a child in an inherently lewd manner. (people v. martinez, supra, 11 cal.4th at p. 442.) more recently, division four of this appellate district also analyzed this language (in the context of calcrim no. 1120) in people v. cuellar (2012) 208 cal.app.4th 1067. the court in cuellar did not conclude the instruction was infirm, constitutionally or otherwise. cuellar stated, however, that the language was (people v. cuellar, supra, 208 cal.app.4th at p. 1071). nonetheless, the court concluded that any error with respect to the instruction was harmless, finding that reading the instructions as a whole and given the overwhelming evidence against the defendant, the language did not mislead the jury. (id. at p. 1072.) subsequent to cuellar, and effective february 26, 2013, the advisory committee on criminal jury instructions deleted the sentence from the form jury instructions for both calcrim no. 1110 and no. 1120. (judicial counsel of california criminal jury instructions, calcrim nos. 1110 and 1120 (february 2013 ed.) pp. 831, 842).4 4 the instruction in cuellar uct is any willful touching of a child accomplished with the intent to sexually arouse the perpetrator or the child. (people v. 10 nevertheless, the revision to calcrim no. 1110 does not alter our assessment of the validity of calcrim no. 1110 as given in this case. there has been no change in the well-established law that a violation of section 288 does not require an explicitly sexual or inherently lewd touching. in sum, calcrim no. 1110 correctly stated the law and did not remove an element of the offense from the jurys consideration. c. even if the court erred by instructing the jury using calcrim no. 1110, any error was harmless even if the trial court erred by instructing the jury using calcrim no. 1110, any error was harmless. all the touching in this case was assuredly sexual. in the relevant count of lewd act on a child pertaining to jacqueline, she testified that appellant fondled her breasts and tried to force his hand under the front of her pants. in count 5 involving julia, she testified that appellant rubbed his erect penis on her thigh through his pants. in addition, there was sufficient evidence of appellantilt. both jacqueline and julia gave thorough, detailed testimony. moreover, although appellant did not explicitly confess in this case, he made a number of inculpatory statements when jacqueline made a recorded pretext phone call to appellant while at the police station and when police interviewed him. furthermore, the defense relatively weak. the defense evidence was made up of the testimony of a few of afamily members mainly consisting of character testimony. three family members also testified that they did not remember jacqueline spending the night. however, appellant admitted jacqueline spent the night on many occasions. therefore, cuellar, supra, 208 cal.app.4th at p. 1070, italics omitted.) the second sentence is inconsistent with the first and negates the requirement that the (id. at p. 1071.) the cuellar court efendants interpretation and sigalas analysis as failing (ibid.) two sentences . . (id. at p. 1072.) 11 even if we conclude the trial court erred by instructing the jury using calcrim no. 1110, any error was harmless. ii. the court did not err by failing to instruct on the lesser included offense of attempted lewd act on a child appellant argues that the trial court erred by failing to instruct the jury on the lesser included offense to section 288, subdivision (a), attempted lewd act on a child. we disagree. a. standard of review courts review the failure to give a lesser included offense instruction under the de novo standard of review. (people v. cooksey (2002) 95 cal.app.4th 1407, 1411.) offense which find substantial support in evidence. . . . any evidence, l not justify instructions on a lesser included offense, but such instructions are required whenever evidence that the defendant is guilty only of the lesser in this context is . . . conclude[ (people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 162, original italics.) finally, in deciding whether there is substantial evidence of a lesser offense, courts should not evaluate the credibility (ibid.) the court has no obligation to give an instruction on a lesser included offense when there is no evidence that the offense was less than that charged. (id. at p. 162.) b. the lesser included offense of attempted lewd act on a child was not required in this case . . requires only a specific intent to commit it and a direct but ineffectual act done towards its commission, i.e., an overt ineffectual act (people v. imler (1992) 9 cal.app.4th 1178, 1181.) 12 here, the evidence for count 3, lewd act on a child involving jacqueline, and count 5, lewd act on a child involving julia was provided through the testimony of jacqueline and julia. as detailed above, the two women described the incidents in a manner that established all the elements of the offense of lewd act on a child. no evidence was presented that appellant took a crime. (people v. imler, supra, 9 cal.app.4th at p. 1181.) rather, the evidence presented was that appellant completed each crime. in jacquelineppellant completed the crime of lewd act on a child by touching jacquelined the area above her with the intent of arousing, appealing to, or gratifying the lust, passions, or ( 288, subd. (a).) in julia, appellant completed the crime by touching her breasts and rubbing her vagina over her pants with the intent of arousing, appealing to, or gratifying the lust, passions, or sexual desires of (ibid.) this is not a case where the accused admitted to engaging in certain acts which fell short of the completed crime or where the accused offered an alternative, innocent explanation for his conduct. here, appellant claimed his innocence; his defense was that none of the alleged crimes occurred and that the victims had fabricated the claims against him. events, then the jury would conclude appellant had committed the crimes alleged in counts 3 and 5, and if the jury believed appellant, then the jury would acquit appellant of these charges. under the circumstances of this case, there was no evidence from which a reasonable jury could conclude that the lesser, but not the greater offense was committed. consequently, the lesser included offense of attempted lewd act on a child was not warranted in this case. the trial court did not err by failing to sua sponte instruct the jury on the lesser included offense of attempted lewd act on a child. 13 disposition the judgment is affirmed. woods, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. zelon, j. 