filed 10/21/14 p. v. hilario ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. francisco hilario, defendant and appellant. b250337 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba402144) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, clifford l. klein, judge. affirmed. caroline r. hahn, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., stephanie a. miyoshi and john yang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant francisco hilario challenges his conviction on one count of robbery. he claims that because he did not personally take property from the victim, his conviction must have been based on an aiding and abetting theory of liability. hilario accordingly contends that the trial court erred in not instructing the jury on an aiding and abetting theory of liability. he further contends that the evidence was insufficient to evidence appellant knew beforehand about the robbery or that he shared an intent to -defendant. we conclude that even if the trial court erred in failing to provide an aiding and abetting instruction, any error was harmless. we further the judgment of the trial court is affirmed. procedural history a two-count information against jose enriquez and appellant francisco hilario. count 1 alleged that hilario and enriquez committed second-degree robbery (pen. code  211)1 against victim juan quinones2 on september 3, 2012. count 2 alleged that hilario alone had attempted to commit robbery ( 211 & 664) against a second victim, arnoldo rodriguez, earlier that the same day. the information further alleged that hilario had served one prior prison term within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). hilario and enriquez pleaded not guilty to the charges and proceeded to a joint jury trial. the jury found hilario guilty of the robbery of quinones alleged in count 1 1 all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 we spelling provided via the interpreter at both the preliminary hearing and the trial. 3 but was unable to reach a verdict as to the attempted robbery of rodriguez alleged in count 2. the trial court declared a mistrial as to count 2, which the people later dropped count 3, an interlineated charge of assault by means of force likely to produce great bodily injury ( 245, subd. (a)(4)). hilario waived the right to jury trial on the prior prison term allegation and admitted that the allegation was true. the trial court sentenced hilario to a total of four years in state prison: a midterm three-year sentence on count 1, a concurrent midterm three-year sentence on count 3, and an additional year for the prior prison term enhancement. the court awarded hilario 327 days of presentence custody credit, composed of 285 days of actual custody credit and 42 days of conduct credit. hilario timely appealed. factual background i. case a. the rodriguez incident arnoldo rodriguez testified that at about 7:00 p.m. on september 3, 2012, he went to in the 6000 block of south avalon boulevard. he saw hilario standing at a bus stop outside the store, with a cast on one of his arms. rodriguez had seen hilario there a few times over the past few months, but denied knowing him or his cousin. as rodriguez approached the store, the two men shook hands and hilario asked rodridriguez refused the request, prompting a brief verbal argument between himself and hilario. rodriguez offered conflicting testimony about the degree to which the verbal altercation escalated into a physical one, but conceded on cross-examination that hilario did not try to remove the phone from his pocket. eventually rodriguez entered the liquor store, and hilario remained outside. when rodriguez emerged from the liquor store a minute or so later, hilario punched him in the face a few times. rodriguez fell to the ground and briefly lost 4 consciousness but not his phone, which remained in his pocket. after regaining consciousness, rodriguez went into the liquor store and called the police. the police presented rodriguez with a photo array on october 1, 2012, and he identified hilario as the man who attacked him. the people played a video recording of the attack for the jury. they also presented a rebuttal witness, los angeles police detective guillermo medina, who testified as to the creation and accuracy of the video. neither the video nor any of the other exhibits admitted at trial are in the appellate record. b. the quinones incident quinones testified that he and a friend consumed a few beers at his house on the evening of september 3, 2012. when the duo ran out of beer, quinones put about $5 in his pocket and rode his bicycle to blimp liquor store, near the intersection of florence and central avenues, to purchase more beer. as quinones pulled up the store, two hispanic males [his] quinones recognized one of them as hilario, whom he had seen in the area almost every day for about a month. hilario and the other man asked quinones for money and tried to lure him into .to evade them and enter the liquor store after only a short interaction. after purchasing two forty-ounce beers, quinones got back on his bicycle and started riding home. quinones soon realized that the two men from outside the liquor store were following him on their own bicycles. one of them pulled up behind quinones way. hilario, who had pulled up behind quinones, knocked quinones off his bicycle. hilario then punched quinones in the head and face approximately ten times, while the other assailant rifled through his pockets and took his wallet. hilario and the other assailant then fled quickly, in the same direction, on bicycles. quinones testified that although he did not think that the assailants had his bicycle at that time, he did not have the bicycle with him. 5 quinones got up and walked home. his niece promptly called the police. quinones told the police that someone had punched him and taken his bicycle. quinones testified that at that time, he thought that the assailants had taken the bicycle. about ten to fifteen minutes later, quinones got a call from the police, who told him they had detained a suspect. both of the responding officers, guillermo calleros and nickolas lokker, testified that they came upon the suspect on foot near the liquor store and found g a pat-down. the scene, about two blocks from the liquor store. when quinones arrived, the police removed enriquez from the back of a squad car. quinones identified enriquez as the man who had taken his wallet, though he was unable to identify him at the trial. (calleros and lokker positively identified enriquez, however.) the police returned and its contents, two identification cards, to him on the scene. quinones testified that his bicycle was gone when he left the house with his niece, but that he did not know what had happened to it. a short time later, the police spotted a hispanic man with a bicycle near the blimp liquor store. lokker testified that the man had some laundry bags with him; calleros could not remember whether the man had any large bags of laundry with him, even after preliminary hearing. the police detained the man, who had a cast on his arm, and placed a call to quinones. the police told quinones that they had located a second suspect. quinones to the location where the police had detained the second suspect. quinones he identified as hilario the bicycle hilario had with him at the time of his apprehension did not belong to quinones, however. bicycle never was recovered or returned to him. 6 ii. the defense cases a. enriquez enriquez declined to testify. his defense consisted solely of expert testimony from dr. kathy pezdek, a cognitive scientist and psychology professor who researches eyewitness memory and identification. pezdek testified about several psychological factors that can cast doubt on the accuracy of eyewitness identifications. these factors included distance and lighting, alcohol consumption, distraction during the incident, cross-race identification, and time delay. pezdek did not directly opine on the effects, if b. hilario hilario took the stand in his own defense. as to the rodriguez incident, he testified that rodriguez approached him in a threatening manner before enliquor store on september 3, 2012. hilario further testified that rodriguez told him that he from the liquor store with his purchase, he made threatening quercousin. rodriguez also reached into his pocket in a threatening fashion. hilario responded by punching rodriguez about three times. hilario made no attempt to search hilario also denied asking rodriguez for his cell phone. hilario testified that he was arrested later that night while he was on his way home from the laundromat with a large bag of laundry. he was walking his bicycle because he could not ride the bicycle and carry his laundry at the same time. the police accused him of participating in a robbery, which he denied. when quinones arrived on the scene, however, he identified hilario as the perpetrator. hilario testified that he had seen quinones around the neighborhood but did not know him beyond that. hilario denied following quinones, knocking him from his bicycle, hitting him, or trying to take his bicycle or other possessions. hilario also denied knowing enriquez or ever having met him in his life. 7 iii. closing arguments a. the people at closing, the people argued that their video of the rodriguez incident showed using th with respect to the quinones incident, the people argued that its proximity and similarity to the rodriguez incident suggested a pattern of behavior by hilario. they also alcohol prior to the incident and other potentially applicable factors identified by expert witness pezdek, . the people contended that enriquez was mediately identified by quinones. one person as doing the striking and the punching, and the other person as the one who took the wallet. the b. the defense enriquez argued that quinones was mistaken as to his identity. he emphasized his distinctive tattoos and facial hair. enriquez further pointed out that he was not found on or with a bicycle, and contended that he had the wallet in his pocket because he had recovered it after observing not participating in a robbery. in his closing, hilario contended that the video of the rodriguez incident vindicated his testimony about the event. he conceded that the punching did not make him look good, but argued that the video did not depict him attempting to take anything from rodriguez, even after rodriguez lost consciousness. with respect to the quinones incident, hil he also pointed the police shoddy investigative work tainted the identification process. hilario also 8 assertion that he had been doing laundry at the time of the incident. c. rebuttal ncerning the incident unargued that the law holds enriquez and hilario for the quinones incidentthe robbery of juan quinones, and the defendant enriquez is also guilty for the taking of the wallet and the robbery of . . . juan quinones. involved in the robbery and did the actual taking of the robbery. and even though he didpersonally reliable [siccontention to suggest that hilario should be held equally accountable for the robbery even if he only threw punches and did not actually take the wallet. the people again made no mention of bicycle. discussion i. jury instructions hilario contends that the trial court committed reversible error by failing to sua sponte instruct the jury on an aiding and abetting theory. hilario did not request an aiding and abetting instruction during trial, but now argues that such an instruction was necessary because there was no evidence that he personally took property from quinones. he contends that the error was prejudicial because the jury could have concluded that he lacked knowledge of s plan to rob quinones and did not intend to assist him. claims of instructional error present questions of law that we review de novo. (people v. guiuan (1998) 18 cal.4th 558, 569.) if we conclude that an error has been committed, we must inquire whether the error prejudiced hilario. 9 ty principles under the state error standard of people v. watson [(1956)] 46 cal.2d [818,] (people v. delgado (2013) 56 cal.4th 480, 492 (delgado)the entire record, there was any reasonable probability of a more favorable result had (ibid.) however, the omission of an aiding and abetting instruction may tantamount to the omission of an element of the proof. . . . (id. at p. 491.) reasonable likelihood [citation] that the jury applied the instructions in a manner that (ibid.) if so, the people must prove that the error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 36.) trial cto request a particular instruction. (delgado, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 488 [quotation omitted]). the general legal principle of aiding and abetting provides that a defendant may be found guilty as a principal to a crime if he purpose of the perpetrator, (ii) and with the intent or purpose of committing, facilitating or encouraging commission of the crime, (iii) by act or advice, aids, promotes, encourages or instigates the commission of the crime (id. at p. 486, quoting people v. cooper (1991) 53 cal.3d 1158, 1164; see also  31.) an aiding and abetting theory of liability must be given when such derivative culpability delgado, supra, at p. 488, quoting people v. prettyman (1996) 14 cal.4th 248, 266-267.) aiding and abetting instructions are not required, however, 10 people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1201, quoting people v. sassounian (1986) 182 cal.app.3d 361, 404.) hilario contends that he must have been tried as an aider and abettor because he did not personally take property from quinones. this argument finds some support in delgado, which o there, our must rest in that respect on his or her derivative liability, as a coconspirator or an aider and (delgado, supra, 56 cal.4th at 489.) however, the offense at issue in delgado, kidnapping for purposes of robbery ( 209, subd. (b)(1)), delgado court specifically noted that the t element, the all (delgado, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 489.) the simple robbery of which hilario was convicted requires only one onal property in the possession of another, from his person or immediate presence, and against his will, ( 211; see people v. gomez (2008) 43 cal.4th under the language of section 211, the phrases person or immediate presence and force or fear both refer to the taking of personal property. furthermore, it is well established that a defendant need not take actual manual (see 2 witkin & epstein, california criminal law (4th ed. 2012),  96 [collecting cases dating back to 1947].) thus, it is not immediately clear that delgado is controlling here. even if it is, and the trial court did err by failing to sua sponte deliver an aiding and abetting instruction, reversal is not required. just as in delgado, the jury was fully of proof beyond a reasonable doubt, and the principle that as to each offense the people 11 must prove the defendant committed the prohibited act or acts with the intent or mental fied that delgado, supra, 56 cal.4th at 489-490.) t accurate instructions did not give the jury an incomplete picture of aiding and abetting liability, as hilario suggests. (id. at p. 490.) instead, they were silent as to aiding and abetting. (ibid. (id. at p. 491),which for purposes of aiding and abetting liability requires the people to demonstrate that the defendant knew of and and intended to facilitate the commission. (people v. beeman (1984) 35 cal.3d 547, 560.) the only reference to derivative liability that the people made at trial, during their rebuttal argument, was that assailants did not hit quinones. apply a standard less than that requir (delgado, supra, 56 cal.4th at 491.) [t](ibid.defendant and the [second assailant] were working together. . . . (id. at p. 492.). moreover, [f]or the jury to find defendant guilty of [robbery], on the evidence harbored the requisite mental state (ibid.) quinones, whose testimony the jury clearly credited, testified that his bicycle was missing when the confrontation was over, and calleros testified that t]he commission of a robbery is sufficiently established by proof that the victim had valuables on his person at the time of being assaulted, beaten, and rendered unconscious, and that they were missing when he regained consciousness.people v. hubler (1951) 102 cal.app.2d 689, 695.) thus, the circumstantial evidence that quinones never found 12 but even if we somewhat muddled testimony about his bicycle, it would have been eminently reasonable for the jury to infer from the facts adduced at trial that hilario acted with the intent to divest quinones of his wallet or other personal possessions. quinones testified that two individuals, one of whom he consistently identified as hilario, jointly asked him for money, jointly followed him mere minutes after he refused, and jointly accosted him. the only reasonable inference a jury could draw from this evidence is that the two individuals were working together and shared the (see people v. beeman, supra, 35 cal.3d at p. 560.) it is highly unlikely that the jury would have reached a contrary conclusion had it received an aiding and abetting instruction. in any eventhave helped [defendant], as it would have merely offered an alternative, additional means of establthe taking. (delgado, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 492.) had such an instruction been given, defense counsel would have been limited to making the alibi argument it unsuccessfully advanced, or to arguing that hilario inadvertently or unintentionally assisted the second . the jury apparently rejected the former on kely to persuade the jury given the strong circumstantial evidence defendant and the [second ibid.; see also id. at p. 487.) ii. sufficiency of the evidence to support the conviction hilario also contends that his conviction must be reversed because the evidence does not support a finding as to every fact required for conviction beyond a reasonable doubt. hilario specifically challenges the sufficiency of the evidence as to his specific intent to rob quinones. 13 conviction, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidence that is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value from which a reasonable trier of fact could find the (people v. edwards (2013) 57 cal.4th 658, 715, quoting people v. lindberg (2008) 45 cal.4th 1, 27.) after viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier (jackson v. virginia (1979) 443 u.s. 307, 319.) in making this determination, we presume the existence of every fact the jury reasonably could deduce from the evidence presented. (people v. edwards, supra, 57 cal.4th at 715.) are supported by reasonable inferences from the evidence, the fact that the circumstances might have supported a contrary finding does not render the findings unsupported or warrant reversal of the judgment. (people v. abilez (2007) 41 cal.4th 472, 504.) we do not resolve credibility issues or evidentiary conflicts; we look for substantial evidence. (people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357.) the jury convicted hilario of one count of robbery. as already noted, [r]obbery is the felonious taking of personal property in the possession of another, from his person ( 211.) specific intent to permanently deprive the owner of his or her property is a necessary element of the crime (people v. anderson (2011) 51 cal.4th 989, 1002), and therefore also must be shared by an individual aiding and abetting a robbery. (people v. ogg (2013) 219 cal.app.4th 173, 180.) a defendant shares the specific intent of the (ibid., quoting beeman, supra, 35 cal.3d at 560.) hilario contends that his conviction must have rested upon a theory of aiding and abetting the 14 intent in facilitating direct evidence is not required to prove intent or any other element of the crime. (people v. manibusan (2013) 58 cal.4th 40, 87.) specific intent may be proved through circumstantial evidence (people v. lewis (2001) 25 cal.4th 610, 643), and factors such as presence at the scene, companionship, conduct before and after the offense, and flight another. (people v. garcia (2008) 168 cal.app.4th 261, 273.) quinones testified that two men hilario and the other assailant asked him for money outside the liquor store together, followed him together, used their bicycles to cut him off together, knocked him off his bike together, hit him and stole from him simultaneously, and departed the scene together, headed in the same direction. the jury could have credited this testimony and concluded from it that hilario knew of the second assailantcriminal purpose and promoted, encouraged, or facilitated it by cutting off quinones and punching him during the actual theft . (see people v. francis (1969) 71 cal.2d 66, 72). to the extent that hilario points to his own testimony that he did not know enriquez and was doing laundry during the incident, he raises only a credibility dispute that is beyond our purview at this juncture. (people v. zamudio, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 357.) hilario asserts that he did not encourage the second assailant words of taken speak louder than any words of encouragement could. (cf. delgado, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 487 [giving as an person might we are satisfied that there was sufficient evidence to convict him under an aiding and abetting theory, the only one under which he asserts that he could have been convicted. 15 disposition the judgment of the trial court is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. willhite, j. 