filed 5/30/14 p. v. ybarra ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. erik ybarra, defendant and appellant. b250293 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na081466) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. james pierce, judge. affirmed. verna wefald for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and taylor nguyen, deputy attorneys general for plaintiff and respondent. __________ 2 in a previous appeal convictions on charges of kidnapping, rape, and forcible oral copulation, remanded for a hearing on the timeliness of the charges, and affirmed the judgment in all other respects. on remand, the superior court conducted a hearing and determined that the charges were timely filed, and the court accordingly reinstated the judgment of conviction and sentence. ybarra again appeals, and we affirm. background the information filed on december 17, 2009, charged ybarra with one count of kidnapping for sexual purposes in violation of subdivision (d) of penal code former section 2081 (count 1), one count of forcible rape in violation of subdivision (a)(2) of former section 261 (count 2), and one count of forcible oral copulation in violation of subdivision (c) of former section 288a (count 3). as to counts 2 and 3, the information also alleged under subdivisions (b), (c), and (e) of former section 667.61 that ybarra had kidnapped the victim in violation of former section 207. it further alleged under subdivision (e)(4) of former section 1203 that ybarra had been convicted of felonies twice in california.2 a jury convicted ybarra on all counts, and the court sentenced him to 27 years in state prison. we conditionally reversed and remanded for a hearing on the timeliness of the charges, but we affirmed the judgment in all other respects. (people v. ybarra (dec. 31, 2012, b232640) [nonpub. opn.].) we explained that, under the governing statute, the 2009 charges concerning crimes committed in 1995 were timely only if the ibid.) because the prosecution did not attempt to prove the necessary facts at either the preliminary hearing or the trial, and we could not determine from the 1 all subsequent statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 because the charged crimes took place in 1995, the statutory citations in the information refer to the versions of those statutes that were in effect in 1995. 3 available record whether the charges were timely, we conditionally reversed and remanded for a hearing on the issue. (ibid.) on may 14, 2013, the superior court conducted the hearing as directed. the prosecution introduced one exhibit and called one witness. the exhibit was a report from reliagene technologies, inc. presenting the results of dna analysis of biological evidence collected from the victim of the crimes that were ultimately charged against ybarra. the report is dated october 26, 2001. it states that reliagene received the evidence on october 12, 2001. the report also bears the ana pdated october 29, 2001. the witness who testified at the hearing was amrita lal-patterson, who identified herself as the manager who had signed the reliagene report. lal-patterson testified concerning the process of testing the biological evidence and generating the report. she through all the documentation to see if the analyst [in this instance, paunovic] did everything that i would have done, and, if they did, do i agree with what their conclusions are. i review all the dna profiles separately from what they do, and then i prepared, reviewed, signed (by both analyst and manager), and issued. ybarra objected to all of lal-ating his confrontation rights. the court overruled the objections and admitted the testimony and the exhibit. also, several times in the course of the hearing, the court emphasized its (correct) understanding that the sole purpose of the hearing was to determine whether the 4 previous judgment of conviction and sentence is reinstated on the same conditions and discussion ybarra argues that lal-inadmissible hearsay and that their admission violated his confrontation rights. we disagree. the court admitted the report under the business records exception to the hearsay rule. (see evid. code,  against that ruling is that the admissibility of lal- because the business records sources of information and method and time of preparationsuch as to indicate its trustworthiness code,  1271, subd. (d).) the court correctly observed, however, that the only issue to be determined at the hearing on remand was the testing date. consequently, for purposes of admitting the reliagene report as a business record at that hearing, the prosecution needed to show only that the sources of information and method and time of preparation indicated that the report was trustworthy as to the date by which the analysis was performed, not that the dna analysis itself was trustworthy. the court did not abuse its discretion by determining that the report was trustworthy as to the date by which the analysis was performed, and ybarra does not argue to the contrary.3 we therereport and lal- it should have been excluded as hearsay. as regards the confrontation clause, ybarra argues that the admission of lal-nfrontation rights because the 3 he first time in reply, however, are forfeited in the absence of a showing of good cause for failure to raise them earlier, and ybarra makes no such showing. (see, e.g., people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 1075.) in any is insufficient to demonstrate that the trial court abused its discretion by determining that the report (which bore both a printed date and two handwritten dates, all from october 2001) was trustworthy as to the date by which the dna analysis was performed. 5 report is testimonial hearsay but paunovic, who performed the dna analysis, did not testify and was never made available for cross-examination. we are not persuaded. a criminal defendant the right to confront and cross- (people v. lopez (2012) 55 cal.4th 569, 576 (lopez).) out of-court statements unless the witness is unavailable to testify and the defendant had a prior opportunity for cross- (ibid., quoting crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36, 59.) synthesizing united state supreme court case law on the lopez concluded that (lopez, at p. 581.) be testimonial the out-of-court statement must have been made with some degree of (ibid.) . . an out-of-court statement is testimonial (id. at p. 582.) in lopez, the court, applying the first requirement, determined that a laboratory s report was not testimonial because it was not made with sufficient formality and solemnity. (lopez, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 584.) neither the analyst nor his assistant epared with the formality required by the high (ibid.) the court distinguished a case in which certain ere sworn to before a notary . . .the certificates. [cit (id. at p. 585.) the court likewise distinguished a case in s certificate regarding the result of his analysis was the admissibility of such certificates in court. (ibid.) in people v. dungo (2012) 55 cal.4th 608 (dungo), the court applied both requirements to ds description of the condition of the s body was not testimonial. (id. at pp. 619-621.) first, the court reasoned that the s statements concern 6 nts setting forth a s expert conclusions. they are comparable to observations of objective fact in a report by a physician who, after examining a patient, diagnoses a particular injury or ailment and determines the appropriate treatment. such observations are not testimonial (id. at p. 619.) reports, including the one at issue here, is not limited to criminal investigation and prosecution; such reports serve many other equally important purposes. for example, the s relatives may use an autopsy report in determining whether to file an action for wrongful death. and an insurance company may use an autopsy report in determining whether a particular death is covered by one of its policies. [citation.] also, in certain cases an autopss interest in knowing the cause of death, particularly when (as here) the death was reported in the local media. in (id. at p. 621.) minal investigation was not the primary s description s] (ibid.) applying the criteria articulated in lopez and dungo, we conclude that the first criterion is sufficient to establish that the reliagene report was not testimonial. as regards the date by which the dna analysis was performed, the report lacked the necessary formality because it merely recorded an objective fact (namely, the date) in the same manner as the portion of the autopsy report s examination report) discussed in dungo. (see dungo, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 619.) (ibid.) the report also lacked formality in that, although both paunovic and lal-patterson signed it, they did not certify or swear to the truth of its contents, and it did not refer to court rules providing for its admissibility. (see lopez, supra, 55 cal.4th at pp. 584-585.) confrontation rights were violated by the admission of the reliagene report and lal- 7 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. rothschild, acting p. j. we concur: johnson, j. miller, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 