 filed 4/13/15 p. v. farmer ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. kenneth anthony farmer, defendant and appellant. b250695 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma057202) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, daviann l. mitchell, judge. reversed and remanded with directions. ann krausz, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, chung mar and jessica c. owen, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________ 2 appellant kenneth anthony farmer appeals from the judgment entered following his conviction by jury of petty theft with prior theft-related convictions, with admissions he suffered a prior felony conviction and five prior felony convictions for which he served separate prison terms. (pen. code,  666, subd. (a), 667, subd. (d), & 667.5, subd. (b).) the court sentenced appellant to prison for seven years. we reverse the judgment and remand the matter with directions. factual summary 1. appelwheeler motion based on race, and objection based on gender.1 prospective jurors (hereafter, jurors) were to three women, i.e., to jurors e3431, g0166, then c1613, then two men. after the challenge to the second of the two men (hereafter, the second man), appellant, outside the presence of the jury, objected to the challenges to juror c1613, and the second man, on the ground they were challenged because they were african-americans. the court, discussing juror c1613 and the second man, noted, inter alia, both were african-ly services at a funeral the court concluded appellant had made a prima facie showing the prosecutor had challenged juror c1613 and the second man based on group bias predicated on race. the court invited the prosecutor to tender race-neutral justifications for the challenges. the prosecutor, first discussing juror c1613, indicated juror c1613 was a counselor at a county funeral home and the prosecutor did not like jurors associated with social services, because such jurors might be sympathetic to the defense. 1 the facts pertaining to the present offense are not pertinent to this appeal; we simply note the record reflects that on august 22, 2012, appellant committed the present offense. 3 the prosecutor composition on the jury. yoat least three if not all four of my challenges have been to females[2] then comment, or rule, upon the objection and appellant did not secure a ruling on it.3 of jurors and, . . . -- [] and then timely [sic], there were just other jurors that i like better. and, . . . [another tendered a race-neutral justification as to the second man. did not challenge juror c1613 or the second man on the ground of group bias. the court noted juror c1613 was a counselor and, regardless of her capacity, counselors usually , on the ground of race, as a wheeler motion and denied it.4 2 as indicated, up to this point the prosecutor had exercised five, not four, challenges, only three of which were to women. 3 motion pursuant to people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258 (wheeler) based on gender. however, because the trial court did not rule on the objection and because this case can be resolved based on the later wheeler motions based on gender that the trial court denied, we do not discuss the 4 the wheeler motion based on race is not at issue in this appeal. 4 2. wheeler motion based on gender. appellant later, still outside the presence of the jury, objected the prosecutor had untimely because the last juror that was excused was a male[5] and we only have two jurors that are excused, one male and one female.[6] it may be more timely in the future, the court later wheeler motion based wheeler motion on ge (italics added.) 3. wheeler motion based on gender. the prosecutor subsequently, in open court, exercised peremptory challenges as to four jurors, i.e., two men, then two women. after the challenge to the first man but before the challenge to the second man, the prosecutor accepted the panel. the two women were juror v9212, then juror r3715. after the prosecutor challenged juror r3715, appellant, outside the presence of the jury, made a wheeler off in the panel. he did make a comment during our previous [batson v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 79 [90 l.ed.2d 69] (batson)] objection, and with regards to getting rid of d. one woman was dismissed, i made no objection. then the last two witnesses [sic] that 5 this was an apparent reference to the previously mentioned second man challenged by the prosecutor. 6 this comment by the trial court was unclear. as indicated, up to this point there were five (not two) jurors excused as a result of challenges by the prosecutor, i.e., three women and two men (not merely one man and one woman). one man (the second man) and one of the women (juror c1613) were african-americans. 5 the court noted 18 of the 36 jurors in the panel were women, and five of the nine r had accepted the panel once. the court recounted background information as to each of the total of five women the prosecutor previously had challenged, i.e., jurors e3431, g0166, c1613, v9212, and r3715. the court stated it did not find a prima facie case had been made. fairly read, the record reflects the trial court concluded appellant had failed to show the challenges were made because of group bias; therefore, appellant had . the wheeler motion based on gender. the court indicated it was basing its above mentioned conclusion on the following factors as to the five women. juror e3431 had prior criminal jury experience, but the court did not know how that affected matters. she was a nurse, which could cause the prosecutor to be concerned about her sympathies. nurses tended to be more nurturing. enforcement officer. one could conclude she had biases for and against law enforcement. juror c1613 was the previously discussed counselor who could be sympathetic to 7 the or another either towards law enforcement, even though she deni[sic-in-law had been convicted of drug- and theft-related crimes, and juror r3715 had been the victim of a crime similar to the present alleged offense, which could be a matter of concern. 7 during voir dire, juror v9212 testified her mother was beaten and robbed in her home, her mother called law enforcement, and the culprits were caught and prosecuted. juror v9212 also testified she thought law enforcement handled the matter appropriately and the syste[as] 6 and the court was not requesting the prosecutor to state his reasons for exercising the challenges at issue, the court would allow the prosecutor to state his reasons for them if the prosecutor voluntarily wanted to do so. the prosecutor then indicated as follows. juror c1613 (the counselor) already had been discussed. as to juror e[a]have anything to do with i was looking at her, we were making eye contact, i never addressed her because there ery beginning. so i just kind of engaged in the proceedings, . . . [double-edged] someone raising their hand all the time either, but she kind of sat and where the questions were opened up to . . . the general audience, she just kind of sat there. and as i was looking at her, as i was scanning the jurors, there was just kind of nothing really n around, i heard her talking. it was almost like her voice projected, and even some of the things that she said which i did note feel a connection with. she was, . . . a homemaker, student, and again at her age i was a little concerned with that aspect of it, . . . but more it was kind of a general feeling from the moment she opened her mouth and started speaking, it was just kind of a piercing, grating voice, so i got rid of her because i thought it would not [be] a good mix with other jurors 7 [t]hat was just simply based on the fact that her brother had been convicted of a theft-related conviction [sic]. and with this wheeler (italics added.) later, the parties accepted the panel and an alternate juror, and the jury and alternate juror were sworn. issue appellant claims the trial court erroneously denied his two wheeler motions that alleged the prosecutor impermissibly exercised peremptory challenges to women based on gender. discussion appellant claims as previously indicated. we agree. in wheeler, supra, 22 cal.3d remove prospective jurors on the sole ground of group bias violates the right to trial by a jury drawn from a representative cross-section of the community under article i, section wheeler, at pp. 276-277.) batson reached the same conclusion based on the federal equal protection clause. (people v. huggins (2006) 38 cal.4th 175, 226.) challenges violates the federal constitution because they are based on gender, the defendant must make out a prima facie case by showing the totality of the relevant facts gives rise to an inference of discriminatory purpose. the burden then shifts to the state to explain adequately the gender exclusion by offering permissible gender-neutral justifications for the challenges. thereafter, if a gender-neutral explanation is tendered, the trial court must decide whether the opponent of the challenge has proven purposeful gender discrimination. the identical three-step procedure applies when the challenge is brought under the california constitution. (cf. people v. cowan (2010) 50 cal.4th 401, 447.)8 8 references to wheeler below are to batson as well. 8 respondent concedes women are a cognizable group for purposes of wheeler analysis. (people v. garceau (1993) 6 cal.4th 140, 171; people v. gray (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 781, 788.) appellant brought two wheeler motions based on gender. the court denied the first as untimely. the court denied the second on the ground appellant did not pass the first step, i.e., he failed to make out a prima facie case by showing the totality of the relevant facts gave rise to an inference of discriminatory purpose. we initially address first wheeler motion based on gender. in people v. gore (1993) 18 cal.app.4th 692 (gore), the court stated, wheeler motion should be made before the jury has been sworn. [citations.]gore, at p. 701.) wheeler objection or motion must be made, at the latest, before jury selection is gore, at p. 703.) appellant made his first wheeler motion based on gender before the jury was sworn. respondent concedes the trial court erred by concluding this motion was untimely. we accept the concession. we hold the trial court erred by concluding wheeler motion based on gender was untimely. the remaining issue pertains to remedy. when a trial court erroneously denies a wheeler motion on the ground the motion is untimely, an appellate court, instead of completely reversing the conviction, may remand the matter for limited proceedings. (people v. rodriguez (1996) 50 cal.app.4th 1013, 1023-1025, 1036 (rodriguez); gore, supra, 18 cal.app.4th at pp. 705-707.) in both rodriguez and gore, the defendant, after 12 jurors were sworn, made a single wheeler motion during the selection of the alternate jurors, claiming prosecutorial challenges to certain of the 12 sworn jurors, and a certain alternate juror(s), were based on group bias. (rodriguez, at pp. 1020-1023). the trial court in each case concluded the motion was untimely as to the challenges to sworn jurors but timely as to the challenged alternate juror(s). (id. at pp. 1021, 1023.) 9 in gore, the trial court expressly found the defendant had made a prima facie case as to the challenged alternates, the trial court asked the prosecutor to explain his reasons for those challenges and, after the prosecutor complied, the trial court denied the wheeler motion. (gore, supra, 18 cal.app.4th at pp. 698-699.) gore concluded, wheeler motion to [three] challenges made during the [four] peremptory challenges to hispanic prospective jurors removed during the selection gore, at p. 696.) gore considered the motion as to all seven challenged hispanic prospective jurors and not limited its inquiry to only the alternate juroid. at p. 705.) gore later stated, the four hispanic jurors on the regular panel. the court will exathe totality of the relevant facts and . . . consider all the relevant circumstances. id. at p. 706.) gore remanded the matter, directing the trial court to assume (1) the wheeler motion was timely as to all seven challenges and (2) the defendant had established a prima facie case of wrongful exclusions (id. at p. 707), thus placing the burden of proof on the prosecution to justify the challenges. (ibid.) in rodriguez, the trial court did not expressly find the defendant had made a prima facie case as to one challenged alternate juror, but the court asked the prosecutor to explain his reasons for that challenge and, after the prosecutor complied, the trial court denied the wheeler motion. (rodriguez, supra, 50 cal.app.4th at p. 1022.) the defendant claimed the trial court erred by finding his wheeler motion untimely as to the id. at pp. 1022-1023.) relying in part on gore, rodriguez remanded the matter to permit the trial court to determine the validity of the challenges to the two sworn jurors, to determine whether the accordingly. (id. at pp. 1020-1021, 1036.) 10 in determining whether remand was appropriate, gore and rodriguez considered, inter alia, the period between jury voir dire and the appellate court opinion, since this would impact whether the trial court and parties would be able to remember what happened during voir dire in the event of a remand. in gore, the period was between one and two years. (gore, supra, 18 cal.app.4th at p. 706.) in rodriguez, the period was two months short of three years. (rodriguez, supra, 50 cal.app.4th at pp. 1020, 1025.) in the present case, on february 28, 2013, voir dire began, the prosecutor challenged the first three women (jurors e3431, g0166, and c1613), the court denied wheeler motion based on gender as untimely, and the prosecutor challenged the fourth woman (juror v9212). on march 4, 2013, the prosecutor challenged the fifth woman (r3715) and the court wheeler motion based on gender. all of these events occurred only about two years ago. the the proceedings below, including voir dire, and is available for review. under these circumstances, we conclude this matter may be remanded. moreover, although, gore and rodriguez each involved one wheeler motion based on gender while the present case involves two, this is a distinction without a difference. the essence of what happened here is what happened in gore and rodriguez: the trial court here constitutional challenge was partially untimely and partially timely. in the present case, on february 28, 2013, after the court invited the prosecutor to tender race-neutral justifications, the prosecutor began to do so by discussing juror c1613. the prosecutor stated, inter alia, that went into it was a gender trying for my own reasons, i want to have a cethe prosecutor miscounted the total number of his peremptory challenges up to that pointthere were (including men and women) five, not four. the prosecutor miscounted the total number of his challenges to womenthere were three, not four. however, the 11 prosecutor clearly indicated all of his challenges to women (jurors e3431, g0166, and c1613) to that point were based on gender. female.undermined by the facts (1) he made that statement [his] (presumably on the ground the prosecutor was impermissibly challenging the women based on gender), and (2) immediately after stating he was not kicking juror c1613 the fact the prosecutor challenged juror c1613 on the ground of gender, not as an end in itself but to affect the jury composition not only does not change the fact he challenged her, at least in part, based on gender but demonstrates he did so, at least in part, to affect jury composition in a way that is constitutionally prohibited. we note that, after the prosecutor indicated he had challenged the three women to that fact, the trial court did not then comment on the fact the prosecutor effectively stated he had challenged the women on an unconstitutional basisgender. when appellant later made his first wheeler motion based on gender, the trial court denied it as untimely but did not address the fact the prosecutor effectively stated he had challenged the three women on an unconstitutional basis. when appellant made his second wheeler motion based on gender, the trial court discussed various factors leading to its decision appellant had not made a prima facie showing, but never discussed the fact the prosecutor effectively stated he had challenged the three women on an unconstitutional basis. we hold the trial court erred by concluding appellant did not make out a prima facie case and therefore wheeler motion based on gender. 12 we further hold appellant has made out a prima facie case by showing the totality of the relevant facts gives rise to an inference9 of discriminatory purpose. we will remand the matter for the limited purpose of permitting the trial court to conduct a new wheeler hearing, during which the trial court shall assume (1) appellants second wheeler motion was timely as to all five women (i.e., jurors e3431, g0166, c1613, v9212, and r3715) peremptorily excluded by the prosecutor, and (2) appellant has made out a prima facie case by showing the totality of the relevant facts gives rise to an inference of discriminatory purpose, thereby placing the burden of proof on the prosecution to justify the exclusion of these jurors. if the trial court grants the motion after the hearing, appellant shall be given a new trial. if the trial court denies the motion after the hearing, the judgment shall be reinstated. (see gore, supra, 18 cal.app.4th at p. 707.) we express no opinion as to how the trial court should resolve the issues of whether the prosecutor offered a permissible gender-neutral justification for a challenge, or, if the prosecutor tendered a gender-neutral explanation, whether the prosecutor engaged in purposeful gender discrimination. 9 respondent concedes the trial court, when deciding whether appellant had made out a prima facie case, used the wrong standard by deciding whether appellant had failed bias. we accept the concession and conclude the trial court erred in this respect as well. 13 disposition the judgment is reversed and the matter is remanded with directions to the trial court to conduct a new wheeler hearing and further proceedings consistent with this opinion. not to be published in the official reports kitching, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. aldrich, j. 