filed 3/9/15 p. v. mcdaniels and britt ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. lamarr marquis mcdaniels and joel jarea britt, defendants and appellants. b250574 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga076378) appeals from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county. candace j. beason and darrell s. mavis, judges. affirmed in part and reversed in part with directions. thomas t. ono, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant mcdaniels. peter gold, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant britt. kamala d. harris, attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, linda c. johnson, supervising deputy attorney general, and ana r. duarte, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 defendants lamarr mcdaniels and joel britt appeal from the judgments entered following a jury trial in which they were convicted of first degree murder and attempted murder, with firearm and gang findings. mcdaniels was also convicted of being a convicted felon in possession of a firearm. each defendant raises several contentions and conviction for instructional error, but otherwise affirm. background 1. the death of brandon lee (possible motive for charged offenses) on january 29, 2008, brandon lee was shot and killed. lee was a member of the duroc crips gang. a member of the rival monrovia nuevo varrio gang (mnv) was cted of shooting at lee six months before he was killed. who grew up living next door to lee. in march of 2008, cox wrote to larry alderson, a duroc crips gang member who was then in jail, expressing frustration that people were and to witnesses who had not told the police everything they knew. 2. events in the days before the shooting 7, 2009,1 across the -american men wearing hooded sweatshirts loading boxes of cigarettes into a white minivan parked in front of her house. on the evening of february 7, a monrovia police officer saw a white minivan parked in an alley and shone a light on it. a man who had been standing next to the passenger-side door ran away. the officer found two women in the van: cox and 1 undesignated date references pertain to 2009. 3 several pairs of gloves, several hooded black sweatshirts, several mobile phones, including one in its original packaging, and a camera in its original packaging. about 15 feet from the van, the officer found a glock nine-millimeter handgun in a planter next to the yard of a home.2 cox and rawls testified that defendant mcdaniels had driven the van and parked it where the officer found it, and then left. one or two other men had been in the van and ran when the police officer approached. cox and rawls were along for the ride because mcdaniels was supposed to be going to a liquor store. in a recorded statement played at trial, cox told detectives that she saw mcdaniels -she had seen this and claimed she had simply told the detectives what rawls had told her. rawls denied seeing a gun transfer and denied telling anyone she had. 3. events of february 9, prior to shooting cox lived on goodall avenue in duarte and rawls lived directly across the street. throughout the day on february 9, a number of people hung out on goodall in the vicinity of cox, rawls, mcdaniels, britt, alderson, and joseph barnes. britt admitted at trial he was a member of the duroc crips gang. britt was 21 years old, while mcdaniels, alderson, and barnes were in their thirties. the crips gang and barnes was an associate. they were drinking, smoking strong marijuana, and listening to music. alderson and cox were involved in a romantic relationship at the s house. she testified one of her younger sisters had written it. 2 in the house where the glock was found. 4 recordings from surveillance cameras at depicted mcdaniels gang expert, members of both the duroc crips gang and the rival mnv gang shopped at duarte liquor. around 6:00 covina when the magnum pulled up next to them at a stoplight. mcdaniels was driving, alderson was the front passenger, and britt and barnes were in the backseat. cox spoke with the men in the magnum, each asking where the other group was going. rawls and cox testified that mcdaniels said they were going to the store. rawls further testified that mcdaniels said that that someone other than mcdaniels said they were going to hit some corners. the magnum turned right, which was toward duarte liquor store. recordings from surveillance cameras at duarte liquor store depicted mcdaniels, alderson, and barnes entering the store approximately 6:08 p.m. britt got out of the magnum but remained outside the store. when the other three returned to the vehicle, le alderson and barnes got in the duroc crips gang and the rival duarte eastsiders gang shopped at duarte liquor. 4. the shooting friends miguel sanchez and salvador velasquez were walking in the middle of getting dark. neither belonged to a gang. velasquez saw the dodge magnum make a sharp turn from the cross-street onto millbrae and head toward them. he testified it seemed as if the car had almost passed the street before turning abruptly. sanchez and velasquez moved toward the curb and continued walking. as the magnum approached window roll down, then he saw a gun protruding from that window. he began running and yelled to sanchez to run. almost immediately, the passenger began to shoot. velasquez heard more than five shots, in rapid succession, and felt two shots fly past him. 5 velasquez escaped injury, but sanchez was killed. the fatal shot entered his back on the left side and traveled sharply upward. the coroner recovered a projectile from just below the site of the shooting was about 1.8 miles from duarte liquor in an area claimed by the duarte eastsiders gang. 5. discovery of vehicle and gun the shooting was reported to 911 at 6:15 p.m. velasquez provided responding enforcement officers. ten to fifteen minutes after he heard the police broadcast about the shooting, deputy louis serrano drove down goodall avenue in a marked patrol car to of the men ran away. the fifth man, barnes, and the woman, katrina csister), remained. serrano was unable to identify the defendants. deputies drove velasquez to goodall avenue, where he identified the magnum as similar to the vehicle from which shots had been fired. at trial, he was certain the magnum was the vehicle. -caliber semiautomatic handgun under the vodka bottle and a full bottle of beer inside the vehicle. three more empty vodka bottles were on the driveway and sidewalk near the vehicle. 6. forensic evidence investigators found eight .45-caliber casings spread over a distance of 87 feet on millbrae. they also found a bullet jacket and recovered a partial bullet from a hole on a parked vehicle. ballistics testing revealed the hk gun recovered from the magnum ejected all of the casings recovered at the scene of the crime and fired the bullet dna was obtained from the hk gun, the dodge magnum, and the empty vodka bottle found in the magnum. testing and analysis indicated both defendants and 6 the vodka bottle. both defendants were possible contributors to dna mixtures from several locations on the gun. mcdaniels was a possible contributor to a mixture of door of the magnum. 7. statements by defendants britt and alderson were arrested with a third person on april 2. detectives arranged to have the three men placed together in a cell equipped with a hidden recording system and directed the jailer to tell them homicide detectives would come to speak to them. in the ensuing surreptitiously recorded conversation, which was played at trial, alderson said they were wanted in connection with that mexican that got killed up on millbrae. britt asked, store? alderson said the stores had camera surveillance, but the police could not prove anything. britt said, they say that thing dont have prints on it. anyway, i aint worried though. i had gloves on anyway.later wondered aloud why he had been britt, on april 17 and 19 were also surreptitiously recorded and the recordings were played at tria. . . somebody, like, really need to smash aqua like. come on, cuz. smash, like (makes trumpet sound) that bitch. detective ken perry testi detectives interviewed mcdaniels on april 28 and the recording of the interview was played at trial. he told them he had previously lived on goodall avenue across the 7 crips gang, but said he was no longer a member, although he had friends who were still members and he associated with them when he visited the area. the detectives said they could place mcdaniels in the vehicle nine minutes before the murder. mcdaniels during a pretrial hearing in the case in february of 2010, britt addressed the court in the presence of mcdaniels, ald thing on my own without any of my co- deputy calvin mah testified that in january of 2013, when he transported britt back to the jail after a court appearance, britt said he was sad because he would be spending the rest of his life in jail. mah asked why, and britt said he was going to take the stand and admit he was the shooter in his case. britt also said he said if britt did that for 8. ive timothy brennan opined that the crimes were committed for the benefit of and in n opined that retaliation for an attack on a member of a gang served several gang purposes, notably he stated that the retaliation usually occurs soon after the event for which the gang is retaliating. brennan further testified that an older gang member may commit a burglary and then give a gun he had stolen during the burglary to a younger gang member trying to establish himself in the gang. an older gang member riding in a car with a younger gang member would know if the younger gang member had a weapon in a car, especially if they were going into the territory of a rival gang. brennan elaborated that a younger a weapon in the car. 8 younger gang member claim responsibility for a crime committed by other gang members to enhance his status and respect within the gang. brennan also testified that he had heard gang members use the phrase hitting corners to mean going into a rival gangs territory to look for an enemy to attack. 9. defense case britt testified he spent the entire day of february 9 hanging out on goodall avenue nmarijuana, pcp, vicodin, and xanax. he was not a heavy drinker, and tried pcp for the first time on february 9. in the days preceding february 9, he had smoked a lot of methamphetamine. britt got into the dodge magnum with mcdaniels, alderson, and britt because they said he should not be out on the street while he was under the influence because he might get arrested. britt denied that anyone had discussed avenging britt did not know who killed lee, but he told the detectives in a recorded interview played at trial that the rumor was that someone from the duarte miss[ed] him. britt testified that none of his three companions in the magnum knew that he was carrying a gun. mcdaniels had given him the gun two or three days earlier and asked him to keep it for a few days until mcdaniels was ready to return to arizona. the gun was unloaded when mcdaniels gave it to britt, but britt immediately acquired mcdaniels he had discarded the gun when he ran from the police. britt admitted he fired the gun toward two young hispanic men, resulting in day, kia had told britt that justin, not britt, was had also told britt that justin lived 9 britt testified the other men in the car began yelling at him and asked why he would do such a stupid thing. britt became angrier and pointed the gun at alderson. ran away. britt admitted he tried to mislead the detectives, initially by denying he was present, and later by telling them barnes was the shooter and suggesting mcdaniels and barnes may have planned the shooting while they were at the liquor store. britt had also told detectives he had been smoking marijuana, but not drinking, on february 9. barnes testified he had been charged in this case and jailed for four years, but was 3 he was a college graduate who had worked for the same company for 15 years, and was married and had children. he denied he had ever belonged to any gang. barnes testified he went to goodall avenue on the afternoon of february 9 to pick up his 11-year-old nephew. the nephew was not there, so barnes waited. he saw people hanging out nearby, including some he knew. his childhood friend mcdaniels arrived and barnes socialized with him. eventually, mcdaniels asked barnes if he wanted to ride with him tgirlfriend. barnes agreed to go along, and britt and alderson jumped into the vehicle, as well. barnes testified the group went to two liquor stores because the first did not have the brabritt was talking to himself and acting paranoid and crazy. some kids were in the middle of the street as the car drove on millbrae, and mcdaniels slowed down. britt suddenly began shooting out the window. mcdaniels and alderson yelled at britt, asking what was wrong with him and what he was doing. britt threatened to shoot them unless they shut up. britt kept the gun in his lap all the way back to goodall avenue. there had been no prior talk about shooting anyone, and barnes was unaware britt was armed. 3 barnes was acquitted. 10 barnes testified he looked for his nephew again after the group got back to not tell them what he knew about the shooting because he feared he would incur criminal liability for being present and he feared retaliation against himself or his family by britt and alderson, whom he knew were members of the duroc crips gang. barnes was aware also told them alderson had told mcdaniels to turn onto millbrae because alderson wanted to purchase marijuana there. sabrina jones testified she had been mcdanie-year-old daughter had been staying with them in white minivan to return the girl to her aunt. jonteenage jones testified that while they were visiting california, mcdaniels told her that her white minivan had been impounded. she did not ask why or attempt to reclaim it pounded, mcdaniels drove the dodge magnum. the house and was running late. when jones arrived in the neighborhood, law enforcement had blocked off the street. 10. verdicts and sentencing at the first trial of the charges, a jury acquitted barnes entirely and alderson of all but one charge, and convicted mcdaniels of possession of a firearm by a felon. the jury, however, could not reach verdicts on the murder and attempted murder charges against mcdaniels and britt. the court declared a mistrial as to those charges. 11 britt and mcdaniels were retried, and the jury convicted each of first degree murder and attempted murder, which the jury found to be willful, deliberate, and premeditated. the jury found each crime was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in criminal conduct by gang members. it further found, with respect to each count, that britt personally fired a gun, causing death (pen. code,  12022.53, subd. (d)),4 and a principal personally fired a gun, causing death ( 12022.53, subds. (d), (e)). the court sentenced each defendant to 90 years to life in prison, calculated as 25 years to life for murder, plus 15 years to life for attempted murder, plus enhancements to each count of 25 years to life for the section 12022.53 firearm enhancement. the court imposed a two-felon in possession conviction. discussion 1. judge stanley blumenfeld presided over the trial that ended in a mistrial with respect to mcdaniels and britt. thereafter, the case was called in the master calendar courtroom on several occasions, and then assigned to judge blumenfeld for retrial. on the same day, the prosecutor filed a code of civil procedure section 170.6 peremptory challenge against judge blumenfeld in the master calendar court. judge darrell mavis reviewed the challenge, found it timely, and assigned the case to judge candace beason for trial. defendants contend that judge mavis errof civil procedure section 170.6 peremptory challenge against judge blumenfeld when the case was assigned to judge blumenfeld for retrial. a ruling on a code of civil procedure section 170.6 peremptory challenge is not appealable; it is reviewable only by filing a petition for a writ of prohibition or mandamus. (people v. webb (1993) 6 cal.4th 494, 522523; code civ. proc.,  170.3, 4 undesignated statutory references pertain to the penal code. 12 subd. (d).) defendants failed to file such a writ petition. we thus do not address dethe peremptory challenge was improvidently accepted. 2. refusal to instruct on heat of passion, voluntary manslaughter, and attempted voluntary manslaughter a. proceedings in the trial court britt asked the court to instruct the jury on voluntary manslaughter, attempted voluntary manslaughter, and heat of passion. the trial court refused on the ground that insufficient evidence supported the heat of passion theory. defendants contend the trial court erred and that the error violated their constitutional rights to a jury trial and to present a defense. b. relevant principles of law a trial court must give a requested instruction only if it is supported by substantial evidence, that is, evidence sufficient to deserve jury consideration. (people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 39.) a trial court must instruct on lesser included offenses whenever substantial evidence raises a question as to whether all of the elements of the charged offense are present. (people v. avila (2009) 46 cal.4th 680, 705.) in this context, substantial evidence means evidence from which a reasonable jury could conclude that the lesser offense, but not the greater, was committed. (ibid.) the substantial evidence requirement is not satisfied by any evidence . . . no matter how weak. (ibid.) where an intentionaupon a sudden quarrel or heat of passion ( 192, subd. (a)), the malice aforethought required for murder is negated, and the offense is reduced to voluntary manslaughtera lesser included offense of murder.(people v. carasi (2008) 44 cal.4th 1263, 1306.) similarly, an attempted killing upon sudden quarrel or heat of passion reduces the offense of attempted murder to attempted voluntary manslaughter. (people v. williams (1988) 199 cal.app.3d 469, 475.) eat of passion theory . . . has both objective and subjective components. (people v. moye (2009) 47 cal.4th 537, 549 (moye).) to satisfy the objective component, the claimed provocation must be sufficient to cause an ordinary person of 13 average disposition to act rashly or without due deliberation and reflection, from passion rather than from judgment. (id. at p. 550; people v. beltran (2013) 56 cal.4th 935, 942 (beltran).) he anger or other passion must be so strong that the defendants reaction bypassed his thought process to such an extent that judgment could not and did not intervene.beltran, at p. 949.) provocation . . . must be caused by the victim [citation], or be conduct reasonably believed by the defendant to have been engaged in by the victimmoye, at pp. 549550.) a defendant may nof conduct and justify or excuse himself because in fact his passions were aroused . . . people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 12151216, quoting people v. steele (2002) 27 cal.4th 1230, 1252 (steele).) to satisfy the subjective element of this form of voluntary manslaughter, the accused must be shthe actual influence of a strong induced by such provocation.moye, supra, 47 cal.4th he passion aroused need not be anger or rage, but can be any [v]iolent, intense, high-wro [citation] other than revengepeople v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 163.) [i]f sufficient time has elapsed between the provocation and the fatal blow for passion to subside and reason to return, the killing is not voluntary manslaughterthe assailant must act under the smart of that sud (beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 951.) c. substantial evidence did not support instruction upon heat of passion adequate provocation, neither sanchez nor velasquez, let alone both, engaged in the conduct constituting the provocation. nor was it reasonable for britt to believe eitherand certainly not bothof the victims engaged in the provocative conduct because, by his own admission at triajustin, had only seen a photograph of him once, and knew only the general part of town he lived in, not, for example, that he lived on millbrae avenue near the cross street from which mcdaniels abruptly turned. britt viewed the victims at a distance from a moving 14 s leap to the conclusion that one of the men was justin was not a s purported consumption of drugs and alcohol may have been relevant to the subjective element of heat of passion, but he could not set up his own diminished capacity to support the objective element of heat of passion. (steele, supra, 27 cal.4th at p. 1253 [objective element of heat of passion must be due to provocation by victim; diminished capacity is irrelevant to this inquiry].) moreover, britt told detectives kia had told him fore the shootings on february 9. this was more than sufficient time for passion to subside and reason to return. for all of these reasons, substantial evidence did not support instruction on heat of passion with respect to either murder or attempted murder, and the trial court did not err by refusing these instructionspeople v. snow (2003) 30 cal.4th 43, 88.) no evidence was introduced suggesting mcdaniels acted in the heat of passion. s claim does. 3. admission of evidence of texted threats to rawls a. proceedings in the trial court just before the prosecutor called rawls, she informed the court she had just first trial. the first such message said that pass,be no other passes and she should not return to california. the second said that the sender knew where rawls stayed and everywhere she went. the prosecutor asked the th respect to her defense in this case. it was in the last trial regarding her level of intoxication and, you 15 counsel for britt objected to the text messages as and because the identity of the sender was unknown and the texts counsel for mcdaniels joined in these objectionsappropriate thing to do would be rawls testified on direct examination that she did not want to be involved in the case and she was present at trial pursuant to a subpoena. she also testified she had not contacted the police to tell them what she knew after she heard about the shooting because it was not her business and she did not want to be involved. rawls had moved out of california in 2009. not come s were from an e-mail address, and rawls did not know who sent them. information that the e-mail to text hadarose from mr. mcdaniels or mr. britt or at their as to their guilt or innocence in this case. it only is being allowed as it explains ms. sic had fun out of the message was february 9, 2013. the prosecutor did not read or otherwise ask about the content of the second text message. on cross-examination, rawls testified she had consumed beer and strong marijuana throughout the day on february 9, commencing about 10:00 a.m., soon after she awakened. she did not stop until she went to bed that night. further, she drank and 16 she started drinking vodka later in the day. when asked what time it was when she saw defendants, alderson, and barnes in the dodge magnum at the stoplight, rawls agreed that there was no evidence or indication that mcdaniels or britt sent the threatening text. defendants contend the trial court erred by allowing the prosecutor to introduce evidence of the threats because the threats were highly prejudicial, yet irrelevant to credibility because she did not testify that she feared testifying or was reluctant to testify. defendants further argue that the admission of the evidence violated due process. b. relevant principles of law relevant evidence means evidence, including evidence relevant to the credibility of a witness or hearsay declarant, having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination of an (evid. code,  210.) evidence code section 780 enumerates factors bearing on the credi(a) his demeanor while testifying and the manner in which he testifies (f) the existence or nonexistence of a bias, interest, or other motive (j) his attitude toward the action in which he testifies or toward the giving of evidence code section 352, to permit the prosecution to introduce evidence supporting a witnesss credibility on direct examination, particularly when the prosecution reasonably anticipates a defense attack on the credibility of that witness.people v. mendoza (2011) 52 cal.4th 1056, 1085 (mendoza).) vidence that a witness is afraid to testify or fears retaliation for testifying is relevant to the credibility of that witness and is therefore admissible.people v. burgener a witness who testifies despite fear of recrimination of any kind by anyone is more credible because of his or her personal stake in the testimony. . . . for this purpose, it matters not the source of the threat.people v. olguin (1994) 31 cal.app.4th 1355, 13681369.) 17 evidence code section 352 provides that the court may, in its discretion, exclude relevant evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will either be unduly time consuming or create a substantial danger of undue prejudice, confusion of the issues, or misleading the jury. we review a ruling on the admissibility of evidence for abuse of discretion. (people v. elliott (2012) 53 cal.4th 535, 577.) implies whatever finding of fact is prerequisite thereto. (people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 196.) generally, the erroneous admission of evidence requires reversal only if it is reasonably probable defendant would have obtained a more favorable outcome had the evidence been excluded. (evid. code,  353, subd. (b); people v. earp (1999) 20 cal.4th 826, 878; people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) the admission of evidence may violate due process, however, if there is no permissible inference a jury may draw from the evidence. (people v. albarran (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 214, 229.) [t]he admission of evidence, even if erroneous under state law, results in a due process violation only if it makes the trial fundamentally unfair.people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 439 (partida).) c. admission of the threats was not an abuse of discretion argument hinges upon their contention that whether rawls feared testifying was an essential foundational fact for admission of the threats. they have not cited any authority supporting this principle, and we have found no statutory or decisional support for it. we conclude that the admissibility issue instead must be evaluated according to ordinary principles of relevance and discretionary exclusion pursuant to evidence code section 352. defendants rely upon two federal appellate cases from the same circuit, neither of witness to fear for binding upon this court. (people v. crittenden (1994) 9 cal.4th 83, 120, fn. 3.) 18 in dudley v. duckworth (7th cir. 1988) 854 f.2d 967, cited by defendants, as soon as a testifying former codefendant had stated his name, age, and location of residence, the prosecutor asked him why he was nervous. the witness then testified about receiving girlfriend and family members if he testified. (id. at pp. 969, 973.) the federal appellate law premising admissibility of threats evidence upon a showing the threats were made by the defendant or with his knowledge or authorization. (id. at p. 970.) the federal extreme nervousness,id. at pp. 971972.) notably, the court did not hold, as defendants argue, that evidence of threats is inadmissible absent proof that the witness feared testifying. indeed, the witness whose testimony was in issue actually stated that he feared testifying. we further note that it does not appear that the jury in dudley was given a limiting instruction regarding the threat evidence. ified she did not want to be involved in the case, had not contacted the police to tell them what she remarks awls hesitated in raising doubts regarding her credibility. nothing suggests that introducing the evidence was pretextual. in addition, california law does not condition or particular behavior by a witness during testimony. (people v. merriman (2014) 60 cal.4th 1, 86 [rejecting contention that evidence witness feared retaliation was admissible only if witness hesitated or displayed nervousness or fear].) finally, the trial 19 that it could consider the threat evidence only n, and credibility, and not with respect to we presume jurors follow limiting instructions. (people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 725.) the other case cited by defendants, united states v. thomas (7th cir. 1996) 86 f.3d 647, also did not hold that the admissibility of evidence of threats against a witness requires a showing that the threats caused a witness fear. instead, the federal appellate court concluded that the district court in a federal drug prosecution had abused its discretion under the federal rules of evidence by admitting evidence of third party boostbehavior relevant to their credibility. (id. at p. 654.) the appellate court stated the credibility, unless the evidence bears directly on a specific credibility issue regarding the threatened witness. for example, . . tent statements, delays ibid.) the opinion does not indicate whether the trial court gave a limiting instruction regarding the threats evidence. the appellate court ultimately concluded that the admission of the challenged threats evidence was harmless in light of the strength of the evidence against the defendants and evidence of threats against witnesses made directly by one of the defendants. (id. at p. 655.) ot governed by the federal rules of evidence or federal the limits of evidence code section 352, to permit the prosecution to introduce evidence supporting a witnesss cr (mendoza, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 1085) because the prosecutor reasonably anticipated the defendants again would attack credibility as they had at the first trial. moreover, the trial court instructed the juthat it could consider the threat evidence only with respect to 20 that her hesitancy in responding to questions and her demeanor cast doubt upon her credibility. we conclude that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in concluding that the threats evidence was relevant and that its probative value was not substantially outweighed by a risk of undue prejudice, when the evidence was admitted for the limited purpose of evaluating drawn from the evidence, its admission did not violate due process. 4. testimony a. proceedings in the trial court the other two challenged segments were based upon particular detahypothetical question, namely, whether older gang members would know a younger gang member was in possession of a gun and the reason a younger gang member would remain outside a store while older members went inside. in framing her hypothetical, the prosecutor tracked evidence in this case. thus, her hypothetical described, among other assumptions, four men in a vehicle from which shots were fired at two hispanic men, killing one of them. the men included active gang members aged 35, 32, and 21, and a 34-year-old associate of the gang, who had all hung out together previously that day at a well-known gang meeting place. her hypothetical asked brennan to assume that earlier, a fellow gang member had been killed in a drive-by shooting and that the previously mentioned hang-out had a surface on which that fellow the prosecutor further asked brennan to assume that the 35-year-old gang member was driving and the 21-year-old gang member was seated behind the driver and armed with a semiautomatic handgun. she asked the witness to assume that the car made a sharp turn when it approached the direction of the two hispanics, that the window next to the 21-year-old descended as the car pulled alongside the hispanics, and that the driver slowed the car at the same time. the prosecutor included in her hypothetical that before the shooting, the men in the car went 21 to a liquor store and the three older men went into the store, while the 21-year-old gang member remained outside. (1) testimony about o after brennan opined that the crimes would have been committed for the benefit of and in association with a criminal street gang, to promote and further th -year-old, again, is armed with the semi-own older gang members, would you expect the older gang members to know that the 21-year-ephrased the you, would you expect that . . . the 35-year-old and 32-year-old who i indicated were the active gang members in 2009 would be aware that the 21-year-old was objected. brennan s just based on the level of membership within a gang. usually the older members have been much more established and are looked up to. and they wouldit be a younger guy getting into the car with some illegal drugs, guns, whatever, without saying, hey, man, i got this in case the cops stop us or based on thousands of interviews over the years that conducted of gang members after drive-by shootings and gang members within the neighborhood. [] that nobody gets in a car without knowing that a weapon, especially if they going to a rival neighborhood, or even a possible rival liquor store or a rival neighborhood or especially if theg on a mission, they going to know who has the gun, who has he explained that a younger member would be lder members that he was armed. (2) testimony about reason youngest gang member remained outside store the prosecutor asked whether brennan had an opinion as to why the armed 21-year-old gang member would remain outside while the older men went inside the liquor 22 hymy experience over the years, i have seen gang members standing outside the door, run in the liquor store, would drive upome guys the same liquor store, or just watching for the police. then, o (3) testimony on the mea outside the presence of the jury before brennan testified, counsel for mcdaniels the prosecutor said she did, and defense counsel objected, sa sayings. and, if so, would he be familiar with that saying and if he has an opinion. [] the prosecutor subsequently asked brennan if, based upon his training and experience before working on the present case, he interviewing several gang members . . . either gang member suspects or witnesses that have been involved in gang-related shootings. [] and that term has come up as, you know, we were hitting corners, then we saw them over there and we blasted on them. [] and it wasputting in going through the neighborhood till you on cross-examination, counsel for britt asked brennan if he had asked gang thout 23 a drive- b. relevant principles of law a] trial court has wide discretion to admit or exclude expert testimony. (people v. valdez (1997) 58 cal.app.4th 494, 506.) where, as here, a gang enhancement is permissible because these sopinion of an expert wibid., quoting evid. code,  801, subd. (a).) a gang expert may testify in response to a hypothetical question as long as the question is people v. vang (2011) 52 cal.4th 1038, 1045 (vang); people v. gonzalez (2006) 38 cal.4th 932, 946 (gonzalez).) an expert generally may not testify to an opinion that a specific defendant had particular knowledge or a particular specific intent. (vang, at p. 1048 & fn. 4; gonzalez, at p. 946; people v. garcia (2007) 153 cal.app.4th 1499, 1513; people v. killebrew (2002) 103 cal.app.4th 644, 658 (killebrew).) defendants assert that sked the expert his within the province of the jury. in killebrew, the appellate s opinion testimony was improper: , [the expert] testified that each of the individuals in the three cars (1) knew there was a gun in the chevrolet and a gun in the mazda, and (2) jointly possessed the gun with every other person in all three cars for their mutual protection. in other words, [the expert] testified to the subjective knowledge and intent of each occupant in each vehicle. such testimony is much different from the expectations of gang members in general when confronted with a specific action. [] s testimony was the only evidence offered by the people to establish the elements of the crime. as such, it is the type of opinion that did nothing more than inform the jury how [the expert] believed the case should be decided. it was an improper opinion on the ultima 24 (killebrew, supra, 103 cal.app.4th at p. 658.) the killebrew opinion does not quote or expert referred to specific persons, gonzalez, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 946, fn. 3.) the california supreme court has limited the scope of killebrew. in gonzalez, the supreme court read killebrew from (gonzalez, supra, 38 cal.4th here is a difference between testifying about specific persons and about hypothetical persons. it would be incorrect to read killebrew as barring the questioning of expert witnesses through the use of hypothetical questions reggonzalez, at p. 946, fn. 3.) in vang, supra, 52 cal.4th 1038, the supreme court further extent that killebrew [citation] was correct in prohibiting expert testimony regarding whether the specific defendants acted for a gang reason, the reason for this rule is not that such testimony might embrace the ultimate issue in the the supreme court observed is permissible under evidence code section 805, but because such testimony was effectively an opinion on guilt or innocence, which no assistance to the trier of fact. (vang, at p. 1048, fn. omitted.) prohibited solely because they track the evidence too closely, or because the questioner vang, at p. 1051.) t]he trial court [has] no sua sponte duty to exclude evidence. (people v. montiel (1993) 5 cal.4th 877, 918.) the burden is upon the party seeking to exclude evidence to make a timely objection that clearly and specifically states the grounds for the objection. (partida, supra, 37 cal.4th at pp. 433434.) what is important is that the objection fairly inform the trial court, as well as the party offering the evidence, of the specific reason or reasons the objecting party believes the evidence should be excluded, so the party offering the evidence can respond appropriately and the court can make a id. at p. 435.) absent a timely and specific objection on the 25 particular ground now asserted on appeal, the objection is deemed forfeited. (id. at pp. 433434.) c. mcdaniels forfeited his claims of error we address each of the three challenged portions of testimony in turn. (1) mcdaniels contends that brennan rendered an improper opinion about owledge and intent regarding the gun in the car in violation of killebrewimproper hypothetical, neither he nor britt objected when the prosecutor slightly rephrased the question to repeat details from her original hypothetical question. because the first objection was sustained, mcdaniels cannot reasonably contend that further objection would have been futile. accordingly, mcdaniels forfeited his appellate claim by failing to object to the rephrased question on any ground. even if mcdaniels had preserved the killebrew claim, we conclude the question and testimony were permissible. brennan was asked and testified about the expectations of hypothetical persons, not of mcdaniels. in addition, brennan explained that his thousands of members rank and respect of persons within a gang and the importance of knowing about the presence of a gun (2) reason youngest gang member remained outside store mcdaniels the 21-year-old gang member would remain outside the liquor store addressed a matter that was not beyond the common knowledge and experience of jurors and was improper profile evinot fairly inform the court or prosecutor of either ground asserted on appeal. accordingly, mcdaniels forfeited these claims of error. 26 even if mcdaniels had not forfeited his argument, we conclude that the argument is not well founded. the question addressed gang strategy in leaving someone outside as a lookout to protect gang members in a store where they might meet members of a rival gang. this was a matter outside the scope of the common knowledge and experience of jurors. that brennan improperly opined in fact, brennan was asked about the conduct of the 21-year-old gang or britt. that the opinion testimony was profile evidence is factually erroneous and legally inaccurate. a profile ordinarily constitutes a set of circumstancessome innocuouscharacteristic of certain crimes or criminals, said to comprise a typical pattern of behavior. in profile testimony, the expert compares the behavior of the defendant to the pattern or profile and concludes the defendant fits the profile.people v. prince (2007) 40 cal.4th 1179, 1226.) strategic reason for one hypothetical gang member staying outside a store while others went inside did not describe a set of circumstances characteristic of certain crimes or criminals [p]rofile . . . is not a separate ground for excluding evidence; such evidence is inadmissible only if it is either irrelevant, lacks a foundation, or is more prejudicial than (people v. smith (2005) 35 cal.4th 334, 357.) finally, the strategic significance of a younger gang member standing guard outside the storedescribed by brennan as essentially a defensive movewas a minor component of the events of the subsequent shooting at another location and of the issue had been preserved, and even if the trial court erred in allowing the questioning, any such error would be harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. 27 (3) mcdaniels contends that under killebrew, brennan was not qualified to testify as that his testimony was not proper expert testimony. he did not raise i mcdaniels objection merely states what testimony he would object to, not the reason he believed the evidence was inadmissible. his objection was insufficient to put the trial court on notice that he was objecting on either ground raised on appeal. accordingly, he forfeited his appellate claims to this evidence. even if mcdaniels had preserved these claims, they are not meritorious. brennan testified he had been a police officer for more than 31 years at the time of trial and a gang homicide detective since 1993. he had received formal training on gangs and had extensive practical experience monitoring gangs in various parts of los angeles county, speaking to gang members on a daily basis, serving on gang-related task forces since 1992, and investigating gang crimes. he was assigned to investigate the duroc crips gang and had reviewed or investigated over 90 gang-related shootings involving the gang and its rivals. he had taught at state and national seminars pertaining to gangs, gang-related crimes, and gang trends and provided assistance to law enforcement and prosecutors around the nation and in europe. he had testified as a gang expert more than 100 times and an expert about the duroc crips gang roughly 15 to 20 times prior to . nnan testified he had heard the term from gang members. on cross-examination, he explained gang a drive- th gang members, and his explanation for how he learned the phrase, we conclude defining the term as he 28 killebrew testimony. he did not testify on but merely on the meaning of slang that he had heard other gang members use. finally, we note that during a recorded interview that was played at trial without objection, detective mceldyou know definition of the proper objection, the jury nonetheless would have received essentially the same definition testimony was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. d. ineffective assistance of counsel in his reply brief, mcdaniels argues that his attorney rendered ineffective assistance by failing to object at all, or failing to object on the grounds asserted on appeal. we decline to consider this argument because mcdaniels raises it for the first time in his reply brief. (people v. grimes (2015) 60 cal.4th 729, 757; people v. harris (1985) 165 cal.app.3d 1246, 1256, fn 8.) 5. instructional error regarding natural and probable consequences doctrine mcdaniels contends that the trial court erred in instructing the jury on his liability for aiding and abetting first degree premeditated murder pursuant to the natural and probable consequences doctrine. after he filed his opening brief, in which he argued particular omissions from the jury instructions, the california supreme court decided people v. chiu (2014) 59 cal.4th 155 (chiu). chiu bars conviction of first degree premeditated murder based on the natural and probable consequences doctrine. the attorney general concedes the instructions in this case violated chiu, but argues that the error was harmless. in his reply brief, mcdaniels adopted chiu as the basis for his claim 29 of error, but disagreed that the error was not prejudicial. accordingly, we address the chiu error, which, for the reasons set forth below, obviates our having to address a. applicable law a trial court in a criminal case is requiredwith or without a requestto give correct jury instructions on the general principles of law relevant to the issues raised by the evidenceincluding the elements of an offense [citation]. (people v. acosta (2014) 226 cal.app.4th 108, 118.) one who aids and abets the commission of a crime is a principal in the crime, and thus shares the guilt of the actual perpetrator. ( 31.) a person aids and abets the commission of a crime when he or she, with knowledge of the unlawful purpose of the perpetrator, and with the intent or purpose of committing, encouraging or facilitating the commission of the crime . . . by act or advice, aids, promotes, encourages or instigates, the commission of the crime. (people v. prettyman (1996) 14 cal.4th 248, 259 (prettyman).) generally, an aider and abettor is guilty not only of the offense he or she intended to facilitate or encourage (the target crime), but also of any other crime committed by the person he or she aids and abets that is the natural and probable consequence of the target crime. (prettyman, supra, 14 cal.4th at p. 261.) an aider and abettor need not have intended to encourage or facilitate the particular offense ultimately committed, and generally need not have any specific intent that is an element of the offense committed. (ibid.) in chiu, however, the california supreme court eliminated the availability of the doctrine of natural and probable consequences as a basis for aider and abettor liability for premeditated murder. (59 cal.4th at p. 166.) abetting a target crime that would naturally, probably, and foreseeably result in a ibid.) an aider and abettor can be convicted of first degree premeditated murder only if the prosecution establishethe defendant aided or encouraged the 30 commission of the murder with knowledge of the unlawful purpose of the perpetrator and with the intent or purpose of committing, encoura(id. at p. 167.) the court explained, intentionally assists a confederate to kill someone could be found to have acted willfully, deliberately, and with premeditation, having formed his own culpable intent. such an 5 (ibid.) the chiu court also observed that its ruling did not limit first degree felony murder. (id. at p. 166.) the next issue before the chiu court was what were the consequences of its ruling where the trial court instructed on the valid theory of direct aider and abettor liability for premeditated murder and the invalid theory based on the natural and probable consequences doctrine. where, as in chiu, a prosecutor tried the case on both theories, first degree murder conviction must be reversed unless we conclude beyond a reasonable doubt that the jury based its verdict on the legally valid theory that defendant directly aided and abetted the premeditated murder.(chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 167.) in chiu, because a holdout juror had been excused when she stated that she putting an aider and abettor in nd it seemed as if the jury had focused on the natural and probable consequences theory of aiding and abetting premeditated murderconclude beyond a reasonable doubt that the jury ultimately based its first degree murder verdict on a . . . (id. at p. 168.) b. proceedings in the trial court abettor. the prosecutor relied upon alternative theories: (1) mcdaniels directly aided 5 and the perpetrators premeditative state is too attenuated to impose aider and abettor liability for first degree murder under the natural and probable consequences doctrine, especially in light of the severe penalty involved and the above (chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 166.) 31 commit murder and an intent to commit, facilitate, or encourage britt to commit murder, or (2) mcdaniels aided and abetsemiautomatic firearm or carrying a concealed firearm, and murder was a natural and probable consequence of those offenses. accordingly, the court instructed the jury upon aiding and abetting with calcrim no. 401 and upon the natural and probable consequences doctrine with calcrim no. 403, which stated, in pertinent part, to prove that the defendant is guilty of murder and/or attempted murder, the people must prove that: [] 1. the defendant is guilty of assault with a semi-automatic firearm, or carrying a concealed firearm; [] 2. during the commission of assault with a semi-automatic firearm or carrying a concealed firearm, a coparticipant in that assault with a semi-automatic firearm or carrying a concealed firearm committed the crime of murder and attempted murder; [] and [] 3. under all of the circumstances, a reasonable person in the ds position would have known that the commission of the murder and/or attempted murder was a natural and probable consequence of the commission of the assault with a semi-automatic firearm or carrying a concealed firearm. [] . . . [] if you decide that the defendant, lamar mcdaniels, aided and abetted one of these crimes and that murder and or attempted murder was a natural and probable consequence of that crime, the defendant is guilty of murder and/or attempted murder. you do not need to agree about which of these crimes t the court also instructed the jury on two alternative theories of first degree murder: willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder, and murder committed by intentionally shooting from a motor vehicle at a person outside the vehicle with intent to kill. (calcrim no. 521.) one hour and 15 minutes after the jury began deliberating, it asked that sabrina back. the testimony was read to the jury within the hour, and at the conclusion of the reading, trial adjourned for the day. the jury resumed deliberations the next morning and, just before leaving for lunch, sent the court a note 32 vs520[6] on p. 13 of the instructions. calcrim no. 520 describes the difference lunch at 1:35 p.m., and at 3:20 p.m. it informed the court it had reached verdicts. c. reliance and instruction upon the natural and probable consequences doctrine as a theory of liability for first degree murder constituted prejudicial error instructing the jury that it could convict mcdaniels of first degree murder by applying the natural and probable consequences doctrine was error under chiu, as the parties agree. the attorney general argues the instructional error was harmless because, d not indicate that it was focusing on the natural and probable consequences doctrine. [citation.] and the evidence that appellant neither argument is sufficient for us to conclude beyond a reasonable doubt that the jury based its verdict on a legally valid theory. a reading of jone may not have dismissed as false her innocuous explanation for mcdanielscrime scene at the time of the shooting. the testimony of jones, britt, and barnes 6 the defendants are charged in count 1 with murder in violation of penal code section 187. [] to prove that the defendants are guilty of this crime, the people must prove that: [] 1. the defendant committed an act that caused the death of another person; [] and [] 2. when the defendant acted, he had a state of mind called malice aforethought. [] there are two kinds of malice aforethought, express malice and implied malice. proof of either is sufficient to establish the state of mind required for murder. [] the defendant acted with express malice if he unlawfully intended to kill. [] the defendant acted with implied malice if: [] 1. he intentionally committed an act; [] 2. the natural and probable consequences of the act were dangerous to human life; [] 3. at the time he acted, he knew his act was dangerous to human life; [] and [] 4. he deliberately acted with conscious disregard for human life. [] . . . [] if you decide that the defendant committed murder, it is murder of the second degree, unless the people have proved beyond a reasonable doubt that it is murder of the first degree as defined in calcrim no. 33 provided an alternative explanation for events that, if believed, would have exonerated mcdaniels of murder unless the jury applied the natural and probable consequences doctrine. notably, evidence that mcdaniels gave britt the gun was uncontradicted, and the jury instructions permitted the jury to convict mcdaniels of first degree premeditated murder by concluding he aided and abetted the crime of carrying a concealed firearm. this provided a simple conceptual path for the jury to follow to reach its verdict. nothing in the record permits us to conclude beyond a reasonable doubt that the jury did not, in fact, adopt that analysis and base its verdict on a legally invalid theory. although, as explained in the next section, the prosecution presented evidence sufficient to support that evidence were contradicted by defense evidence. because we cannot conclude beyond a reasonable doubt that the jury relied on a legally valid theory to convict mcdaniels of first degree murder, we reverse his murder conviction and allow the people to choose between accepting a reduction of that conviction to second degree murder, followed by resentencing, or retrying mcdaniels on the murder charge. we note that mcdaniels does not contend that the natural and probable consequences instruction was erroneous with respect to his attempted murder conviction. the supreme court expressly limited its ruling in chiu to first degree premeditated murder. (chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th at pp. 158159, 166167.) indeed, the supreme court contrasted its ruling with its ruling in people v. favor (2012) 54 cal.4th 868, in which the supreme court held that an aider and abettor may be found to have committed an attempted murder with premeditation and deliberation on the basis of the natural and probable consequences doctrine. (favor, at p. 872; chiu, at pp. 162163.) 6. sufficiency of evidence mcdaniels contends that insufficient evidence supports his murder conviction and the gang enhancement findings. he does not challenge the sufficiency of evidence supporting his attempted murder conviction. because a finding of insufficiency of 34 murder charge notwithstanding our reversal of that conviction due to chiu error, as addressed in the prior section of this opinion. our disposition of the chiu error renders it natural and probable consequences theory. a. applicable law to determine the sufficiency of evidence, we review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment to decide whether substantial evidence supports the conviction, so that a reasonable jury could find guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 1006.) the same standard applies to the sufficiency of evidence to support a true finding on an enhancement allegation. substantial evidence is such that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonabl (ibid.) we presume the existence of every fact supporting the judgment that the jury could reasonably have deduced from the evidence and make all reasonable inferences that support the judgment. (people v. barnes (1986) 42 cal.3d 284, 303; people v. catlin (2001) 26 cal.4th 81, 139.) we may not set aside a judgment for insufficiency of evidence unless it clearly appears that under no hypothesis whatever is there sufficient evidence to support it. (people v. johnson (1992) 5 cal.app.4th 552, 561.) accordingly, where substantial evidence supports the verdict, we must affirm, even though the evidence would also reasonably support acquittal. (people v. towler (1982) 31 cal.3d 105, 118.) conflicts and even testimony [that] is subject to justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment for insufficiency of evidence; it is the exclusive province of the trier of fact to determine credibility and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which credibility depends. (people v. allen (1985) 165 cal.app.3d 616, 623.) a (ibid.) b. mcdaniels argues the evidence was insufficient to support his murder conviction inculpatory significance of role as the driver and of his 35 presence at the crime scene was dissipated by the testimony of sabrina jones sudden turn onto millbrae avenue and slowing down for pedestrians may be explained by his search for her grandms house in an unfamiliar neighborhood there was uncontroverted evidence that [mcdaniels] did not know that joel britt was armed with a gun in the carnyone from the car. these contentions amount to a request that this court reweigh the evidence, crediting the defense evidence and rejecting contradictory prosecution evidence. under the authorities set forth above, review for substantial evidence does not permit appellate courts to second-guess the jury in these evidentiary assessments. viewing the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment, we conclude substantial evidence supported and abettor. the record supports an inference that mcdaniels either stole the gun used market. the day before the murder, he gave that gun to britt. on the day of the murder mcdaniels spent time socializing with his fellow duroc crips gang members britt and alderson, possible gang associate barnes, and koteysha cox, who was romantically involved with alderson and had had a child with duroc crips gang member brandon lee. apparently lee had been killed earlier by members of a rival gang, either mnv or duarte eastsiders, both of which were latino gangs. the group socialized on february 9 frustratafternoon, cox and rawls saw mcdaniels driving the vehicle from which fatal shots were later fired, with britt, alderson, and barnes as passengers. mcdaniels said the group was an expression used by gang members to mean going out looking for rivals to attack. after visiting first a liquor store at which members of the mnv gang were known to shop, then a liquor store at which members of the duarte eastsiders gang were known to shop, mcdaniels drove into the territory claimed by the duarte eastsiders gang. he made a sudden sharp turn onto millbrae avenue, drove toward sanchez and velasquez, 36 who were two young7 latino men. mcdaniels slowed the vehicle as it neared them, allowing britt, who was armed with the gun that mcdaniels had provided him, to shoot at he perceived bullets flying past him as he ran supported an inference that mcdaniels drove the vehicle in a manner that assisted britt in continuing to fire at both men as at least one of them fled. mcdaniels then drove away from the crime scene, abandoned the vehicle (which had instances of flight and abandonment of the vehicle used in the commission of the crimes supported strong inferences of consciousness of guilt, and the jury was so instructed. in sum, tconviction of murder as a direct aider and abettor, and its sufficiency was not discrepancies or inconchooses to do so, mcdaniels may be retried for first degree murder on a legally valid theory. c. sufficient evidence supports the gang enhancement finding section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1) provides a sentence enhancement for anyone with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by ga . means that the crime must be gang related. (people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th not every crime committed by gang members is related to a gang. (ibid.) mcdaniels challenges the sufficiency of the evidence to support findings that the 7 in the first trial, velasquez testified that in february 2009 he was 17 and sanchez was 19. although this testimony would have been apparent from autopsy photos and the autopsy report admitted in albeit more than four years after the shooting. 37 specific intent to millbrae avenue and the testimony that no one knew britt was armed and that britt fired unexpectedly. mcdaniels further argues the evidence did not show the crimes were gang-gang member had been prosecuted for the crime but this shooting occurred in territory claimed by the duarte eastsiders gang, britt did not shout the name of his gang or make gang hand signs at the time of the shooting, and there was no evidence of bragging by any gang members about the killing. viewing the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment, not in the light most favorable to the defense, we conclude that substantial evidence supported the same reasons set forth in the preceding part of this opinion. at the risk of being repetitive, however, we summarize here the evidence in support of the gang enhancement on the day of the murder mcdaniels spent time socializing with his fellow duroc crips gang members britt and alderson, possible gang associate barnes, and koteysha cox, who had romantic ties to two members of the duroc crips gang: alderson and brandon lee, who apparently had been killed by members of one of the duroc crips either mnv or duarte eastsiders, both of which were latino gangs. they socialized that day near a memorial to lee. mcdaniels had previously lived on goodall told detectives he still missed him. cox had previously expressed frustration to alderson britt, alderson, and barnes got in the dodge magnum with mcdaniels driving and britt armed with a stolen handgun mcdaniels had given him just the day before. mcdaniels told cox 38 an expression used by gang members to mean going out looking for rivals to attack. mcdaniels then drove his group to two liquor stores at which members of the rival gangs were known to shop. although this may have been a mere quest for liquor, the jury could have inferred that it may have been a search for members of the rival gangs. mcdaniels then drove into a residential neighborhood the duarte eastsiders gang claimed as part of their territory, made a sudden sharp turn onto millbrae avenue, drove toward two young latino men (sanchez and velasquez), and slowed the vehicle as it neared them, allowing britt, who was armed with the gun mcdaniels had provided him, to shoot at the victims. although sanchez and velasquez were not gang members, mcdaniels and his companions may have believed they were. alternatively, they may have been satisfied with shooting at anyone in the neighborhood of the rival gang. the motive may have neighborhood, thereby burnishing the fearsome reputation of the duroc crips gang. notwithstanding the absence of gang hand signs and proclamation of gang names, the evidence was sufficient for the jury to find that the crimes were gang-related, that is, for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct eastsiders gang, not the mnv gang, does not alter the sufficiency of the evidence. the was convicted, and britt told the detectives in a recorded conversation played at trial that the rumor was that someone from the duarte eastsiders gang killed lee. 7. errors on abstracts of judgment mcdaniels correctly contends the trial court erred by failing to include his presentence credits on the abstract of judgment. 39 in reviewing the abstracts of judgment, we note that the trial court failed to list these proceedings. we direct the trial court to issue an amended abstract of judgment for britt that includes count 2, attempted murder, in the list of felonies of which britt was convicted. be either resentenced for second degree murder or retried on the first degree murder charge. when that issue is resolved, we trust the trial court will issue a new abstract of judgment that includes both presentence credits and count 2 in the list of felonies of which mcdaniels was convicted. disposition directed to give the people the option of either accepting a reduction of the conviction to second degree murder or retrying the charge against mcdaniels. the trial court is further directed to issue an amended abstract of judgment for britt, if it has not already done so, adding count 2, attempted murder, to the list of felonies of which britt was convicted. the judgments are otherwise affirmed. not to be published. bendix, j.* we concur: rothschild, p. j. chaney, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 