 filed 3/18/15 p. v. nunez ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. antonio nuez, defendant and appellant. b250820 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka099489) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mike camacho, judge. affirmed. danalynn pritz, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, chung l. mar and idan ivri, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______________________________ 2 antonio nuez appeals from the judgment entered following his conviction by a jury for multiple sexual offenses. nuez contends the court improperly admitted hearsay statements by one of the victims that corroborated her trial testimony and committed sentencing errors. we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. the information nuez was charged by amended information with one count of forcible rape (pen. code,  261, subd. (a)(2)) (count 1),1 one count of sexual penetration of an intoxicated person ( 289, subd. (e)) (count 4) and three counts of rape of an intoxicated person ( 261, subd. (a)(3)) (counts 3, 5 and 6) with respect to taylor doe and two counts of rape of an intoxicated person with respect to paulina doe (counts 2 and 7).2 nuez pleaded not guilty. 2. summary of the evidence presented at trial a. the peoples case i. taylors testimony taylor, 16 years old when the offenses were committed, testified she and her then 21-year-old cousin, paulina, had planned to meet paulinas brother, josh g., and his friend chris at an all-ages club in pomona on march 30, 2012. on the way to pomona they stopped at a liquor store where paulina purchased a bottle of vodka, approximately 15 inches tall, and some juice. shortly before 10:00 p.m. they parked in a lot across the street from the club and began drinking shots of vodka followed by juice to get a cool little buzz. the girls drank for approximately 40 minutes, consuming about three-fourths of the bottle. after they got out of the car, they were approached by several people who were proselytizing for their church. as taylor and paulina were talking to 1 statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 because taylor was a minor at the time the offenses were committed, she and paulina were identified with the fictitious last name doe. we refer to them by their first names for convenience and clarity as we also do for witnesses who share the same surname. 3them, taylor began feeling drunk and observed paulina was unable to stand up straight. after 20 to 30 minutes taylor and paulina began walking toward the club, but paulina was having difficulty with her balance. the girls put their arms around each other to help paulina walk. when they got to the clubs entrance, the bouncers would not let them in because paulina was too intoxicated. using her cell phone, taylor called chris, who was already in the club, to tell him they could not get in. as taylor and paulina walked back to the car, paulina continued to stumble while taylor tried to assist her. paulina fell, and a group of men gathered to help taylor pick her up. taylor remembered giving someone her cell phone so she would have two hands free to help paulina. she next recalled being in the backseat of a car, seated behind paulina, who was in the front passenger seat. taylor noticed they were traveling east on the freeway but was in and out of consciousness during the drive; paulina was not moving or talking. the next thing taylor remembered was stumbling arm-in-arm with paulina toward a motel room while nuez was walking behind them. taylor testified footage from one of the surveillance cameras at the lemon tree motel in pomona, which showed nuez walking behind taylor, with no indication paulina was present, was different from what taylor had remembered. once inside the room taylor and paulina sat on one of the beds. nuez sat next to them and began kissing and fondling taylor, pulling down her shirt. taylor, who felt numb, did not move or say anything even though she did not want nuez to kiss her. nuez then tried to get taylor and paulina to touch each other. when nuez put taylors hand on paulinas breast, she pulled it away. after he put their faces together so they would kiss and placed taylors hand on paulinas exposed vagina, taylor, who felt grossed out, crawled to the other bed. nuez followed taylor and began having sexual intercourse with her. at some point nuez placed his fingers inside taylors vagina. when nuez turned taylor over to put his penis inside her anus, she said no and tried to shove him away. nuez then went to the bed where paulina was lying unconscious and had sexual intercourse with her. he returned to taylor and had intercourse with her again. taylor did not move or say anything, explaining she felt numb, paralyzed, unable 4to move. nuez once again went back to paulina. after nuez finished with paulina, taylor climbed into bed with her and fell asleep. when taylor awoke the next morning, paulina was still sleeping; and nuez was on the bed with them. taylor, who was menstruating at the time and using a tampon, rushed to the bathroom to see if she could find it inside of her. unable to locate it, she yelled at paulina to wake up. paulina came into the bathroom, and taylor explained her tampon was missing but did not discuss the sexual assault. taylor then asked nuez if he had noticed the tampon and what had happened. nuez said nothing happenedthey had just fallen asleepalthough taylor could not really understand anything else he said because he had a heavy accent. nuez, taylor and paulina left the motel to retrieve the girls car, stopping at a convenience store to get some water. when they got back to the car, the girls could not find the keys. paulina borrowed nuezs phone and called chris. as they were talking, taylor took the phone, walked out of earshot of nuez and paulina, and told chris essentially what had happened. taylor was pretending nothing was wrong in front of nuez because she was afraid he might hurt them if she came off crazy. nuez took the girls to paulinas home. when they got there, josh and chris came outside and told the girls to go inside. taylor then called her sister stephanie g. and asked if she would pick her up. once they were together, taylor explained to her sister what had happened. a few hours later taylor went to the hospital where she underwent a sexual assault response team examination (sart) and had the tampon, which had lodged in her vaginal canal next to her cervix, removed. while at the hospital taylor described the previous evenings incident to pomona police officer adrian rodriguez and detective mario valencia. photographs were taken of extensive bruising on her bodyincluding on her back, shoulders, chest, arms and buttocksas well as a number of scratches. taylor testified she did not have any bruising or scratches prior to going out that evening, none of the people who helped her when paulina was on the ground had grabbed her, and nothing had happened after she left the motel room that would have caused the bruises. 5although taylor did not know what caused the bruises, some of them were on areas nuez had fondled. taylor denied she had consensual sex with nuez only to accuse him of rape the next day because she regretted it. ii. paulinas testimony paulinas testimony about what had happened before she and taylor encountered the evangelists was largely consistent with taylors description of the events. however, paulina, who was feeling pretty drunk, remembered nothing else before waking up in the motel room to taylor yelling, what the fuck, where the fuck are we? taylor seemed panicked, upset and angry, but did not tell paulina what had happened other than her tampon was missing. when paulina awoke, she was not wearing her tights or underwear and was missing her glasses. she found her tights and underwear in the bed, but the crotch area was torn. she asked nuez what happened, and he told her she and taylor were drunk so he decided to get a hotel room for them to sleep it off. during the drive to paulinas house nuez further explained he had tried to take the girls home the prior evening, but paulina could not remember where to go after she had directed him to leave the freeway. after nuez dropped paulina and taylor at paulinas home, paulina asked taylor why she was so angry. taylor told her nuez had raped them. shortly thereafter paulina went to the hospital where she was given a sart examination. photographs were taken of bruises and scratches on paulinas body, including her right breast and arms. paulina testified she did not have any of those injuries when she and taylor had left for the club on march 30, 2012. iii. other testimony and nuezs interview stephanie testified taylor was a mess when stephanie picked her up. she looked like she had seen a ghost and was crying, scared and in shock. taylor told stephanie she had been raped; she and paulina had been drinking and she was in and out of consciousness, but there were moments she was aware nuez was having sex with her and she could see him having sex with paulina. taylor also said she needed to go to 6the hospital to have the tampon removed. stephanie took taylor to their father, and he took her to the hospital. josh testified taylor and paulina appeared hurt and scared when nuez dropped them off at paulinas house. after the girls got out of the car, chris got in the passenger seat and began talking to nuez in spanish. the conversation became heated. nuez began to drive away, and chris hit him in the face before getting out of the car. chris testified nuez told him the girls were intoxicated so he checked them into a motel room to sleep it off. when chris kept questioning nuez, he became nervous but insisted he had not done anything wrong. chris punched nuez because he started to drive away with chris in the car. kenneth takigawa, a criminalist with the los angeles county sheriffs department, testified nuez was a minor contributor of dna found in epithelian cells on an external anal swab sample taken from taylor. the sperm fraction of the external anal sample generated a partial dna profile (13 of 15 loci), and nuez was included as a possible contributor of the profile. statistically, a possible contribution means a random match would occur in one out of 3.9 billion people. with respect to swabs taken from paulina, the epithelial fraction of the left breast sample included nuez as a possible contributor with a statistical probability of the dna belonging to someone other than nuez of one in 13.6 trillion. nuez was also a possible contributor of the sperm fraction in a vulva swab with a random match probability of one in four million. detective valencia testified he interviewed nuez on august 23, 2012. a recording of the interview was played for the jury. nuez denied picking up or helping two drunk girls or taking them to the lemon tree motel in march 2012. nuez, who admitted to occasionally staying at the motel, claimed his girlfriend was the only female he had ever taken to the motel. b. the defenses case the defense theory was that taylor and paulina had consented to have sex with nuez but regretted it the next day. nuez argued in part the surveillance camera footage showed that paulina, smiling and laughing, was able to walk in high heels except for a 7brief moment when she stumbled and steadied herself against a wall, undermining her claim she was so intoxicated she was unable to move or resist nuezs sexual advances moments later. additionally, the time shown at the bottom of the surveillance footage was 2:34 a.m., raising the question of what happened during the approximately four hours between the time the girls were in the parking lot before they got to the motel.3 nuez did not testify on his own behalf, but presented the testimony of youlian feng, the wife of the lemon tree motel manager, who assisted with managerial duties. feng testified nuez occasionally stayed at the motel, usually by himself. as far as feng knew, they have never had to fix the surveillance camera. 3. the jury instructions on rape of an intoxicated person the jury was instructed with calcrim no. 1002 that, to prove the defendant guilty of rape of an intoxicated person, the people must establish the defendant had sexual intercourse with a woman whom he was not then married to, the effect of an intoxicating substance prevented the woman from resisting and the defendant knew or reasonably should have known that the effect of an intoxicating substance prevented the woman from resisting. the instruction further stated, a person is prevented from resisting if she is so intoxicated that she cannot give legal consent. in order to give legal consent, a person must be able to exercise reasonable judgment. in other words, the person must be able to understand and weigh the physical nature of the act, its moral character, and probable consequences. legal consent is consent freely given and voluntarily by someone who knows the nature of the act involved. 4. the verdict and sentence the jury convicted nuez of two counts of rape and one count of sexual penetration of an intoxicated person with respect to taylor (counts 3, 4 and 5) and one count of rape of an intoxicated person regarding paulina (count 2). the jury found nuez not guilty of counts 1, 6 and 7. 3 the motel registration card indicated the check in date was march 30, 2012 although the credit card receipt reflected the time was 12:45 a.m. on march 31, 2012. 8 at the sentencing hearing the prosecutor read a victim impact statement prepared by taylors family describing the effect of the crimes on her. taylor, once gregarious with a positive attitude, isolated herself and became so cautious she stopped living the life of a normal teenager. the court sentenced nuez to an aggregate state prison term of 26 years, comprised of the upper term of eight years for counts 2, 3 and 5, to run consecutively, plus a consecutive term of two years (one-third the middle term) for count 4. the court explained the upper terms and full consecutive sentences were warranted, even though the offenses could have been much more aggravated had [nuez] simply abandoned the victims at the motel immediately after he was finished with them, because of the aggravating factors involving the crime of violence, threat of great bodily harm and the psychological damage that has been inflicted, as well as how vulnerable taylor and paulina were and the level of sophistication with which the crimes were committed. the court also observed the case was very close to a kidnap for purposes of rape, which carried with it a life exposure. discussion 1. the erroneous admission of any hearsay statements was not prejudicial nuez contends that the trial court erred in admitting out-of-court statements taylor had made to officer rodriguez and detective valencia that were consistent with her trial testimony, but not admissible under the exception to the hearsay rule for prior consistent statements pursuant to evidence code section 1236, and, to the extent his attorney failed to object, that he received ineffective assistance of counsel.4 nuez argues admission of the statements was prejudicial because it allowed the jury to hear taylors allegations three times, making it more probable the jury would believe they were true, and the jury likely gave those statements more weight than it should have 4 most of taylors statements that nuez challenges as inadmissible hearsay were described during the direct and redirect examination of taylor herself, but a few were included in officer rodriguezs direct examination. 9because taylor testified her memory was fresher when she spoke to the police at the hospital on march 31, 2012. whether his argument is analyzed under the rules of evidence or for ineffective assistance of counsel, nuez must demonstrate any error was prejudicial. (see in re champion (2014) 58 cal.4th 965, 1007.) reversal is required only if nuez can demonstrate he would have obtained a more favorable result without the error. (see people v. duarte (2000) 24 cal.4th 603, 618-619 [whether admission of hearsay statements is prejudicial is evaluated under standard articulated in people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836-837]; in re champion, at p. 1007 [defendant must demonstrate a reasonable probability that absent counsels failings the result would have been more favorable].) nuez cannot meet this standard. as nuez acknowledges, the only disputed issue in the case was consent.5 the purportedly inadmissible hearsay statements were about inconsequential details of the sexual assaults; they bore little relation to the question whether, as the jury was instructed, paulina and taylor were able to understand and weigh the physical nature of the act, its moral character, and probable consequences. for example, taylor testified during direct examination she had asked nuez what happened the previous evening. on taylors second day of testimony, the prosecutor sought to clarify that testimony, asking whether she had told officer rodriguez more specifically that she asked nuez if they had had sex. over defense counsels objection and after reviewing the police report, taylor testified, as she had earlier, that she had asked nuez what had happened and if he had seen the tampon. other direct testimony nuez argues was prejudicial hearsay included taylors statements to officer rodriguez that nuez had tugged on her wrist to get her to the same bed as paulina, but she was dead weight, and she had believed the car nuez was trying to get them into in the parking lot was paulinaswhich had not previously been elicited. some of the hearsay statements made on redirect examination 5 in weighing nuezs defense of consent, of course, the jury properly considered nuezs initial denial to the police that he had taken taylor and paulina to the motel. 10(after cross-examination had revealed discrepancies between taylors trial testimony and statements she had made to detective valencia and officer rodriguez) included taylors statements to officer rodriguez that nuez had used a condom even though she did not know if that was actually true and that she had told nuez to stop during intercourse notwithstanding she had testified she did not actually tell nuez to stop except when he attempted anal intercourse. given the overwhelming evidence of incapacitating intoxication, it is not reasonably probable nuez would have obtained a more favorable outcome had these hearsay statements been excluded. taylor was so intoxicated she had intercourse with her tampon insertedsomething she testified she would never willingly do and that had caused her harmand suffered significant bruising and scratching during the sexual encounter, injuries she did not have before going into the motel room. similarly, paulina was so intoxicated she did not remember anything and woke up severely bruised and scratched. even the bouncers at the club would not let the girls in because paulina appeared too intoxicated. the jury also heard testimony from stephanie and josh that taylor told them she and paulina had been raped. having details of taylors version of the evening corroborated or clarified through mostly consistent statements she had made to detective valencia and officer rodriguez immediately after the incident did not lend more credibility to taylor or reinforce her trial testimony more than the cumulative testimony of all the witnesses otherwise did. (see people v. hamilton (1989) 48 cal.3d 1142, 1168 [even if admission of prior consistent statement was error, it was harmless; jury would still have heard the positive testimony [ by two witnesses] that defendant was the actual killer, their unequivocal denial that [one of the witnesses] was the killer, and no contrary testimony whatever].) the fact the jury found nuez not guilty of the forcible rape of paulina and two of the counts of rape of an intoxicated person (one each as to taylor and paulina) does not mean, as nuez argues, it was a close case on the charges for which he was convicted. the jury reasonably could have found, because taylors recollection of how many times nuez had intercourse with her was unclear, there was insufficient evidence to support all 11of the charged offenses. similarly, the jurys request to see the surveillance footage of taylor walking into the motel room does not suggest the out-of-court corroborating statements by taylor were significant. the surveillance footage was a cornerstone of nuezs defensenuez contended it showed taylor was able to walk and was laughing and smiling; taylor testified she was only laughing because she had stumbled and was embarrassed. finally, the jury did not deliberate for a very long timeapproximately one day of deliberations for seven counts against two victims. this was not a close case. (cf. people v. perry (1985) 166 cal.app.3d 924, 933 [case against the defendants was reasonably close as demonstrated by the prosecutions reliance on circumstantial evidence, the length of jury deliberations (four days) and the acquittal of defendant perry as to the westwood incident].) 2. the trial court acted well within its discretion in sentencing nuez to the upper term on counts 2, 3 and 5 when a determinate sentencing statute authorizes three possible terms of imprisonment, the choice of the appropriate term shall rest within the sound discretion of the court. ( 1170, subd. (b).) the court shall select the term which, in the courts discretion, best serves the interests of justice. (ibid.) in exercising that discretion, the sentencing court may consider circumstances in aggravation or mitigation, and any other factor reasonably related to the sentencing decision. (cal. rules of court, rule 4.420(b).)6 the relevant circumstances may be obtained from the record in the case, the probation report, statements from the victim of the crime and evidence introduced at the sentencing hearing. ( 1170, subd. (b); rule 4.420(b).) the existence of a single aggravating circumstance is legally sufficient to make the defendant eligible for imposition of the upper term. (people v. black (2007) 41 cal.4th 799, 816; people v. osband (1996) 13 cal.4th 622, 728; see people v. quintanilla (2009) 170 cal.app.4th 406, 413.) notwithstanding the trial courts broad discretion in crafting a sentence, 6 citations to rule or rules are to the california rules of court. 12generally reviewable only for abuse, a fact that is an element of the offense may not be used as a reason to impose the upper term. (rule 4.420(d).) nuez contends the trial court abused its discretion in sentencing him to the upper term for the three convictions for rape of an intoxicated person because it compared the case to kidnapping to commit rape, a crime with a possible life sentence, which was not supported by the evidence or charged by the people. nuez also argues the victims vulnerability, mentioned by the court as a factor, could only be taylors age inasmuch as their intoxication was an element of the offense, but there was no substantial evidence nuez knew taylor was only 16 years old. even if nuezs argument is not forfeited for failure to raise it before the trial court (see people v. boyce (2014) 59 cal.4th 672, 730-731 [[c]laims involving the trial courts failure to properly make or articulate its discretionary sentencing choices are subject to forfeiture, including cases in which the stated reasons allegedly do not apply to the particular case, and cases in which the court purportedly erred because it double-counted a particular sentencing factor, misweighed the various factors, or failed to state any reasons or to give a sufficient number of valid reasons]), it is without merit. although the court made the comments nuez now challenges, it clearly articulated several other aggravating factors, amply supported by the evidence, that justified imposition of the upper term: the crimes were violent with a threat of great bodily harm and inflicted significant psychological damage that could linger[] for the entire lives of these young women. in addition, as the court explained, taylor and paulina were particularly vulnerable; and the crimes were committed with a level of sophistication. (see rule 4.421(b)(1), (3) & (8) [aggravating factors relating to the crime]; cf. rule 4.414(a)(4) [whether the defendant inflicted physical or emotional injury as one criterion affecting the decision to grant or deny probation].) any one of these aggravating factors would be a sufficient basis for imposition of upper terms here, and the record fully supports three of them. to the extent the court articulated an impermissible factor to explain its sentencing choice, reversal for resentencing is not required because it is not reasonably probable the court would have chosen a lesser 13sentence had it known that one or more of the factors upon which it relied were improper. (people v. calhoun (2007) 40 cal.4th 398, 410.) 3. sentencing nuez to mandatory, consecutive terms did not violate equal protection nuez was sentenced to consecutive terms for the three counts of rape of an intoxicated person pursuant to section 667.6, subdivision (d), providing that full and separate consecutive terms shall be imposed for rape of an intoxicated person if the crimes involved separate victims or the same victim on separate occasions. ( 667.6, subds. (d) & (e).) relying in large part on people v. hofsheier (2006) 37 cal.4th 1185 (hofsheier), nuez contends sentencing him to mandatory, consecutive terms violated his right to equal protection because a person convicted of rape of an unconscious woman ( 261, subd. (a)(4)) under the same circumstances would not be subject to full-term consecutive sentencing. in hofsheier the court held mandatory sex offender registration for a 22-year-old defendant convicted of nonforcible oral copulation with a person 16 years of age ( 288a, subd. (b)(1)) violated his equal protection rights because a same-aged defendant convicted of unlawful sexual intercourse with a 16-year-old minor was only subject to discretionary registration and there was no rational basis for distinguishing between the two categories of sex offenders. (hofsheier, at pp. 1192-1193; see id. at p. 1206 [mandatory lifetime registration of all persons convicted of voluntary oral copulation in violation of [ 288a, subd (b)(1)] stands out as an exception to the legislative scheme, a historical atavism dating back to a law repealed over 30 years ago that treated all oral copulation as criminal regardless of age or consent].) hofsheier was recently overruled. (johnson v. department of justice (2015) 60 cal.4th 871 (johnson).) in concluding its rational basis analysis in hofsheier had been [d]emonstrably [w]rong (id. at p. 881), the johnson court articulated the applicable rational basis test: where, as here, a disputed statutory disparity implicates no suspect class or fundamental right, equal protection of the law is denied only where there is no rational relationship between the disparity of treatment and some legitimate governmental purpose. [citation.] this standard of rationality does not depend upon 14whether lawmakers ever actually articulated the purpose they sought to achieve. nor must the underlying rationale be empirically substantiated. [citation.] while the realities of the subject matter cannot be completely ignored [citation], a court may engage in rational speculation as to the justifications for the legislative choice [citation]. it is immaterial for rational basis review whether or not any such speculation has a foundation in the record. [citation.] to mount a successful rational basis challenge, a party must negative every conceivable basis that might support the disputed statutory disparity. [citations.] if a plausible basis exists for the disparity, courts may not second-guess its wisdom, fairness, or logic. (ibid.) the court emphasized the legislature is afforded considerable latitude in defining and setting the consequences of criminal offenses. (johnson, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 887.) [w]hen conducting rational basis review, we must accept any gross generalizations and rough accommodations that the legislature seems to have made. [citation.] a classification is not arbitrary or irrational simply because there is an imperfect fit between means and ends [citation], or because it may be to some extent both underinclusive and overinclusive [citation]. consequently, any plausible reason for distinguishing between oral copulation and intercourse for purposes of mandatory registration need not exist in every scenario in which the statutes might apply. (ibid..) applying that lenient standard here, we can postulate at least two plausible reasons for treating defendants who rape an intoxicated person more harshly than those who rape an unconscious person. first, an unconscious person is not psychologically traumatized during the actual commission of the offense as an intoxicated person may be. in the instant case, paulina was completely unaware nuez had raped her until taylor told her the next day. she undoubtedly suffered trauma and distress upon learning what had happened, but she did not suffer the contemporaneous physical and psychological trauma of the rape as did taylor. second, given the widespread use of drugs and alcohol, rape of an intoxicated person is arguably a more widespread problem, as current news stories suggest, than rape of an unconscious person, a crime clearly more difficult to commit. 15thus, rape of an intoxicated person may warrant harsher penalties to deter the crime. to be sure, as nuez, argues, an unconscious person is in some respects more vulnerable than an intoxicated one. taylor was able to dissuade nuez from anally raping her and, because she remained conscious for much of the time, could testify against him. it is not for this court, however, to weigh those competing considerations. it is enough that we can identify at least one reasonable basis for treating those who rape intoxicated victims more harshly than those who rape unconscious victims. disposition the judgment is affirmed. perluss, p. j. we concur: zelon, j. feuer, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 