filed 12/22/14 p. v. john ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. james david john, defendant and appellant. b250803 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba395535) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. rand s. rubin, judge. affirmed. lise m. breakey, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii and alene m. games, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________________________ 2 a jury convicted james david john of first degree burglary. (pen. code,  459.) he was sentenced to a term of 40 years to life. he contends that the trial court erred by authorizing the use of a rape conviction for impeachment, which dissuaded him from testifying at trial. john cannot raise the impeachment issue on appeal because he did not reasonable probability his testimony would have secured a favorable outcome. facts zal batmanglij was using his home computer at 1:00 a.m. on march 23, 2012. he heard footsteps above him, on the second floor of the house where he lives alone. batmanglij quietly left the house and ran to a neighbor, ofer moses, telling moses that he thought there was an intruder. during the 911 call, batmanglij watched his house and did not see anyone leave it. at trial, moses identified the face he saw in the window as defendant john. moses testified that defendant stood at the window for 20 to 30 seconds, and what he saw was house on foot. moses saw defendant leave the house as the police arrived. police officer jonathan pacheco and a partner shined their flashlights on a caucasian pacheco identified the man as defendant. when ordered to stop, defendant looked in the direction of the police and immediately ran through a gate, toward the rear of the property, dropping the bags as the officers chased him. pacheco lost sight of defendant but could hear him climbing over fences. more officers arrived. pacheco found defendant hiding under a pile of leaves and bushes in a nearby yard. it was the same the police showed defendant to the eyewitnesses. moses confidently identified defendant as the person whose face he saw at the window. batmanglij was unable to 3 the intruder entered by opening a kitchen window and prying back the screen. after police took defendant into custody, batmanglij entered his home and saw that his kitchen cabinets were open, though he had left them closed. outside of the house, batmanglij saw a shopping bag on the ground near the kitchen widow, with his personal belongings scattered around itthree video cameras, an apple laptop computer, a bottle of olive oil, a bottle of liquor from his bar, and a humidor for cigars. roundings, and has tinted windows. defendant did not testify. procedural history defendant was charged with first degree burglary of an inhabited dwelling, with a person present, a serious felony. the information alleged that defendant has felony convictions.1 he was found competent to stand trial. first trial ended in deadlock (11 to 1 in favor of conviction); mistrial was declared on march 19, 2013. a second trial began in may 2013. for several days, defendant refused to attend court proceedings. when he finally did attend court, he was disruptive. the jury found defendant guilty of first degree burglary. defendant admitted the prior convictions. he was sentenced to a total of 40 years to life. he appeals the judgment. discussion the only issue is whether the trial court abused its discretion by authorizing the use of court ruled that three 1987 burglary convictions could be used to impeach defendant, plus the 1 the prior convictions are burglary (april 1984); two counts of burglary (june 1984); grand theft, rape, and three counts of burglary (may 1987); and making criminal 4 llow neither went inside nor acted as a lookout, but stayed outside the house, smoking methamphetamine. d the 1984 burglary convictions and sanitized the 1987 burglary convictions as felonies of used a limiting instruction. defendant renewed his objectithe three 1987 burglaries and the criminal threat conviction are ample impeachment, but the burglaries that i am not allowing in. the whole idea behind using priors to impeach is either dishonesty, theft, or perjury-type offense, or readiness to do evil. sometimes the most heinous crimes are also the most telling regarding honesty and factors to consider regardin when defense counsel called defendant to the stand, defendant objected. he stated that the court was being [y]ou violated my he denial of a motion to exclude impeachment (people v. ledesma (2006) 39 cal.4th 641, 731.) this rule, derived from luce v. united states (1984) 469 u.s. 38, 43, has three bases. first, a reviewing court cannot rule on testimony. second, any possible harm from an in limine ruling is wholly speculative, 5 because the trial court could make a different ruling as the evidence unfolds, and the prosecution might not use the prior conviction to impeach the defendant. third, a reviewing court cannot weigh the prejudicial effect of the error if the defendant did not testify and was not impeached or cross-examined: requiring the defendant to testify permits a determination whether any erroneous impeachment was harmless error, and discourages defendants from planting a claim of reversible error in the event of a conviction. (people v. collins (1986) 42 cal.3d 378, 384-385.) the rationale stated in luce and collins applies here. although the record second trial; or the prosecution may not have used the rape conviction to impeach; or the to testify without being impeached by prior felony convictions. . . . [] no witness, however, has the right to impeach does not infringe the right to testify. (people v. collins, supra, 42 cal.3d at p. 387; ohler v. united states (2000) 529 u.s. 753, 759-760.) defendant did not preserve a people v. sims (1993) 5 cal.4th 405, 454.) even if the argument could be considered on appeal, there would still be no people v. collins, supra, 42 cal.3d at p. 389.) a felony used for impeachment is relevant if it shows moral turpitude, to cast doubt on witness veracity. (people v. castro (1985) 38 cal.3d 301, 314-[r]ape is a crime people v. mazza (1985) 175 cal.app.3d 836, 844.) thus, the court had discretion to admit defspent the better part of his life in prison for his numerous convictions, and has persistently engaged in criminality. 6 improperly admitting impeachment evidence is not reversible error unless its exclusion is likely to have given defendant a more favorable outcome. (people v. castro, supra, 38 cal.3d at pp. 318-eyewitness ofer moses positively identified defendant, first at the window of the defendant mediately fled when the police ordered him to stop. he was found hiding under leaves and bushes in a nearby yard. the direct evidence would have been bolstered if defendant had testified and been impeached by his prior burglary convictions, even without the rape conviction. if he testified, the prosecutor planned to confront him with spontaneous statements he made to fendant would have achieved a more favorable outcome by testifying. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. boren, p.j. we concur: chavez, j. hoffstadt, j. 