filed 11/14/14 p. v hamilton ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. ian hamilton, defendant and appellant. b250543 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la065186) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, michael k. kellogg, judge. affirmed. gordon s. brownell, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson, supervising deputy attorney general, and erika d. jackson, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________ 2 the jury convicted defendant and appellant ian hamilton of first degree murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a))1 and found true the allegation that a principal was armed with a firearm during commission of the murder ( 12022, subd. (a)(1)). the trial court sentenced defendant to 26-years-to-life, comprised of 25-years-to-life for the murder count and a consecutive 1-year term for the firearm enhancement. defendant contends the trial court erred in admitting testimony regarding information contained in a cell phone, failing to properly instruct the jury on accomplice testimony, and improperly instructing the jury regarding the consideration of an s that trial counsel rendered guilty pleas, and that cumulative error deprived him of a fair trial. we affirm the judgment. facts prosecution planning of the murder and prior attempts angel nieto and defendant worked together as security guards at the promenade sor. defendant had a son with anel juarez. they were engaged in an ongoing custody battle over their son, which angered defendant. defendant was unhappy with the way juarez cared for their son, and also was upset because she was stripping at private parties. defendant told nieto and mikaelian about the problems he was having with juarez. 1 all further statutory references will be to the penal code, unless otherwise specified. 3 nieto saw defendant arguing on the phone with juarez. defendant used one phone to call juarez, and had a second phone to call everyone else. defendant initially said he knew someone who would do it and discussed it with his friends efren and fabian. in exchange, nieto would pay efren and fabian with marijuana. defendant paid nieto $300 and instructed nieto, efren, and fabian to go to a laundromat near plan was called off. there were several occasions on which defendant instructed nieto to go to a specific location to wait for juarez and beat her up. nieto took different people with him each time, including efren, fabian, and another friend, gerson herrera. defendant once told nieto that juarez had about $800 they could take from her. each time, juarez did not show up at the specified location, so the men abandoned the plan. after the failed attempts to harm juarez, defendant told nieto that he wanted to but said he would ask herrera. nieto had borrowed a .45 caliber gun from defendant because he was having trouble with his neighbor, who he believed to be dangerous. herrera saw the gun, and said he liked it. he said he would kill juarez if defendant would give him the gun. defendant did not know herrera, so nieto introduced them. defendant agreed to give herrera the gun if he would kill juarez. herrera asked how -said that he did not care a sometime later, defendant told nieto and herrera to meet at a gas station. mikaelian met them there and gave herrera the gun. nieto followed mikaelian to rive by and shoot juarez when he brought her out of the apartment building, but nieto refused because he did not want to be seen. instead, nieto and herrera waited at the side of the building. herrera was supposed to shoot juarez when she came out. eventually defendant came out of the apartment building. juarez never came out, so nieto and herrera left. 4 defendant called nieto several times later, directing him to execute the plan to kill juarez. each attempt was abandoned due to logistical difficulties. later, defendant called and sent text messages to nieto asking that herrera return the gun to him because defendant needed it. nieto told herrera to return the gun and that he could have it back later. nieto gave defendant the gun. on april 12, 20nieto understood this to mean that defendant had bullets to give to herrera. he also asked nieto to tell herrera that he would need the gun back before he took back his son. the murder on april 13, 2010, between 7:00 p.m. and 7:30 p.m., defendant called mikaelian and asked him to come to the mall where they worked because he needed money to buy gas for the truck. mikaelian arrived and gave defendant money. although defendant was scheduleapartment. nieto was not home. after waiting about 20 minutes, defendant and p.m. to 9:00 p.m., nieto apartment, defendant told mikaelian that he was taking juarez to a job. he asked mikaelian to drive to the job location and wait for him. defendant planned to leave with mikaelian. mikaelian drove to the location and parked. nieto was at work at around 8:30 p.m. when he received a phone call from defendant, who told him to look for herrera. defendant wanted to give herrera a glock .45 caliber handgun. they had previously devised a plan to kill juarez. defendant was going to bring juarez to the location under the pretense of driving her to a stripping job he had gotten her, and herrera would shoot her in her car. afterwards, nieto would drive herrera away. defendant, nieto, and herrera had scouted the location the day before. it 5 was in a dark area near whitsett park where there were not a lot of people. defendant would call when it was time. nieto went home to change his clothes and then went defendant had already given herrera the gun and a box of bullets. joaquin ramos, van after using it. nieto changed his mind about driving herrera, but ramos said he had to do it, because he set the whole thing up. nieto left to get high before driving herrera to whitsett park. saida navarrete lived in an apartment on the first floor of the apartment building where juarez resided. at around 9:00 p.m., navarrete and her husband were walking out of the apartment complex when she saw juarez walking down the stairs with defendant. navarrete had seen defendant come to the apartment complex on two occasions. juarez appeared to be intoxicated or under the influence of drugs. defendant was holding juarez as she walked. defendant was silent and did not make eye contact. his demeanor was odd, and he held juarez as if he was trying to prevent her from talking to anyone. juarez and navarrete greeted each other, but defendant made an abrupt turn and took juarez away so that she could not continue to speak to navarrete. navarette had babysat for juarez on a prior occasion, and juarez told her the child and to call the police. black honda arrive containing two occupants. the honda parked across the street from nieto. defendant got out of the honda and started walking away. mikaelian also saw the honda arrive. it was parked on the side of the street where at the same time, herrera walked toward the honda with the .45 caliber handgun that nieto recognized as a gun defendant had previously brought to work. herrera came back to the car and told nieto he was not going to kill juarez because there were too 6 many people around. nieto called defendant. defendant said herrera had to do it that night. nieto drove around the corner to try a different approach. herrera exited the car a balcony nearby. nieto called defendant again and told him that there were too many people around. defendant said that he was returning to the park area and that the murder leave. while they were in the car, defendant received a call on a phone that mikaelian did not recognize. after defendant hung up the phone, he asked mikaelian to return to the place where they left juarez. mikaelian returned to the same spot where he had parked earlier. defendant exited the car and walked over to juarez. a minute later, defendant called nieto and said he was going to follow nieto to a new location. street. juarez and mikaelian followed him. defendant called nieto again and asked where herrera was. nieto said he was in out of the car with the loaded .45 caliber handpassed defendant on the way to the car. after about 20-30 seconds, nieto heard three e away. mikaelian asked what happened, and defendant responded that he would tell him later. mikaelian dropped defendant off at the mall around 10:00 p.m. or 10:30 p.m. smell after herrera entered the car, a smell similar to one he recalled from going to a 7 handdropped herrera off at his house and then went home. aleen haroian lived on the street where the murder took place. she was at home that night. at around 10:00 p.m. she heard her dog aggressively and continuously there was something unusual happening outside. she went outside and saw a hispanic man pacing back and forth on the sidewalk in front of her home. a black car that haroian did not recognize was parked across the street from the house. the man placed his hand on his right pocket. haroian pulled her mother, who had been outside, into the house quickly. she was going to call her father when she heard two gunshots. haroian called 911. there. herrera was cleaning the .45 caliber handgun used in the shooting. ramos told nieto not to talk about the murder. after ramos left, herrera told nieto what had then he shot juarez. juarez had a surprised look and let out a gasp when herrera displayed the gun. the investigation los angeles police department officer gary pugliese, detective timothy nd result of multiple gunshot wounds. three .45 caliber casings were found at the scene of the shooting. a restraining order against defendant and pieces of paper w a.m. or 8:00 a.m. 8 he told defendant he was investigating juarez, and asked if defendant would come to the station voluntarily. defendant agreed. defendant spoke with police about his relationship with juarez, their child custody arrangements, and several restraining orders she had against him for physical violence. he said that he was working at the mall from 3:00 p.m. to 11:00 p.m. the night before. he last spoke to juarez at around 3:00 p.m. the previous day. they had exchanged several texts during the week because juarez was having trouble with her roommate, and defendant was helping her with the situation. he denied involvement in the murder, and consented to a search of his home and car. no weapons were found in the search. defendant was arrested on may 26, 2010. his home was searched again. three different cell phones were discovered, along with shotgun shells, .380 caliber ammunition, and packaging for .40 caliber ammunition. mikaelian and nieto both spoke with police on several occasions. they lied or left out information about the murder during several of their respective interviews. both men were arrested in connection with the murder on may 26, 2010. revolver, a .45 caliber colt handgun, a shotgun, and ammunition were found. ramos was arrested. the .45 caliber casings found at the murder scene were not fired from the .45 caliber colt. guns in defe use about five months before her death. juarez received between 50 and 60 calls from defendant in a half hour, which appeared to distress her. the calls were short, angry, and unpleasant. juarez hung up, but then agreed to let defendant come over. defendant acted in a controlling manner and took juarez outside for a 10 minute walk. when they came back, defendant acted normally, 9 but juarez appeared sad and closed off. according to hernandez, defendant and juarez had a custody hearing scheduled for may 27, 2010. -3252, -2002. the detective was unable to locate any of the texts that defendant mentioned sending to juarez earlier in the week. navarette approached the police while they were searching police showed her a photo of defendant, which she identified as being the person she had seen with juarez the night before. detail information for defe-2002, for april 12, 2010, through april 14, 2010. he also obtained the location of the cell towers used for the calls made and received by the number. all calls made between 3:00 p.m. and 5:00 p.m. on april 13, 2010, were made within a mile of a cell tower near the promenade mall. a call at 8:50 p.m. was serviced by a cell tower 1.8 mthe next activity was a call placed at 10:28 p.m. which was serviced by a cell tower near the promenade mall. there were several numbers that appeared repeatedly reflecting calls to and from , 2010, and april 14, 2010, calling number. on april 13, 2010, between 9:37 a.m. and 7:54 p.m. there were 11 calls made between 2010, between 9:41 a.m. and 8:49 p.m. also on april 13, 2010, between 9:41 p.m. and 10:11 p.m. on april 13, 2010. 10 --as-you- minutes were pre-paid prior to usage and was registeactivated on april 10, 2010, and deactivated on april 14, 2010. the records showed 11 13, 2010. there were also 11 calls between the number 6:57 p.m. and 10:12 p.m. on april 13, 2010 the last was at 8:59 p.m. on april 13, 2010 placed on the phone on april 13, 2010, between 8:00 p.m. and 10:12 p.m. used cell towers near the promenade mall, agent david magnuson, a member of the cellular analysis survey team with the federal bureau of i(818) 554-3252 number from april 13, 2010, to april 15, 2010. agent magnuson mapped the location of the cell towers utilized during calls to and from the cell phones. agent magnuson also indicated the cell phone attached to the (818) 554-3252 number phone. the records for (818) 554-which used the cell tower near the promenade mall. subsequent calls were made to her and herrera from 6:04 p.m. to 7:15 p.m. using the same tower. later calls were made to and from herrera, nieto, and juarez between 7:43 p.m. and 8:07 p.m. the cell towers those calls utilized indicated the phone was traveling east on the 101 freeway. there were calls placed to and from herrera at 8:24 p.m. and before 8:33 p.m. that used the cell tower nearest to the murder location. the next calls were placed to herrera between 8:33 p.m. and 8:38 p.m., and the cell towers used indicated the phone was traveling south. a residence. another call was placed at 9:17 p.m. using the same tower. several calls were 11 video between 3:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m., but did not appear between 7:00 p.m. and 10:35 p.m. defense defendant presented several character witnesses who had known him for a significant period of time. none of them believed that defendant would murder juarez. their relationship appeared normal and loving. one witness had seen a videotape where juarez was the aggressor. rebuttal defendant had thrown a glass table, putting a hole in the wall. another time, juarez had shown her holes in the wall and bruises on her chest. arlette and her husband argued would not let her go out. juarez tried to leave defendant several times by going to defendant only cared about their son. dant was manipulative, controlling and disrespectful. she believed that defendant was capable of violence and would hurt juarez. she could not persuade juarez to leave defendant. 12 discussion cell phone display testimony hat he examined a cell phone recovered from the testimony, defense counsel requested a sidebar conference to make a hearsay objection. the trial court excused the jury for the morning and conducted a hearing on the objection. phone number with a person named ian and manually typed the number into the phone, which was assertive conduct, and comparable to making a statement. further, the testimony would be admitted to prove the truth of the matter asserted that the phone belonged to defendant, which was impermissible hearsay. absent the cell phone display evidence, the phone could not be connected to defendant. the prosecutor countered that people v. fields (1988) 61 cal.app.4th 1063, held that phone numbers and names typed into a cell phone or pager were non-assertive conduct and therefore not hearsay. defense counsel replied that the number itself would not be assertive conduct, but that the name associated with the number could easily be manipulated. if a name that was entered into the phone was not hearsay, nothing typed into the phone would be considered hearsay. the trial court overruled the objection and court recessed for the morning. following the recess, the trial court held another hearing out of the presence of the jury to give the parties further support and explanation for its ruling. the court discussed two recent cases, people v. dungo (2012) 55 cal.4th 608, and people v. ellis (2013) 213 cal.app.4th 1551,2 and concluded that the name displayed on the cell phone was not 2 review was granted in people v. ellis on june 12, 2013 (no. s209408), so it is no longer citable. 13 and the display could not be the court further stated that there was a hearsay exception for whether or not a phone has been used in communication, the phone itself, there is an alternative theory, instrumentality of the crime. instrumentality of the crime would be that it was used during and contemplated before the use and during a conspiracy, the trial court overruled the objection again, e found in the closet --3252. later, the prosecutor questioned nieto concerning the (818) 554-3252 number, there is a phone call at 7:51 p.m. originating from 554-3252. [] 7:51 p.m., who is that call from? phone call from that phone number? connection between defendant and the (818) 554-3252 number in his closing argument. er circumstances evidenced in the trial, such as the fact that calls were made from the area of the murder on the night and time it occurred, and the fact that most of the other people involved in the murder had been called from the (818) 554-3252 number. 14 testifying at the hearing and that is offered to prove the truth of the matter stated (evid. code,  1200, subd. (a), emphasis added.) an out-of-court statement may be admissible for a nonhearsay purpose if the trial court finds the nonhearsay purpose relevant to an issue in dispute. (people v. smith (2009) 179 cal.app.4th 986, 1004.) although the reasoning of the trial court is not entirely clear, its ultimate conclusion that the cell phone display was not hearsay was correct. the information on the cell phone display was relevant to the issue of whether the phone associated with the (818) 554-the that the number belonged to defendant. instead, the relevance of the number was that it was used to effectuate the perpetration of the murder. this fact was independently proven through both direct and circumstantial evidence. nieto provided the direct evidence by testifying that defendant called him from the phone number on april 13, 2010, of the phone is found in the records showing calls made utilizing cell towers in the the inftestimony that defendant called on that phone number, regardless of whether that number belonged to defeconnected defendant to the (818) 554-3252 phone number in closing argument, nor was it necessary to do so to establish the connection between defendant and the number. the testimony concerning the cell phone display was not offered for its truth. it was properly admitted for a nonhearsay purpose. while we are satisfied the information displayed on the phone recovered from t that introduction of that evidence could not have been prejudicial in this case. nieto testified to receiving a 15 call from defendant on the (818) 554-3252 phone number. phone records corroborated even suggested. error, if any, was harmless. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) instructions on accomplice testimony both pled guilty to voluntary manslaughter and attempted murder and agreed to provide truthful testimony for the prosecution at trial. nieto agreed to a sentence of 13 years and 4 months in state prison in exchange for his truthful testimony. mikaelian agreed to a sentence of 8 years and 4 months for testifying truthfully. both testified about their plea bargains and the benefits they would receive. defendant contends that the trial court had a sua sponte duty to instruct the jury to view the testimony of nieto and mikaelian with caution pursuant to caljic no. 3.18. (people v. guiuan (1998) 18 cal.4th 558, 569.) caljic no. 3.18 provides as follows: incriminate [the] . . . defendant, it should be viewed with caution. this does not mean, however, that you may arbitrarily disregard that testimony. you should give that testimony the weight you think it deserves after examining it with care and caution and in we review a claim of instructional error de novo. (people v. cole (2004) 33 not giving jury instructions, we must consider the instructions as a whole . . . [and] assume that the jurors are intelligent persons and capable of understanding and should be interpreted, if possible, so as to support the judgment rather than defeat it if they are reasonably people v. martin (2000) 78 cal.app.4th 1107, 1111-consideration of accomplice testimony at the guilt phase of a trial constitutes state-law 16 error, and a reviewing court must evaluate whether it is reasonably probable that such error affected the verdict.people v. williams (2010) 49 cal.4th 405, 456.) the trial court erred in failing to instruct the jury with caljic no. 3.18, but the error was harmless. the jury was thoroughly instructed on the requirement of corroboration for accomplice testimony. (see caat common law the fact that a witness was an accomplice resulted only in an instruction that his testimony was to be viewed with care, caution, and suspicion unless corroborated in any material matter by independent evidence. [citations.] the limitation based on the common law distrust of accomplices as now embodied in [penal code] section 1111 [barring convictions based on uncorroborated accomplice testimony] is much harsher than the common law limitation. juries are now compelled rather than cautioned to view in some respects competent to establish certain facts (see people v. mcrae [(1947)] 31 cal.2d 184, 187 [probable cause to hold defendant to answer at preliminary hearing]), such testimony has been legislatively determined never to be sufficiently trustworthy to establish gpeople v. tewksbury (1976) 15 cal.3d 953, 967.) here, the corroboration instructions effectively subjected tesat least partly confirmed by independent evidence. in addition to the corroboration instructions, the jury was instructed pursuant to caljic no. 2.20 on witness credibility to consider, among other things, the existence of code, material part of his or her testimony with distrust (caljic no. 3.18), we find the other instructions givenis willfully false in one material part of his or her testimony, 17 credibility (caljic no. 2.20), and the character of a witness for honesty or truthfulness or their opposites (caljic no. 2.24)were sufficient to inform the jury to view [their] people v. lewis (2001) niepeople v. jones (2003) 30 cal.4th 1084, 1113.) instructions regarding testimony where witness has been granted immunity defendant further contends that the trial court erred in refusing to give his proposed special jury instruction no. 5, or alternately in modifying bracketed language in evaluating the truthfulness of his testimony, rather than stating that the jury may consider of a witness who provides evidence against a defendant for immunity from punishment, or for any other personal advantage, must be examined to determine whether this testimony has been affected by the grant of immunity, by personal interest, by in a hearing outside of the presence of the jury, the trial court determined that the special instruction was unnecessary, because it planned to give caljic no. 2.20, which mony on leniency. it prosecution, and it seems to me that this expands a little bit on what is in [caljic no.] a grant of immunity and a grant of leniency. [] 18 this is just a better statement of the law with regard to this issue. it really should be given the trial court did not give the jury special instruction no. 5, but instructed under caljic no. 2.20 as follows: you are the sole judges of the believability of a witness and the weight to be given the testimony of each witness. a tendency reasonably to prove or disprove the truthfulness of the testimony of the witness, including but not limited to any of the following: become aware of any matter about which the witness testified; witness to remember or to communicate any matter about which the witness has testified; motive; his her [sic] testimony; in its original form, the last portion of caljic no. 2.20, provides for consideration of a grant of immunity, rather than a grant of leniency. the trial court did not err in refusing to give special jury instruction no. 5. numerous cases have held that it is inappropriate to instruct that the jury must consider a be viewed with a greater level of caution or scrutiny than other factors that may be considered under caljic no. 19 2.20. (people v. vines (2011) 51 cal.4th 830, 882 (vines) [trial court properly rejected people v. hunter (1989) 49 cal.3d 957, 976-978 (hunter) [not people v. hampton (1999) 73 cal.app.4th 710, 721 (hampton) [no obligation to give defense instruction to view people v. echevarria (1992) 11 cal.app.4th 444, 449 (echevarria) [not error to reject instruction that immunized should be viewed with distrustmust assess the testimony of an immunized witness with caution because of the considerable interest such ) those cases have held that it is appropriate to instruct the jury, under caljic no. 2.20, that it vines, supra, at p. 882; hunter, supra, at p. 976; hampton, supra, at p. 721; echevarria, supra, at p. 450.) here, it was not error to reject special jury instruction no. 5, which would advise the jury that the testimony of an affected by the grant of immunity, by personal interest, by expectation of reward, or by may consider this factor, but are not required to, and it was appropriate for the trial court to instruct on immunized witnesses under caljic no. 2.20. provision of caljic no. 2.20 was not error. we know of no case law requiring the inclusion of the specific word immunity, and defendant has pointed to none. the factors that the jury may consider under caljic no. 2.20 are broad. the jury is advised that of a witness you may consider anything that has a tendency reasonably to prove or disprove the truthfulness of the testimony of the also necessarily encompass 20 notion that the treatment afforded nieto and mikaelian warranted consideration by the jury, if appropriate. regardless, any error was harmless. as discussed above, the jury was thoroughly instructed on the requirement of corroboration for accomplice testimony. (see caljic nos. 3.11, 3.12, 3.13.) requiring corroboration of testimony goes well beyond the mere consideration of specific factors. both witnesses testified extensively regarding their prosecution. defense counsel repeatedly argued that nieto and mikaelian had strong motives to testify against defendant. there is no doubt that the jury considered nieto and evaluating their testimony. ineffective assistance of counsel defendant next asserts that trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance by failing to requespleas. he argues that the jury should have been advised that their guilty pleas could not be used as evidence of his guilt, and that it is reasonably probable the outcome of the trial objectively unreasonable, defendant did not suffer prejudice. defendant has the burden of proving ineffective assistance of counsel. (people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1114, 1189.) in order to establish such a claim, defendant must obable. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687-688, 694; people v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d 171, 216- 21 people v. rodrigues (1994) strickland v. washington, supra, at p. 694.) if the record on appeal sheds no light on why counsel acted or failed to act in the manner challenged, an appellate claim of ineffective assistance of counsel must be rejected unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or there simply could be no satisfactory explanation. (people v. mendoza tello (1997) 15 cal.4th 264, 266.) otherwise, the claim is more appropriately raised in a petition for writ of habeas corpus.people v. carter, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 1189.) here, the record is silent on the issue raised by defendant, so it must be addressed in a habeas corpus petition. if the issue were properly before us, it would fail on the merits. defendant relies on united states v. halbert (9th cir. 1981) 640 f.2d 1000 (halbert), for the proposition that trial courts have a sua sponte duty to failure to give limiting instructions sua sponte is reversible error, it follows that the limiting instructions are alwrequest them constitutes ineffective assistance of counsel. we are not bound by decisions of federal appellate courts (people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 190), and we do we not find halreasoning particularly convincing. but even if we were to follow the reasoning of halbert and accept quest the instruction. (people v. holt (1997) 15 cal.4th 619, 703 [reviewing court may determine if defendant has established prejudice before examining w].) defendant is correct that the guilty plea of a codefendant is not admissible as substantive people v. cummings (1993) 4 cal.4th 1233, 1322; people v. leonard (1983) 34 cal.3d 183, 188-189.) however, in cases like this one, where a 22 codefendant testifies, his guilty plea is admissible to allow the jury to assess his credibility. (people v. lawley (2002) 27 cal.4th 102, 162.) defendant concedes the guilty pleas were properly admitted for the purpose of allowing the jury to assess nieto in fact, defense counsel argued strenuously in closing argument that the pleas served as incentive for nieto and motive to plead guilty and implicate defendant in the murder in order to minimize their own involvement in the crime, which was made clear though their testimony. for its guilt. moreover, nieto ere not admitted into evidence in a vacuum. each codefendant was questioned concerning the guilty plea and its conditions. they were questioned concerning the murder and prior attempts, their participation in the truthfulness of their testimony. it would be unreasonable to conclude that the jury relied on their guilty pleas rather than their extensive testimony to determine the facts upon which it found defendant guilty of murder. ward guilt because the jurors considered the guilty pleas of nieto and mikaelian as substantive has not established prejudice. cumulative error defendant contends that even if the errors in this case considered individually do not require reversal, the cumulative effect of those errors was prejudicial, denied him due process, and requires reversal. we do not agree. we have found only one error by the 23 trial court in this case, which was unquestionably harmless and provides no basis for reversal of the judgment. (cal. const., art. vi,  13.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. kriegler, j. we concur: mosk, acting p. j. mink. j. * * retired judge of the los angeles county superior court assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 