filed 7/25/14 p. v. graves ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. larry a. graves, defendant and appellant. b250022 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta125793) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, eleanor j. hunter, judge. affirmed as modified. vanessa place, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, linda c. johnson and gary a. lieberman, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury convicted defendant larry a. graves of two counts of forcible rape ( 261, subd. (a)(2))1 and one count of failure to register as a sex offender ( 290, subd. (b)). in regard to the two forcible rape convictions, the jury found that defendant personally used a deadly weapon (a knife) ( 667.61, subds. (a) & (e), 12022, subd. (b)(1)) and that he committed the crime against more than one victim ( 667.61, subds. (a) & (e)). the trial court sentenced defendant to a term of 53 years to life. in this appeal, defendant contends that his rape convictions must be reversed because the trial court committed a prejudicial abuse of discretion when, over his objection, it permitted the prosecution to introduce evidence of a prior forcible sexual assault he had committed. (evid. code,  1101, subd. (b) & 1108.) we are not persuaded. however, the attorney general correctly urges that the abstract of judgment does not reflect the sentence imposed. we therefore direct preparation of an amended abstract of judgment but, in all other respects, affirm the judgment. factual background 1. the forcible rape of p. w. p.w. is a prostitute. on april 21, 2012, she was standing on a street in an area frequented by prostitutes. defendant, driving his car, approached p.w. . she entered his car and agreed to orally copulate him for $50. defendant drove the car a short distance and stopped. he gave p.w. $50 which she put in her bra. after 1 unless stated otherwise, all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 she began to orally copulate him, he asked the price for sexual intercourse. p.w. replied that it would be an additional $60. at first, defendant responded but then he grabbed her by the back of her hair, pulled her head back, held a knife to her neck, p.w., who at said she would give defendant his money and asked him not to hurt her. defendant pushed her panties aside and raped her. afterwards, defendant, still holding the knife to p.w.demanded return of his money. she complied but then defendant reached into her bra and removed more money. after a brief conversation in which defendant offered to be her pimp, he drove back to the area where they had first met and let her out of his car. p.w. car. four days later, p.w. went to a medical clinic and reported the rape.2 upon the police the panties she had worn when defendant had raped her. sperm on the 2. the forcible rape of g.s. during the morning of july 21, 2012, g.s. was working as a prostitute. she saw defendant parked in a car. she approached and asked him if he wanted a he replied yes. g.s. entered his car and defendant handed her $30 for fellatio. defendant drove his car a short distance and parked. g.s. bent down to orally copulate him. defendant suddenly pulled out a knife, placed himself on top 2 . pursuant to the fresh complaint doctrine. the trial court instructed the jury about the limited use to which it could put the testimony. 4 of g.s., put the knife to her throat, took money from her bra, and raped her. after the rape, defendant drove g.s. back to the area they had met and let her leave. later that morning, g.s. reported the rape to the police. she was taken to a hospital and given a sexual assault examination. susan barie, a registered nurse, testified that g.s. up to her sperm found in g.s. vagina contained a dna profile consistent with that of defendant. 3. interview with the police about the rapes on december 14, 2012, detective lorena tarjamo conducted a videotape interview of defendant. the videotape was played for the jury and entered into evidence. after defendant was advised of and waived his miranda rights, detective tarjamo showed him photographs of p.w. and g.s. defendant denied having met either woman. when presented with the dna evidence linking him to the rapes, dthese ladies. we exchanged money for [a] sexual favor. basically being a blowjob. after that, in one incident it was actually in both i can sayat the end . . . i just told them to get out. . . . money than what we negotiated.defendant denied having had sexual intercourse (consensual or non-consensual) with either woman. when detective tarjamo told defendant [g.s. defendant denied owning a knife or threatening either woman with a knife. at first, defendant stated that he . later, he conceded 5 that he had taken back his money from each woman but claimed he did so because he was not satisfied with her services. 4. evidence of a prior forcible sexual assault committed by defendant at trial, j.s. testified as follows.3 on march 22, 1991, she was walking through a park-and-ride lot when defendant suddenly grabbed her in a choke hold. defendant held a butcher knife to the side of her face. defendant hit her in the down between two parked cars and continued to hit her in the face. he cut the u are going to perform a public vagina. j.s.several men, including daniel marshall who testified at trial, witnessed the assault and chased defendant down and held him until the police arrived. j.s. suffered serious injuries as a result of the attack. 5. the parties stipulated to the following background facts. in september 1991, the juvenile court sustained a petition alleging that on march 22, 1991, defendant had committed sexual penetration by a foreign object ( 289). the juvenile court committed defendant to the california youth authority (cya). following his may 2000 discharge from the cya, defendant was legally obligated to register as a sex offender. 3 permitting this testimony, we will set forth the facts of the pretrial litigation about this evidence. 6 evidence presented at trial established the following. defendant last registered as a sex offender in may 2012, giving his address as 11231 south compton avenue in compton, california. in december 2012, officer yevette perez, assigned to the registration enforcement unit, interviewed defendant. defendant told her that he understood that, pursuant to section 290, he was required to register as a sex offender. following advisement and waiver of his miranda rights, defendant admitted that he did not live at the compton address. in had never lived there. 6. the defense case defendant did not present any evidence. in closing argument, defense counsel argued that the two victims were not credible, primarily because of inconsistencies between their trial testimony and their earlier statements to the police and secondarily because each admitted she had suffered at least one criminal conviction. defense counsel also forcefully argued that the jury should not convict defendant based solely upon the evidence of j.s.4 discussion admitted against him involving [j.s.], and disposition evidence in general, was 4 for instance, defense counsel argued that the evidence about j.s. should not heard from the two victims and sweep everything under the rug because of what happened in 1991. . . . i only ask that you please get past that even if it is shocking, and examine the evidence in the current 7 unduly prejudicial and insufficiently probative under sections 1108 and 352, and should are not persuaded. 1. factual background prior to trial, defendant filed a motion to exclude any evidence of his 1991 sexual assault on j.s. in response, the people moved, pursuant to evidence code sections 1101, subdivision (b) and 1108, to introduce the evidence at trial.5 the written motion included the following offer of proof about the facts of the assault: in march 1991, j.s. was walking through a parking lot when defendant grabbed her, put a knife to her throat and dragged her between parked cars. defendant hit her in the face numerous times, cut her bra open with his knife, pulled down her panties and inserted his fingers into her vagina. several individuals saw the assault whereupon defendant unsuccessfully tried to flee after taking j.s.. the juvenile court sustained a welfare and institutions code . as a result, defendant was confined at the cya. at a hearing on the motions, the trial court found the evidence was admissible under both sections of the evidence code. in regard to its discretionary power to exclude evidence ( 352), the trial court certainly aware of the potential prejudice in cases involving prior crimes. action of not allowing the photograph[s of j.s.] to be [admitted] in connection with that prior crime, as to inflame any type of passion with regard to seeing the victim 5 all undesignated statutory references in are to the evidence code. 8 [j.s.] in the state that [defendant] left her.[6] the court can kind of cure some j.s.] is so unduly prejudicial that . . . it should not be admitted. i find under as for committed in 1991 when he was 15 years old, the trial court stated: understanding [defendant] did go ahead and spend a significant amount of time in custody [in the cya]. all be it, there was a gap in time. after j.s. and marshall testified at trial about the assault, defendant moved to strike their testimony or, in the alternative, to declare a mistrial. defense counsel explained: [a]fter seeing the witness [j.s.] testify, after seeing a good samaritan [marshall] testify, the testimony was so overwhelming horrific that it seems to me . . . that this is clearly a classic case where the prejudicial effect of the testimony far outweighs the probative value. the trial court denied the motion. it explained: ation, initially i was well aware of what the proposed testimony would be, and [the prosecutor] put it out in his trial brief. it was argued here in court. . . . [] . . . assault case. i admitted it under [section] 1101, but clearly under in light of the fact that we have two alleged victims in this case that allege the defendant pulled a knife on them, threatened by putting it up to their neck, forcibly inserted his penis in their vagina. that is equally as important as the crime that happened in 1991. while the victims might have had somewhat different demeanors, resulting 6 during trial, the court granted the defense motion to exclude the photographs of j.s. 9 injury might have been different. but the female [j.s.] that testified as to the 1991 [assault], but certainly the trauma and mental injury is similar. and in all three incidents, a knife was used. and in all three incidents, a knife was put up to the neck. the court took into consideration all of those factors. and even one of our victims broke down on the stand. we had to take a break. any time you have any type of sexual emotional for everybody. but the court has to do a balancing, as it is unduly prejudicial. i still stick to my original analysis in this particular case and these particular facts. it was not unduly prejudicial at the close of trial, the court submitted calcrim no. 1191, the pattern limiting instruction about consideration of evidence of a prior sexual offense. 2. analysis action in which the defendant is accused of a sexual offense, evidence of the inadmissible by section 1101, if the evidence is not inadmissible pursuant to sexual offense tpeople v. lewis (2009) 46 cal.4th 1255, 1286.) defendant, relying upon garceau v. woodford (9th cir. 2001) 275 f.3d 769, contends that section 1108 is unconstitutional because the admission of propensity evidence denies him a fair trial and violates his rights to due process and equal protection of the law. the contention lacks merit. the california supreme court has consistently upheld the constitutionality. (people v. loy (2011) 52 cal.4th 46; people v. falsetta (1999) 21 cal.4th 903.) we are 10 bound by those holdings. (auto equity sales, inc. v. superior court (1962) 57 cal.2d 450.) consequently, there is no reason for us constitutional arguments. we turn therefore discretion in allowing the evidence. inevitably has some prejudicial effect. but under section 1108, this circumstance alone is no reason to exclude it. [s]ection 1108 affects the practical operation of [evidence code] section 352 balancing because admission and consideration of evidence of other sexual offenses to show character or disposition would be no longer treated as intrinsically prejudicial or impermissible. hence, evidence offered under [section] 1108 could not be excluded on the basis of [section] 352 unless the probability that its admission will . . . create substantial danger of undue prejudice . . . substantially outweighed its probative value concerning the charged and other matters relevant to the determination of the charge. as with other forms of relevant evidence that are not subject to any exclusionary principle, the presumption will be in favor of its admission [citation.](people v. loy, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 62.) in exercising its discretion, the trial co[the] nature, relevance, and possible remoteness [of the prior sexual offense], the degree of certainty of its commission and the likelihood of confusing, misleading, or distracting the jurors from their main inquiry, its similarity to the charged offense, its likely prejudicial impact on the jurors, the burden on the defendant in defending against the uncharged offense, and the availability of [the option of] excluding irrelevant though inflammatory details surrounding th(people v. falsetta, supra, 21 cal.4th at p. 917.) 11 arbitrary, whimsical, or capricious as a matter of law. (people v. robertson (2012) 208 cal.app.4th 965, 991.) in this case, we find no abuse of discretion. j.s. was very similar to the two charged offenses. in each of the three cases, he held a knife penetrated the victim (with his fingers or penis). thus, the prior offense had substantial probative value in that it corroborated p.w. and g.s.assaults, such corroboration being the very reason the legislature enacted section 1108. (people v. falsetta, supra, 21 cal.4th at p. 915.) that the prior offense occurred 21 years before the charged offenses does not change our conclusion. [citation.] substantial similarities between the prior and the charged offense[] balance out the remoteness of the prior offense[]. [citation.](people v. robertson, supra, 208 cal.app.4th at p. 992.) cases have upheld admission pursuant to evidence code section 1108 of prior sexual crimes that ibid. and cases cited therein.) further, because the parties stipulated that the juvenile court had sustained a petition against defendant as a result of his assault upon j.s. and that as a result defendant had been confined for eight years in the cya, the jury would not have been tempted to convict him of the charged crimes to punish him for the earlier assault. (people v. loy, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 61.) in addition, because the stipulation establino new burden of defending against the charges . . . [and] there was little danger of 12 . . ibid.) lastly, the trial court took affirmative steps to cure any potential prejudice. it barred the prosecution from presenting photographs of j.s. that could have inflamed the passion of the jury. (see fn. 6, ante.) and at the close of trial, it submitted the pattern limiting instruction (calcrim no. 1191) about the use to which the jury could put the evidence. prejudice from the evidence about j.s. involving [p.w.] and [g.s.] are, though not excusable, not uncommon to prostitution. . . . simply put, the attack on jonell [s.] was pure brutality; the attacks on [p.w.] and [g.s.] this is a distinction without a difference. in each incident, defendant, using a knife, violently sexually assaulted a woman he did not know. dthat the evidence of assault upon j. is unsupported speculation. in a similar vein, defendant upon people v. harris (1998) 60 cal.app.4th 727 to support his argument that the evidence of the prior offense was inflammatory and prejudicial is misplaced. in people v. harris, supra, the reviewing court concluded that the trial court s facts were entirely different from those here. there, the prior offense was in the extreme the charged sexual offenses were, by contrast, not forcible but involved breaches of trust. thus the charged offenses were nature and quality than the violent and perverse attack on a stranger that was described to the 13 [t]he facts of the prior conduct were redacted to a point that the jury must have come away with a misleading impression of what happened . . . people v. loy, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 64.) here, in contrast, the prior and charged offenses all involved violent sexual assaults against strangers. and because j.s. and marshall testified about the prior offense, there was no improper redaction and thus no chance that the jury was given a misleading impression about its commission. lastly, dprior charge [involving j.s.]. the argument is misplaced. as explained below, the overall evidence of guilt was reasonably strong. but even if defendant were correct, the argument would not aid him. [any] supposed weakness [in the present case] provides no reason to people v. loy, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 64.) in sum, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the evidence of the prior offense pursuant to section 1108.7 in any event, even if a finding we do not makeno prejudicial error occurred. the test for prejudice is that found in people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836: is it reasonably probable that defendant would have obtained a more favorable result (acquittal of the two 7 because we conclude that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the evidence pursuant to section 1108, there is no reason to consider whether the evidence was also admissible under section 1101, subdivision (b). (people v. callahan (1999) 74 cal.app.4th 356, 372.) 14 forcible rape charges)8 absent the prior offense evidence? (people v. harris, supra, 60 cal.app.4th at p. 741.) here, each victim unequivocally testified that defendant raped her. dna evidence confirmed the commission of the sexual assaults. further, when interviewed by the police, defendant first falsely denied that he had ever met either woman but, after being confronted with the dna evidence, put his head in his hands for over a minute and then gave varying explanations of the events. these actions culpability.9 in addition, the jury is presumed to have followed the limiting instruction (calcrim no. 1191) that directed it not to make an improper use of the evidence about the prior offense. (people v. guerra (2006) 37 cal.4th 1067, 1115.) and the prosecutor made only brief references to the prior offense in his arguments to the jury whereas defense counsel argued at length that the jury should not let that evidence cloud its judgment. in sum, we find that no prejudicial error occurred from the admission of the prior offense involving j.s. the abstract of judgment at the sentencing hearing, the trial court imposed three consecutive sentences: a 3-year sentence for the failure to register conviction and a sentence of 25 years to life for each rape conviction. 8 defendant does not contend that his conviction for failure to register as a sex offender should be reversed because the trial court admitted the evidence about his assault of j.s. 9 . the prosecutor made this point in his closing argument. 15 the attorney general correctly notes that the abstract of judgment fails to indicate that consecutive sentences were imposed for the rape convictions and that defendant was sentenced pursuant to section 667.61. we direct preparation of an amended abstract of judgment to correct these two errors. disposition the trial court is directed to prepare and forward to the department of corrections and rehabilitation an amended abstract of judgment that reflects: (1) the sentences on the two rape convictions are to run consecutively; and (2) the sentences were imposed pursuant to section 667.61. as so modified, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports willhite, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. manella, j. 