filed 9/19/14 p. v. banuelos ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. miguel banuelos, defendant and appellant. b251832 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka098159) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mike camacho, judge. affirmed. cindy brines, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________ 2 at around 10:00 p.m. on june 3, 2012, an suv ran through the fence of serafin e downed fence kept pineda from getting to the driver, but he saw that the driver was hunched over and phoned 911. instead of responding, the driver backed up and sped off down the street. banuelos was being helped from a damaged suv and placed in a wheelchair. banuelos was paralyzed from the waist down from a motorcycle accident several years earlier. a deputy saw banuelos reach for his waistband as if he were either hiding or reaching for something. the deputy did a pat-down search and found a revolver. banuelos, who had two auto burglary convictions, accused the deputy of planting the weapon. banuelos was charged with, and convicted of, one count of being a felon in possession of a firearm. a deputy sheriff testified that pineda identified banuelos as the driver of the suv that crashed into his house. pineda testified that he identified the suv, but was unsure whether banuelos had been the driver. banuelos testified that he had been sitting in his parked suv listening to music when a man opened a rear passenger door, got in the car, and pointed a gun at his head. the man told pineda to drive. the man hit banuelos in the mouth because he did not like the fact that banuelos used hand controls to operate the vehicle. a short time later, the man hit banuelos in the back of the head, causing banuelos to briefly black out and crash into pihad banuelos stop a short distance away and began asking for money and grabbing at man and took away his gun. according to banuelos, he was rolling over toward the deputy to bring him the gun. a woman who was walking nearby claimed that she saw two people inside the suv struggling with each other. banuelos filed a notice of appeal. on june 24, 2014, his appointed counsel filed a brief pursuant to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 (wende) in which no issues were 3 raised. the brief included a declaration from counsel that she had reviewed the record and had sent banuelos a letter advising him that such a brief would be filed and that he could file a supplemental brief if he chose to. that same day this court sent banuelos a letter advising him that a wende brief had been filed and that he had 30 days to submit a brief raising any issues he wanted us to consider. he did not file a supplemental brief. fully complied with her responsibilities and that no arguable issues exist. (smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259; wende, supra, 25 cal.3d 436.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. rubin, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. grimes, j. 