filed 6/17/14 p. v. sandoval ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose manuel sandoval, defendant and appellant. b251835 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta128695) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, laura r. walton, judge. affirmed. dale e. manolakas, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant and appellant, jose manuel sandoval, appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial which resulted in his conviction of assault with a deadly weapon (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(1)).1 the trial court sentenced sandoval to the mid-term of three years in state prison. we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. facts. a. . in june 2013, maria p. and her two children, 14-year-old a.a. and 4-year-old felipe s., lived in space no. 12 of a trailer park on oak street in compton. maria and sandoval had purchased the trailer together and had lived there as boyfriend and girlfriend from march 2012 to december 2012. sandoval and maria had been involved in a relationship for approximately six years and sandoval was the father of maria, felipe s. however, in december 2012, the two broke up and sandoval moved out of the trailer. maria had not seen sandoval since he had moved out and had not expected to see him . she believed he had left the country and, as far as she was concerned, he no longer had permission to enter the trailer. maria had changed the locks on the trailer and, since sandoval had left, had paid the rent for the space in the mobile home park and had renegotiated the loan on the mobile home so she could make the payments. after sandoval left, maria had begun dating a man named pedro galvez. galvez also had a trailer at the park and maria had babysat his three children. after they started dating, galvez and his children spent much of their time at maria on the evening of june 15, 2013, maria took medication to help her sleep, then went to bed at approximately 8:00 p.m. galvez, who was at work at his job in carson until approximately 1:30 a.m. on june 16, stopped on his way home and had a 16-ounce beer, then went to marias trailer and got into bed with her. all of the children, with the exception of galv-year-old son, were at maria that night. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 in the early morning hours of june 16, 2013, maria and galvez were awakened by sandoval. he had most likely entered the trailer through a broken window and had then gone into the bedroom. there, he leaned over galvez, took maria by the hand and began to speak to her, calling maria galvez, who had never seen sandoval before but recognized him from photographs, realized sandoval was trying to wake maria. sandoval had turned on the light and, as galvez was attempting to pull his arm from under mariastand up, sandoval left the room. galvez was afraid sandoval was going to return to the bedroom and attempt to hurt him. when sandoval stepped back into the bedroom, he was holding a knife in his right hand. galvez stepped back and ended up back on the bed. sandoval grabbed galvez by the throat and held the knife up against his neck. sandoval then placed the knife in the middle of abdomen. sandoval whispered , then told galvez he wanted him to leave. by that time, two of the children had come into the bedroom and had walked over to mariamaria and maria had gotten into the bed with her. after covering herself and the children with a blanket, maria [t]hat [sandoval] had [galvez] by the neck maria decided to stay in the bed because she was dizzy from her medications and galvez, who believed maria was still asleep, looked over, saw his daughter and, galvez told sandoval, galvez gathered his two children and, while sandoval was still in front of him holding the knife against his abdomen, backed his way down the hallway toward the door. after they got outside, sandoval, who was still holding the knife, told galvez to jump over the locked gate. galvez, however, 4 refused because he was afraid sandoval would stab him in the back as he was making his way over the fence. sandoval then instructed mariadaughter, a.a., who was standing in the yard, to get the keys so he could open the gate. a.a. got the keys, sandoval unlocked the gate and galvez, accompanied by his two children, stepped out. after he had instructed his children to move instead, sandoval simply turned around and went back inside the trailer.2 a.a. stayed outside when sandoval went back into the trailer and galvez, who realized he had left his cell phone inside, asked her to get it for him. she did so and galvez ran to the front of the parking area by the trailers to call 911. however, before he had made the call, deputy sheriffs arrived. one deputy had galvez sit in the back of his vehicle and wait there for several minutes. that night deputy sheriffs spoke to maria. she told them about her prior relationshiagainst him. although maria had never spoken to sandoval about the restraining order, she had informed his brother she had applied for and received it. when deputy sheriffs asked maria about the incident which had occurred between sandoval and galvez, she told the deputies she ] too the only thing she was able to tell the deputies was that she had opened her eyes, had seen neck, then had closed her eyes again. a.a. first met sandoval when she was seven years old. he was involved with her mother, maria, and lived with maria, a.a. and a younger brother until maria and sandoval ended their relationship in december 2012. a.a. next saw sandoval on june 5, 2013 at her graduation from the eighth grade. a.a. sandoval, who had not been invited to the event. sandoval approached a.a. when she 2 in both 2008 and 2009, galvez had - apparently also been violent and when they divorced, he received full custody of their children. 5 was with some friends and her mother, maria, was in the restroom. sandoval asked a.a. if he could have his picture taken with her and, after a friend obliged, a.a. [] away from [sandoval as fast as possible] so [her a.a. did [h] a.a. went to the front of the school, met her mother and insisted they go home. a.a. did not see sandoval for the rest of the day. a.a. next saw sandoval on june 15, 2013. a.a., maria and felipe s. were at home in the trailer when sandoval came by , including a pair of boots and a camera. he and maria spoke for about 10 minutes and throughout the conversation maria continuously asked sandoval to leave. when sandoval refused, indicating that this [was his] trailer, maria, a.a. and felipe s. left the trailer and went to a nearby park. when a.a., maria and felipe s. returned to the trailer approximately three hours later, sandoval was gone. during the early morning hours of june 16, 2013, a.a. came home to the trailer after attending a party and fell asleep on the couch. she was awakened when she heard house. sandoval then came out of the bedroom, hit the bar in the kitchen, then dropped something onto the floor. after he retrieved the object, sandoval returned to the [galvez] from the neck, and with his other hand, . . . sandoval then pointed told sandoval to at that point, a.a. left the trailer, went into the backyard and called 911. . . when a.a. then walked to the front yard, she saw galvez standing outside the gate. sandoval was standing just inside the gate, shouting at galvez, repeatedly telling him to leave. galvez saw a.a. and asked her to go into the trailer and get his keys and his phone. a.a. did so, gave them to galvez then told him to leave because she did not a.a. then followed sandoval back into the trailer 6 and when he tried to wake maria, a.a. told him to leave sandoval started to walk out of the trailer and a.a. asked him where he had left the knife. sandoval retrieved a knife and walked out the front door, only to be met by a deputy sheriff shining a light on him. sandoval tossed two knives to the ground, then attempted to jump over the fence at the side of the yard. when he was unable to make it over the fence, sandoval walked back toward the front of the trailer where he was detained and handcuffed by a deputy. other deputies retrieved the knives. as the deputies were approaching him, sandoval looked at a.a. and told her to tell them was] d and sandoval shook his head, then looked at a.a. and said a number of a.a. thought that, in making the remark, sandoval was in making the remark to a.a., sandoval made her feel b. defense evidence. maria felipe. maria and sandoval had purchased a mobile home together, which sandoval had moved out of in december 2012. after that time, sandoval made no payments toward the mobile home because he had been deported to mexico. he had, however, always kept in touch with maria. he either spoke to her on the telephone or communicated with her by text message. sandoval still had on his cell phone several text messages from maria, one of which was dated january 6, 2013 and one of which was dated may 1, 2011. sandoval returned to this country on june 5, 2012. he had promised a.a. he would be back for her graduation and he had informed maria he was coming. sandoval saw maria at the graduation, hugged her and kissed her. he then moved back into the mobile home with maria, felipe and a.a. at that time galvez, who maria had told , was also living at the trailer. sandoval, maria and their two children slept in the bedroom. sandoval slept in the bed with maria. galvez and his children slept in the living room. 7 on friday, june 14, 2013, sandoval came home from work early because he was not feeling well. when he found galvez at the trailer, sandoval asked maria why galvez was still there. sandoval had thought maria kick[] him out the following morning, saturday, maria and sandoval had an argument and maria restraini sandoval indicated he had known about the restraining order, but that maria had let him stay with her for over a week in spite of it. on saturday evening, sandoval went out and had a few beers. at approximately 4:00 on sunday morning, june 16, he went to the mobile home and, although he no longer had keys, entered the trailer through a window. sandoval went to the mobile maria sandoval did not have a weapon when he entered the trailer. he first went to the bedroom, turned on the light and saw maria in bed with galvez. he then saw his son sleeping on the floor and became angry. sandoval . . . to [make galvez when sandoval returned to the bedroom, galvez got up and, as galvez m [on the chest] with [his] want to get hurt either. get your kids and go[.] galvez gathered up his children and walked with them until they were outside the fence surrounding the mobile home. galvez then told sandoval to throw the knife [ed] for [galvez] . . . to come at [him] when galvez did not do so, sandoval turned around and walked back into the maria] to ask her why [she had] done that to [him] and to tell her that however, when sandoval went back inside the trailer, maria told him to leave and that the police had been called. when sandoval went out to the front yard to find the knife he had dropped, police officers arrived. before he was taken into custody, sandoval turned to a.a. ved her a lot and that [he] was very sorry 8 the police. sandoval mariathe following day, galvez told sandoval that he and maria together sandoval touch[ed] her again, [he was] going to be sorry. when sandoval asked maria what was going on, she told sandoval that nothing and drunk on drugs. the following saturday, june 15, 2013, maria sandoval had been arrested on december 17, 2012 for pushing maria onto the floor at a restaurant, then placing his hands around her neck. although police officers had indicated sandoval had apologized for the incident, sandoval testified he did not pushed and grabbed maria. sandoval explained he believed maria had been cheating on him and he had pushed her and placed his hands around her neck and when he had tried to pick her up, maria had told him c. rebuttal. during the early morning hours of june 16, 2013, galvez was awakened by but he did not touch sandoval. even when sandoval came into the bedroom for the second time, carrying a knife, galvez did not attack him. prior to that morning, galvez had not seen sandoval in person. galvez had never lived with sandoval in maria trailer. 2. procedural history. following a preliminary hearing, on august 1, 2013 sandoval was charged by information with one count of assault with a deadly weapon, a felony ( 245, subd. (a)(1)) (count 1), one count of first degree burglary, person present, a felony ( 459) (count 2) and one count of dissuading a witness from reporting a crime, a felony 9 ( 136.1, subd. (b)(1)) (count 3). sandoval entered pleas of not guilty to each of the charges and denied any and all special allegations. sandoval requested a jury trial and jury selection began on september 30, 2013. the presentation of evidence began on october 1, 2013. after all of the testimony had been given, defense counsel indicated as an exhibit. following argument by the parties, the trial court denied the motion, stating the phone were] hearsay and [did] not the court continued: the phone] did show . . . something on the screen concerning a text message [received by maria], . . . that [evidence] ha[d] already been seen by the jurors and admitted. [the court was] not on the afternoon of october 3, 2013, after being instructed by the trial court and hearing counsels arguments, the jury started its deliberations. on october 4, 2013, the court[]tdescribes a[c] later on october 4, the jurors submitted to the trial court the following inquiry[]s second entrance into the bedroom considered a separate and distinct event? should we consider it a potentially is a hung jury on out the verdict forms and send out a note that you have verdicts on some counts and are on october guilty of the crime of assault with [a] deadly weapon, upon pedro galvez with a . . . knife, in violation of . . . section 245[, subdivision] (a)(1), a felony, as charged in count 1 of the i after some discussion, the trial court determined there was no reasonable likelihood the jurors would be able to reach unanimous verdicts on the 10 remaining counts. with regard to count 2, first degree burglary, they were divided, eight believing sandoval was guilty and four believing he was not guilty. as to count 3, dissuading a witness, two jurors believed sandoval was guilty and ten believed he was not guilty. accordingly, the trial court declared a mistrial as to those counts and, on the dismissed them. at sentencing held on october 9, 2013, the trial court imposed the mid-term of the court then awarded sandoval presentence custody credit for 116 days actually served and 116 days of good time/work time, or 232 days. sandoval was then ordered to pay a $40 court operations assessment ( 1465.8, subd. (a)(1)), a $30 criminal conviction fine (gov. code,  70373), a $280 restitution fine ( 1202.4, subd. (b)) and a stayed $280 parole revocation restitution fine ( 1202.45). sandoval filed a timely notice of appeal from the judgment on october 9, 2013. contentions after examination of the record, appointed appellate counsel filed an opening brief which raised no issues and requested this court to conduct an independent review of the record. by notice filed april 3, 2014, the clerk of this court advised sandoval to submit within 30 days any contentions, grounds of appeal or arguments he wished this court to consider. no response has been received to date. review on appeal we have examined the entire record and are satisfied counsel has complied fully smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 278-284; people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, 443.) 11 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports klein, p. j. we concur: croskey, j. aldrich, j. 