filed 7/14/14 p. v. abreu ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. frederico augusto abreu, defendant and appellant. b251322 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba363746) appeal from a judgment of the superior court for the county of los angeles. norman shapiro, judge. affirmed. robert a. schwartz for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and erika d. jackson, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________ 2 summary defendant frederico augusto abreu appeals from the denial of his motion to suppress evidence. we find no merit in his contentions and affirm the judgment. facts after unsuccessful attempts to quash a search warrant and to suppress evidence, defendant pled no contest to four felony counts in an open plea to the court: possession for sale of methamphetamine (health & saf. code,  11378); possession for sale of gamma-hydroxybutyrate (ghb) (health & saf. code,  11351); possession of clonazepam (health & saf. code,  11377); and having a counterfeit seal (a counterfeit (pen. code,  472). the court placed defendant on three years formal probation with various terms and conditions, and made other orders not at issue in this appeal. during the proceedings below, defendant filed a motion to quash a search warrant that covered two different locations: 1280 north laurel avenue, no. 7 (the laurel apartment), and 1210 north cherokee avenue, no. 120 (the cherokee apartment). the recovery of narcotics and other evidence at the cherokee apartment provided the basis for the charges against defendant. the motion to quash was denied. a few months later, defendant moved to suppress all the evidence acquired from a warrantless vehicle search, , that preceded issuance of the search warrant for the laurel and cherokee apartments (and upon which the search warrant was partially based). defendant contended his former counsel neglected to challenge the warrantless seizure of evidence from the vehicle search, without which there was no probable cause to search the cherokee apartment. the evidence presented at the suppression hearing in july 2012 revealed the following facts. in september 2009, bernadette gambino was a detective assigned to investigate sales of narcotics in west hollywood. she testified that on september 2, 2009, she received information that defendant was involved in the trafficking and sale of narcotics. she learned defendant was a wanted fugitive in florida for trafficking of methamphetamine, and a citizen informant told her of sales of narcotics in the building 3 where defendant (and the informant) lived (the laurel avenue location). the informant told the detective there were sales of narcotics from three apartments (nos. 2, 7, and 6). the informant said defendant lived in apartment 6, and went in and out of apartment 7. the informant had witnessed several -to-individuals from apartment 2 and apartment 7, and identif[ied] [defendant] as one of the individuals involved in the narcotics transaction. detective gambino learned that an individual named franklin dunham lived in apartment 7, and the informant told her that defendant two when cross-information from the informant about hand-to-hand transactions] was before september 2nd . . . detective gambino testified thatshe received the information about the florida warrant for defendant. detective gambino advised the citizen informant to let the police know immediately if the informant saw defendant. on september 27, 2009, the informant called and said he or she had seen defendant in the courtyard of the laurel avenue apartment complex wearing a blond wig and a baseball hat. on september 29, 2009, the detective contacted the broward county still outstanding. on september 29, 2009, detective gambino and her partner were in separate cars conducting undercover surveillance of the laurel avenue location. partner observed defendant and another man, later identified as mr. dunham, loading items into a maroon-colored kia. detective gambino then approached on foot and saw defendant standing based on pictures of defendant she had previously obtained. mr. dunham was in when she saw defendant, o get in the car. . . . i think his kind of butt was sitting on the seat with his feet still at the curb, or on the cement, and i kind of (at this time, detective gambino was 4 alone; her partner described, post).) ordered him to step out of the vehicle. the detective asked defendant his name, and he said his name was henrique and his identification was in apartment 7. detective he was seated with his feet on the curb. i had him get out of the car. i turned him toward the car. he was struggling with me. he kept wanting to break free from my grasp and he had his body get rigid, and he he kind of kind of jerking and shaking and laid his body in the curb. so i had my sergeant called (the sergeant, who was [w] when detective gambino gr there was a wallet, and i -gambino where the bag was when she initially arrested defendant, and the detective be sure. i do it she did not know what was in it, and retrieved the bag to take a look at it . . . the bag before the paramedics arrived. when the paramedics arrived, defendant was [r][k] he was not handcuffed. license, a pill container with methamphetamine in it, and an iphone. 5 the other individual identified himself as franklin dunham, and cooperated with the police. he told detective gambino the car was a rental car and he had rented it. found methamphetamine, detective gambino detective gambino directed other officers who had arrived prior ) the officers who searched the car found a case with a blond wig in the back seat, and they found a black toiletry bag containing methamphetamine and syringes in the trunk. mr. dunham acknowledged that the toiletry bag belonged to him. mr. dunham was arrested. the paramedics transported defendant to a hospital, and after a determination there where he was booked. detective gambino advised florida authorities that defendant was . . . . then she interviewed defendant, who waived his miranda rights. (miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436.) defendant told detective gambino he left florida because he was about to be arrested and did not want to go to jail. he was living in apartment 6 at 1280 north laurel originally. then, sometime before august 26, 2009, he rented the cherokee apartment, but he stayed with mr. dunham three or four nights a week because he was allergic to the carpet in the cherokee apartment. detective gambino had possession of arrested defendant and throughout the interview. the phone was on. during that time, eral texthe phone. it was able to read it. one of the ta hundred vitamins and a gallon based on could be liquid meth, or it could be g.h.b. or 1, 4-butanediol, depending on the grade it was. the vitamins could be any type of narcotic, could be ecstasy, could be xanax, could 6 be [i] detective gambino then applied for a search warrant for the laurel apartment residing). at the cherokee apartment, police recovered, in addition to narcotics, a fraudulent (ws photograph), as well as a gas company bill and a water and power bill in mr. dunhamname for the cherokee apartment. (when detective gambino confronted mr. dunham with this information, he told her he had no knowledge the cherokee apartment was in his name.) his laptop computer, two phones, his wallet and a pill bottle with prescription medication for heartburn. the bag was in the backseat of the car. defendant said he did not live at the cherokee apartment; he was helping mr. dunham to move there; and he denied telling the detective that he rented the cherokee apartment but often stayed with mr. dunham. defendant acknowledged he had been staying at the cherokee location periodically, but insisted the trial court if this was strictly and simply strictly a gant issue [(arizona v. gant (2009) 556 u.s. 332 (gant))]justified in going into that man bag, man purse, without a warrant. but i think, under the circumstances of this case, that the sergeant was justified in retrieving that, under the , the court observed, was ily overpowered the [detective], . . . 7 discussion in reviewing a ruling on a motion to suppress, we defer to factual findings where supported by substantial evidence, and exercise our independent judgment in determining whether, on the facts so found, the search or seizure was reasonable under the fourth amendment. (people v. hirata (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 1499, 1504 (hirata).) defendant contends (1) there was no probable cause justifying the search warrant for the cherokee apartment; (2) the information tending to establish that defendant was involved in narcotics transactions was stale; and (3) the warrantless seizure of the items gant, supra, 556 u.s. 332, and without that first, there was probable cause for the search of the cherokee apartment. the question facing a reviewing court asked to determine whether probable cause supported the issuance of the warrant is whether the magistrate had a substantial basis for concluding a fair probability existed that a search would uncover wrongdoing. the task of the issuing magistrate is simply to make a practical, commonsense decision whether, given all the circumstances set forth in the affidavit before him, including the of persons supplying hearsay information, there is a fair probability that contraband or evidence of a crime will be found in a particular place.people v. kraft (2000) 23 cal.4th 978, 1040-1041 (kraft).) here, the citizen informant described apartments 2, 6 and 7 at the laurel avenue location as having constant foot traffic between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 2:00 a.m.; identified the occupants of those apartments, including defendant; and also witnessed -to-in apartment 2 and apartment 7. the informant told detective gambino that defendant had moved from apartment 6 one or two weeks earlier and was staying with mr. dunham in apartment 7. the detective knew that defendant was a fugitive wanted in florida for narcotics trafficking. after his arrest, defendant told the detective he rented the cherokee 8 apartment. and, while interrogating defendant, detective gambino observed text messages, in plain view on , one of them saying, i want a hundred vitamins and a gallon of water,which the detective knew to be slang for various types of narcotics. fair probability(kraft, supra, 23 cal.4th at p. 1041) that evidence of narcotics trafficking would be found at the cherokee apartment defendant told detective gambino he had rented. second, defendant was involved in narcotics transactions at the laurel avenue location, was the search warrant affidavit was executed september 30, 2009, and states that on september 2, 2009, the detective learned defendant was wanted in florida, and that his last known address was apartment 6 at the laurel avenue location. the affidavit further states the citizen informant about drug sales at the laurel avenue location; and that on september 27, the citizen informant contacted police to tell them defendant was seen in the courtyard of the laurel avenue location wearing a blond wig and a baseball cap. the detective then confirmed the florida warrant was active and set up the undercover surveillance operation to take defendant into custody. uld not furnish probable cause, citing hirata, supra, 175 cal.app.4th at page 1504 (82-day delay between a drug transaction and issuance of search warrant); people v. hulland (2003) 110 cal.app.4th 1646, 1648, 1652 (hulland) (52-day delay between controlled drug buy and issuance of search warrant; while there is no bright line ruledelays of more than four weeks are generally considered insufficient to demonstrate present probable cause); and hemler v. superior court (1975) 44 cal.app.3d 430, 432-433 (delay of 34 days between a controlled sale of cocaine and the s affidavit for a search warrant). the facts do not support claim, and neither do the authorities cited. the affidavit does not, as defendant suggests, state that the informant witnessed the drug 9 sales several weeks before september 2, 2009; it clearly states the information was [d]uring the last several weeks, citizen informant. further, the cases defendant cites involve specific drug transactions as the basis for the warrant, followed by inexplicable delays in seeking the warrant. this is not such a case. (see hulland, supra, 110 cal.app.4th [t]he question of staleness turns on the facts of each particular casei]f circumstances would justify a person of ordinary prudence to conclude that an activity had continued to the present time, then the passage of time will n].) third, we also reject the claim that the warrantless seizure purse was illegal under gant. police may search a vehicle s arrest only if the arrestee is within reaching distance of the passenger compartment at the time of the search or it is reasonable to believe the vehicle contains evidence of the offense of arrest. when these justifications are absent, a search s vehicle will be unreasonable unless police obtain a warrant or show that another exception to the warrant requirement applies.gant, supra, 556 u.s. at p. 351.) y overpowered the [detective] . . . .substantial evidence supported these findings. the court observed both detective gambino and defendant, and detective gambino testified that she retrieved the man [r]ight [k]ind of on hi since defendant was gant, at p. 51) and was unsecured (indeed, the detective believed him to be feigning illness), the search of the man purse without a warrant was reasonable. disposition the judgment is affirmed. grimes, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. rubin, j. 