filed 2/24/15 p. v. delacruz ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. corene delacruz, defendant and appellant. b251463 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa068137) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, harvey giss, judge. affirmed as modified. alex coolman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii and brendan sullivan, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 appellant corene delacruz was convicted of assault with a firearm and other offenses arising out of a shooting incident involving james calderon. she contends the judgment must be reversed due to instructional and sentencing error. we reject those challenges to the judgment, with the exception of her contention that the trial court miscalculated her presentence custody credits. accordingly, we modify the judgment to remedy that error, and affirm the judgment so modified. relevant procedural background on november 29, 2010, an information was filed, charging appellant in count 1 with first degree burglary (pen. code,  459); in count 2, with the attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder of james calderon (pen. code,  187, subd. (a), 664); in count 3, with making criminal threats (pen. code,  422); in count 4, with carrying an unregistered loaded handgun (pen. code  12031, subd. (a)(1)); in count 5, with assault with a firearm on calderon (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(2)); and in count 6, with the false imprisonment of calderon by violence (pen. code,  236).1 accompanying counts 1, 2, 3, 5, and 6 were gun use allegations ( 12022.5, subd. (a), 12022.53, subds. (b), (c), (d)); in addition, accompanying counts 2, 5, and 6 were allegations that appellant had inflicted great bodily injury upon calderon ( 12022.53, subd. (d), 12022.7, subd. (e)). appellant pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. a jury found appellant not guilty of attempted murder, and guilty of all the remaining charged offenses. in addition, the jury found true the special allegations regarding the latter charges. the trial court sentenced appellant to a cumulative term of 22 years and eight months, comprising the six-year upper term for burglary (count 1) and enhancements totaling 15 years for that offense ( 12022.5, subd. 3 (a), 12022.7, subd. (e)), plus consecutive terms of eight months and one year, respectively, for carrying an unregistered loaded handgun (count 4) and assault with a firearm (count 5). sentences regarding the remaining offenses were imposed and stayed ( 654). facts a. prosecution evidence in 1999, james calderon and appellant began what calderon characterized as [o]n relationship that lasted approximately 11 years, during which they sometimes lived together. in june 2010, calderon ended the relationship. according to calderon, after that break up, appellant repeatedly called and texted him in what he regarded as a harassing manner, and sometimes appeared uninvited at his residence. in early july 2010, he installed a surveillance camera with an audio and video recording system in his house. matthew villa testified that in june 2010, appellant asked to borrow his gun in order to go shooting with friends. according to villa, when he loaned the gun to appellant, the magazine clip had rounds in it but was detached from the gun, and the gun itself had no bullets in its chamber. upon loaning appellant the gun, villa instructed her regarding the safe use of the weapon, and told her never to point a loaded gun at a person. calderon testified that on july 4, 2010, at approximately 11:30 a.m., he was alone in his home when appellant appeared at his door. after a brief conversation, appellant went to her car, and calderon closed the front door. carrying a blanket door, and rang the door bell. when calderon opened the door and asked why 1 all further statutory citations are to the penal code. 4 appellant was there, she rushed toward him. calderon heard a loud noise, fell backward, and discovered wounds on his body near his stomach and hip. appellant entered the house, locked the door, and pointed a gun at calderon. want calderon got to his feet, saw that his wounds were bleeding, and said to appellant appellant then asked where cell phone was located. when calderon replied that it was in his room, she closed the door to that room, while continuing to aim her gun at him. calderon begged her to stop, told her that he did not want to die, and asked her to make a 911 call. she did not do so. later, after experiencing intense pain and difficulties in breathing, calderon . . . help although calderon agreed, calderon then became desperate. when appellant briefly looked away from him, he jumped toward her, punched her, and grabbed for the gun. during their struggle over the gun, its bullet magazine came loose. calderon seized the magazine and pocketed it. appellant, who retained the gun, made an apparent effort to shoot calderon, who thought that the gun might hold a bullet in its chamber. when appellant tried to aim the gun at calderon, he unlocked the front door to his residence and pushed her outside, where their struggle continued. calderon shoved appellant into some bushes, and fled back into his house. after locking the door, he called 911. later, he underwent major surgery to mend his injuries. the surveillance system is house recorded the encounter between appellant and calderon. although the surveillance camera viewed the 5 apprecordings from the surveillance system were played for the jury. gracie torres, a coworker of appellant, testified that on july 4, 2010, appellant arrived at her house in an apparent state of shock, with blood on her hands and nose. ahead. e punched her, the gun torres related the incident to her brother, who lived with her and was employed as a los angeles police department sergeant. s found a gun. investigating officers took possession of the gun, which was determined to belong to villa. b. defense evidence appellant testified as follows: after she and calderon broke up, she and falsely told him she intended to go shooting with friends. according to appellant, she was contemplating suicide. on july 4, 2010, prior to visiting calderon, she held the gun to her head, but was unable to pull the trigger. at approximately 11:15 a.m., she phoned calderon from her home to tell him she intended to visit him. she planned to return a gun. appellant denied intending to shoot calderon. she testified she loved calderon, and hoped they would have a conversation that would result in their reconciliation. calderon she was serious about hurting herself. after aresidence, he opened the front door and asked why she was there. when she said she wanted to return the blanket, he 6 cursed at her and shut the door. she went to her car, grabbed the blanket and the gun, the blanket in her left hand and the gun in her right hand. according to appellant, her finger was behind -- not on -- after appellant rang the doorbell, calderon cursed at her again and opened the door. when appellant stated she wanted to return the blanket, the pair began arguing. th appellant and following the gunshot, appellant was shocked and hysterical. according to appellant, repeatedly told calderon she never meant to hurt him, and that she had come to his residence to kill herself. as while walking closer to her, he offered to tell the police that his injuries were the result of a robbery not involving her. she did not trust him, and in order to scare him away, she threatened to shoot him again, and at one point held the gun to her own head. appellant denied intending to shoot calderon, and denied pointing the gun at him. when appellant realized she could flee through the open front door, she felt safe enough to lower the gun to her side. calderon then bit her shoulder, punched her repeatedly with his fists, and tried to seize the gun. during the ensuing struggle, appellant was fearful that calderon would use the gun to shoot her. 7 when appellant managed to open the front door, calderon pushed her outside and into some bushes. discussion a. instructions regarding the accident defense appellant contends the trial court, in instructing the jury regarding the defense of accident, limited the defense to the charges of burglary (count 1) and attempted murder (count 2), and improperly failed to inform the jury that the defense was also applicable to assault with a firearm (count 5). as explained below, she has failed to establish reversible error. 1. governing principles the defense of accident ordinarily is raised to rebut the mental element of a crime. (people v. anderson (2011) 51 cal.4th 989, 996 (anderson); people v. lara (1996) 44 cal.app.4th 102, 110 [the accident defense amounts to a claim that the defendant acted without forming the mental state necessary to make his or her actions a crime..) secti capable of committing crimes except those belonging to the following classes: [] . . . [] five -- persons who committed the act or made the omission charged through misfortune or by accident, when it appears that there was no evil design, the defense appears in calcrim no. 3404, which explains a defendant is not guilty of a charged crime if he or she acted (anderson, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 996.) the application of the defense to assault with a firearm thus hinges on the state of mind required for that crime. assault with a firearm is a general intent crime. (people v. williams (2001) 26 cal.4th 779, 782-784 (williams).) the nature of the requisite general intent arises from the relationship between the 8 offenses of assault and battery. (people v. colantuono (1994) 7 cal.4th 206, 214.) ssault . . . lies on a definitional . . . continuum of conduct that describes its essential relation to battery: an assault is an incipient or inchoate battery; a battery is a consummated assault. . . . the criminal law . . . independently sanctions the initiation of force or violence -- the assault -- because it directly and immediately culminates in injury -- the battery. [citation.] based on this apposition, each constitutes a discrete offense . . . . [citations (id. at pp. 216 -217.) the relationship between assault and battery determines the precise mental state required for assault. (williams, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 785.) our supreme court has explained: [a] defendant is only guilty of assault if he intends to commit an act which would be indictable [as a battery], if done, either from its own character or that of its natural and probable consequences. [citation.] logically, a defendant cannot have such an intent unless he actually knows those facts sufficient to establish that his act by its nature will probably and directly result in physical force being applied to another, i.e., a battery. (id. at pp. 787-788.) accordingly, to establish the requisite mental state for assault, the hawill probably and directly result in the application of physical force against (williams, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 790.) however, because assault requires neither a specific intent to injure nor an subjective awareness of the risk that a battery might occur, the existence of the requisite mental state does not hinge (id. at pp. 782-783, 788.) for example, a defendant who honestly believes that his act was not likely to result in a battery is still guilty of assault if a reasonable person, viewing the facts known to defendant, would find that the act would directly, 9 naturally and probably result in a battery. (id. at p. 788 & fn. 3.) nonetheless, mere recklessness or criminal negligence is still not enough [citation][] because a jury cannot find a defendant guilty of assault based on facts he should have known but did not know . . . . (williams, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 788, fn. omitted.) 2. underlying proceedings front door, her intent was not to injure him, but to demonstrate that she was serious about hurting herself. she further testified that the gun went off only because calderon grabbed her, causing them both to fall. appellant acknowledged that after calderon was injured, she threatened to shoot him again, but she denied that she intended to fire the gun, and maintained that she never pointed the gun at him. during a break in her counsel: do want to say this now. based on the testimony of your client, it seems that this case would generate . . . an accident instruction . . . .later. following the close of the presentation of evidence, the court proposed a packet of jury instructions that included a modified version of calcrim no. 3404 applicable to the charges of burglary and attempted murder. counsel neither objected nor requested that the instruction also encompass assault with a firearm. regarding assault with a firearm, the jury was instructed with calcrim [a] person acts with wrongful intent when he or she intentionally does a prohibited act . . . .y was instructed with calcrim no. 875, which stated that appellant committed the . . . firearm that by its nature would 10 of facts that would lead a reasonable person to realize that [her] act by its nature he or she does it willingly or on purpose. it is not required that he or she intend to break the law, hurt someone else, or gain any advantage in closing arguments, defense counsel maintained that appellant was not guilty of the charges against her because the fall that caused the gun to fire was gun. the truth is that this was a horrible, horrible, horrible incident, but it was an 3. analysis appellant contends the trial court erred in instructing the jury with a modified version of calcrim no. 3404 limited to burglary and attempted murder, arguing that the instruction effectively informed the jury that the defense of accident was inapplicable to assault with a firearm. we conclude that appellant has forfeited her contention for want of a request that the instruction encompass assault with a firearm, and that even were we to consider it, she has shown no prejudicial error. generally, when the jury otherwise instructions regarding the mental element required for a crimethe obligation of the trial court . . . to instruct on accident extend[s] no further than to provide an appropriate pinpoint instruction upon request by the defense (anderson, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 998, italics added, fn. omitted.) furthermore, if the trial court has no duty to instruct sua sponte regarding a matter, a defendant who fails to request instruction correct in law 11 (people v. valdez (2004) 32 cal.4th 73, 113, quoting people v. lang (1989) 49 cal.3d 991, 1024.) under these principles, appellantruction specifically directed at the charge of assault with a firearm forfeited the contention she raises on appeal. the crux of that contention is that calcrim no. 3404, as charges of burglary and attempted murder, but was incomplete, that is, did not encompass the charge of assault with a firearm. however, because the jury mental state required for assault with a firearm, appellant was obliged to request a pinpoint instruction regarding the application of the defense to that crime. (anderson, supra, 51 cal.4th at pp. 996-998.) accordingly, she has not preserved her contention of error on appeal. furthermore, we would conclude that appellant has shown no prejudicial error were we to address her contention. generally, the failure to give a requested pinpoint instruction on a defense theory is reviewed for prejudice in light of the test stated in people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836. (people v. earp (1999) 20 cal.4th 826, 886-887.) under that test, an error is reversible only if it is reasonably probable that a result more favorable to the [defendant] would have been reached in the absence of the error. (watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836.) because the accident defense is intended to rebut the mental state required for assault with a firearm, when the trial court fails to give requested instructions on the defense in relation to that offense, no prejudice is ordinarily demonstrated if the jury was otherwise adequately instructed regarding the mental state required for the offense. (people v. sandoval (1963) 222 cal.app.2d 348, 352-353.) here, the absence of an instruction on accident cannot be regarded as prejudicial, as the jury was adequately instructed regarding the state of mind 12 required for assault, and the record otherwise discloses ample evidence of an assault with a firearm involving no purportedly accidental conduct. generally, o point a loaded gun in a threatening manner at another (especially if accompanied by threats to shoot . . . ) constitutes an assault . . . .(people v. miceli (2002) 104 cal.app.4th 256, 269.) at trial, calderon testified that appellant appeared at his front door, shot him, and continued to point the gun at him. he further testified that when he asked her to make a 911 call because he feared he was dying, she refused. according to the transcript of the audio recording and , rather than assisting calderon, appellant threatened to shoot him again. there is thus abundant evidence that appellant committed an assault with a firearm after the purportedly accidental fall that caused calderon injuries. accordingly, it is not reasonably likely that appellant would have secured a more favorable outcome had the jury been instructed that the defense of accident was applicable to assault with a firearm. appellant contends the absence of a pertinent instruction was prejudicial, arguing that because the version of calcrim no. 3404 given to the jury omitted the count regarding assault with a firearm, the s central defense. we disagree. although defense counsel, in closing argument, relied on the purportedly accidental fall , her culpability for assault with a firearm did not hinge on the defense of accident. the bility for that offense was not whether the initial fall was accidental, or whether appellant fired her gun during the fall without the mental state required for assault with a firearm, but whether she acted with the requisite mental state at any time, that is, whether she engaged in any intentional conduct with knowledge of facts establishing the reasonable likelihood of a battery. as explained above, the instructions given accurately 13 informed the jury regarding that fundamental inquiry, and there was considerable evidence that after appellant engaged in an assault with a firearm. appellant also contends the prosecutor misinformed the jury regarding the incident. during closing arguments, in discussing the charge of assault with a firearm, the prosecutor stated: . . . .aintained that a manner that made it likely that [calderon] would be struck . . . .[i][assault with a firearm]. if you believe she did it [by] accident, if she used the gun in a manner that made it likely that [calderon] would be struck in view of the language italicized above, we discern no error in the rgument. as explained above (see pt. a.1., of discussion, ante), even when a defendant has the honest belief that she is not likely to apply force to if a reasonable person, viewing the facts known to defendant, would find that the act would directly, naturally and probably result in a battery (williams, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 788 & fn. 3.) the essence of th argument was that even if appellant had done -- that is, fired the gun -- by accident, she would be guilty of assault with a firearm if her prior the likelihood of injury to calderon. because the argument accurately reflects the 14 principles governing assault with a firearm, it was not improper. in sum, appellant has shown no reversible instructional error. b. imposition of upper term on burglary and accompanying enhancements appellant contends the trial court erred in imposing the upper term on the burglary count and the accompanying enhancements. she argues that the court improperly disregarded evidence that she had no prior criminal record and committed her crimes while suffering from suicidal depression. as explained below, we disagree. 1. governing principles when a sentence of imprisonment is imposed, the trial court has discretion to select the middle, upper or lower term on the basis of circumstances in aggravation or mitigation. (cal. rules of court, rule 4.420(b).) generally, [a] single factor in aggravation will support imposition of an upper term. [citation.] (people v. cruz (1995) 38 cal.app.4th 427, 433.) we review the trial courts findings concerning aggravating and mitigating factors for the presence of substantial evidence (people v. gragg (1989) 216 cal.app.3d 32, 46), and the trial courts balancing of aggravating and mitigating factors for abuse of discretion (people v. hetherington (1984) 154 cal.app.3d 1132, 1140-1141). 2. underlying proceedings in a report dated december 21, 2011, psychologist nancy kaser-boyd provided defense counsel with the results of an evaluation of appellant she had performed after the inception of the underlying proceedings. kaser-boyd opined that at the time of the alleged crimes, appellant was sufferin 15 calderon. according to kaser-boyd, as shortly before the commencement of trial, the court and counsel discussed kaser-report. the court stated that it had read the report, and asked defense counsel to describe his purposed uses of the report, including whether counsel intended to call kaser-. . . sentencing purposes if there is a conviction[.]defense counsel that he did not contemplate calling kaser-boyd as an expert witness at trial unless appellant herself testified. appellant testified that during her relationship with calderon, they both said moron, bitch, and whore; in addition, he described her as fat. following her breakup with calderon, she contemplated suicide. according to appellant, before the underlying incident, she sought therapy from dr. peter adler, and discussed her thoughts of suicide with him. in describing her mental state immediately prior to was depressed. following efense counsel did not call kaser-boyd as a witness. after the jury returned its verdicts, the prosecution submitted a sentencing memorandum requesting that the court select the burglary conviction as the principal count, and impose the upper term on that conviction and the accompanying enhancements. the prosecution maintained that there were several aggravating circumstances, namely, that the crime displayed planning and great violence (cal. rules of court, rules 4.421(a)(1) & (a)(8)), that appellant was armed (cal. rules of court, rule 4.421(a)(2)), and that the victim was particularly 16 vulnerable (cal. rules of court, rule 4.421(a)(3)). the prosecutor further argued rules of court, rule 4.423(b)(1)). the court to select the burglary conviction as the principal count, impose the middle term on that conviction, and impose middle or low terms on the related enhancements. appellant argued there were two mitigating factors: that she had no criminal record, and that she had suffered abuse from calderon while they were further stated that kaser-porated at the sentencing hearing, after describing the trial evidence supporting the the court stated that its tentative ruling was to impose the upper term on the burglary and its accompanying enhancements. in summarizing the relationship. [] [appellant] was of the opinion that [calderon] mistreated her 2 furthermore, in discussing charge of attempted murder, the court concluded the jury must have decided that the shooting was accidental, and remarkedt the jury was although the court accepted otherwise testimony regarding the remaining portions of the underlying incident. pointing to 2 we the statement reasonably reflects only a slip of the tongue regarding the identities of the victim and defendant. 17 the transcript of the audio recording from transpired is that this is a gruesome, bloodcurdling conversation between the shooting victim and a vengeful, narcissistic, self-centered defendant who callously refuses to get help and threatened to shoot him again and again in the head, this time out of fear of him telling the police what happened. the court thus found the aggravating circumstances identified by the prosecution. in discussing whether the crime showed planning, the court . . . she made it very clear from her testimony [that] she borrowed a gun from someone she knew . . . , and she brought mitigation, under [california rules of court, rule] 4.423[,] i found none whatsoever. stated that he offered kaser-xistence of a mitigating factor, namely, that appellant had suffered repeated abuse from calderon while they were cohabitants. the following colloquy then occurred: effect. counsel]: i understand. trial began. . . . [] i read it for a different reason . . . . i read it for purposes of making a determination as to how i should rule if you tried to get that into evidence, but there was no evidence presented to the jury -- [] . . . [] . . . . expand the record in the sentencing that she had a long history of depression . . . . [] she had said goodbye to her family. she was going to kill herself. [] 18 look . . . [at] sentencing [in] that context[. t]his did not happen in a vacuum; and yes, it was a horrible incident; and yes, the victim almost died; but it was situational and this is a woman who had never been in trouble before . . . . [] . . . [] i know the court feels that maybe the jury was in error on the attempted murder, but -- after defense counsel suggested the jury also believed that appellant intended to kill hersenever, in fact, made any attempt to commit suicide throughout the incident, even in response, defense counsel argued that appellant never shot calderon again after the initial shooting. the slowly ebbing away . . . .was going to tell on her. [] . . . [b]ecause . . . [ist] she could care shortly afterward, the court imposed sentence in accordance with its tentative ruling. 3. analysis n mitigation, . . . i found in imposing sentence. she argues there was undisputed evidence that she had no criminal record (cal. rules of court, rule 4.423(b)(1)). in addition, she argues there was considerable evidence -- including kaser- -- that she from a mental . . . 19 (cal. rules of court, rule 4.423(b)(2)), namely, a suicidal depression, and that she had suffered repeated abuse from calderon (cal. rules of court, rule 4.423(a)(9)).3 as explained below, we discern no error. generally, the trial court, in determining the appropriate term for a crime, isregarding circumstances in mitigation . . . . (people v. lamb (1988) 206 cal.app.3d 397, 401.) deemed to have been considered [the sentencing criteria stated in the rules] unless (cal. rules of court, rule 4.409.) m (see people v. sanders (1995 ) 11 cal.4th 475, 566; people v. melton (1988) 44 cal.3d 713, 770-771.) thus, in melton, a death penalty case, the defendant argued that the trial s established that the court misunderstood its duty to consider all mitigating evidence. (44 cal.3d at pp. 770-771.) our supreme court concluded that the remark conveyed the trial courtconclusion that the aggravating considerations outweighed all mitigating considerationsof its duties. (ibid.) we reach a similar conclusion here. the record discloses that the court examined the sentencing memorandum and response, assessed the evidence in the record, and found the aggravating circumstances identified by the prosecution. in so doing, the court expressly noted that appellant lacked a criminal record. 3 aside from kaser-described above (see pt. b.2., of discussion, ante), as well as testimony from torres. according to torres, after appellant and calderon broke up, appellant said she wanted to commit suicide. torres also stated that calderon left telephone messages for appellant containing abusive language. 20 the record further discloses that the court, in assessing mitigating circumstances, appears to have considered all the evidence, including kaser-. in summarizing the trial evidence, the court expressly noted claim that calderon had acted abusively toward her. although the court remarked of kaser-trial, it stated that it had read the report; furthermore, when defense counsel record in the sentencing [to the report was inadmissible.4 rather, the court rejected ith calderon constituted a mitigating factor. as the court observed, appellant never, in fact, tried to kill herself, and she otherwise engaged in conduct inconsistent with a plan to commit suicide; she told calderon she was afraid he would report her conduct to the police, demonstrating the record thus establishes that the court imposed high terms on the burglary count and its accompanying enhancements in light of all the evidence, 4 even had the court excluded the report, we would find no error. under rule 4.420(b) of the california rules of court, aggravating and mitigating circumstances are . . evidence on its own motion, we will affirm the ruling on any proper ground established by the record. (3 witkin, cal. evidence (4th ed. 2000) presentation at trial,  392, pp. 483-484.) generally, in expressing an opinion, an expert is permitted to rely on inadmissible people v. nelson (2012) 209 cal.app.4th 698, 707-711, quoting people v. dodd of stating reasons for an opinion bring before [the factfinder] incompetent hearsay people v. price (1991) 1 cal.4th 324, 416.) accordingly, the report was excludable for want of a threshold showing of reliability, as kaser-in large measure on a hearsay account from appellant of events during her relationship with calderon that appellant did not address during her testimony at trial. 21 including kaser-boecause the court acknowledged that appellant had no prior criminal record, its statement that it found no mitigating circumstances cannot reasonably be understood to deny the existence of all such circumstances. viewed in context, the remark appears intended to convey the the aggravating considerations outweighed any potential mitigating considerations. as the record contains evidence sufficient to support that conclusion c. custody credits appellant contends the trial court miscalculated her presentence custody credits. the trial court awarded her custody credits totaling 1148 days. she argues that she is entitled to credit for an additional two days of actual custody. corrected to reflect custody credits totaling 1150 days. 22 disposition the judgment is modified to reflect that appellant is entitled to custody credits totaling 1150 days. the trial court is directed to correct the sentencing minute order to reflect the modification stated above, to prepare an amended abstract of judgment reflecting that modification, and to forward the amended abstract to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports manella, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. collins, j. 