filed 8/18/14 p. v. emory ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. saune emory, defendant and appellant. b251821 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba395791) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, rand s. rubin, judge. affirmed. a. william bartz, jr., under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and jonathan j. kline, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury convicted defendant saune emory of first degree residential burglary. (pen. code,  459.)1 in a bifurcated proceeding, defendant admitted that he had suffered a prior conviction of a serious felony. ( 667, subd. (a)(1).) the trial court sentenced defendant to a total of 17 years in state prison, consisting of the high term of six years, doubled pursuant to the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)), plus five years pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1). before trial, the court dismissed (pursuant to  1385) a second count alleged against defendant of receiving stolen property ( 496, subd. (a)). in addition, prior to resting its case, the prosecution moved to dismiss a special allegation that defendant committed the burglary for the benefit of a criminal street gang. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(b).)2 on appeal, defendant contends that his conviction should be reversed because the prosecutor told the jury during her opening statement that it would hear evidence regarding defendantargues this prejudicially tainted the jury so that he did not receive a fair trial. he further asserts that the trial court erroneously instructed the jury regarding consciousness of guilt in a manner that improperly shifted the burden of proof. because we conclude that the and that the instructions were proper, we affirm. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 the trial court previously had denied the defense motion to bifurcate the gang allegation. 3 factual background i. prosecution evidence at 1:30 p.m. on march 12, 2012, kon sok chae received a phone call from his wife telling him their home security alarm had been activated. chae quickly went home. when he arrived, he heard the security alarm going off. he listened at the front door and heard men talking inside and rummaging sounds. he was afraid to enter, so he went to the back of the house and he heard someone chae started toward the front of the house and saw two young black males running out of his house. he could see that each of them was holding something as they ran but he could not see their faces. he tried to chase them but they were too fast. chae called the police. his son was with him, and his daughter and son-in-law arrived shortly thereafter. the four of them entered the house and saw the house in disarray. items were strewn all over the floor, and the beds were turned over. chae heard a phone vibrating in the living room and saw an unfamiliar phone on the floor. it apparently had fallen in a gap between the couch and a bay window that had its screen removed and was standing open. his daughter picked up the phone and showed it to him, and the screen indicated that it w he also found a glove he did not recognize. the family discovered that a camera worth about $6,000 was missing, as well as a laptop, various items of jewelry, and two watches neal noticed that the front window of the home was open and the window screen was on the ground nearby. she walked through the home and saw that it was in disarray. she noticed there was dirt leading from the ground floor to the upstairs. after obtaining a search warrant, detective quan viewed the phone and downloaded its contents. there were numerous self-portraits of defendant stored in the phone. he m4 defendant. the phone had recorded a missed call from james around the time of the burglary. in late march 2012, plainclothes officers conducted surveillance at angela on march 30, 2012, a member of the surveillance team, officer scott cook, stopped defendant and arrested him. officer cook searched defendant pursuant to defendant as officer brent hopkins escorted defendant from the police department to the jail, defendant he continued, fuck, bring it in and they look at it and they say, wow, this is something i can really work with, so my dna and my phone were at the scene, but officer hopkins was not prompting defendant to converse and did not want to continue the conversation. he simply said he was not the investigator and he did not know details about the case. nonetheless, defendant continued, saying, d to get myself one of . . . do my time like a man. in officer hopkins discussed the conversation with another officer and immediately went to speak to detective quan. ii. defense evidence at trial, defendant belonged to him and that he had taken pictures of himself with that phone. he testified that a few days before march 12, 2012, he had loaned his phone to a friend. when defendant saw the friend again, the friend did not return his phone but gave him a watch in its place. defendant planned to sell the watch to buy another cellular phone. he refused to divulge the name of the friend to whom he had loaned his phone. 5 defendant testified that on march 12, 2012, his mother had driven him to his around 11:00 a.m., where he spent the entire day and stayed overnight taking care of his son. his mother stayed with him until about 4:00 p.m. friend to whom he had loaned his phone. defendant s he testified that he initially lied and told the police he (a crackhead) because he did not want to be pressured to tell the police the name of his friend who had given him the watch. defendant said that when speaking to officer hopkins as the officer escorted him to jail, defendant he admitted to making all of the statements to which officer hopkins had testified, but he said he did so and could probably give him an answer. he said he would man up and do the time because he was not going to tell the police the name of his friend. defendant testified take anything. he admitted that he had been convicted of robbery in january 2011. discussion i. prosecutorial misconduct defendant contends that reversal of the judgment is required because during opening statement the prosecutor committed misconduct by telling the jury that it would hear evidence that the burglary was committed in association with and for the benefit of a criminal street gang, but then dismissed the gang allegation and failed to present any evidence in support of gang affiliation. we conclude that defendant forfeited the issue by failing to object in the trial court. defendant argues that to the extent his trial counsel failed to object or move for a mistrial on the basis of rendered ineffective assistance of counsel. even assuming without deciding that his 6 counsel was ineffective for failing to object, we conclude such failure did not result in prejudice given the overwhelming evidence of guilt, and therefore reversal of the judgment is not required. a. the relevant proceedings a gang expert, los angeles police officer jonathan miller, testified at the preliminary hearing held in early august 2012 that defendant was a member of the schoolyard crips gang and that he committed the burglary on behalf of and for the benefit of the gang. the magistrate found there was sufficient cause to believe the gang allegation was true and denied the defense motion to dismiss the allegation. accordingly, in the charging information filed in late august 2012, a special allegation pertaining to the residential burglary count was stated against defendant pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(b), that the offense was committed for the benefit of and in association with a criminal street gang. at trial, the trial court read the charges to the prospective jury, including the gang allegation, making clear that the prosecution had the burden of proving the allegations beyond a reasonable doubt. during voir dire, when the court asked if anyone would have difficulty being fair and impartial, two prospective jurors indicated they would have difficulty because they had had prior negative encounters with gang members. one said he had been victimized several times by gang members, and if someone were in a gang he would expect that person to be guilty. another juror said he had been the victim of gang violence on a daily basis for two years. the parties stipulated to excuse both prospective jurors. the prosecutor then said during her opening statement: [t]this case, and you are going to hear evidence about a gang allegation. you are going to hear evidence that mr. emory is a member of the schoolyard crips, which is a violent criminal street gang, and that one of the things the schoolyard crips has been doing, one of the trending crimes, is something called flocking. flocking is when young gang members go outside of their territory and commit residential burglaries in nicer, wealthier 7 easy way to get nice things that you either wear or you sell, because in gang culture reputation is everything. reputation and respect. and this is something that is recently trending with gangs. in particular, the schoolyard crips are known for flocking. they send the young gang members in to commit these burglaries, quick easy money, to fund evidence that this residential burglary, because of certain factors, is committed for the benefit of the schoolyard crip[s] criminal street gang. during trial, the trial court conducted an evidence code section 402 hearing to address the admissibility of evidence regarding douglas mucker, who was alleged to be a fellow gang member and the man with whom defendant committed the burglary.3 the prosecutor stated she intended to call gang expert officer miller to testify that he spoke with found at the chae home. officer miller would rely on that evidence to opine that the burglary was committed for the benefit of the schoolyard crips gang. the trial court indicatdna was found on the glove because that evidence had not been provided to the defense. in addition, the court held that officer miller could not testify to his conversation with the dna analyst because it was hearsay. the prosecutor stated that she would lose credibility with the jury if she did not produce evidence linking two gang members to the burglary, and proceeded to bring a motion to dismiss the gang allegation. defense counsel offered no objection when the prosecutor dismissed the gang allegation. nor did she bring a motion for mistrial at the close of the evidence. defendantcutorial 3 prosecutor initiated the section 402 motion to discuss the admissibility of her proffered gang evidence, and that this shows she knew her evidence was questionable. however, the record clearly demonstrates that defense counsel brought the section 402 motion at issue. 8 statement. the prosecution did not mention anything about gangs for the remainder of the allegation that the crime was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of or in association with a criminal street gang no longer needs to be decided in this case. [] do not speculate about or consider in any way why you no longer need to decide this evidence. in their opening statements and closing arguments, the attorneys discuss the b. analysis as defendant points out, where the prosecution asserts facts during opening statement knowing such facts cannot be proved, such statements of fact followed by no offer of proof constitute misconduct. (people v. purvis (1963) 60 cal.2d 323, 346, overruled on other grounds as stated in people v. morse (1964) 60 cal.2d 631, 642.) however, purvis is distinguishable because there the prosecutor knew when he made his opening statement that his assertions would not be supported by evidence. the prosecutor was therefore guilty of misconduct and bad faith, and reversal was required on that basis. in contrast here, while the prosecutor may not have reasonably believed that dna evidence (linking defendantrehearsay testimony, the trial court did not in proceeding as she did. indeed, the court this from the record, it appears that at the time she promised the jury that it would hear gang evidence, she fully intended to present such evidence. in any event, it is unnecessary for us to decide if the prosecutor committed misconduct here. even assuming without deciding that misconduct occurred, defendant has forfeited this argument for purposes of appeal by failing to object at trial, either when 9 the prosecutor made the opening statement or when the prosecutor moved to dismiss the allegation. defense counsel also did not move for a mistrial.4 claim for review on appeal, a defendant must make a timely objection and, unless an admonition would not have cured the harm, ask the trial court to admonish the jury to disregard the people v. martinez (2010) 47 cal.4th 911, 956.) the trial court here was given no opportunity to address the alleged misconduct and cure any potential harm. defendant contends that even if we conclude that he forfeited his claim of prosecutorial misconduct, the claim is still cognizable on appeal under the rubric of ineffective assistance of counsel mistrial. we conclude, however, that defendant has not demonstrated ineffective . . . under prevailing nal errors, the result of the proceeding would have been different. a reasonable probability is a probability (in re avena (1996) 12 cal.4th 694, 721; see strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687-694 (strickland); people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 1003.) however, the he result of the avena, supra, 4 allegations was equivalent to an objection to the prosecutor referring to the gang evidence in her opening statement. seeking bifurcation to avoid the jury hearing about gang affiliation when considering the charged primary crime is wholly distinct from objecting on the ground that a prosecutor made a statement in opening remarks to the jury that she could not support with evidence. 10 12 (in re clark (1993) 5 cal.4th 750, 766.) where a defendant fails to show prejudice, a reviewing court may reject a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel without reaching the issue of deficient performance. (strickland, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 697. see also people v. jacobs (2013) 220 cal.app.4th 67, 75-76.) we do so here. even if we were to find deficient, it is not reasonably probable that a different result would have been reached. considering the overwhelming evidence against defendanteven if improper, could not have contributed to the verdict and would not have been grounds for a mistrial. (see in re crew (2011) 52 cal.4th 126, 150.) defendant contends that the only evidence connecting him to the burglary was the fact his cell phone was found at the scene. not so. additional damning evidence defendantarrested. defendantited statfinding of guilt. a reasonable inference from his statements was that he knew the case against him was extremely strong because his cell phone was found at the scene, giving the district attorney ample evidence with which to charge him. in his statements to the officer, he initially seemed to be attempting to create a defense, all but conceding that he was present at the scene but perhaps not participating in the burglary. however, he then opined that he needed an extremely capable lawyer and vowed his explanations that a friend borrowed his cell phone and gave him the watch in its place, and that he was merely kidding around with officer hopkins, were predictably unconvincing to the jury in light of the strong evidence against him. in addition, by instructing the jury (1) to disregard the dismissed gang allegation and not speculate on its absence, and (2) that statements of counsel do not constitute evidence, the court in effect admonished the jury in a manner adequate to cure any harm from the remarks. statements that were not based on the evidence produced at trial. (people v. smith (2007) 11 40 cal.4th 483, 517.) thus, with or without the reference to gang involvement, the evidence was overwhelming that defendant was guilty of burglary. accordingly, it is exceedingly unlikely the trial court would have granted a mistrial if defense counsel had requested one. defendant successfully requested pro. per. status after the jury rendered its verdict and brought a motion for new trial based on the alleged prosecutorial misconduct, which motion the trial court denied. defendant has not shown there is a reasonable probability that, but for and , the result of the proceedings would have been different. ii. instruction regarding consciousness of guilt (calcrim no. 362) defendant further contends that the trial court committed error by instructing the jury using calcrim no. 362 regarding consciousness of guilt because the instruction improperly shifted the burden of proof and violated his state and federal constitutional rights to a jury trial and to due process. we disagree. a. the relevant proceedings defendant testified at trial that he loaned his cell phone to a friend, and a few days later the friend no longer had the cell phone but gave him a watch as a replacement for the cell phone. defendant refused to divulge the name of the friend to whom he loaned his cell phone and from whom he received the watch. defendant admitted that at the time of his arrest he told the investigating officer that he bought the watch from a crackhead for $20. defense counsel objected to the court giving calcrim no. 362 regarding consciousness of guilt and false statements. he argued that the bench notes for the instruction indicate that, pursuant to people v. rankin (1992) 9 cal.app.4th 430 (rankin), it is error to give the instruction where a defendant lied to protect an accomplice. counsel argued that defendant testified he made a false statement to the police because he did not want to give any names to get anyone in trouble. 12 the trial court disagreed with counsel regarding the state of the evidence. the court reasoned as follows: watch that he thought it was stolen. if wdefendant knew anything about this burglary at the time he was interviewed or that the watch was stolen, so why would he mrankin, which dealt with an accomplice, if i remember correctly, or accessory after the fact. weknow, i got it from a friend about he bought it for $20 from a crackhead or something that is really not a story to protect the friend. he didn a false or misleading statement before this trial relating to the charged crime, knowing the statement was false or intending to mislead, that conduct may show he was aware of his guilt of the crime and you may consider it in determining his guilt. [] if you conclude that the defendant made the statement, it is up to you to decide its meaning and importance. however, evidence that the defendant made such a statement cannot prove guilt by itself. b. analysis in rankin, supra, 9 cal.app.4th 430, the defendant was convicted of being an accessory after the fact to a robbery committed by william austin, also known as , and of acquiring a credit card that had been taken in the robbery. defendant used the card three days after the robbery. when questioned by a police officer shortly thereafter, he said that three people were involved in the use of the credit card: himself, 13 dwayne elliott, 5 (id. at p. 434.) later, he told the had not been involved, but said that he had lied to protect austin. (ibid.) at trial, the defendant explained that before his first statement implicating b., because the defendant was concerned for his family (rankin, supra, 9 cal.app.4th at pp. 434-435.) ,gave caljic no. 2.03, the predecessor to calcrim no. 362. the court of appeal held that the giving of the instruction was error. the court reasoned in part: his liability for using the cardhe never denied he knew the card was stolenand in any event does not reflect a consciousness of guilt. it had the same effect as if he falsely told [the police] he ate a chocolate rather than vanilla ice cream cone while at the mall. [] more crucially, however, caljic no. 2.03 should never be given unless it can be inferred that the defendant made the false statement for the purpose of deflecting suspicion from himself, as opposed to protecting someone else. [citation.] only under such circumstances does a false statement indicate a s own guilt, thus becoming admissible against himrankin, supra, 9 cal.app.4th at p. 436, fn. omitted.) as reasoned by the trial court, the instant case is distinguishable from rankin. in rankin, the court of appeal concluded e consciousness of guilt regarding the 5 the rankin questioned by detective janet wright on october 26, he . . . insisted there were three persons involved: himself, austin added.) it seems clear that the accessory after the fact), rather than austin, because rankin later admitted that he had said chilly b. was involved in order to protect austin. (ibid.) 14 credit card charge, because the defendant never denied that he knew the credit card he used was stolen. in that circumstance, falsely identifying an accomplice who did not exist in the acquisition of the card did not suggest that the defendant was attempting to deflect suspicion from himself. by contrast, here, defendant never suggested that he knew the watch was stolen. in that context, it could reasonably be inferred that by saying he obtained the watch from a crackhead, defendant sought not to protect an accomplice or an unnamed friend (whom he did not implicate in any crime), but to protect himself from being incriminated in the burglary. it can readily the false statement for the purpose of deflecting suspicion from himself, as opposed to protecting someone elserankin, supra, 9 cal.app.4th at p. 436.) scenario about he bought it for $20 from a crackhead or something that is really not a the fact that evidence of the statement was introduced by defendanttestimony does not affect the propriety of the instruction. defendant substantial evidence that the statement was made, and the evidence at trial was substantial evidence not only that the statement was false, but that defendant sought by the statement to deflect suspicion from himself concerning the burglary. beyond whether calcrim no. 362 was applicable under the factual scenario present here, defendant asserts that the instruction is constitutionally infirm because it defendant cites wardius v. oregon (1973) 412 u.s. 470, in which rules which provide nonreciprocal benefits to the state when the lack of reciprocity s guarantee of due process. (id. at p. 474, fn. 6.) defendant argues that instructions guilt are constitutionally infirm because they t of the charged offense without concurrent instructions pinpointing evidence which is indicative of his innocence. he points out that the california supreme court has forbidden 15 instructions which say that the lack of guilty conduct supports an acquittal. (see, e.g., people v. green (1980) 27 cal.3d 1, 38.) as stated by the supreme court, wimpartiality as between the people and the defendant in the matter of instructions, including the phraseology employed in (people v. moore (1954) 43 cal.2d 517, 526-527.) this does not mean, however, that the giving of calcrim no. 362 in the instant case was constitutionally infirm. our supreme court has squarely held that caljic no. 2.03 [the predecessor to calcrim no. 362] is not pinpoint instruction. (people v. arias (1996) 13 cal.4th 92, 143; people v. kelly (1992) 1 cal.4th 495, 531-532.) the court explained in kellycaljic no. 2.03 . . . does not merely pinpoint evidence the jury may consider. it tells the jury it may consider the evidence but it is not sufficient by itself to prove guilt. [citation.] defendant obviously does not quarrel with the emphasized language. if the court tells the jury that certain evidence is not alone sufficient to convict, it must necessarily inform the jury, either expressly or impliedly, that it may at least consider the evidence. . . . there was no error. (kelly, supra, 1 cal.4th at pp. 531-532.) [] although there are minor differences between caljic no. 2.03 and calcrim no. 362 . . . , none is sufficient to undermine our supreme courts approval of the language of these instructions. (people v. mcgowan (2008) 160 cal.app.4th 1099, 1103-1104, fn. omitted.) deliberately false statements by a defendant about matters materially related to his of guilt, for they suggest there is no honest explanation for incriminating circumstances. [citation.] moreover, permitting the jury to draw an inference of wrongdoing from a false statement is as much a traditional feature of the adversarial fact finding process as impeachment by prior inconsistent statements. (people v. williams (2000) 79 cal.app.4th 1157, 1167-1168.) from willful falsehood . . . is one supported by common sense, which many jurors are likely to indulge even without an instruction. in this case, such circumstantial evidence of consciousness of guilt . . . would certainly have been arguedproperlyby the 16 prosecutor even without the challenged instructions. to highlight this circumstantial evidence in the course of cautioning the jury against overreliance on it was not unfair to (people v. holloway (2004) 33 cal.4th 96, 142.) he cautionary nature of the instructions benefits the defense, admonishing the jury to circumspection regarding evidence that might otherwise be considered decisively inculpatory. (people v. jackson (1996) 13 cal.4th 1164, 1224; see also people v. kelly[, supra,] 1 cal.4th 495, 531people v. holloway, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 142.) thus, the instruction benefited defendant by informing the jurors it was up to them to decide the meaning and importance of any evidence of false statements and, no matter what the weight given to that evidence, the evidence could not be used by itself to prove guilt. in addition, the instructions impartiality was strengthened when considered in light of other instructions requiring the prosecution to prove each element of the crimes beyond a reasonable doubt. we conclude there was no instructional error here. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports edmon, j.* we concur: epstein, p. j. willhite, j. *judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 