filed 9/9/14 p. v. vasquez ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. freddy vasquez, defendant and appellant. b251618 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va128403) appeal from judgment of the los angeles superior court. thomas i. mcknew, judge. affirmed. liberty bell law group, michele h. kendall; law offices of christina diedoardo christina a. diedoardo for defendant and appellant. kamala harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews, supervising deputy attorney general, j. michael lehmann, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________ 2 on june 21, 2013, a jury found appellant freddy e. vasquez guilty of aggravated sexual assault of a child (count 1) (pen. code,  269, subd. (a)(1)), consisting of rape (pen. code,  261, subd. (a)(2)), and of a lewd act upon a child (count 2). (pen. code,  288, subd. (a).) it found true the special allegation that vasquez had substantial sexual conduct with the victim. (pen. code,  1203.066, subd. (a)(8).) the court sentenced vasquez to prison on count 1 for a term of 15 years to life, and stayed a term of six years on count 2. (pen. code,  654.)1 vasquez appeals, contending that the prosecution failed to meet its burden of proof on both counts, and that the trial court improperly questioned witnesses and obstructed his cross-examination. we affirm. background melissa m. met defendant vasquez (who she believed was born in 1976) at a party at the end of 1994. in october 1996, when vasquez was 19, they had a baby, m. m. was 16 years old and in the 12th grade at the time of the trial. vasquez lived in a room in his m. testified that she had lived on the same block and had been a close friend of the alleged victim, nina, until they were in middle school.2 one day, when m. and nina were around 5 or 6 years old, after playing parents house she and nina went to the side of the garage where the door room was open. when they were inside, vasquez (m.bathing suits, which they did. m. saw nina lying on the bed, naked, with vasquez lying on top of her. his shirt was on, but she did not recall whether he had taken his basketball shorts off, and she did not see their body movements. 1 further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 2 we refer to witnesses who share last names with other witnesses by their given names. 3 after a few minutes nina got up and they put on their bathing suits. they went outside, but nina did not want to play again, and went home. m.then called m. over to fix her bathing suit, which she had not put on correctly. vasquez leaned over and was she never spoke with nina about the incident. she last spoke with nina when she was in the eighth grade and nina was in the seventh grade. when she told these events to detective bailey, she described them as a recurring dream that never goes away. she both remembers these events, and sees them as a dream. she denied saying that she has a bad relationship with vasquez, or that she is mad at him. she denied telling detective bailey that her cousin andy was also in the garage with them, and does not recall him being there. she did not tell her mother about the incident because she did not want to talk about itshe just wanted to keep it to herself. nina, who was at the time of the trial 16 years old and going into the 11th grade, testified that when she was five or six years old she had been playing in the sprinklers with m. and others in her family, then was led to the backyard and into the garage at m.suggestion. m.andy, who was a few years older, closed the door, leaving nina and m. in the garage with vasquez. nina had not known vasquez before that time, though she knew he was m.andy was by the door. vasquez asked her to take off her bathing suit, then took it off for her. she recalled being laid down on a hard surface, then she felt a sharp penetrating pain in her vaginal area, and she started crying. when it stopped she got up and asked if she could go home. vasquez asked if she was okay, and gave her a popsicle from the refrigerator. she then ran home, crying. she does not recall whether she was or was not wearing anything. nina had never spoken with m., or anyone else, about the incident. but once when they were , m. had mentioned having a dream about being in her garage with her dad. nina changed the subject because she knew m. was referring to the incident, and she did not want to talk about it. the incident came to light 4 when one day she told her close friends about it, and they persuaded her to tell her parents. detective bailey testified that in his first interview of m. she had told him that everything was only a dream, but in the second interview she had said that it was a recurring dream that was more like a nightmare, which she eventually realized was actually real and not a dream. in the second interview she said that andy had been present during the incident. andy denied that any such incident had occurred. he was room with just m. and nina and vasquez. m. never mentioned any such thing to him. as the older kid in the neighborhood, if the incident had happened as nina reported it, he would have immediately said something. discussion 1. the evidence is sufficient to support the jimplied finding of duress. vasquez contends that his conviction of the crime of rape under section 269, subdivision (a)(1) is unsupported by sufficient evidence. the statute does not apply to all rapes of a child under the age of 14, he contends, but only to rapes that are considered particularly heinous because they are accomplished by force, violence, duress, menace, or fear of immediate and unlawful bodily injury ( 261, subd. (a)(2)), or by credible threat of retaliation ( 261, subd. (a)(6)). he argues that even assuming the evidence is sufficient to establish the crime of rape, in ltestimony the evidence is not sufficient to establish that it was accomplished with the degree of force or duress that is required to sustain a conviction under subdivision (a)(1) of section 269. section 269, subdivision (a)(1), provides (so far as relevant to this case) that the rape of a child under the age of 14, and seven or more years younger than the perpetrator, constitutes an aggravated sexual assault of a child. section 261, subdivision (a), defines 5 force, violence, duress, menace, or fear of immediate and unlawful bodily injury (subd. (a)(2)), or by credible threat of retaliation (subd. (a)(6)). in order to determine whether the evidence is sufficient to provide a substantial he evidence in the light most favorable to the judgment. (people v. earp (1999) 20 cal.4th 826, 887.) in support of the judgment we presume the existence of every fact that the jury could reasonably deduce from the evidence, whether direct or circumstantial. (people v. osband (1996) 13 cal.4th 622, 690; people v. ceja (1993) 4 cal.4th 1134, 1138.) our any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. young (1987) 190 cal.app.3d 248, 254.) if the verdict is supported by substantial evidence, we must accord due deference to the trier of fact and not substitute our own evaluation of a witnesss credibility for that of the fact-finder. (people v. samuel (1981) 29 cal.3d 489, 505.) in order to warrant our rejection of statements that have been believed by a trier of fact, or their falsity must be apparent without resorting to inferences or people v. mayberry (1975) 15 cal.3d 143, 150; see people v. smith (2011) 198 cal.app.4th 415, 427 [testimony, though internally inconsistent, supports determination that ed substantial sexual conduct].) duress, as used in this context, means the use of a direct or implied threat of force, violence, danger, hardship, or retribution sufficient to cause a reasonable personin this case a reasonable childto do or submit to something that she would not otherwise do or submit to, considering all the circumstances, including her age and her relationship to the defendant. (people v. soto (2011) 51 cal.4th 229, 246, fn. 9; people v. leal (2004) 33 cal.4th 999, 1004-1010.) the existence of duress is a question of fact to be determined people v. superior court (kneip) (1990) 219 cal.app.3d 235, 238.) 6 the evidence, construed most favorably to the verdicts, was that vasquez was the adult father of her close friend, an authority figure who was much larger and older than the six-year-old victim. vasquez had instructed nina to remove her bathing suit, and that he had himself removed it when she did not. he had laid her on a table or bed. he had penetrated her vagina, causing fear and pain. she had left the garage crying, but only the element of duress can be established even in the absence of any express threats or use of force. for example, in people v. pitmon (1985) 170 cal.app.3d 38, 51 (disapproved on another ground in people v. soto, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 248, fn. 12), the -year- in molestations by an adult at his school, holding that disparity in age and size between the victim and the adult authority figure supports inference of the vulnerability.3 in people v. veale (2008) 160 cal.app.4th 40, 47-50, the court held that duress included the six-year-youth, the disparity between the victim and the the defendant stepfatherin the family over victim. (see people v. schulz (1992) 2 cal.app.4th 999, 1005 [duress can arise from the relationship between the defendant and the victim and their relative ages and sizes].) the evidence in this case from which the jury could infer that nina submitted to olestation and rape through force and duress include his superior size, age, and position of authority; the presence in his room; his demands that she remove her bathing suit and his removal of the bathing suit when she did not; his direction to lie down and his placement of her on the table or bed when she did not; and the fact that she was restrained by the weight of his body on top of her as she lay naked under him during the penetration. (see people v. young (1987) 190 cal.app.3d 248, 257-258 [force in act 3 conduct committed by an adult on a child under the age of 14, independent proof that the lewd acpeople v. soto, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 248.) 7 of sexual intercourse with six-year-old victim is supported by evidence of positioning of the fact that nina submitted to molestation under duress is also evidenced by the fact that during the molestation she was crying from fear and pain, that she sought to leave but did not do so until she obtained his permission, and that she then ran home crying. if the jury believed and eventsas we must presume it did (people v. samuel, supra, 29 cal.3d at p. 505)it was justified in concluding that nina submitted to 4 2. the trial court did not abuse its discretion or prejudice the defendant in questioning witnesses. that the trial court abandoned its role as a neutral arbiter and actively assisted the prosecution, engaging in misconduct that requires reversal of his convictions. he cites a handful of incidents as examples of the trial cou alleged misconduct to support this contention. the first cited incident occurred after m. had testified on direct examination that nina was lying on her back on the bed, and vasquez was lying on top of her with his shirt on. vasquez charges that the trial court improperly interrupted to which m. answered that she had not. according to vasquez, the m. if she recalled when the incident occurred. direct examination actually began somewhat before the question that vasquez cites as an example of misconduct. the entire interruption is set forth below: 4 duress, we do not consider whether the evidence is or is not also sufficient to support findings of such factors as violence, menace, fear of bodily injury, or threat of retaliation. ( 261, subd. (a)(2) & (6).) 8 you said he had a green t-shirt on. did he have his pants on at the time? i did not see his pants. i know he was wearing basketball shorts ot. : the time; is that correct? yes. did you see that he had exposed himself in any way? all right. do you start with the year. do you recall the year in which this occurred? do you know whether or not it occurred -- the prosecutor then advised other witnesbut the trial court stated its intention to ask the question of the 0 and december 26, 2003, if you can remember? m. answered that she did not remember. the next incident cited by vasquez to support his contention of judicial bias and interference occurred after m. had testified on direct examination about having told the detective that she recalled the incident as a dream. on direct examination she testified: when you talked to detective bailey, did you mention something about a dream? yes. what did you say? as a dream. i re-dream all the time. what do you mean by that, like regularly? or tell us what happens. : just like the same thing that i had explained, i just re-dream it all the time. it just comes back, it never goes away. 9 on cross-examination, m. was asked about the differences between what she said she remembered, and what she had told the detective: now you remember it as being an incident, it is no longer just a dream? : when you spoke to the detective, why did you tell him it was just a dream then? : because it is a dream happened. : dream and you believed it happened, not that it did happen or that you remember? i do remember it. when counsel continued to probe the apparent discrepancy in her testimony, the trial court interrupted to ask whether m. understood question: you asked the question. do you understand the question? he is reading from a document wherein you had said to a detective that you dreamed it happened. but your testimony is, as i understand it, that not only have you had the dreams reoccur, but you recall it actually happened. is that your testimony? witness: yes. i still have no answer : after exploring a number of other subjects with m.in his cross-examination to the question of what she had told the detective: q: but it is actually you now remember it recurring -- 10 detective that. all right, [apparently referring to the prosecutor]sorry, next question. next question. that was a rhetorical comment by the m. (over the on that subject (and others) at some length, including about whether the incident was a dream, whether it actually occurred, and what she had and had not told the detective. the next incident cited nina during her direct examination by the prosecution, thfor the statement came after a number of pauses in the proceedings, apparently because nina was crying. after nina was asked whether something had happened to her when she was between four and seven years old and was with m., the court stopped to advise her: you just take your time. glass of water. like a glass of water? begin. okay? it might help if you just look at the prosecutor, mr. rubalcava. if you can, in your own mind, set aside that you have all these other people here in this courtroom. 11 forget, you can stop. take your time. take a deep breath. no one is going to rush you.and then the statement that vasquez contends exemplifies its biasi know this is very 5 -ing the incident: do you remember what he was wearing? what he was wearing. ? at no point during (or after) questions, or advice to the witnesses, and his counsel did not seek any admonition or further instruction to the jury.6 vasquez contends on appeal that the cited bias, and independently interrogat[ing] witnesses with the intent to elicit 5 the court interrupted a number of additional times to suggest that the prosecu 6 intended by anything i have done or said, by any questions that i may have asked or by anything i may have done, to intimate or suggest that you should find what you should find to be the facts in this case or that i believe or disbelieve any witness. i trust i have not done that. [] if anything i have done or said has seemed to so indicate, you will 17.30; people v. franklin (1976) 56 cal.app.3d 18, 24 [cautionary instruction of prejudice that may have 12 specific testimony helpful to the prosecution, while repeatedly and independently balking [blocking?] the efforts of defense counsel to elicit testimony helpful or exculpatory to the de assuming that did not waive the issue for appeal (see people v. anderson (1990) 52 cal.3d 453, 468), the issue nevertheless lacks merit. the record does not reveal that the trial court disparaged or treated the defendant or his counsel unfairly, or that it obstructed the defense examination of prosecution witnesses. vasquez has identified no discrepancies or inconsistencies in the that it was unable to fully explore and expose to the jury due to the interruptions and rulings. (people v. santana (2000) 80 cal.app.4th 1194, 1206; people v. fudge (1994) 7 cal.4th 1075, 1107.) the law expressly empowers the trial court to examine witnesses, and permits the defendant to interpose any appropriate objections to any questions posed by the court. (evid. code,  775; people v. cook (2006) 39 cal.4th 566, 597 [trial court has discretion and duty to question witness to elicit material facts or to clarify unclear testimony].) the m. whether she had seen vasquez expose[ ] himself in any way, of discretion. it also was wholly unobjectionable, and in light of m., apparently was inquiry whether m. could recall when the incident had occurred. the court was equally justified in interposing its own (unstated and implied) objection when m. was asked the compound question about what she had or had not told then to the witness, precisely consistent with the recordthat notes stated that she had told him that she dreamed the incident, her testimony seemed to actually happened to which the court appropriately is that your testimony? 13 later, when counsel returned in his cross-examination to the subject of discrepancies in m.of the incident, the court summarized its understanding of her testimony in a manner that might have suggested some impatience with the repetition of questions on the subjecta rhetorical comment by the court, it went on to permit great leeway in reexamining m. on the subject at some length, over repeated objections. sought no admonition or instruction to the jury concerning it, beyond that in caljic no. 17.30. (people v. franklin, supra, 56 cal.app.3d at p. 24 [cautionary instruction of caljic no. have remotely occurred].) vasquez has suggested no way in which his counsel was impeded from fully examining the witness on that subject, and we see no way in which the incident could have impeded his defense or otherwise prejudiced we dismiss as patently untenable contention that the court acted improperly by saying to the witness, for conduct was in no way inappropriate. the record reflects that the 16-year-old witness was visibly upset and crying, testifying in a public courtroom about the sexual abuse she claimed to have experienced, and to have harbored for a decademost of her lifeas a personal secret even from her closest friends and family. time to collect her emotions, and perhaps a glass of water, before proceeding with her testimony about the difficult and upsetting subject indicates only appropriate recognition of obvious distress. sion were in no sense inappropriate, for they neither expressed nor implied its acceptance of the truth of her testimony. far from reflecting bias or misconduct, to the witness were an appropriate performance of its role as representative of the s 14 system of justice, and obligation to treat all who appear before it with dignity and respect.7 and the court later instructed the jury to disregard anything it might believe was an indication of dispelling any possibility of prejudice. discretiona possibility we reject in this casean admonition to disregard his conduct can be deemed curative, and it must be assumed that the jury was possessed of ordinary intelligence and followed such instructions. (people v. franklin, supra, 56 cal.app.3d at p. 24 [cautionary instruction of caljic no. sufficient to protect the defendant from any prejudice that may have remotely occurred].) the final incident that vasquez cites equally fails to demonstrate any bias or misconduct by the court, or prejudice to the defendant. m. had testified her father had been wearing a green t-shirt. when asked the color of his shirt, nina said, i want to say . . . .appropriate admonition not to speculate, she confirmed that she did n this incident could not have more plainly exposed to the jury the discrepancy between m., and it re-emphasized to clearly recall that aspect of the incident. vasquez has cited it as misconduct, but he has not suggested how it could have prejudiced his defense. we conclude that this incident reflects neither misconduct nor prejudice. viewed separately or together, the cited incidents reveal no abuse of discretion or misconduct and no indication of bias or prejudice. 7 court held to be improper (though harmless error) in people v. banks (aug. 14, 2014, s080477) ___ cal.4th ___. in that case the trial judge told the witness happened to you, apparently referring to the molestation she claimed to have suffered at the trial judge expressed empathy for nindiscomfort in testifying, offering to wait until she stopped crying and to provide her with a glass of water; but he did not vouch for her credibility or indicate his belief in the truth of her testimony . faced with a crying witness, it is not clear what else the court could have done or said. 15 3. the evidence fully supports the count 2 verdict. section 288, subdivision (a), makes unlawful the commission of any lewd act on a child under the age of 14 with the intent of arousing lust, passions, or sexual desires. the special circumstance that the jury found true required proof that vasquez engaged in substantial sexual conduct with the victim, who was under 14, consisting of penetration of her vagina or rectum with his penis or a foreign object. ( 1203.066, subds. (a), (b).) n the substantial conflicts between the testimony of m. no reasonable jury could find him guilty of a lewd act on a child ( 288), or of the special circumstance of substantial sexual conduct with a person under the age of 14. ( 1203.066.) to the contrary, the evidence recounted above, if believed by the jury, amply supports the challenged findings. as we have indicated above, the jury was entitled to credit the prosecevidence, notwithstanding any discrepancies and conflicts. (people v. mayberry, supra, 15 cal.3d at p. 150 [testimony that has been believed by trier of fact can be rejected only or their falsity must be people v. smith, supra, 198 cal.app.4th 415 [internally inconsistent testimony is sufficient to support jury al conduct]; people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181 [testimony of a single witness is sufficient].) on this basis we reject challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence supporting his count 2 conviction. 16 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. chaney, acting p. j. i concur: miller, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. johnson, j., concurring. i concur in the result, and most of the analysis, of the majority decision. i write separately for the purpose of expressing my concern that the trial courts statement to the i know this is very painful for youwas error, but harmless error in light of the trial courts admonition to the jury to disregard anything it might believe was an indication of the judgews. while i do not believe that the court harbored bias or intended to show bias in its empathetic statement to the 16-year-old rape victim, it is clear that the statement potentially could have conveyed the wrong message to the jury, particularly under the circumstances of this case that involve an event occurring 11 years earlier. thus, i strongly disagree with the majoritys dismissal of appellant vasquezs contention that the courts statement was improper. at the very least, the jury could have reasonably understood to mean that the court believed that the victim was sincere and honest in her testimony. accordingly, the court effectively vouched for the victim/witness in a case where she was testifying about a rape which had allegedly occurred some years ago. further, as the majority notes, the victim herself reported that for a long time she believed her rape recollection was only a recurring nightmare rather than an actual event. defendants nephew, who was present at the alleged crime scene, denied that any rape occurred. thus, the trial courts vouching for the rape victim was not insignificant. recently, in people v. banks (aug. 14, 2014, s080477) ___ cal.4th ___ [2014 cal. lexis 5468], the california supreme court addressed a trial courts similar statements to an alleged rape victim during the death penalty phase of a murder case, and expressly found such statements inappropriate because they improperly vouched for the in banks, d]efendants ex-girlfriend bridget r., testified that defendant brutally assaulted her, raped her in front of her three-year-old daughter, and threatened to kill her family if she testified against him. at the end of her testimony, the court told bridget r., [m]aam, im sorry this happened to you and i want to thank you 2 for coming back down. a few minutes later, after brief testimony by another witness, the court told the jury that its statement to bridget r. had been inappropriate. . . . [] you will have to determine whether the incident described occurred, not me. [] i want you to do the following: [] disregard my comments to her that the court was sorry what happened. [] you decide what happened. [] my comments mean zero, absolutely zero, when it came to that. [] . . . [] it is improper and inappropriate. (id. at [pp. 173174].) assessing the trial courts conduct for bias, the supreme court recognized the rule that a trial judge may not vouch for the credibility of a witness. however, the banks lthough it is understandable that the judge would offer kind words to a sympathetic witness, the courts comments improperly vouched for bridget r. by suggesting that her testimony was true. but this exchange does not demonstrate that the court was biased against defendant. rather, it is clear that the court experienced a momentary lapse of judgment as a result of bridget r.s moving testimony. the court quickly corrected its error and properly instructed that jury that its comments were improper and inappropriate. the courts prompt and sincere attempt to rectify its error makes clear that its improper comments were not motivated by, or evidence of, judicial bias. (people v. banks, supra, ___ cal.4th ___ [2014 cal. lexis 5468, 174].) while the judge in the case at bar was not so quick to recognize the potential prejudice of his empathetic comment, there is no basis to conclude that his comment, like that in people v. banks, supra, ___ cal.4th ___, stemmed from anything other than a desire to put the witness at ease. there is no basis to conclude that the judges improper comment was motivated by, or was evidence of, bias. however, the most prudent course for the court when confronted with a distraught witness would be to say nothing showing did not simply offer the witness a tissue or just say that it would wait for the witness to compose herself. banks is distinguishable because the judge 3 discomfort in testifying is precisely what creates the implication that the defendant did it and hence constitutes vouching for the witness. nonetheless, although not as specific as the admonition in people v. banks, supra, ___ cal.4th ___, the instant courts admonition to the jury to disregard anything that it might believe was indicative of his personal views was adequate to avert the potential harm. the error was harmless. reversal is not in order. not to be published. johnson, j. 