filed 3/30/15 p. v. burnes ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rule s of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. pierce langston burnes, defendant and appellant. b251900 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma059304) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, lisa mangay chung, judge. affirmed. linn davis, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii and brendan sullivan, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________ 2 introduction pierce burnes was convicted by a jury of two counts of aggravated kidnapping (pen. code,1  209, subd. (b)(1)) and three counts of second degree robbery ( 211) in connection with the robbery of an at&t store on april 11, 2013 and the robbery of a radio shack store on march 30, 2013. burnes was also convicted of a separate attempted robbery ( 211, 664) on april 11, 2013. the court found true the allegation that burnes had a prior conviction for a violent or serious felo 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)) and one prior serious felony conviction within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (a)(1). the court sentenced burnes to an aggregate state prison term of 28 years to life plus a determinate term of 26 years and four months. burnes only challenges his kidnapping convictions on appeal. at issue is whether the acts by burnes at each store after taking the merchandise to move his victim to a location in the store not in the public view, then tying up the victim, the [crime of] robbery, burnes contends that there was insufficient evidence of asportation because all of the forced movement was we find that movement of the victims in each robbery to locations not in the public view where he tied them up decreased the likelihood the victims would be discovered and increased the psychological harm to them, thus satisfying the asportation element of kidnapping as set forth by our supreme court in people v. dominguez (2006) 39 cal.4th 1141, 1152 (dominguez). we affirm. 1 all statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 factual and procedural background a. the information burnes was charged in an amended information with co-defendant donte ray with five counts relating to the april 11, 2013 robbery of an at&t store, including kidnapping to commit robbery of ilene solaiza ( 209, subd. (b)(1); count 1), second degree robbery of phillip reid ( 211; count 2), second degree robbery of solaiza ( 211; count 3), false imprisonment by violence of reid ( 236; count 4), and false imprisonment by violence of solaiza, as a lesser included offense of count 1 ( 236; count 5). burnes was also charged with the attempted second degree robbery of taryn owsley for a separate robbery on the same date ( 211, 664; count 6). the information also charged burnes with three counts relating to the march 30, 2013 robbery of a radio shack store, including kidnapping to commit robbery of stephanie contreras ( 209, subd. (b)(1); count 7), second degree robbery of contreras ( 211; count 8), and false imprisonment by violence of contreras, as a lesser included offense of count 7 ( 236; count 9). the information alleged as to counts 1 through 9 that burnes had a 2005 serious or violent felony conviction for rape under the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (a)(1), (b)-(i), 1170.12) and, as to the same prior conviction, with respect to counts 1 through 8, he had a conviction of a serious felony under section 667, subdivision (a)(1), and to counts 1 through 9 he had served a prior state prison term under section 667.5, subdivision (b). on july 8, 2013 of the two defendants, and ordered that the trial as to burnes would proceed to trial first. the jury trial commenced as to burnes on july 10, 2013. 4 b. trial testimony 1. the prosecutio a. april 11, 2013 at&t robbery2 on april 11, 2013 solaiza was the manager of an at&t store on commerce center drive in lancaster. solaiza and her co-worker reid arrived at 9:45 a.m. to prepare the store for its 10:00 a.m. opening. about 15 minutes after solaiza opened the store, burnes and ray entered the store together. solaiza had never seen them before. on their heads with baseball caps and sunglasses, and had black satchels across their chests. burnes walked to the corner of the store where the iphones were located, and asked solaiza where the otterbox accessories were located. as solaiza started walking toward the otterbox display, burnes pulled out a gun . he told real gun.3 solaiza complied and walked toward the back, approximately 10 to 12 feet away. at the time, reid was in the storage room in the back doing inventory. reid heard solaiza scream. when solaiza reached the storage room,4 burnes told her to lie down on the floor, which she did, facing down. one of the men also told reid to get down on the floor, face down. ray pulled burnes asked solaiza for the store keys, and solaiza directed him to the keys ray had just taken. burnes left, and solaiza watched him on the security camera video lock the front door and return. burnes then asked where the iphones and ipads were. solaiza told him they 2 we discuss the at&t store robbery first because the evidence was presented at trial before the radio shack robbery and the parties likewise address it first. 3 as we discuss below, the gun was a replica firearm bb gun, but looked like a real gun. 4 mony to the room as the storage room. 5 were in the safe. burnes ordered solaiza to get up and open the safe. she opened the right side of the safe, then she lay down on the floor, face down. solaiza could see burnes scooping up the phones from the safe and putting them into his black satchel. burnes next asked where the samsung galaxy phones were located, and solaiza told him they were on the left side of the safe. she got up again and unlocked the left side of the safe, then again lay down on the floor in the storage room. burnes also took about $500 in cash in the safe from the prior day. he sales floor. burnes directed solaiza to the cash drawer, holding a gun to her back. the cash drawer was behind the second desk on the sales floor. solaiza opened the drawer, and burnes took all the cash. the cash was the last thing burnes took from the store. burnes then ordered solaiza back to the storage room, and told her to lie down on the ground.5 burnes proceeded to tie solaiza up with cables. burnes and ray packed up the remaining merchandise they had taken into the satchels. at this point, solaiza was afraid, solaiza still believed burnes had a real gun, and did not know what was going to happen to her once she was tied up. burnes and ray then left the storage room and closed the door behind them. reid jumped up and pushed the silent panic alarm on the safe. about 15 to 30 seconds later, burnes and ray returned. when they returned, reid was standing at the safe, and burnes asked reid what he was doing. reid said that he was just helping solaiza. burnes pushed reid down on the floor and stepped on his back. belt and tied him up with the belt and cables. solaiza told them that there was a side door they could use to leave. the side door had a chime that went off when it was opened. it was locked from the inside so burnes 5 solaiza testified that burnes ordered her to the cash drawer at gunpoint, but did not recall whether he held a gun as he ordered her back to the storage room. she did recall though that he told her to go back to the storage room and then ordered her to get back on the ground. 6 needed to use the store key to unlock it. burnes unlocked the door, and he and ray left. solaiza and reid waited about 30 to 45 seconds after burnes and ray left, then both proceeded to the front of the store. reid ripped off the bindings on his hands and walked to the window at the front of the store. reid looked out the front window and saw burnes and ray attempting to steal same time, solaiza dialed 911 and told the operator that she had just been robbed at gunpoint by two men who left on foot toward the international mall. solaiza testified that reid stayed in the storage room during the entire robbery. when describing the store, solaiza said that behind the sales floor was a storage room with the safe. behind the storage room was anot,like a business office. according to solaiza, the business office has windows that face 10th street west, which is a busy street. the storage room had windows but they were painted with black paint so no one could see through them. the storage room and the bathroom were the only rooms with no windows to look out. b. april 11, 2013 attempted robbery of owsley at around 10:15 a.m., owsley went to the at&t store to pay her phone bill, but the door was locked. she was waiting for the store to open when she saw two men come from around the corner of the building. burnes approached her, wearing a hat, sunglasses, dark clothing, and gloves. burnes responded, when burnes . . . ng to do. burnes then walked over to ray to talk to him. at that point, owsley took out her car keys and walked toward her car, got in, and locked the doors. burnes came over to the car and banged on her trunk with both hands. owsley started her car, put it in reverse, with the car, and burnes jumped to the side. burnes ran to of the car and tried to open the car doors and banged on the car 7 windows. burnes told owsley to get out of the car. instead, owsley bac as owsley was driving, she called 911 and reported an attempted carjacking and that a man tried to take her phone. owsley told the operator that one of the men had a yellow and black cap and sunglasses. this man was approximately 5 feet 8 inches, and maybe 160 pounds. the second man was taller and bigger and appeared to be wearing black. both men had duffle bags. owsley said she saw them flee west toward the park. c. investigation of the april 11, 2013 robberies the investigation of the at&t robbery. he responded to a radio call regarding the at&t robbery and drove to the parking lot between the at&t store and the international mall, then drove south. when he reached the park-and-ride lot he saw two people running, who were later identified as burnes and ray. donnel chased burnes by car, then got out and chased him on foot. donnel and another deputy caught up with burnes and detained him. calls on april 11, 2013 at around 10:45 a.m., reporting an attempted carjacking and robbery of a store. parisi drove to the park-and-ride, where one suspect was already detained and the second one was running around in circles in the parking lot, trying to find a way out. the second suspect (ray) was also detained. deputy sheriffs transported solaiza, reid and owsley separately to the park-and-ride lot to identify burnes and ray. solaiza testified that she was taken there about 30 minutes after the robbery. solshoes looked familiar but they had different clothes on. reid testified that he was taken to identify the suspects about 15 to 20 minutes after the robbery. reid positively identified the two men shown to him. he testified that they had on the same shoes but different clothes. owsley also identified the two men as 8 the men who attempted to take her phone and car, saying she was 100 percent sure it was the same men although they were wearing different clothes. two teams of officers proceeded to search for the property. parisi learned that two duffle bags had been found under an older motor home on 1101 auto mall drive, about one-eighth of a mile from the at&t store. parisi drove to the location to look at the duffle bags. one duffle bag contained at&t iphones and ipads, gloves, and a bb gun that was a plastic. the second duffle bag contained approximately six samsung, nokia and other cell phones, about 30 cell phone cases, many otterbox cases and a second replica firearm bb gun. parisi also recovered items from an area near where burnes and ray were detained, including a black and red baseball cap, a dark gray zip-up sweatshirt, two sets of gloves, and a gray shirt. another deputy found a blue and yellow baseball cap under a nearby vehicle. burnes was later interviewed and admitted to committing the at&t store robbery and attempted robbery of owsley. as part of his investigation, donnel measured distances in the at&t store. the distance from the front desk on the sales floor to the safe in the storage room was 35 feet. the distance from the rear desk with the cash drawer to the center of the storage room was 20 feet, and the distance from the rear desk to the safe in the storage room was 27 feet. d. march 30, 2013 radio shack robbery on march 30, 2013 contreras was working as the assistant manager at a radio shack store on palmdale boulevard in the city of palmdale. she arrived at the store around 8:40 a.m. to open the store. as she entered the store, she saw burnes sitting at the side of the building wearing a sweatshirt with gray stripes and carrying a backpack. contreras went inside and locked the front door behind her. as part of her 9 opening, contreras unlocked the shutters over the front windows and lifted them up. once she did that, she could see out the front window. contreras described the layout of the store. the sales floor had a door to a hallway that led to the stockroom where they kept their high-end merchandise. the hallway also had a door that exited to palmdale boulevard. inside the stockroom were locked cages with merchandise. the cage on the left had laptops, expensive headphones and other items. the cage on the right had cell phones. contreras unlocked the front door to open the store around 9:00 a.m. a few minutes later, contreras saw the man from outside approach the front door. she assumed that burnes was the first customer of the day. she was getting ready to greet him when he opened the door fast and pulled out a black gun that he pointed at contreras. it looked burnes told contreras to lock the front door. contreras said the keys were in the back, and burnes followed her to the back stockroom to get them. burnes then walked with contreras to the front of the store and contreras locked the door. burnes also had contreras pull down all the shutters, including the one in front of the door. once the shutters were down, no one could see inside the store. burnes said he wanted iphones and ipads, and contreras said they were in the back. burnes said to hurry up, and he walked her to the back stockroom. burnes made contreras unlock the cage with the iphones. he then ordered her to get on her knees and face the corner so she could not see him. contreras could not see anything but could hear things being moved around in the cage. contreras stayed on her knees for two to three minutes, then burnes said he wanted money and asked if she had a safe. contreras responded that he contreras walked back to the sales floor with burnes, unlocked the register, and removed about $330 in cash. she put the money in a bag burnes gave her. burnes next -end headphone. contreras said they were in the back. contreras testified that burnes made me walk back over there to the 10 he followed her.6 contreras unlocked the second cage. the set of headphones was the last item burnes took from the store. contreras testified that burnes get back down on the floor and look away from him, which she did. contreras sat on the floor for one to two minutes. she could hear things moving in the cages. next, burnes asked if the exit door in the hallway had an alarm. contreras responded that the door did not have an alarm but made a sound when it opened. burnes told her to open the door slowly, which she did. the door made a little noise burnes told her to close it. burnes then had contreras turn around and put her hands behind her back. burnes tied one of her arms with a zip tie ause she was the only witness. contreras told burnes that the zip tie was hurting her, and he grabbed her arm and looked at it. burneburnes followed contreras to the stockroom to get scissors. contreras then cut the zip tie. burnes next ordered contreras back to the hallway where he had her put her hands behind her back. burnes tied both her hands with zip ties. burnes then opened the door to the sales room, took her into the room, and he told [her] not to call anyone for 10 minutes.contreras heard burnes go out the back door when she heard the beep and the door slam. contreras waited about a minute, got up slowly and opened the back door to see if burnes was there. when she did not see him, she freed one of her hands, shut the back door, ran into the stockroom, and hit all the panic alarms. contreras then ran to the front of the store to call 911. 6 contreras did not state whether burnes continued to point a gun at her as he e store. however, she testified that burnes pointed a gun at her when he first entered the store, and then continued to order her around the store to collect merchandise. 11 contreras told the 911 operator that the robber was wearing a black and gray sweater with stripes, with a hoodie. she said he wore black glasses, black gloves, black pants, black leather shoes with gray laces. he weighed around 180 pounds and was about 5 feet and 8 or 9 inches. he said someone was waiting for him outside. there were four cameras in the store that captured the robbery. portions of the videotape were played for the jury. e. investigation of the march 30, 2013 robbery detective michael thompson investigated the radio shack robbery. about a week after the robbery, thompson showed contreras a six-pack of photographs. contreras said that she was 75 to 80 percent sure the robber was the person in position number 5, which was a photograph of the detective returned with another six-pack, and contreras said she did not recognize anyone in the six-pack. the second six-pack contained a photograph of ray. a week later, thompson returned with another six-pack. this time contreras said she was 85 percent sure based on his jaw line and features on his face that the robber was number 2, which was burnes. at the preliminary hearing, contreras said she was 100 percent sure it was burnes. thompson later obtained a recovered from ba pair of sweatpants similar to those worn by the suspect in the video, along with a hooded gray sweatshirt with stripes and a backpack that contained zip ties. when burnes was interviewed by the police, he said that he was hired as a lookout. he said he was not inside the store, but was across the street at the bus stop. 2. defense motion to dismiss the kidnapping charges under section 1118.1 on the ground that the prosecution had not made 12 a prima facie showing of asportation to prove kidnapping for robbery. the court denied the motion, finding that in both the at&t and radio shack robberies the victims were moved multiple times and that there was sufficient evidence for the case to go to the jury. 3. the defense case the defendant did not testify and the defense did not present any witnesses. c. verdicts and sentencing the jury found burnes guilty on four counts related to the april 11, 2013 at&t robbery, including count 1 for kidnapping to commit robbery of solaiza ( 209, subd. (b)(1)), count 2 for the second degree robbery of reid ( 211), count 3 for the second degree robbery of solaiza ( 211), and count 4 for false imprisonment by violence of reid ( 236). the jury also convicted burnes on count 6 for the attempted second degree robbery of owsley on the same date ( 211, 664). the jury convicted burnes of two counts related to the march 30, 2013 radio shack robbery, including count 7 for kidnapping to commit robbery of contreras ( 209, subd. (b)(1)) and count 8 for the second degree robbery of contreras ( 211). the jury did not return verdicts for false imprisonment by violence of solaiza ( 236; count 5) and false imprisonment by violence of contreras ( 236; count 9) because they were lesser included offenses of counts 1 and 7 for kidnapping, respectively. burnes waived his right to a jury trial as to the alleged prior conviction. the court found true the allegation that burnes had a prior conviction for a violent or serious felony under the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)), one prior serious felony conviction within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (a)(1), and one prior prison term within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). the court denied romero7 motion to strike the prior conviction. 7 people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497. 13 on counts 1 and 7, for the kidnapping for robbery of solaiza and contreras, the court imposed on each count an indeterminate sentence of seven years to life, doubled under the three strikes law, for two terms of 14 years to life to run consecutively. the court also imposed a five-year enhancement under section 667, subdivision (a)(1), on the court imposed a total indeterminate sentence of 28 years to life plus 10 years. on counts 3 and 8 for the second degree robbery of solaiza and contreras, respectively, the court imposed the upper term of five years doubled on each count, but stayed the sentence pursuant to section 654 as punishment for the same conduct alleged in counts 1 and 7. on the determinate counts, the court designated count 2 for second degree robbery of reid as the principal term. on count 2, the court imposed the upper term of five years, doubled under the three strikes law, to 10 years. the court sentenced burnes on count 6 for the attempted robbery of owsley to run consecutive for one-third the midterm of eight months, doubled for an additional 16 months. the court also imposed a five-year enhancement under section 667, subdivision (a)(1), serious felony. the total aggregate determinate sentence was 16 years and four months. the court sentenced burnes to an aggregate determinate term of 26 years four months, plus an indeterminate sentence of 28 years to life to be served in state prison. discussion a. standard of review review the whole record to determine whether any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime . . . beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] . . . in applying this test, we review the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution and presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably have deduced from the evidence. [citation.] . . we resolve neither credibility issues nor evidentiary conflicts . . . . 14 [citation.] [citation.] a [citation.]people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357; accord, people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206.) b. requirement of asportation for aggravated kidnapping increase in the risk of harm to the victim caused by the forced movement. [citati(dominguez, supra, 39 cal.4th at p. 1152.) section 209, subdivision (b)(2), provides as shall only apply if the movement of the victim is beyond that merely incidental to the commission of, and increases the risk of harm to the victim over and above that our supreme court in people v. rayford (1994) 9 cal.4th 1, 12 (rayford) described the test for asportation necessary for aggravated kidnapping to involve two prongs, as first set forth in people v. daniels (1969) 71 cal.2d 1119, 1131, fn. 5 (daniels).8 the court in rayford held: is merely incidental to the crayford, supra, at p. 12.) movement subjects the victim to a substantial increase in risk of harm above and beyond that inherent i9 (id. at p. 13.) the court has made clear that these two prongs 8 the court held that the asportation standard for kidnapping for rape is the same as that applied to kidnapping for robbery. (rayford, supra, 9 cal.4th at pp. 20-21.) 9 in 1997, the legislature amended section 209, subdivision (b)(2), to remove the (people v. vines (2011) 51 cal.4th 830, 869, fn. 20 the statute . . . and modified the asportation standard by eliminating the requirement that the movemen; people v. robertson (2012) 208 cal.app.4th 965, 978.) the fifth district in robertson noted that daniels, rayford and dominguez (1997 rape) all applied the prior language of 15 dominguez, supra, 39 ibid.) with respect to the first prong, the court should consider the actual distance a distance is required to satisfy the asportation requirement [citation], so long as the dominguez, supra, 39 cal.4th at p. 1152.) further, (ibid.) for purposes of the scircumstances the jury should consider, such as whether the movement decreases the escape, or enhances the (dominguez, supra, 39 cal.4th at p. 1152.) our supreme court has also made clear that increased harm includes psychological harm. (see people v. nguyen (2000) 22 cal.4th 872, 886.) as the court held in nguyensubstantial movement of a victim, by force or fear, which poses a substantial increase in the risk of psychological trauma to the victim beyond that to be expected from a stationary robbery, seems an entirely legitimate basis for finding a separate offense. section 209, subdivision (b), ibid., fn. omitted; see also people v. aguilar (2004) 120 cal.app.4th 1044, 1050 [movement of rape victim to dark area i . . beyond that to be expected from a attack) sectiorisk of harm to the victim . . . robertson, supra, at p. 979.) accordingly, the second prong of the asportation test established by our supreme court no longer requires that the substantially increase the risk of harm to the victim. (vines, supra, at p. 869, fn. 20.) 16 in dominguez, the court found substantial evidence supported the aggravated kidnapping charge. there, the defendant forced the victim from the side of the road to a location dominguez, supra, 39 cal.4th at p. 1153.) the court found that moving the victim from a relatively open area next to the road to a more secluded location id. at pp. 1153, 1154.) similarly, in rayford, the court found that movement of a victim 105 feet to an area substantially increased her risk of harm. (rayford, supra, 9 cal.4th at pp. 6, 14, 22.) in discussing the importance of the context of the movement involved, the court in dominguez cited to people v. shadden (2001) 93 cal.app.4th 164, 167, in which the court found that moving a victim only nine feet from the front counter of a store to the small back room for the purpose of raping her was asportation, and people v. jones (1999) 75 cal.app.4th 616, 629, in which the court found asportation where the defendant moved the robbery victim 40 feet within a parking lot into a car to rob her. (dominguez, supra, 39 cal.4th at p. 1152.) the couof six to 30 feet around an apartment to rob and rape the victims in daniels, supra, 71 cal.2d at pp. 1123-1125, and the movement of two victims 35 to 45 feet from the teller area to a vault for a robbery in people v. washington (2005) 127 cal.app.4th 290, 299-300 (washington). (dominguez, supra, 39 cal.4th at pp. 1153-1154.)10 burnes relies heavily on washington to argue that the movement of the victims here was incidental to the robberies. in washington, this district found the movement of 10 the court in dominguez also distinguished people v. stanworth (1974) 11 cal.3d 588, 597-598, in which the court found movement of a victim 25 feet into an open field basis that movement of the victim into an open field did not remove her from the public view or increase her risk of harm. 17 the victims from the teller area to the vault to take money was brief and incidental to the robbery within the meaning of danielskidnapping charge. (washington, supra, 127 cal.app.4th at p. 299.) central to the holding was cases . . . that robbery of a business owner or employee includes the risk of movement of the victim to the location of the valuables owned by the business that are held on the id. at p. 300.) in this case, however, in both the at&t and radio shack robberies, burnes had taken the last valuables prior to moving the two victims to a different location. burnes also cites to the language in daniels that when in the course of a robbery a defendant does no more than move his victim around inside the premises in which he finds him whether it be a residence . . . or a place of business or other enclosure his conduct generally will not be deemed to constitute the offense proscribed by section 209. movement across a room or from one room to another, in short, cannot reasonably be daniels, supra, 71 cal.2d at p. 1140.) the supreme court in people v. mutch (1971) 4 cal.3d 389, 398-399 and people v. williams (1970) 2 cal.3d 894, 900 relied on this language in holding that the movement of the victims did not support aggravated kidnapping charges. in mutch, the court held that movement of the first victim 30 or 40 feet to rob a safe and movement of a second victim 30 or 35 feet to take . . . merely incidental to the robberies, and did not substantially increase the risk of harm beyond that mutch, supra, at p 397.) in williams, the defendant entered a gas station and asked the victim for money at gunpoint. after the victim handed over his money, the defendant locked him in a bathroom in the gas station. the defendant later let the victim out and asked him to help carry a tool box and tires outside to a station wagon. (people v. williams, supra, 2 cal.3d at pp. 899-900.) the court held that the movements of the victim before and after he was 18 under daniels. (id. at p. 902.) in this case, the movement of the victims was within the same store where the robbery occurred. however, unlike mutch, where the defendant moved the victims before robbing them, and williams, in which the defendant moved the victim to take his money and then steal tires and a tool box, here burnes took the last items of merchandise prior to ordering the victims to a different location where he tied them up. further, the supreme court since its holding in daniels has clarified that while generallyment of a victim inside the premises where he or she is found will not properly be convicted of kidnapping even though he does not take his victim outside the premises in qpeople v. timmons (1971) 4 cal.3d 411, 415.)11 the holding by this district in people v. corcoran (2006) 143 cal.app.4th 272 is directly on point. there, the defendants intended to rob a bingo hall where five people were working, but one employee escaped and called for help. the defendants aborted the robbery and moved the four remaining victims 10 feet into an office at the back of the bingo hall with no windows and a solid door. (id. at pp. 276, 279.) the court held that he victims did not serve to facilitate the forcible attempted taking of money from the bingo hall. rather, it served other purposes squarely recognized by the supreme court in [dominguez], as supporting a finding of a substantial increase in danger: removing the victims from public view, decreasing the odds that the attempted robbery of cash from the bingo hall would be detected . . 11 the court in timmons concluded, however, under the prior asportation test of busy parking lot to a less crowded location to take a bag of money from them, this people v. timmons, supra, 4 cal.3d at pp. 415-416.) the court noted, though, that movement of five city blocks could substantially increase the risk to a victim under a different fact pattern. (id. at p. 416, fn. 2.) 19 id. at p. 280.) while in corcoran the robbers had abandoned their plans for robbery, the movement of the victims into the back room served the same purpose as here to allow the robbers to escape without detection. burnes also relies on people v. hoard (2002) 103 cal.app.4th 599, 607, in which the court found movement of two jewelry store employees 50 feet into the back office did not support aggravated kidnapping charges where the defendant moved the employees so he could have free access to the jewelry in the store and conceal the robbery from any customers who would enter the store. the court found this ibid., fn. omitted.) further, the court found the back office where they could not try to thwart the robbery than had they remained at and that movement of the employees to the back office did not pose a substantial increase in the risk of psychological trauma to the victim beyond that to be expected from a stationary robbery . . . .ibid., fn. omitted.) this district has criticized the hoard decision people v. hoard, supra, 103 cal.app.4th at p. 605). (see people v. james (2007) 148 cal.app.4th 446, 455 & fn. 8 [finding asportation people v. aguilar (2004) 120 cal.app.4th 1044, 1047, 1050-1051 [finding asportation where defendant moved rape victim 133 feet to unlit area where less likely to be detected, noting that hoard is not in harmony with rayford and other case law in its conclusion that necessary movement must be incidental].) as we discuss below, this is precisely such a case while moving victims to a hidden location to tie them up aids commission of the robbery, and thus arguably may be , this does not mean the movement is incidental to the robbery or that it did not increase the risk of harm from the crime. we next turn to the facts in this case. 20 c. their risk of psychological harm and decreased the likelihood of detection 1. the at&t robbery with respect to the at&t robbery, burnes moved solaiza around the store in order for burnes to take different phones, accessories, and then cash. the last item taken in the robbery was cash from the cash register. after burnes took the cash, he forced solaiza to move from the rear desk in the store approximately 20 feet to the back storage room where he tied her up with cables. the storage room windows were painted black, and therefore solaiza was less likely to be discovered there than in the front of the store where the robbery ended. bdominguez, supra, 39 cal.4th at p. 1154.) while the risk of physical harm in the storage room was not greater than in the open store, the jury could have reasonably found that by leaving solaiza tied up in the storage room with no windows and less likelihood of being found, burnes increased the psychological harm to her. the principal difference between this case and dominguez is that in dominguez, the movement occurred before the rape, thus insuring that the defendant could commit the crime without being detected. in this case, burnes had taken all the merchandise by the time he moved solaiza into the storage room. still, we find the holding in dominguez instructive because the forced movement of solaiza made it harder for the authorities to discover her in the storage room. but for reid pressing the panic alarm in the storeroom and solaiza breaking free to call 911, the police would not have come to the store when they did. while burnes argues that his actions in moving solaiza to the storage room and robbery, in fact burnes could have left solaiza in the front of the store as soon as he took the cash from the register. the only purpose in moving solaiza into the storage room, as in dominguez and corcoran, was to prevent her from being discovered and to enable 21 burnes and ray to flee the store without detection. we therefore find substantial evidence of asportation to support the aggravated kidnapping charge. 2. robbery of radio shack in the radio shack robbery, burnes moved contreras to different locations within the store at gunpoint to obtain phones, headphones, and cash. the last item burnes took was the set of headphones from the cage in the stockroom. at this point, burnes could have tied up contreras and left her in the stockroom. instead, he moved her to the hallway to show him whether there was an alarm on the exit door from the hallway leading to the street. burnes then tied contreras up with a zip tie, walked her back to the stockroom to obtain scissors, and cut the zip tie,12 then directed her back to the hallway and tied her up again. after tying contreras up a second time with zip ties, burnes forced contreras to walk from the hallway to the sales floor where he had her sit on the floor. in the sales room, the shades had been pulled down so no one could see in. in addition, the door had been locked using a key, preventing anyone from entering and making it more difficult to leave without a key. we find there was substantial evidence from which the jury could have reasonably found that the actions by burnes to move contreras from the stockroom to the hallway, back to the stockroom, then to the hallway, then to the sales room were to the robbery, taking of the headphones in the stockroom. further, by moving contreras away from the hallway with a door that led to the street and into the sales room with the shutters pulled down and door locked, burnes 12 while burnes moved contreras to the stockroom to get scissors to reduce her pain from the zip tie, we find the movement of contreras from the stockroom to the hallway and then to the sales floor is sufficient asportation to support the aggravated kidnapping charge. 22 decreased the risk of discovery of contreras and made it easier for burnes to flee without detection.13 disposition the judgment is affirmed. feuer, j.* we concur: perluss, p. j. zelon, j. 13 the jury also could have found that moving contreras from the hallway near an exit door into the sales room with all the shutters pulled down increased the risk of psychological harm to her. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 