filed 11/24/14 p. v. jones ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. darla ray jones, defendant and appellant. b251324 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba397754) in re darla ray jones on habeas corpus. b255936 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. carol h. rehm, jr., judge. affirmed. original proceeding; petition for a writ of habeas corpus. petition dismissed. maria leftwich, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant, appellant, and petitioner. kamala d. harris, attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, linda c. johnson, supervising deputy attorney general, tita nguyen, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant darla jones appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial in which she was convicted of two counts of criminal threats and two counts of assault with a firearm. defendant also petitions for a writ of habeas corpus, raising the same issues as on appeal: the prosecutor committed misconduct by failing to correct false and misleading testimony by the victims and trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance by failing to examine interview. we conclude neither claim has merit, and therefore affirm the judgment and dismiss the habeas corpus petition for failure to state a prima facie claim. background 1. the charged offenses defendant had been the girlfriend of, and caregiver for, kirk livingston. before livingston died, he asked his brother, darryl israel, to help defendant and look out for her. israel honored his brothersupporting defendant financially october 2011 through april 2012 and lending her his car for about two months. when defendant lost her home, israel financed her move into a rehabilitation facility and helped her get a storage facility for her possessions. israel, who was married and had a girlfriend, also had on friday, april 27, 2012, defendant phoned israel and asked him for $80.1 israel arranged to meet defendant in a drugstore parking lot and drove there with his coworker, terrence hite. hite stayed in the truck while israel spoke to defendant. israel gave defendant $40 and showed her he had only $3 left. defendant became angry. israel, who had given defendant $80 the day before, asked her why she needed money all the time and whether she was using crack. defendant moved toward israel in a threatening manner and, close to his face, replied that it was her own business. israel said he was not going to 1 undesignated date references pertain to 2012. 3 hite got out of the truck and approached israel and defendant. defendant pulled a loaded revolver from the pocket of her sweatshirt, pointed it at hite and israel, and threatened to hite retreated to the truck, while defendant warned israel he had better have her money the next time she saw him. she also referred to blood. she then got into a car and drove away. israel testified he was in shock. defendant had previously told israel she was a , use of a gun, and gang membership caused israel to fear for his life. nonetheless, israel did not call the police immediately because he was in shock and hite said he wanted to talk to his brother who was a police officer. hite testified he had heard defendant claim gang membership on a prior occasion, fear for his life. he explained he nevertheless did not call the police right away because he had prior convictions and because he thought it was really israel. the next day, hite phoned his cousin, who was an lapd officer, and his cousin told him to go to the 77th division police station to report the incident. israel and hite, who did not work on saturdays, went to the southeast division police station to report the incident on saturday, april 28. officers at that station told them they would transfer the matter to the 77th division station. on monday, april 30, israel and hite went to the 77th division station. somehow, the date of the offense was recorded as april 28, not april 27. at the preliminary hearing, both testified the crime was on april 28. sometime after the preliminary hearing and before trial, israel and hite told the prosecutor the crime was on april 27, not april 28.2 testified he was present when the prosecutor interviewed isra. the prosecutor asked whether they were sure about the date of the incident. 2 this error forms the basis for the issues raised on appeal and in the writ petition. 4 2. verdict and sentencing the jury convicted defendant of two counts of criminal threats and two counts of assault with a firearm. it found defendant personally used a gun in the commission of each offense. (pen. code,  12022.5, subd. (a).) the trial court sentenced defendant to 13 years in prison. defendant appealed from the judgment and filed a petition for a writ of habeas corpus, which we agreed to consider with the appeal. discussion 1. prosecutorial misconduct on appeal and in her petition for a writ of habeas corpus, defendant contends the prosecutor committed misconduct by testimony of both israel and hiteregarding contact between them and the prosecutor regarding the change of dates. defendant argues israel testified falsely that he had contacted the prosecutor about the date being incorrect before [the prosecutor] contacted him a. proceedings in the trial court (1) israel testified on direct examination that when he reported the incident to the police, he did not have the accurate date. it was actually a saturday. israel inconsistently testified both that he told the officer the incident was on april 28 and that the officer somehow wrote down the wrong date. the on cross-examination, counsel asked, your report you said the incident occurred on the 28[th]? israel respondeddays wrong and i thought the saturday the 28th was a friday and then it came back it was a saturday, so i was mixed up. the date counsel interrupted, asking, 5 southeast and the detective whoever the officer wrote down the wrong date and then they said that they were going to transfer it down to another station down to 77th division and say, go down there, and then they were going to transfer it over there, so we went down also wrote down the wrong date. isr the 77th when officers at the 77th division station interviewed israel, they did not ask him the date of the offense. he further testified he gave the police the wrong date because, the day i assumed it was friday. israel admitted he had testified at the preliminary hearing3 that the crime was on the 28th. h was right then and there, after mr. hite convinced me that the date was [him] o ney indicate to you that the date was wrave been the 28th. and you still said . i told them it was a friday and she said it was a saturday. that date was c 3 the preliminary hearing was june 29, 2012. 6 at the calendar by then and said well friday was the 27that you had theshe had the , defense counsel asked why israel had not let anyone know the date was wrong soonerthe first time you ever said, okay, the date was wrong [was] after being told that it couwhen israel called the prosecutor and told her he had the date wrong. israel said it was israel testified on february 28, 2013. on redirect examination, israel explained that when he had reported the crimes he the 28th. he reviewed the police report prior to the preliminary hearing, which reflected the date of the crimes was the 28th, so he relied on that date in his testimony at the preliminary hearing. no one asked him at the preliminary hearing what day of the week the crimes occurred. (2) on direct examination, hite testified he was aware the crime report said the crimes occurred april 28, which he now knew was a saturday, but he knew the crimes actually occurred on a friday because he did not work saturdays. after he realized the date was wrong, he told israel and they corrected the date. on cross-examination, hite testified when they first went to the police on saturday, april 28, they told the officers the crimes wrote down the wrong date. when they went to the 77th division police station on monday, april 30, he told the officers the crime happened on friday, without stating a date. hite testified he realized the date was wrong [m] 7 counsel did not the prosecutor did not call him and tell him the date was wrong or he was not sure if she did so. (3) discussion between court and counsel about proposed testimony outside the presence of the jury, defense counsel told the court he wanted to call [t]he fact that the district attorney as well as mr. fontenette approached both of the alleged victims first about the date being wrong after the defense had given [them] him that at some point she spoke to the victims about the date, and they insisted the 28th was the correct date suspicious that the date was changed only after he proved to the prosecutor that defendant had an alibi for the 28th. defense counsel told the court he had assumed the prosecutor had spoken to the ey both are testifying and giving the inference that they were the ones who brought up first the date being wrong and that is way he questioned the victims, but explained he was not trying to elicit any prior inconsistent statements, he to do that, they are giving the inference which the people know is wrong that they were the ones who contacted about talso argued it would be unfair to prevent him from doing so because the prosecutor had not given him a report reflecting these follow-up contacts with the victims. 8 defense counsel represented the prosecutor had told him fontenette was present when she spoke to the victims, and he wanted to ask fontenette whether fontenette or the prosecutor the first time there was any discussion about the dates being wron date. our questions started with, are you sure this happened? that is the point of these interviews. we spoke to them after we spoke to the alibi witness that was presented by -examination of the victims an witness provided was accurate in terms of what occurred because the questions were not well phnoted that throughout cross-examination defense counsel had not permitted the victims to expand upon their yes or no answers. she argued there were no inconsistent statements and defense counsel was seeking to introduce hearsay. she further argued it would be unfair and inaccurate to make it appear the victims were not testifying truthfully, and the court agreed to allow the defense to call fontenette. upon inquiry by the prosecutor, defense counsel represented he would not ask fontenette what the victims said, but instead whether fontenette and the prosecutor approached the victims about the noted the case had been investigated by lapd officers before her office took over the investigation, so fontenette would not be able to testify to when a victim first said something. she also cautioned that fontenette would not be able to testify to the victims thereafter, fontenette testified as previously described. b. principles regarding prosecutorial misconduct a prosecutors conduct violates a defendants federal constitutional rights when it comprises a pattern of conduct so egregious that it infects the trial with unfairness as to 9 make the resulting conviction a denial of due process. [citation.][citation.] . . . conduct that does not render a trial fundamentally unfair is error under state law only when it involves the use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade either the court or the jury. [citations.] (people v. bennett (2009) 45 cal.4th 577, 594595.) a prosecutor may not knowingly present false evidence and must correct any testimony by a prosecution witness that he or she knows, or should know, is false or misleading. (people v. harrison (2005) 35 cal.4th 208, 242; people v. dickey (2005) 35 cal.4th 884, 909.) c. the prosecutor did not commit misconduct at trial, defendant assumed the prosecutor had told the victims the defendant could not have committed the crimes on april 28. defendaappeal and in her petition for a writ of habeas corpus also depend upon this assumption. however, nothing in the record supports this assumption. the prosecutor told the trial court she not israel denied anyone told him the crimes could not have been committed on april 28. hite denied the prosecutor told him the date was wrong. even the declaration of trial counsel attached to the petition for a writ of habeas corpus does not support the assumption. trial cby the da that she and the da investigator interviewed hite and israel after confirming that [defendant] could not have committed the crime on the 28th. according to the da, both hite and israel maintained that the 28th was the correct date. the da then told me that hite and israel called her several days later and then told her the 28th was the wrong the declaration does not state the prosecutor told the victims defendant had an alibi for april 28 or that april 28 could not be the correct date. a review of d-examination of israel claim israel provided false or misleading testimony. district attorney indicate to you that the date was this could not have been the 28th. and you still said it was the 28th and then called back later . i told them it was a friday 10 and she said it was a satu the question was compound and incorporated the unsupported assumption that the prosecutor told the victims the crimes nor misleading. similarly, the first time you (rt 667)~ this question also incorporated the unsupported assumption, and nor misleading. the only arguably misleading testimony by israel occurred when defense counsel you had the the field interview of israel by the prosecutor constituted a form of , but defensregarding the change of dates had repeatedly referred to phone calls between israel and to the prosecutor. it appears israel may have construto telephone contact, not the prior interview. however, subsequent testimony effectively eliminated any potential for misleading the jury. israel testified he called the prosecutor uary of 2013, to tell her april 28 was the wrong date, and fontenette testified the prosecutor conducted a field interview with the victims in december 2012, during which the prosecutor asked them whether they were sure about the date of the incident. thus, israel before he phoned her to say april 28th was the wrong date. at worst, the purported reflected negatively upon his credibility. defense counsel asked hiteare you sure [the prosecutor] this question not only incorporated the unfounded assumption, but also specifically referred to a phone call to hite by the 11 prosecutor. response was subject to differing interpretations, given the manner in which the question was framed, but it cannot be viewed as false or misleading. moreover, the jury learned from the testimony of the victims and fontenette that the crimes were somehow reported as occurring on april 28, the victims testified at the preliminary hearing the crime occurred on april 28, the prosecutor interviewed the victims about two months before trial and asked them whether they were sure about the date of the crimes, then sometime later, perhaps just a few weeks before trial, the victims realized that april 28 was the wrong date and informed the prosecutor the crimes actually occurred on april 27. no possibelicit testimony from either victim or her investigator to the effect that the victims did not tell her the crimes occurred april 27 until sometime after she interviewed them and asked if they were certain about the date of the crime. harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. prosecutorial misconduct claim has no merit and fails to state a prima facie case for relief (people v. duvall (1995) 9 cal.4th 464, 475 [petition for writ of habeas corpus stating no prima facie case for relief will be summarily denied]). 2. ineffective assistance of counsel defendant contends trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance by failing to adequately examine fontenette about the interviews with israel and hite. sh, the jury would have heard that both witnesses maintained that the date of the incident was april 28th. it would have then been clear that israel and hite only chang a. elements of an ineffective assistance of counsel claim a claim that counsel was ineffective requires a showing, by a preponderance of the evidence, of objectively unreasonable performance by counsel and a reasonable 12 favorable result. (in re jones (1996) 13 cal.4th 552, 561 (jones).) b. defense counsel did not provide ineffective assistance the combined testimony of the victims and fontenette fully informed the jury that the prosecutor interviewed the victims about two months before trial and asked them whether they were sure the crimes occurred on april 28, then sometime later, perhaps just a few weeks before trial, the victims realized that april 28 was the wrong date and informed the prosecutor the crimes actually occurred on april 27. that the victims adhered to the april 28 date during their interviews by the prosecutor was implicit in light of this testimony. accordingly, it is not reasonably probable defendant would have obtained a more favorable result if defense counsel had 2012 interview. given the absence of any prejudice, dclaim has no merit and fails to state a prima facie case for relief. we need not address the scope of testimony or whether the statements of the victims during the interview would have been admissible, as argued in the context of 13 disposition the judgment is affirmed. the petition for a writ of habeas corpus is dismissed. not to be published. miller, j.* we concur: chaney, acting p. j. johnson, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 