filed 2/13/15 p. v. phillips ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. robert lee phillips, defendant and appellant. b251531 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba308582) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, kathleen kennedy, judge. modified, and, as so modified, affirmed. deborah l. hawkins, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, mary sanchez and david zarmi, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant and appellant robert lee phillips appeals his convictions for first degree murder, second degree murder, and attempted murder. he contends the trial court erred by excluding evidence; the prosecutor committed misconduct during argument, and defense counsel was ineffective for failing to object; the evidence is insufficient to support his convictions; and he is entitled to two additional days of custody credit. the people contend that the minute order must be corrected to accurately reflect various fines and fees imposed. and fees must be corrected. in all other respects, we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. facts viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the verdict (people v. najera (2006) 138 cal.app.4th 212, 215), the evidence relevant to the issues presented on appeal was as follows. a. (i) the shooting paulette phillips and appellant were married in 1995. paulette had three daughters, victims toni bembo raven, sabrina taylor, and charlotte johnson, all of whom were adults at the time of the offenses and were not biologically related to phillips.1 phillips, a blues musician, was 59 years old at the time of the murders. taylor celebrated her 30th birthday on september 2, 2006, with a party attended by family and friends. johnson travelled to los angeles from kentucky for the fete. the festivities began in the afternoon in griffith park. after a park ranger informed the group that their music was too loud and their decorations were against park regulations, the young son, david; johnson; nelson daughter, deirdre green, and son, shawn osborne 1 for ease of reference, we sometimes hereinafter use first names when more than one individual shares the same last name. 3 ; ; and their children, vanaria brady, shaila smith, and tykeese. once at the house, the group continued the festivities in the garage. as the afternoon turned to evening, more attendees arrived, including many of taylorjohnsonpeople came and went, and as many as 40 to 60 people were at times in attendance. during the party, phillips socialized with a friend in an outside bar area, drinking. he was pacing and appeared to be angry as guests whom phillips did not know arrived, he became angry and upsetare these peoand [w]ho the hell is all these mccoy and darren parker, whom taylor had hired as a disc jockey (dj) for the event, also thought some of the new arrivals looked like gang members. other partygoers, including paulette, brady, sophia, james, osborne, and davis, testified that there were no gang members at the party, or that they were un police officers believed that as of 2007, osborne was a member of the rolling thirties gang - parker initially (r & b). a couple hours into the party, taylor asked him to play hip-hop and rap, including a song . phillips approached parker and expressed concern about profanity in the music given the presence of elderly people and children, and requested that parker resume playing r & b. parker agreed. however, sometime later taylor requested gangster partyafter parker played the song, phillips saidght you said that you going to play the cussing musicphillips taylor had requested the song, and he felt obliged to play it since she had hired him. when phillips walked away, taylor asked parker what phillips had said. when parker told her, taylor replied, taylor while party guests threw money at her and pinned money on her, a family tradition. she danced to one of her 4 favorite songboyz, which she requested that parker play. phillips watched from the bar with an angry look on his face. when paulette and her daughters were unpinning the money from taylor, phillips ly stating paulette said she would talk to the dj. johnson told phillips not to yell at her mother. phillips said something in return, and johnson replied, taylor, johnson, and paulette all began arguing with phillips, yelling at him and telling him to leave. him out of here. according to at least two witnesses, phillips said he was going to get his gun. it was undisputed that phillips then left the party, going to the sidewalk near his van through the sliding driveway gate. the witnesses gave contradictory accounts of how he got there, however. raven and parker testified that two or three men grabbed she, her cousin derange, osborne, and wilkerson escorted phillips out the gate, but only she touched him, pushing him with a hand on his chest. larry told police, and testified at the preliminary hearing, that he saw osborne and two men push phillips out. larryette, smith, and brady testified that phillips walked through the gate on his own, and no one was with him. once phillips was outside the gate, sophia and osborne talked to him to try to calm him down. however, sophia yelled and cursed at phillips. phillips saithey are bitches. they are whores. . . . they do this shit all the time. just like [their] to the gatherings, but these bitches is likesophia and phillips talked for approximately five minutes. meanwhile, taylor took the microphone from parker, who cut the music. the witnesses variously testified that taylor, using the microphone, - 5 this is my party, and . . . i might have and ut in, because i am fixing to call the police because he got a lot of guns in the house. apparently in response to taylorpulled a gun from his waistband. when osborne asked why he did so, phillips did not respond. phillips cocked the gun, took a deep breath, and fired it at the ground once or twice. everyone in the yard froze. no phillips put his arm over the yard wall and waved the gun around. pandemonium ensued. the partygoers scattered, with some running towards the street and others seeking shelter in the house. phillips walked past larry and aimed at and shot johnson in the head as she attempted to run away from him into the house. she fell to the ground. phillips then walked into the house. green hid behind a couch in the garage. davis and her children ran and hid in a bedroom inside the house. larry, who could hear additional shots being fired in the house, walked down the street and called 911. paulette had begun a 911 call after she saw phillips at his van, because she believed he was retrieving a gun. she dropped the phone mid-the laundry room. phillips appeared at the laundry room door moments later. larryette picked up the phone paulette had dropped and continued the 911 call. she then attempted to leave the house, but encountered phillips in the hallway. phillips shot at her but missed. he tried to shoot again but the gun did not fire. larryette joined the group hiding in the bedroom. raven and taylor, concerned that phillips was coming after them, left young son david with the group inside the bedroom and went to lock the family room door. phillips was entering the family room as they neared the door. he fired a shot, and the women switched course and ran away from him, towards the living room. as raven reached the living room she turned to see taylor behind her, lying in a fetal position on the office floor, with phillips standing over her. phillips pointed the gun at raven and fired. raven ducked and felt the bullet pass by her ear. unable to exit through the locked 6 front door, she hid under the dining room table. while hiding there, she saw a male party guest near the front door. upon seeing phillips, the guest guest could leave. phillips then walked down the hall. he opened the door to the bedroom where was hiding, pointed the gun, and said, it appeared to brady that he was searching for someone. brady said, phillips turned and left. the group in the bedroom retreated to a nearby closet, where they hid. both raven, hiding under the table, and davis, hiding in the closet, could hear taylor calling for help. raven and larryette heard two more gunshots in the office. taylor was then silent. emerging from under the dining room table after phillips had gone to another room, raven saw taylor lying on the office floor, bleeding. raven could still hear gunshots outside. brady opened the closet door and pulled raven inside the closet. green, meanwhile, had come out from behind the garage couch, and observed the 911 operator told green to move to safety, and she hid until police arrived. when phillips began shooting, james had attempted to climb the front yard wall but became stuck. he saw between five and seven muzzle flashes inside the house. he if you ar phillips returned to his van. 7 sophia, who had seen phillips exit the yard and return to his van, prevailed upon a party guest named poppy, who was armed with his own gun, to shoot phillips.2 poppy shot at phillips multiple times, but the shots only grazed phillips. osborne, larry, and james did not see poppy shoot at phillips. however, when they headed towards the house to check on the other partygoers, they found phillips by a tree outside the yard, near his van, fidgeting with something in his hands, apparently reloading his gun. phillips popped his head up said, chased larry, osborne, james, and sophia down the street, shooting at them as they ran. (ii) the investigation back door. she had a gunshot wound to the head and was unresponsive. was found in the office; she had suffered a gunshot wound to her torso and was unresponsive. they found phillips lying face down on the garage floor. it appeared that he had been shot in the buttocks. a .9-millimeter semiautomatic makarov model handgun was on a shelf approximately three feet away from where he was lying. it was loaded with three rounds in its magazine, plus a live round in the firing chamber. an empty six-case and two hollow-point bullets, one that fit the makarov. a cloth gun holster was on the grass next to the van. johnson suffered a single, fatal gunshot wound to the head. forensic analysis showed that the bullet that killed her was a hollow-makarov. taylor suffered three gunshot wounds: a fatal wound that perforated her heart; a life-threatening wound that passed through her thigh, hitting the femoral artery; and a through-and-through wound to her thigh. the fatal wound to her heart was made by a hollow-point bullet. forensic analysis showed it was likely the bullet was fired from 2 sophia did not tell police that poppy was responsible for shooting phillips until over six years after the incident, in january 2012. 8 of the bullet sample. phillips was treated at a hospital immediately after being found by police. he had serious and would not have prevented him from walking. was .145. police found a small pool of blood next to the van; a trail of his blood going north on cimarron, east on 84th place, and back again; and a trail of his blood leading from the sidewalk police personnel found five spent .9-millimeter makarov casings which forensic one in the driveway, one in bathroom inside the house near where tayloras found. an expended bullet on found in the office near taylorrecovered from her body. a bullet fired from the makarov was also found in a given the number of casings found at the scene and the number of bullets remaining in the makarov, phillips must have reloaded during the shooting spree. police personnel found additional .9-millimeter casings, fired from a gun other than the makarov, on the sidewalk in front of the house. bullets and bullet fragments fired from a gun other than the makarov were also found in or near the van. police found numerous firearms and ammunition, including hollow-point bullets, in the garage and house. the firearms, including the makarov, were legally registered to phillips. there was no indication phillips used a gun other than the makarov during the incident. 9 b. defense evidence a forensic toxicologist testified that phillips was a light drinker with a low , huge loss of inhibitions, leroy w as the party progressed and more people arrived, some of the attendees appeared to be . however, he did not see anyone throw gang signs or call out gang names. he left when he heard a commotion and saw people running. robert freeman testified for the defense as a gang expert. the phillips residence was located in an area controlled by the eight trey crips criminal street gang. in 2006, eight trey crips gang activity was ongoing in the arearolling sixties gang. gang members had committed shootings, robberies, murders, and attempted murders. the rolling thirties gang was also a rival of the eight trey crips. the eight trey crips gang was founded in the late 1970s by tookie williams, a well-known gang member. in gang culture, respect is of paramount importance. if one [s]amily, there may be consequences. if a he is going to get a gun,gang member will react by trying to pull out his own weapon. when gang members attend parties, shootings sometimes occur. gang members who go into rival gang neighborhoods tend to travel in groups of five or six persons in case a fight breaks out. 2. procedure phillips was charged with the first degree murders of johnson and taylor (counts 1 and 2), and the attempted murders of raven, sophia, larry, and osborne (counts 3 through 6). he was tried three times. in the first trial, the jury found phillips guilty of the attempted voluntary manslaughters of larry and osborne, lesser included offenses of murder. (pen. code, 10  664, 192, subd. (a).)3 it also found true the allegation that phillips personally used a firearm during commission of the crimes. ( 12022.5, subd. (a).) it acquitted phillips of the first degree murder of johnson, and deadlocked on all remaining charges. the trial court declared a mistrial on counts 1, 2, 3, and 4. at the second trial, the jury deadlocked on all charges and the trial court declared a mistrial. at the third trial, from which the instant appeal is taken, the jury found phillips guilty of the second degree murder of johnson and the first degree murder of taylor ( 187, subd. (a)), and the willful, deliberate, and premeditated attempted murders of raven and sophia. it also found phillips personally and intentionally used and discharged a firearm in commission of the crimes, causing johnsontaylor( 12022.53, subds. (b), (c) & (d)), and found true the special circumstance allegation that phillips committed multiple murders ( 190.2, subd. (a)(3)). the trial court sentenced phillips to life in prison without the possibility of parole, plus two terms of life in prison with the possibility of parole, plus 65 years to life, plus a determinate term of 49 years 4 months. it ordered phillips to pay victim restitution, and imposed a restitution fine, a court security fee, and a criminal conviction assessment. phillips appeals the judgment entered at the third trial, that is, his convictions for first degree, second degree, and attempted murder. discussion 1. the trial court did not abrights by excluding evidence. prior to trial the prosecutor moved to exclude the following items of evidence or lines of inquiry as irrelevant and lacking in probative value under evidence code section 352: (1) -by shooting; (2) uncle was murdered in eight trey crip territory; (3) raven had been in a relationship taylor had hosted a party at a different 3 all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 11 residence taylor associated with eight trey crip gang members. the trial court also sustained a relevance objection to testimony that one of the men who attacked truck driver reginald denny during the 1992 los angeles riots was an eight trey crip gang member, and sustained a foundational objection to a question whether gang members who attend parties arrive armed with guns. phillips contends the trial court abused its discretion by excluding the proffered evidence, thereby violating his rights to due process and to present a defense. we disagree. a. applicable legal principles only relevant evidence is admissible. (evid. code,  means evidence, including evidence relevant to witness credibility, having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action. (evid. code,  210; people v. mills (2010) 48 cal.4th 158, 193; people v. lee (2011) 51 cal.4th 620, 642.) relevant evidence may be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury. (evid. code,  352; lee, at p. 643; people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 724.) a trial court has broad discretion in determining whether evidence is relevant and whether evidence code section 352 precludes its admission. (people v. mills, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 195; people v. williams (2008) 43 cal.4th 584, 634.) we apply the abuse those turning on the relevance or probative value of the evidence in question. (people v. lee, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 643; people v. hamilton (2009) 45 cal.4th 863, 930.) the united states constitution guarantees criminal defendants a meaningful opportunity to present a defense. (people v. cash (2002) 28 cal.4th 703, 727; crane v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 683, 690.) a defendant has the general right to offer a defense through the testimony of his or her witnesses application of ordinary rules of evidenceincluding the rule stated in evidence code 12 section 352generally does not infrin (people v. cornwell (2005) 37 cal.4th 50, 82, disapproved on another ground by people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22; people v. thornton (2007) 41 cal.4th 391, 443; cf. people v. harris (2008) 43 cal.4th 1269, 1291-1292.) although the complete exclusion of an s defense may constitute fed excluding defense evidence on a minor or subsidiary ps due process right to (thornton, at p. 443; people v. boyette (2002) 29 cal.4th 381, 427-428.) phillips urges that the excluded evidence was relevant to his theory that he acted in the heat of passion upon sufficient provocation, and was therefore guilty of voluntary manslaughter, not murder. voluntary manslaughter is the intentional but nonmalicious killing of a human being, and is a lesser offense of murder. ( 192, subd. (a); people v. moye (2009) 47 cal.4th 537, 549; people v. benavides (2005) 35 cal.4th 69, 102; people v. lee (1999) 20 cal.4th 47, 59.) a killing may be reduced from murder to voluntary manslaughter if it occurs upon a sudden quarrel or in the heat of passion on sufficient provocation. (people v. beltran (2013) 56 cal.4th 935, 942, 951; people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 583.) reason of the accused was obscured or disturbed by passion to such an extent as would cause the ordinarily reasonable person of average disposition to act rashly and without people v. barton (1995) 12 cal.4th 186, 201; people v. beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 942; people v. enraca (2012) 53 cal.4th 735, 759.) a heat-of-passion theory of manslaughter thus has both an objective and a subjective component. (people v. moye, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 549; people v. manriquez, supra, homicidal conduct . . . must be caused by the victim . . . or be conduct reasonably people v. lee, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 59; manriquez, at p. or verbal, but it must have been sufficiently provocative to cause an ordinary person of 13 average disposition to act rashly or without due deliberation and reflection. (people v. beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 939; people v. enraca, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 759; lee, at p. 59.) moye, at p. n]o specific type of provocation [is] required, and the passion aroused need not be anger or rage, but can be any [v]iolent, intense, high-wrought or enthusiastic emotion [citation] other than revenge [citation]people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 163; beltran, at p. 950; people v. millbrook (2014) 222 cal.app.4th 1122, 1139.) b. the trial court did not abuse its discretion by excluding evidence. phillips argues the excluded evidence was relevant to establish his theory that he acted in the heat of passion, namely that his stepdaughters . . . provoked him to act rashly and without deliberation by having their gang friends expel [him] from his own home on the night of the party because he objected to gangs and gang culture on the established his subjective beliefs that gang members are violent individuals, and that his neighborhounusually deep antipathy for gangs and gang culture; shown that his stepdaughters knew he did not [ed]in front of himh we address each item of excluded evidence seriatim. (i) the trial court concluded evidence t-by shooting was irrelevant. as the court explained: in and these are things the defendant hears and it contributes to his fear of gangs and in the 14 the trial court properly excluded evidence of these crimes as irrelevant. neither incident was related in any way to the birthday party shootings. there was no suggestion that persons at the birthday party were responsible for the nephew based on the offers of proof, the contention that the other crimes were even gang-related was speculative. moreover, evidence phillips believed gang members were violent and dangerous was of limited value to his heat-of-passion theory. phillips did not shoot at gang members; he shot at his stepdaughters and other relatives. he did not claim he shot because he believed dangerous gang members were attacking him or were armed and dangerous. as the people point out, evidence phillips was especially afraid of gang members would have undercut his heat-of-passion argument, as such a fear would logically have made him afraid to launch an attack on party guests. this irrelevant evidence had the potential to confuse the issues and consume an undue amount of time, and was properly excluded. a court lacks discretion to admit irrelevant evidence. (people v. cowan (2010) 50 cal.4th 401, 482.) (ii) evidence raven was the victim of domestic violence defense counsel sought to question raheridence had been excluded at the prior trial and preliminary hearing, the trial court opined that it might be admissible if phillips testified, but was otherwise inadmissible. this was not an abuse of discretion. the proffered evidence was irrelevant. its only possible probative value was to show that phillips believed the boyfriend was violent. but there was no logical connection between the fact the boyfriend was a gang member, and the fact he inflicted domestic violence on raven; it is an unfortunate fact that many persons who lack gang connections are domestic dangerous was not particularly probative to establish a heat-of-passion theory in any event. this evidence had little or no tendency to establish material facts, but had the 15 potential to distract and confuse the jury. it was properly excluded. (see people v. cowan, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 482.) (iii) evious party defense counsel sought to introduce evidence that taylor had a party when either . . . the date of the party was unknown, the trial court excluded the evidence. this was not an abuse of discretion. evidence of gang violence at an unspecified time, involving unspecified gang members, at a venue where phillips was not present, had little or no relevance to the issues at trial. evidence taylor refused admission to gang members and was attacked in response was inconsistent with the defense theory that taylor was enmeshed in the gang lifestyle and provoked phillips by associating with gang members at her birthday party. tabsurd. (people v. williams, supra, 43 cal.4th at pp. 634-635.) (iv) s gang members ina associated with witnesses who testified that no gang members were at the birthday party. the trial court observed that the evidence had been excluded at the prior trial or trials, and excluded it again without further analysis. the only potential relevance of the proffered evidence was to contradict the testimony of various prosecution witnesses that there were no gang member guests at the birthday party, or they were unaware of the presence of such persons. but general evidence taylor associated with eight trey crips gang members would have had limited value on this point. that taylor associated with gang members did not, by itself, show that the prosecution witnesses were untruthful when they stated they did not observe gang members at the birthday party. thus, evidence of taylormembers would not have directly impeached their testimony. in any event, as we discuss post, exclusion of the evidence, even if error, was harmless. 16 (v) evidence that one of the participants in the reginald denny beating was a gang member during direct examination, the defense gang expert testified that the eight trey crips were founded in the late 1970s by tookie williams. defense counsel then the expert replied that during the 1992 riots, one of the persons who attacked truck driver reginald denny was an eight trey crips gang member. the trirelevance objection and granted her motion to strike the testimony on this point. from testifying to the habits and culture of criminal street gangs. he avers that the establishing [his] attitude toward association with gang members and his honest and ould not want gang members in his home. we are not persuaded. even assuming arguendo that generalized testimony about -of-passion theory, the challenged evidence was clearly not. evidence of an entirely unrelated crime, occurring years before the charged crimes, during an unusual period of civil disturbance in los angeles, and committed by persons having no connection to the witnesses or events at issue in the instant matter, was utterly lacking in relevance. as we have -of-passion theory. the notion that the 1992 attack on denny showed phillips bore heightened animosity toward the eight trey crips was fanciful, given the absence of evidence phillips had any connection to the denny crime. (vi) questioning regarding whether gang members are typically armed during the gang gang members attend trial court sustained the prosecutordefense counsel then asked whether the 17 when they are involved i phillips argues the trial court improperly sustained the objection because the role that firearms play in gang culture is a proper topic for expert testimony. we do not disagree that, where such testimony is relevant, expert testimony may be allowed on this topic. (see generally people v. avitia (2005) 127 cal.app.4th 185, 192.) however, the that there was insufficient foundation that the expert, freeman, had a basis for his opinion on the issue. nothing prevented defense counsel from establishing such a foundation and then questioning freeman further on the issue. phillips also contends the cou it thereafter exclude testimony abo habits of carrying firearms. for example, defense counsel subsequently elicited that gang members typically carry concealed revolvers or automatic weapons. defense counsel did not ask additional questions on the subject. thus, the trial court did not actually exclude evidence regarding (vii) even if error, exclusion of the evidence in question was not prejudicial. the erroneous exclusion of evidence requires reversal only if it is reasonably probable that appellant would have obtained a more favorable result had the evidence been allowed. (evid. code,  354; people v. richardson (2008) 43 cal.4th 959, 1001.) no that the gang evidence supported his heat-of-passion theory is tenuous. evidence that phillips was hostile to gang members was of limited value in proving he acted in the heat of passion. the heat-of-publicly acting guests whom he did not know. evidence that these persons were gang members, to whom phillips was especially hostile, added little to the evidence that he was enraged. 18 toward and experiences with gangs might have been relevant if the victims were persons he perceived to be gang members, but they were not; the victims were his stepdaughters and other relatives. to find the gang evidence compelling, the jury would have had to accept that phillips was especially angry because his stepdaughters invited gang members to the party, played rap music, and had gang member guests escort him from the home, because those same stepdaughters and distant relations had been the victims of gang-related violence; therefore phillips shot his stepdaughters. this theory presented something of a non sequitur. evidence that his ke him state. moreover, that phillips disliked gangs was not a disputed issue and was not likely to be doubted by the jury. it is a matter of common knowledge that gangs engage in violent behavior, and it is unlikely jurors would have given more credence to the theory that phillips disliked gangs and the gang lifestyle had the evidence in question been admitted. moreover, considerable evidence on gangs was presented. the defense expert testified that in 2006 including shootings, murders, attempted murders, and robberies; that when a gang weapon; and that he had investigated parties where gang members were involved in shootings. paulette testified that phillips had cleaned gang graffiti off their residence twice. there was also evidence that police officers had documented two of the party guests as gang members; mccoy, parker, and wilson testified that some of the guests looked like gang members to them; and parker heard some of the guests state that they in short, phillips was not precluded from presenting his defense. the additional evidence would have added little or nothing to the defense case, and there is no likelihood phillips would have achieved a more favorable result had it been admitted. 19 2. prosecutorial misconduct phillips next argues that the prosecutor committed misconduct by misstating the law on heat-of-passion manslaughter during argument and misstating the evidence, thereby violating his rights to due process and to present a defense. we discern no reversible error. a. applicable legal principles the standards governing review of prosecutorial misconduct claims are well s conduct violates the fourteenth amendment to the federal constitution when it infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due process. conduct that does not render a trial fundamentally unfair is prosecutorial misconduct under state law only if it involves the use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade the trial court or the jury. (people v. adams (2014) 60 cal.4th 541, 568; people v. bryant, smith and wheeler (2014) 60 cal.4th 335, 427; people v. vines (2011) 51 cal.4th 830, 873.) it is misconduct for a prosecutor to misstate the law during argument, misstate or mischaracterize the evidence, or assert facts not in evidence. (people v. whalen (2013) 56 cal.4th 1, 77; people v. davis (2005) 36 cal.4th 510, 550; people v. boyette, supra, 29 cal.4th at p. 435.) when a claim of miscons comments before the jury, we consider whether there is a reasonable likelihood the jury construed or applied any of the complained-of remarks in an objectionable fashion. (adams, at p. 568; bryant, smith and wheeler, at p. 427; people v. brown (2003) 31 cal.4th 518, 553-554.) we consider the challenged statements in context, and view the argument as a whole. (people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1203.) we do not lightly infer that the jury drew the most, rather than the tements. (people v. shazier (2014) 60 cal.4th 109, 144; people v. dykes (2009) 46 cal.4th 731, 771-772.) to preserve a claim of prosecutorial misconduct for appeal, a defendant must make a timely and specific objection and ask the trial court to admonish the jury to disregard the improper argument. (people v. linton (2013) 56 cal.4th 1146, 1205; people v. mckinzie (2012) 54 cal.4th 1302, 1358; people v. souza (2012) 54 cal.4th 90, 20 122.) here, phillips never objected at trial to any of the comments he now asserts were improper. nothing suggests an objection would have been futile, or an admonition inadequate to cure any harm. accordingly, his claims have been forfeited. (people v. adams, supra, 60 cal.4th at pp. 568-569; people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 1011; people v. najera, supra, 138 cal.app.4th at p. 224.) recognizing this, phillips contends his counsel provided ineffective assistance by defense closing argument. to establish ineffective assistance of counsel, a defendant must show that (1) counsels representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms; and (2) counsels deficient performance was prejudicial, that is, there is a reasonable probability that, but for counsels failings, the result would have been more favorable to the defendant. a reasonable probability is a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687; people v. brown (2014) 59 cal.4th 86, 109; people v. mai (2013) 57 cal.4th 986, 1009.) we presume counsels performance fell actions and inactions can be explained as a matter of sound trial strategy. (mai, at p. 1009; people v. carter (2003) 30 cal.4th 1166, 1211.) if the record sheds no light on why counsel acted or failed to act in the manner challenged, an appellate claim of ineffective assistance must be rejected unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or there simply could be no satisfactory explanation. (people v. gamache (2010) 48 cal.4th 347, 391; carter, at p. 1211.) the legal principles applicable to heat-of-passion voluntary manslaughter have been set forth ante. b. the prosecutor began by arguing that the evidence showed there had been had had enougstraw was the disrespect they showed to him in his house. 21 had just had enough. and he made a decision. he made a decision to kill . . . them wildly acting here; . . . he is not acting because he was provoked, but . . . this is a man making after further discussing various aspects of the evidence, the prosecutor argued: hy first degree and second degree really need to be your concern in your deliberations and why you should not even consider seriously voluntary manslaughter . . . . [] now voluntary manslaughter is jury instruction 570. and it is, there is a sudden quarrel which causes heat of passion. [] now we know from . he was already in a bad mood almost the entire day. reclusive, pacing, and when faced withwhen talking to somebody about it, when it got to a high point where he was removed from the yard, this has been going on for years. know what these [] this was not a situation where there is some sudden quarrel that causes the heat of passion to arise. this was a man who was stewing, stewing about what these women have been doing to him all these years. [] now another thing in that instruction that you are to consider in determining if it is voluntary manslaughter or murder is that slight or remote provocation is not sufficient. so . . . being escorted out of the yard, that provocation is not sufficient. [] time somebody uses a handgun and someone is killed, they are pretty much provoked. [] yes, sometimes you have unprovoked situations such [as] drive-by shootings or whatever. but generally speaking when someone takes a gun and is angry and shoots at somebody, it is because they are provok it is not enough that he was just provoked, or most people wouldthere is provocation. [] and another thing to keep in mind here is that the standard for 22 consider thatwhether a person of average disposition in the same situation, and knowing the same facts would have reacted from passion rather than judgment. [] so what would anyone in his positionwould anyone in his position, not him specifically but a reasonable person under the facts and circumstances, have reacted the same way? so what are the facts and circumstances that a reasonable person in his position would have been confronted with? [] well, that person would have been confronted with some disrespect going on by his stepdaughters, an argument with his wife paulette earlier that day, and then now being led out in front of a party of approximately 50 people out of a backyard. [] now would a reasonable person in that position be so provoked to take out a gun and a the answer is no. that is not reasonable. [] voluntary manslaughter. the classic example would be: you are happily married. you come home unexpectedly during the lunch hour. you go into your bedroom, and there is your wife or husband in the middle of making love to someone else, and you are so enraged, . . . you kill the lover. [] tis a man, once again, who was stewing for a very long time about those women doing something to him all these years. and he had had enough, once again. he had had enough. (italics added.) c. purported misstatement of fact phillips complains that the prosecutor misstated the facts when she stated that there had been animosity between phillips and his stepdaughters years. points t that they had been appening in the disrespectful treatment had occurred only in the past, we see no reasonable likelihood that jurors would have interpreted the argument this way. read in the context of the argument as a wholecannot be understood to suggest the offensive 23 behavior had ceased. to the extent phillips intends to argue that the prosecutor erred by stating the conduct had gone on for years, as opposed to some shorter duration, we see no significant misstatement. phillips and paulette had been married for 11 years, and it was a fair inference from the evidence that the animosity between phillips and his stepdaughters was of longstanding duration. a prosecutor has wide latitude during argument, which can include reasonable inferences or deductions to be drawn from the evidence. (people v. thomas (2012) 53 cal.4th 771, 822.) because the challenged statements were not objectionable, defense counsel did not perform inadequately by failing to object. defense counsel is not required to make futile motions or to indulge in idle acts in order to appear competent. (people v. solomon (2010) 49 cal.4th 792, 843, fn. 24.) d. statements regarding provocation arising over time that incites heat of passion must arise instantaneously and cannot occur over a period of time,because the prosecutor repeatedly sstressed that the animosity between phillips and his stepdaughters had existed for years. phillips is correct that provocation sufficient to reduce a killing to manslaughter may arise as a result of a series of events over time. (see people v. wharton (1991) 53 cal.3d 522, 569; people v. kanawyer (2003) 113 cal.app.4th 1233, 1245; calcrim no. 570.) however, there is no reasonable likelihood the jury would have interpreted the challenged remarks as phillips suggestargument was that phillips was not acting in the heat of passion, but instead made a killing them. this was a fair comment on the evidence. (see people v. shazier, supra, 60 cal.4th at pp. 127-128 [prosecutors have wide latitude to discuss and draw inferences from the evidence at trial, and whether the inferences the prosecutor draws are reasonable is for the jury to decide].) moreover, the jury was properly instructed with calcrim no. 570, which stated: 24 the instruction would have dispelled any possibility of confusion. moreover, the record suggests counsel had a legitimate tactical reason for failing hat the phillips wanted to kill taylor and johnson because he and the women hated each other and the women had acted disrespectfully to him for yearswas untenable. defense counsel urged it was illogical to believe phillips had a grudge against the victims, or that they had abused him for years, given that the women had never lived with him and johnson lived in kentucky. defense counsel appears to have recognized that evidence of a longstanding, acrimonious relationship between phillips and the women was, at best, a double-edged sword, in that it could potentially support a finding of premeditation and deliberation. given that the defense did not argue phillips acted in a (see people v. vines, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 876 [res reasonable tactical decisions in examining a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel].) e. statements regarding the relationship between provocation and heat of passion next, phillips avers that the prosecutor erronerole in heat-of- she argued that most shooters are angry and provoked, but this does not establish heat of passion. viewed in context, the promere fact a defendant was angry when he attacked is insufficient to prove he acted in the heat of passion. this was an accurate statement of law. as explained by beltran: be adequate, the provocation must be one that would cause an emotion so intense that an ordinary person would simply react, without reflection . . . the anger or other passion ess to such an (people v. beltran, supra, 56 acting imprudently or out of anger. even imprudent conduct done while angry is ordinarily the product of some judgment and thought, however fleeting. this is not the 25 type of truly reactive conduct contemplated . . . . rovocation is sufficient not [,] but because it eclipses id. at p. 950.there was no misconduct and defense counsel was not remiss for failing to object. f. statement that the provocation must have been sufficient to cause a reasonable person to kill finally, phillips argues that the prosecutor mischaracterized the law by stating that in order to show heat of passion, the provocation must be such that an ordinary person would be moved to kill in response. we agree that the prosecutor misstated the law, but conclude phillips has failed to show he would have obtained a more favorable result had counsel objected and the jury been admonished not to consider the argument. in people v. beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th 935, our supreme court clarified what kind of provocation will suffice to constitute heat of passion. beltran rejected the argument that the provocation must be of a kind that would cause an ordinary person of average disposition to kill. (id. at p. 938.) instethe person of average disposition would be induced to react from passion and not from id. at p. 939.) in beltran, the jury was instructed with a version of calcrim no. 570 that stated: ing whether the provocation was sufficient, consider whether a person of average disposition would have been provoked and how such a person would react in people v. beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 954.) the beltran prosecutor argued that, for example, if one stubs a toe or is cut off id. at p. 943, fn. 5.) defense counsel countered that the provocation need not have caused a person of average disposition to kill, but must have caused the person to act rashly and impulsively, without thinking. (id. at p. 943, fn. 4.) beltran concluded the instruction was not ambiguous under ordinary circumstances, but that the partieid. should consider whether an ordinary person would kill in the face of provocation, rather 26 than whether the provocation would have caused an ordinary person to act without due deliberation and from passion rather than judgment. (id. at pp. 954-955.) however, any error was harmless because the jury had sent a note asking for clarification on the point, and the trial court had responded with a correct statement of law. it was therefore not id. at pp. 955-956.) in light of beltran, now would a reasonable person in that position be so provoked to tahead? the answer people v. beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at pp. 954-955; people v. najera, supra, 138 cal.app.4th at p. 223 would a reasonable person do what the defendant did? would a reasonable person be so aroused as to kill somebody? thats the was an incorrect statement of law].) however, assuming arguendo that defense counsel was remiss for failing to object, phillips hcalcrim no. 570. unlike the instruction in people v. beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at page 954 would react in the same situation knowing the same facts the version of calcrim no. 570 given here situation and knowing the same facts, would have reacted from passion rather than from judgmentway as the beltran calcrim no. 570 in conjunction with the challenged statements, directing the jury to people v. morales (2001) 27 25 cal.4th 34, 47; people v. boyette, supra, 29 cal.4th at p. 436; people v. najera, supra, 138 cal.app.4th at p. 224.) generally carry less weight with a jury than do instructions from the court. the former are usually billed in advance to the jury as matters of argument, not evidence, [citation], and are likely viewed as the statements of advocates; the latter . . . are viewed as definitive and binding statements of (people v. mcdowell (2012) 54 cal.4th 395, 438.) given the foregoing, it is not reasonably probable the jury disregarded t there is no probability the result would have been more favorable for phillips had the jury been admonished not to consider the prosehe has failed to establish ineffective assistance. (see generally people v. brown, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 109; people v. mai, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 1009.) 3. sufficiency of the evidence phillips contends the evidence was insufficient to support his convictions for the first degree murder of taylor, the second degree murder of johnson, and the attempted premeditated and deliberate murders of raven and sophia. we disagree. a. applicable legal principles when determining whether the evidence was sufficient to sustain a criminal below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find people v. snow (2003) 30 cal.4th 43, 66; people v. houston (2012) 54 cal.4th 1186, 1215; people v. elliott (2012) 53 cal.4th 535, 585.) we presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier of fact could reasonably deduce from the evidence. (people v. medina (2009) 46 no hypothesis (people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 331; people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357.) the same standard of review applies to cases in which the prosecution relies primarily on circumstantial evidence. (people v. brown, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 106.) 28 murder is an unlawful killing committed with malice aforethought. ( 187, subd. (a); people v. elmore (2014) 59 cal.4th 121, 132.) murder is of the first degree when it is committed in a willful, deliberate and premeditated fashion. ( 189; elmore, at p. 133; people v. beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 942.) second degree murder is an unlawful killing with malice aforethought, but without the elements of willfulness, deliberation, and premeditation. ( 187, subd. (a), 189; elmore, at p. 133; people v. knoller (2007) 41 cal.4th 139, 151.) malice may be express or implied. ( 188; beltran, at p. 941.) a defendant acts with express malice if he or she intends to kill. ( 188; beltran, at p. 941; elmore, at p. 132; people v. sanchez (2013) 221 cal.app.4th 1012, 1027.) malice is implied when a killing results from an intentional act, the natural and probable consequences of which are dangerous to human life, deliberately performed with knowledge of the danger to, and with conscious disregard for, human life. (elmore, at p. 133; people v. gonzalez (2012) 54 cal.4th 643, 653.) attempted murder requires the specific intent to kill and the commission of a direct but ineffectual act toward accomplishing the killing. (people v. hajek and vo (2014) 58 cal.4th 1144, 1192; people v. ervine (2009) 47 cal.4th 745, 785.) premeditation and deliberation require more than a showing of intent to kill. (people v. halvorsen (2007) 42 cal.4th 379, 419; people v. concha (2010) 182 cal.app.4th 1072, 1083-1084.) an intentional killing is premeditated and deliberate if it occurred as the result of preexisting thought and reflection, rather than as the product of an unconsidered or rash impulse. (people v. burney (2009) 47 cal.4th 203, 235; people v. jurado (2006) 38 cal.4th 72, 118.) (jurado, at p. 118; people v. koontz (2002) 27 cal.4th 1041, 1080.) test is not the duration of time as much as it is the extent of the reflection. thoughts may follow each other with great rapidity and cold, calculated judgment may be arrived at quickly . . . people v. mayfield (1997) 14 cal.4th 668, 767; people v. solomon, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 813.) 29 a reviewing court considers three types of evidence when determining whether a finding of premeditation and deliberation is adequately supported: planning activity by the defendant; motive; and the manner of killing. (people v. gonzalez, supra, 54 cal.4th at pp. 663-664; people v. burney, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 235; people v. romero (2008) 44 cal.4th 386, 401; people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15, 26-27.) these so-called andersonbe present in any particular combination, or at all, to establish the evidence was sufficient. (people v. streeter (2012) 54 cal.4th 205, 242; gonzalez, at p. 663; burney, at p. 235evidence of planning, or when there is evidence of motive with evidence of either romero, at p. 401.) b. application here there was ample evidence to prove phillips committed the second degree murder of johnson. after arming himself and shooting into the ground, phillips came through the sliding gate as the party guests scattered. he then aimed and fired at johnson as she attempted to run from him, hitting her in the head with a fatal shot. this evidence established express malice, that ispeople v. mendoza (2011) 52 cal.4th 1056, 1071 [a single shot to the head can support the inference of a deliberate intent to kill].) evidence of all three anderson lips committed the first degree murder of taylor and the premeditated and deliberate attempted murders of raven and sophia. first, there was evidence of planning. just after the argument, phillips stated he was going to get his gun. an empty cloth holster was found on the ground next to the van, and a gun case was found in the van. from this evidence jurors could infer phillips armed himself with a gun after the argument. the makarov was partially loaded when police found phillips in the garage after the shooting, evidence, coupled with the number of makarov casings found at the scene, showed phillips reloaded at some point during his rampage. phillips methodically pursued taylor 30 and raven through the house, demonstrating a calculated judgment to hunt and kill them. the foregoing evidence suggested the shootings were the product of preexisting thought and reflection, not an unconsidered impulse. (see people v. lee, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 636 [facts that defendant brought a loaded gun and extra ammunition, and reloaded, indicated planning]; people v. koontz, supra, arming himself and following the victim was evidence of planning]; people v. wharton, supra, 53 cal.3d at pp. 547, a hammer would constitute planning activity].) second, there was evidence of motive. phillips had just argued with his stepdaughters. taylor and johnson had made disrespectful and antagonistic remarks to who this shit all the timeshowed the animosity between him and his stepdaughters was of longstanding duration. from this, jurwere motivated by a desire for vengeance, and that he had made a calculated, considered decision to put an end to their conduct by killing them. third, the manner of killing and attempted killing showed premeditation and deliberation. phillips shot taylor twice in the thighs, incapacitating her, as she tried to run from him. he left her on the floor, calling for help, while he went to the bedroom and confronted the group hiding there. he then returned to finish her off with a shot to the heart. his methodical execution of her as she lay helpless on the ground evidenced a cold, calculated killing. (see people v. lewis (2009) 46 cal.4th 1255, 1293 [even if the initial strangulation of the victim was spontaneous, the additional act of slashing her throat indicated a reasoned decision to kill]; people v. mendoza, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 1071 [a close-range gunshot to the face is arguably sufficiently particular and exacting to permit an inference that the defendant was acting according to a preconceived design].) phillips chased and fired directly at raven, narrowly missing her head, as she fled from him. the fact he targeted the fleeing victims and delivered, or attempted to deliver, gunshots to vital organs suggested a preconceived design to kill. (see generally people v. prince (2007) 40 cal.4th 1179, 1253; people v. elliot (2005) 37 cal.4th 453, 471; lewis, 31 at p. 1293.) further, while in the house phillips bypassed other guests and family members, demonstrating he was not shooting randomly but was specifically targeting his stepdaughters. from these facts, the jury could readily infer the killing and attempted killing were the result of preexisting thought and reflection. the same is true in regard to the attempted murder of sophia. sophia had escorted phillips out of the gate and had yelled at him, giving him a motive to attack her. after killing taylor and targeting raven in the house, phillips returned to his van. larry, osborne, and james saw phillips at the van after the murders, fumbling with something in his hands. from this evidence, the jury could have inferred phillips was reloading the gun, in preparation for further killing. upon seeing sophia and the others, phillips pursued them and fired shots at them as they fled. the extended nature of the shooting rampage, the fact phillips reloaded the gun, and his act of shooting at sophia while deliberate. indeed, phillips does not appear to dispute that the foregoing evidence was sufficient to demonstrate premeditation and deliberation. instead, he argues that the evidence overwhelmingly supported convictions for heat-of-passion voluntary manslaughter and attempted voluntary manslaughter. he points out that taylor and johnson invited gang members to the party at his house, which upset him and would have upset a reasonable person; taylor acted disrespectfully by countermanding his directive his stepdaughters engaged in a heated argument with him, made disrespectful comments in front of numerous party guests, and ultimately had him thrown out of his own house by their gangster friends. this evidence, he urges, shows that he committed the shootings in the heat of passion, requiring verdicts of voluntary manslaughter and attempted voluntary manslaughter. reweigh the evidence and substitute our we cannot do. the fact the evidence might have been reconciled with a contrary finding does not warrant a reversal. (see, e.g., people v. 32 harris (2013) 57 cal.4th 804, 849-850; people v. livingston (2012) 53 cal.4th 1145, 1170.) we resolve neither credibility issues nor evidentiary conflicts. (people v. friend (2009) 47 cal.4th 1, 41; people v. tripp (2007) 151 cal.app.4th 951, 955; people v. cortes vidence determination].) evidence is susceptible of two interpretations, one of which suggests guilt and the other innocence, it is the jury, not the appellate court, which must be convinced of the (people v. harris, at pp. 849-850; people v. iboa (2012) 207 cal.app.4th 111, 117.) as we have discussed, the evidence supported 4. sentencing a. custody credits phillips contends the trial court miscalculated his actual custody credits, and he is entitled to 2,559 days of actual custody credit, not the 2,557 days the trial court awarded. the people concede the point. we agree. phillips was arrested on september 2, 2006. he was sentenced on september 4, 2013. because 2008 and 2012 were leap years, he is entitled to two additional days of actual custody credit. the failure to properly calculate custody and conduct credit is a jurisdictional error that can be corrected at any time. (people v. chilelli (2014) 225 cal.app.4th 581, 591.) accordingly, we order the judgment modified and the abstract of judgment corrected. b. fines and fees the trial court imposed a court security fee in the amount of $120, and a criminal conviction assessment in the amount of $90. the people point out that, because phillips was convicted of a total of six offenses, the court should have imposed six $40 assessments pursuant to section 1465.8 and six $30 assessments pursuant to government code section 70373. we agree. a court security fee ( 1465.8, subd. (a)(1)) and a criminal conviction assessment (gov. code,  70373) apply to each count of which a defendant is convicted. (people v. sencion (2012) 211 cal.app.4th 480, 483-484; people 33 v. schoeb (2005) 132 cal.app.4th 861, 865.) we order the judgment modified accordingly. (people v. talibdeen (2002) 27 cal.4th 1151, 1157.) disposition the judgment is modified to reflect 2,559 days of actual custody credit, a $240 court security fee pursuant to section 1465.8, and a $180 criminal conviction assessment pursuant to government code section 70373. the clerk of the superior court is directed to prepare an amended abstract of judgment and to forward a copy to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports aldrich, j. we concur: kitching, acting p. j. lavin, j.* * judge of the superior court of los angeles county assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 