filed 12/16/14 p. v. davis ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. kendrick davis, defendant and appellant. b252015 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va127396) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, raul anthony sahagun, judge. affirmed. carla castillo, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and nima razfar, deputys attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 appellant kendrick davis challenges his convictions for murder and attempted murder on the grounds of insufficiency of the evidence and ineffective assistance of counsel. we reject his contentions and affirm. relevant procedural background on february 20, 2013, an information was filed charging appellant in count 1 with the murder of lester donaldson (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)), in count 2 with the attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder of matthew george, a peace officer (pen. code,  187, subd. (a), 664), and in count 3 with assault upon a peace officer (pen. code,  245, subd. (c)).1 accompanying counts 2 and 3 were allegations that appellant inflicted great bodily injury ( 12022.7, subd. (a)). the information also asserted prior conviction allegations ( 667.5, subd. (b),  667, subds. (a), (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)). appellant pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. a jury found appellant guilty as charged and found true the special allegations. quest, the trial court limited the bench trial to the prior conviction allegations predicated on a single specified conviction. after finding those prior conviction allegations to be true, the trial court sentenced appellant to a total term of 88 years to life. this appeal followed. 1 all further statutory citations are to the penal code. 3 facts a. prosecution evidence 1. murder of lester donaldson (count 1) in 2012, appellant was a parolee assigned to parole agent maridee richards. according to richards, on friday, october 12, 2012, appellant was released from county jail and appeared at the long beach parole office, where richards placed a g.p.s. monitoring device on his ankle. appellant told richards that he was residing in a motel in bellflower. the following monday (october 15), at approximately 6:00 a.m., the monitoring center informed richards removed. richards where they found a dead person in the bed. appellant was not present. a search disclosed near the motel.2 the dead person was identified as lester donaldson. dr. kevin young, a medical examiner, performed an autopsy on donaldson body. according to young, donaldson displayed abrasions on the left side of his neck, a broken neck bone, and hemorrhages in his eyes. young opined that donaldson died of strangulation. young further stated that to cause donaldsonnute at least, appellant leaving the motel at 5:33 a.m. on october 15, 2012. 2 deputy sheriffs matthew hart and shelby martin, who accompanied richards and the other par 4 2. attempted murder of, and assault upon, long beach police department officer matthew george (counts 2 and 3) thanh nguyen testified that she owned a nail salon in long beach. on october 15, 2012, at approximately 10:00 a.m., appellant entered the salon and asked who owned a red mercedes parked outside. after the car owner identified herself, appellant inquired whether he could borrow the car. when the car owner appellant left the salon, returned with a soda in his hand, threw it on nguyen and her customers fled from the salon. after making a 911 call, nguyen returned to the salon, where she saw appellant lying on his back on the floor. when nguyen approached him, he left the salon and went to the mercedes. nguyen further testified that a uniformed police officer soon arrived in a patrol car. upon leaving the car, the officer ordered appellant to kneel down, but appellant refused. after the officer waved his baton without striking appellant, a fight commenced between appellant and the officer. according to nguyen, when nguyen yelled for help, five or six construction workers appeared and separated appellant from the officer, who was beneath appellant. tn and a cell phone made video recordings of the incident, which were played for the jury; in addition, the prosecution presented evidence that the keys to the mercedes contained a mace dispenser. the video recordings appeared to show that appellant took the keys to the mercedes from its owner, who discharged the dispenser at appellant as he robbed her. long beach police department officer matthew george testified that he responded to acall regarding the nail salon. when george arrived at the scene, a woman told him that appellant had taken the keys to her 5 mercedes. george took out his gun and approached appellant, who was standing in front of the mercedes with his hands on the ille. george noticed that appellant was sweating. george further testified that he directed appellant to walk toward him. appellant initially obeyed, but failed to lie down on the ground when george an toward george, who holstered his gun and pulled out his baton. stance, appellant repeatedly punched george in the face with closed fists, and . when george tried to back away from appellant, he felt tugging on or near his gun belt. according to george, because appellant appeared to be trying to seize his gun, he was authorized to apply lethal force. george shead, which began to bleed. when appellant continued to fight, george hit george further testified that the fight attracted a crowd of people who yelled at appellant. when appellant momentarily turned to face the crowd, george his baton. george placed appellant in a bear hug, slammed him to the ground, and straddled appellant while holding his left arm. while the pair were on the ground, george called for backup. appellant, who lay on his back, reached up with his free right hand and choked george. as george began to lose consciousness, some onlookers came to his assistance and freed him from george further testified that after the fight, he felt dazed, tired, and weak. his face was swollen and painful, he had lacerations and red markings on his neck, and his nose was fractured. he later underwent surgery to repair the fracture. jose polanco testified that he was working on a salon when appellant walked from the salon to a red mercedes. appellant began 6 after when the officer lost his baton, he hugged appellant, and the pair fell to the ground. polanco saw appellant punch the officer for one or two minutes. as the officer seemed to be in trouble, polanco and two of his fellow workers took hold of appellant, who continued to struggle against them until other police officers arrived. that he heard a loud noise and saw appellant beating on the front of a parked mercedes. a police officer appeared in a patrol after the officer issued some commands that appellant ignored, a fight ensured. according to pardew, appellant appeared to be the initial aggressor. the officer used a baton to resist appellant. when the officer stepped backwards, he lost his footing, and appellant grabbed the baton. the pair ended up fighting on the ground. pardew assisted the officer by taking the baton away from appellant. when pardew saw appellant touching oot on other people joined pardew in holding appellant until police officers arrived. following the incident, investigating officers took dna samples from and appellant 3. -arrest statements sloan testified that he and a fellow investigator interviewed appellant following his 7 arrest. after sloan issued miranda warnings to appellant, appellant voluntarily spoke to the investigators.3 regarding the incident involving officer george, appellant told the investigators .appellant absolutely nothing wrong when they detained him . . . . regarding the incident at the motel, appellant told the investigators that the dead man, donaldson, was the long-died while he was in custody. appellant claimed to have had a good relationship with donaldson. on the date of the incident, appellant invited donaldson to his motel room, where they . . . and drank approximately half of a bottle of courvoisier. appellant further told the investigators that at some point, he and donaldson had died. he had done all he could do for her. however, while in custody, appellant had come to believe that donaldson had not done everything he could to help sick mother. thus, when appellant told the invest appellant further told the investigators that he grabbed donaldson, who was on the bed, got on top of him, and squeezed his throat until he stopped breathing. 3 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 8 appellant -of-the-moment-type of appellant then covered donaldson with a pillow and comforter, left the motel, and cut off his monitoring device. b. defense evidence appellant presented no evidence. discussion appellant contends (1) that his convictions for murder and attempted murder fail for want of substantial evidence, and (2) that his counsel rendered ineffective assistance. as explained below, we disagree. a. adequacy of the evidence we begin with appellant his convictions for first degree murder and first degree attempted murder.4 4 criminal case is whether, on the entire record, a rational trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citations.] on appeal, we must view the evidence in the light most favorable to the people and must presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence. [citation.] [] although we must ensure the evidence is reasonable, credible, and of solid value, nonetheless it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts on which that determination depends. [citation.] thus, if the verdict is supported by substantial evidence, we must people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206.) 9 1. appellant maintains murder was not deliberate and premeditated, arguing that the evidence shows that he killed donaldson in a fit of rage. generally verdict of deliberate and premeditated first degree murder requires more than a showing of intent to kill. [citation.] deliberation refers to careful weighing of considerations in forming a course of action; premeditation means thought over in advance. [citations.] (people v. mendoza (2011) 52 cal.4th 1056, 1069, quoting people v. koontz (2002) 27 cal.4th 1041, 1080.) [p]remeditation and deliberation can occur in a brief interval. the test is not time, but reflection. thoughts may follow each other with great rapidity and cold, calculated judgment may be arrived at quickly. [citation.] (people v. mendoza, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 1069, quoting people v. sanchez (2001) 26 cal.4th 834, 849.) the necessary elements of deliberation and premeditation may be inferred from all the facts and circumstances as will furnish a reasonable basis for such inferences, and where the evidence is not in law insufficient, the matter is exclusively a question for the trier of fact to determine. [citations.] proof of circumstances occurring at the time of the killing, as well as circumstances before and after the killing, are competent to show deliberation and premeditation. people v. mulqueen (1970) 9 cal.app.3d 532, 544.) in people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15, 26-27 (anderson), our supreme court identified three kinds of evidence a reviewing court should consider in determining the existence of premeditation and deliberation, namely, planning activity, motive, and manner of killing.5 it has subsequently cautioned that these 5 in people v. lenart (2004) 32 cal.4th 1107, 1127, the court summarized the three anderson prior to (fn. continued on next page.) 10 people v. halvorsen (2007) 42 cal.4th 379, 420.) an instructive application of the anderson factors is found in people v. silva (2001) 25 cal.4th 345 (silva). there, the defendant was charged with three murders committed shortly after he was paroled from state prison. (id. at p. 351.) there were no eyewitnesses to any of the murders. (id. at pp. 352-353.) one of the victims, who died of multiple gunshot wounds, was found on a rural dirt road in the area of other murders. (ibid.) regarding that victim, the defendant told investigating officers that he had picked her up while she was hitchhiking, and paid for her food and shelter when she said she had no money. (id. at p. 368.) he further stated he took her with him when he decided to look for the body of his other victim. (id. at p. 369.) according to the defendant, he killed her in a fit of rage when he concluded that she had lied regarding her lack of money. (ibid.) on appeal, the defendant acknowledged that he intentionally killed the v (silva, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 369.) in concluding there was sufficient evidence of the actual killing which show that the defendant was engaged in activity directed toward, and explicable as intended to result in, the killing -- what may be characterized as planning prior relationship and/or conduct with the victim from which the jury could reasonably infer a motive to kill the victim, which inference of motive, together with facts of type (1) or (3), would in turn support an inference that killing was the result of a pre-existing reflection and careful thought and weighing of considerations rather than mere unconsidered or rash impulse hastily executed [citation]; (3) facts about the nature of the killing from which the jury could infer that the manner of killing was so particular and exacting that the defendant must 11 premeditation and deliberation, our supreme court observed that a rational jury was not obliged to accept implausible statement that he intended to take a stranger to the site of one of his prior crimes. (25 cal.4th at p. 369.) the court stated: a rational trier of fact could infer instead that defendant selected this location because it was a place where no potential witnesses or rescuers could see them or hear ries for help and the sounds of a shotgun firing. . . . thus, the murders isolated location, selected by defendant, is itself evidence of planning. defendants statements that he believed [the victim] had lied to him about having no money and had taken advantage of him in persuading him to spend his money on her are evidence of motive.ibid.) the court further concluded that the manner of killing was ibid.) here, appellant concedes that his strangulation of donaldson demonstrated . . . preexisting reflection, (italics deleted.) implausible explanation that he met with donaldson simply for the purpose of socializing, despite having concluded while in custody that donaldson had not adequately helped his sick mother. instead, a rational jury could infer that appellant invited donaldson to his motel room because it was a place where appellant could confront donaldson in the absence of onlookers. coupled with the fact that the invitation to donaldson followed close on the heels of furthermore, appelailing mother is evidence of motive. 12 method of killing was also consistent with a premeditated and deliberate murder (silva, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 369). manual strangulation is usually sufficient to show an intent to kill (people v. hernandez (1988) 47 cal.3d 315, 349), and in some circumstances, is evidence of premeditation and deliberation (people v. davis (1995) 10 cal.4th 463, 491 [al strangulation demonstrated premeditation and deliberation when the evidence showed that the victim, who was driving with the defendant, wrecked her car and fled from the defendant, who followed and strangled her over a period of up to five minutes]). here, the manner of killing supports a finding of premeditation and deliberation, as the strangulation hindered donaldson from crying out or alerting motel residents, and defendant applied people v. rowland (1982) 134 cal.app.3d 1, upon which appellant relies, is distinguishable. there, the defendant met his female victim at a party. (id. at pp. 6, 8.) the pair then drove to apartment, where he lived with another woman. (134 cal.app.3d at pp. 6-7.) the defendant hid the victim, told his roommate a spare room, and then pretended to leave the apartment. (ibid.) after the roommate heard the bed shaking in the spare room and some choking sounds, she fled from the apartment. (ibid.) apartment, and the cause of death was determined to be strangulation by a electrical cord. (id. at p. 7.) applying the anderson factors, the appellate court concluded there was insufficient evidence of premeditation and deliberation to because the defendant did not know the victim before meeting her at the party, the court determined that the evidence showed no motive or planning for a murder, but only (id. at p. 9.) the court also 13 determined that the method of killing established neither premeditation nor deliberation because electrical cords are commonly found in bedrooms. (id. at p. 8.) -existing relationship with donaldson, coupled with the circumstances and manner of the killing, are sufficient to support a finding of premeditation and deliberation. 2. attempted murder of officer george wontentions regarding his conviction for the attempted first degree murder of officer george. a. intent to kill appellant maintains there is no evidence that he intended to kill officer george. generally, [t]he crime of attempted murder includes the element of intent to kill. [citation.] one who intentionally attempts to kill another does not often declare his state of mind . . . . absent such direct evidence, the intent obviously must be derived from all the circumstances of the attempt, including the putative killers actions and words. . . . (people v. gonzalez (2005) 126 cal.app.4th 1539, 1552, quoting people v. lashley (1991) 1 cal.app.4th 938, 945-946.) here, the record shows his g.p.s. monitor, saw identified its owner, and took the keys to the mercedes. when officer george arrived, appellant initially cooperated with his orders, then attacked him. there is tried to seize his gun: na was found furthermore, appellant choked george with force sufficient to 14 cause george to begin to lose consciousness. following the incident, appellant stated that he attacked george because appellan-arrest remarks, coupled with his conduct, support the reasonable inference that he intended to kill officer george in order to escape. aside from repeatedly hitting george in the face with closed fists, appellant successfully seized baton, attempted to grab his gun, and sought to strangle him. nguyen testified that appellant george suffered a fractured nose and lacerations to his neck. on this evidence, a rational jury could conclude that appellant acted with the intent to kill.6 b. premeditation and deliberation appellant also contends there is no evidence of premeditation and deliberation. premeditateddeliberate,in the context of attempted murder, carry the same meaning they convey in connection with first degree murder. (people v. herrera (1999) 70 cal.app.4th 1456, 1462, fn. 8, overruled on another ground in people v. mesa (2012) 54 cal.4th 191, 199.) as explained above (see pt. a.1., ante), the presence of 6 appellant suggests that he lacked the mental state required for attempted first sweating. however, a rational jury was not compelled to infer from that behavior that evidence that the keys to the mercedes contained a mace dispenser that the mercedes owner discharged at appellant when he seized the keys. in view of that evidence, the jury mace dispenser. 15 premeditation and deliberation is determined by whether appellant adequately reflected on killing officer george, not by how long he contemplated that conduct. we find guidance regarding people v. robillard (1960) 55 cal.2d 88 (robillard), overruled on other grounds in people v. satchell (1971) 6 cal.3d 28, 35, 43, and from people v. sedeno (1974) 10 cal.3d 703 (sedeno), overruled on other grounds in people v. blakeley (2000) 23 cal.4th 82, 89, people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 149, and people v. flannel (1979) 25 cal.3d 668, 685, fn. 12). in robillard, the defendant, who was on probation, looted some cars and drove away in a stolen car. (55 cal.2d at p. 92.) a police officer unaware of the crimes stopped the defendant and placed radio calls audible to the defendant regarding the defendant (ibid.) the officer was later found dead after having been shot. (id. at p. 93.for first degree murder, our supreme court concluded there was a sufficient showing of premeditation and deliberation, as there was evidence that the defendant had subjected him to imminent arrest. in sedeno, the defendant was a jail prisoner who seized an opportunity to escape on foot. (sedeno, supra, 10 cal.3d at p. 710.) when officers chased him, he fought them off and continued to flee, even though they told him that he would not be hurt if he gave up. (ibid.) the defendant took a gun from an officer and fired it at his pursuers, killing one of them. (id. at pp. 710-711.) after the defendant was convicted of first degree murder, the supreme court rejected his contention there was insufficient evidence of deliberation, stating: defendant] had been stopped by police officers while fleeing from the jail. he had been advised to surrender and had been assured that he would not be hurt. he nonetheless attempted to continue his flight and . . . seized the officers gun and . . . shot the officer in the back. (id. at pp. 712-713.) 16 in view of robillard and sedenofindings of premeditation and deliberation. there is sufficient evidence of planning, as the record shows that when officer george arrived, appellant first obeyed his orders, which permitted appellant to move toward george. although with the orders, appellant attacked him. regarding the remaining anderson he back to jail is sufficient evidence of motive, and his persistent and strangle him are fully consistent with a premeditated and deliberated plan to kill george in order to escape. on this record, a rational jury could find the existence of premeditation and deliberation. in sum, there is sufficient evidence to b. ineffective assistance of counsel appellant contends his trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance by failing to (1) request an instruction on voluntary intoxication, and (2) object to a we reject these contentions. 1. governing principles rate ineffective assistance of counsel, a defendant must below an objective standard of reasonableness . . . under prevailing professional performance or lack thereof. [citations.] prejudice is shown when there is a the proceeding would have been different. a reasonable probability is a 17 (people v. jennings (1991) 53 cal.3d 334, 357.) 2. voluntary intoxication instruction as deficient because he requested no instruction regarding voluntary intoxication. appellant argued that in view of his post-arrest statements to investigators, it was incumbent upon counsel to request such an instruction. we disagree. as elaborated below (see pt. b.3, post), in closing argument, defense counsel -arrest statements to support a theory of iently provocative to cause an ordinary reasonable judgment. get out of prison, you invite her boyfriend to your room. [you] guys are having a good time. you are getting some liquor, you are having some beer [sic], you are feeling good and . . . all you keep hearing about is your mother and how she died . . . . , enough for my . . . and it just keeps going on and on and on. [] would an ordinary person be getting emotional and crying after losing his mother, not being able to go to the funeral because he was in prison? would an ordinarily[] reasonable person become internally enraged . . . we conclude that not requesting an instruction on voluntary intoxication. counsels failure to make a futile or unmeritorious motion or request is not ineffective assistance. (people v. szadziewicz (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 823, 836.) as explained, the record discloses no evidence sufficient to support a voluntary intoxication instruction. 18 defendant has a right to an instruction that pinpoints the theory of the defense [citations]; however, a trial judge must only give those instructions which are supported by substantial evidence. [citations.] further, a trial judge has the authority to refuse requested instructions on a defense theory for which there is no supporting evidence. [citation] a party is not entitled to an instruction on a theory for which there is no supporting evidence. [citation.] (people v. roldan (2005) 35 cal.4th 646, 715 (roldan), disapproved on another ground in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22.) vidence of voluntary intoxication . . . is admissible solely on the issue of whether or not the defendant actually formed a required specific intent, or, when charged with murder, whether the defendant premeditated, deliberated, or harbored express malice aforethought. [citations.] (roldan, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 715.) accordingly, a defendant charged with first degree murder is entitled to an instruction on voluntary intoxication only when there is substantial evidence that the defendant was voluntarily intoxicated and that the intoxication affected the actual formation of [therequired for that crime. (ibid., quoting people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 635, 677-678 (williams).) under these principles, evidence of the defendant, unaccompanied by sufficient evidence regarding its effect on the defendants mental state, does not support voluntary intoxication instructions. in williams, the defendant was convicted of four counts of first degree murder. (williams, supra, 16 cal.4th at p. 647.) on appeal, he contended the trial court erroneously refused his request for an instruction on voluntary intoxication, pointing to witness probably spaced out,well as his own post-doped upsmokin pretty tough. (id. at p. 676.) in rejecting the 19 (id. at p. 678.) the same is true here. the sole evidence regarding appevoluntary intoxication is found in his post-arrest remarks. appellant told the investigators that after he and donaldson jointly drank approximately half of a bottle of courvoisier[aaccording to appellant, although donaldson do for [appella appellantpost-arrest statements do not constitute substantial evidence that his voluntary intoxication had any effect on for first degree murder (roldan, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 715; williams, supra, 16 cal.4th at pp. 677-678). in explaining remarks precipitated the killing, appellant did not mention his purported intoxication. furthermore, as appellant claimed to recall the precise events do not support the reasonable inference that his level of intoxication affected the formation of the requisite state of mind. (see people v. juarez (1968) 258 cal.app.2d 349, 357 showed that his intoxication did not prevent the formation of the mental state required for first degree murder].) accordingly, 20 appellant has failed to show ineffective assistance of counsel, as he was not entitled to a voluntary intoxication instruction.7 3. appellant also contends his trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance by failing to object, during the rebuttal portion , to erroneous required for voluntary manslaughter voluntary manslaughter based on a sudden quarrel or heat of passion is a lesser included offence of intentional murder. (people v. breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at pp. 153-154, 160.) the factor that distinguishes murder from voluntary manslaughter based on a sudden quarrel or heat of passion is provocation. (people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 583.) the requisite provocation is subject to several requirements. (ibid.) the provocation must be caused by the victim, or reasonably attributed to the victim by the defendant. (ibid.) furthermore, although be sufficiently provocative that it would cause an ordinary person of average disposition to act id. at p. 584.) the provocation is thus assessed under subjective and objective standards: it must actually motivate reasonable person.ibid.) 7 appellant suggests that counsel improperly failed to request a voluntary intoxication instruction in connection with the attempted murder of officer george. that contention fails, as there was insufficient evidence to support such an instruction in attempted murder of george. furthermore, the record discloses no other evidence that appellant was intoxicated when he tried to kill george; on the contrary, george testified that he smelled no alcohol on appellant. 21 in people v. beltran (2013) 56 cal.4th 935, 946-953 (beltran), our supreme court clarified that the inquiry into the existence of the requisite provocation is directed at for assessing the adequacy of provocation is whether an ordinary person of average disposition would be moved id. at p. 946.) the court explained: adopting a standard requiring such provocation that the ordinary person of average disposition would be moved to kill focuses on the wrong thing. the proper focus is placed on the defendants state of mind, not on his particular act. to be adequate, the provocation must be one that would cause an emotion so intense that an ordinary person would simply react, without reflection. . . . [t]he anger or other passion must be so strong that the defendants reaction bypassed his thought process to such an extent that judgment could not and did not intervene. framed another way, provocation is not evaluated by whether the average person would act in a certain way: to kill. instead, the question is whether the average person would react in a certain way: with his reason and judgment obscured.id. at p. 949.) here, the jury was instructed with caljic no. 8.42, which states in pertinent part: the heat of passion which will reduce a homicide to manslaughter must be such a passion as naturally would be aroused in the mind of an ordinarily reasonable person in the same circumstances. . . . [] the question to be answered is whether or not, at the time of the killing, the reason of the accused was obscured or disturbed by passion to such an extent as would cause the ordinarily reasonable person of average disposition to act rashly and without deliberation and reflection, and from passion rather than judgment. [] if there was provocation, . . . , but of a nature not normally sufficient to arouse passion, . . . , and if an unlawful killing of a human being followed the provocation and had all the elements of murder, . . . , 22 the mere fact of slight or remote provocation will not reduce the offense to manslaughter. during closing arguments, defense counsel maintained that under the standards set forth in caljic no. 8.42 upon hearing donaldsoi did everything i could for her, [--] speaking of your mother [--] . . . cause you to kill someone? (italics added.) inflammatory[] that it would cause you to kill the person who took care of your mom, then go ahead and come back with a [verdict of] voluntary manslaughter . . . (italics added.) defense counsel asserted no objection to those remarks. it is unnecessary for us to assess whether defense counselconstituted deficient representation, as the record discloses no prejudice to appellant attributable to in people v. najera (2006) 138 cal.app.4th 212, 215-216 (najera), the defendant and his victim were drinking jota-- that is, a faggot. after the defendant initiated a fist fight with the victim, the defendant retrieved a knife and killed the victim with it. (id. at p. 216.) on appeal, the defendant challenged his conviction for second degree murder, arguing that his counsel was ineffective by failing to object to the prosecutor remarks in closing argument at the requisite provocation must be sufficient to arouse a reasonable person to kill. (id. at pp. 224-226.) the appellate court held that defense counsfailure to 23 object caused no prejudice to appellant because he was, in fact, not entitled to an inheat of passionfaggot motherfucker,adequate provocation. (id. at pp. 225-226.) the court explained: a provocation of slight and trifling character, such as words of reproach, however grievous they may be, . . . is not recognized as sufficient to arouse, in a reasonable man, such passion as reduces an unlawful killing with a deadly weapon to manslaughter. (id. at p. 226, quoting people v. wells (1938) 10 cal.2d 610, 623, overruled on another ground in people v. holt (1944) 25 cal.2d 59, 87-88.) the rationale in najera is applicable here. -arrest remarks, within days of his release from custody, he invited donaldson to his motel room for socializing, even though while in custody he had concluded that donaldson had not adequately helped his ailing mother. indeed, appellant told the mother, coupled with donaldson had done everything he could to help her. under the circumstances, those remarks were insufficient as a matter of law to cause an emotion so intense that an ordinary reasonable person would simply react, without reflection (beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at pp. 949, 951), for purposes of reducing murder to manslaughter. pointing to people v. mccowan (1986) 182 cal.app.3d 1, appellant there, the defendant and his wife underwent a lengthy and bitter divorce. (id. at pp. 7-8.) after the divorce, he killed his former wife, wounded his ex-mother-in law, who had lived with the couple during their dissolution proceedings, and killed his ex-father-in-law. (ibid.) at trial, the defendant presented evidence that on the day of 24 (id. at p. 8.) according to the defendant, he killed his wife after she made an obscene gesture at him and appeared to reach for something in her car; he then shot his former parents-in-law while consumed by hatred for them. (ibid.) the appellate court concluded that on this evidence, the trial court had properly id. at pp. 15-16.) here, in contrast, there is no evidence of provocation sufficient to support a prior to the remarks by donaldson that purportedly triggered the killing, dealings with donaldson were not acrimonious; on the contrary, appellant told investigators that he had a good relationship with donaldson, and that on . . . with each other very sufficient to reduce murder to voluntary manslaughter. admonition regarweak, and as explained above (see pt. a.1., ante), the record discloses considerable there is no reasonable probability of a more favorable outcome for appellant had (beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 949). in sum, appellant has failed to show that his counsel rendered . 25 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports manella, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. collins, j. 