 filed 4/30/15 p. v. salais ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. oscar jesus salais, defendant and appellant. b252520 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka101379) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mike camacho, judge. affirmed. alan stern, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and corey j. robins, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______________________ 2 defendant oscar jesus salais was convicted by a jury of three counts of attempted murder (counts 1-3), three counts of attempted second degree robbery (counts 4-6), and possession of a short-barreled rifle or shotgun (count 7). (pen. code,  664, 187, subd. (a), 211, 33215.)1 firearm and criminal street gang allegations were also found to be true. ( 12022.53, subds. (b), (c) [counts 1-6], 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c) [counts 1-7].) defendant received a sentence of 105 years to life. in this appeal from the judgment, he raises issues of insufficient evidence, prosecutorial misconduct (brady2 violation), and ineffective assistance of counsel. finding no error, we affirm. factual and procedural background during the early morning hours of february 9, 2013, marco valladarez, carlos cisneros, and jonathan cabrera were walking to a convenience store. they were confronted by a man with a shotgun who said, where you fools from? this is bassett. cisneros replied that they were not from anywhere and were just going to the store. the man pointed the shotgun at them and said, give me the shit. give me your shit. . . . [] empty your pockets. dont fuck with me. the man struck valladarez in the face with the shotgun, causing a fairly deep injury that bled. when the man pulled the trigger, the weapon made a clicking sound but did not fire. cisneros pushed the barrel away and told his friends to run. as they were running, the man fired a shot and yelled bassett. valladarez, cisneros, and cabrera reported the crime to los angeles county sheriffs deputies, who recovered a live shotgun round from the street. about two weeks later, on february 21, 2013, deputy joseph rivera stopped a vehicle in which defendant was a passenger. rivera observed that defendants seat was tilted all the way back, his legs were straight out, and there was a big bulge in his 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 2 brady v. maryland (1963) 373 u.s. 83 (brady). 3 waistband. rivera patted defendants waistband, felt the handle of a firearm, and removed a sawed off shotgun from defendants pants. defendant was arrested on a weapons charge, and the shotgun was booked into evidence. the shotgun contained three shells16-gauge, 6-shot shells made by federalthat matched the live round from the february 9 incident. after being told that he was a suspect in that crime, defendant failed to appear at the preliminary hearing on the weapons charge. a bench warrant was issued, and he was arrested while hiding under a bed in his girlfriends trailer. he admitted possession of a stolen shotgun found in the trailer. valladarez, cisneros, and cabrera identified defendant through photographic lineups. they also identified a photograph of the sawed off shotgun that was recovered during the traffic stop on february 21. as to the february 9 incident, defendant was charged with attempted murder (count 1 [valladarez], count 2 [cisneros], and count 3 [cabrera]), and attempted robbery (count 4 [valladarez], count 5 [cisneros], and count 6 [cabrera]), with a firearm and gang allegations. as to the weapon recovered on february 21, defendant was charged with possession of a sawed off shotgun (count 7). he was also charged with receiving stolen property, the firearm found in the trailer (count 8). a. prosecutions evidence at trial valladarez. valladarez identified defendant in court. he testified that defendant pulled a sawed off shotgun from his shorts and said, give me the shit. give me your shit. when cisneros told defendant that [w]e werent from anywhere, defendant replied, i dont give a fuck. this is bassett. after they did not respond, defendant hit valladarez in the face with the shotgun and repeated his demand, give up the shit. defendant then pulled the trigger while pointing the weapon at valladarezs face, but it jammed up and made a clicking sound. cisneros pushed the barrel away and said to run. as they were running, defendant fired a round from the middle of the street. at that point, they were about 33 feet and 9 inches away (based on courtroom measurements), or 75 feet away (according to valladarezs testimony at the preliminary hearing). when 4 they reached the store, they reported the crime to sheriffs deputies. valladarez told the officers that the shotgun had jammed and made a clicking sound. the officers did not believe them at first, but when they went to the scene, they found a shotgun round on the street. cisneros. cisneros also identified defendant in court. he testified that defendant pulled out a shotgun, and . . . said, where you fools from? this is bassett. cisneros told him that we were not from anywhere. defendant demanded, empty your pockets. dont fuck with me, and hit valladarez in the face with the shotgun. cisneros grabbed the shotgun, but defendant yanked it back and pulled the trigger while pointing the weapon at cisneros and valladarez, who were next to each other. cisneros heard a click, but it didnt go off. while defendant was manipulating the shotgun (cisneros made a sliding-action motion), cisneros told the others to run. as they were running, defendant fired a shot and yelled bassett. cisneros heard a bullet hitting a house. they were about 9 feet, 5 inches away when the shot was fired (based on courtroom measurements). they flagged a patrol car and reported the crime. cisneros told officers about the man pulling the trigger while pointing the weapon at his face. officers recovered a shotgun round from the street. cabrera. cabrera also identified defendant in court. he testified that after defendant pulled a shotgun from his shorts, he asked where they were from and said, this is bassett gang. give me your shit. cabrera was about 8 feet, 3 inches away (based on courtroom measurements) when valladarez was hit in the face with the shotgun. defendant was waving the shotgun back and forth, and tried to . . . fire off a round, but the gun ended up getting stuck. cabrera heard a clicking sound while the shotgun was pointed at cisneros, who pushed the barrel away and said to run. as defendant was messing with the shotgun to get it unstuck (cabrera made motions consistent with activating a slide action), cabrera started to run. cabrera was across the street and about 30 feet away (based on courtroom measurements) or 65 to 70 feet away (based on his preliminary hearing testimony) when the shot was fired. valladarez 5 and cisneros were running behind him. the suspect wasnt clean-shaven, and cabrera could not recall saying that he was clean-shaven. deputy garcia. deputy mayra garcia testified that she and her partner were flagged down by valladarez, cisneros, and cabrera at about 2 a.m. on february 9, 2013. valladarez was bleeding from a laceration on his cheek. the three men appeared to be frightened, and reported an attempted robbery and shooting. when backup officers arrived, they searched the location with flashlights. garcia recovered a live shotgun round from the street, which was booked into evidence.3 on cross-examination, garcia denied being told by the victims about the trigger being pulled and the gun making a clicking sound while the weapon was pointed at their faces. based on her recollection of their statements, the only time they heard any kind of clicking or gunfire . . . was as they ran away down the street. ballistics evidence. manuel munoz, the prosecutions criminalist, testified that when a shotgun misfires, the unfired round can be ejected by pumping the slide backwards. as the unfired round is cycled through the weapon, it is imprinted with tool markings that can be used for identification purposes. by examining the shotgun found on february 21 and the shell found on february 9, munoz matched the tool markings on the shell to this particular shotgun. munoz explained that a 6-shot shell contains 350 to 400 pellets of lead or birdshot. he testified that when a 6-shot shell is fired at someone 3 feet away, probably all of the pellets would cluster and strike the intended target. but when the target is 100 feet away, the pellets would spread out and decelerate before reaching the target. when fired from that distance, the few pellets that hit the victim might break skin, but would not be lethal. munoz testified that a shotgun is a very effective long range weapon depending on the type of ammunition used. a lead slug, for example, is very effective long range. 3 the only physical evidence recovered at the scene was the live round that was ejected from the shotgun that was later found in defendants possession. 6 it is possible to load a shotgun with an assortment of shells, such as a 6-shot shell, followed by a slug, followed by a 6-shot, and so on. when asked whether a shotgun makes a clicking sound when it misfires, munoz replied that he didnt try that on this particular shotgun, but normally, no. a trigger disconnects on some of these shotguns that prevents that from happening. gang evidence. based on a hypothetical that tracked the facts of the february 9 incident, the prosecutions gang expertsergeant robert chismtestified that in his opinion, the crime was committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang. he also offered his opinion that defendant belongs to the bassett grande gang, which operates in that area, but the victims are not gang members. he testified that members of a gang often pass around and share firearms. defense case. the defense questioned detective carlos gutierrez, the investigating officer, about the victims statements, if any, concerning an attempted shooting at close range while the weapon was pointed at their faces. gutierrez testified that according to their interview statements, cisneros was 8 feet away when he saw defendant pull the trigger and heard a clicking sound; valladarez saw defendants finger on the trigger, but did not mention a clicking sound; and cabrera heard the racking of a shotgun and sometime after that, he heard a shot. prosecutions theories of attempted murder. the prosecutor argued the act of pointing a weapon at someones face and pulling the trigger constitutes attempted murder, as does firing a weapon at someone within the zone of danger. the prosecutor asked the jury to consider the evidence in light of the instructions on both theories: so when you read that instruction, if you find the kill zone applies and attaches liability for the defendant to any one victim, thats fine. but you also have the separate non-kill zone theory, the pointing at and pulling the trigger directly in someones face.4 defense theories. the defense theories included mistaken identity and, alternatively, lack of intent to kill. as to mistaken identity, defense counsel pointed out 4 there is no claim of instructional error. 7 that defendants features (including facial hair and tattoos) did not match the physical description of the assailant. counsel also sought to explain defendants possession of the shotgun used in the february 9 incident by reminding the jury of chisms expert testimony that weapons are often passed around among gang members. as to lack of intent to kill, defense counsel focused on inconsistencies in the victims statements, especially as to the clicking sound. counsel argued that according to their statements on the night of the crime, the clicking sound occurred as they were running away, and not when the weapon was pointed at their faces. counsel also stated, even if youre pointing right at them and you fire it, it cant even kill them. they are too far away. those little teeny, tiny shots spraying out dont have the force and velocity to hit them with any kind of force thats going to cause them death. prosecutions rebuttal. in rebuttal, the prosecutor argued that a sawed off shotgun is a lethal weapon, because at 3 feet your face would be gone. you would have 350 to 400 pellets blow your face off. the prosecutor told the jury that as far as the kill zone and the level of dangerousness, again, it depends on the distance that you are whether or not its going to be a lethal or non-lethal shot . . . . [t]wo of the witnesses said that they were much, much closer than the elevators, however far the elevators are. much closer than that. the prosecutor argued there was substantial evidence of intent to kill: my point was, when you take a loaded shotgun and you point it at a person and you pull the trigger, what other intent can you have other than the intent to kill? im not saying every time you roll with it in your pants youre going to kill somebody . . . . my whole point is, when you take a loaded shotgun, you stick it in somebodys face, and you try to pull the trigger, what other possible intent could you have other than to kill somebody? zero. none. jury verdict. the jury found defendant guilty of attempted murder (counts 1-3), attempted second degree robbery (counts 4-6), and possession of a short-barreled rifle or shotgun (count 7). ( 664, 187, subd. (a), 211, 33215.) it also found true the allegations that he personally used a firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (b)), personally and intentionally 8 discharged a firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (c)), and committed the crime for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)). defendant was acquitted of count 8, receiving stolen property. pursuant to a defense motion, the sentencing hearing was continued to allow the filing of a new trial motion based on an alleged brady violation. after the motion was argued and denied, the court imposed a sentence of 105 years to life. defendant appealed. discussion i defendant seeks reversal of the attempted murder convictions (counts 1-3) based on insufficient evidence of intent to kill. he alternatively argues the prosecution proved at most only one count of attempted murder. we disagree. in deciding a claim of insufficient evidence, the appellate court reviews the record in the light most favorable to the judgment. (people v. mejia (2012) 211 cal.app.4th 586, 602.) [t]he appellate court does not reevaluate witness credibility or resolve conflicts in the evidence. such matters are exclusively issues for the jury. [citation.] further, the reviewing court must accept logical inferences that the jury might have drawn from any circumstantial evidence. [citation.] while it is the jurys duty to acquit where circumstantial evidence is subject to two reasonable interpretations, one which points to guilt and one which points to innocence, it is the jury, not the appellate court, that must be convinced beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] where circumstances reasonably justify a jurys findings of fact, a reviewing courts conclusion that such circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with contrary findings does not justify reversal. [citation.] (ibid.) attempted murder requires the specific intent to kill and the commission of a direct but ineffectual act toward accomplishing the intended killing. (. . .  21a; people v. lee (2003) 31 cal.4th 613, 623.) (people v. superior court (decker) (2007) 41 cal.4th 1, 7 (decker).) for an attempt, the overt act must go beyond mere preparation and show 9 that the killer is putting his or her plan into action; it need not be the last proximate or ultimate step toward commission of the crime or crimes [citation], nor need it satisfy any element of the crime. [citation.] however, as we have explained, [b]etween preparation for the attempt and the attempt itself, there is a wide difference. the preparation consists in devising or arranging the means or measures necessary for the commission of the offense; the attempt is the direct movement toward the commission after the preparations are made. (people v. murray (1859) 14 cal. 159; see also people v. anderson (1934) 1 cal.2d 687, 689690.) [i]t is sufficient if it is the first or some subsequent act directed towards that end after the preparations are made. (people v. memro (1985) 38 cal.3d 658, 698.) (decker, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 8.) defendant contends the victims testimonythat the shotgun misfired and made a clicking soundwas refuted by munozs testimony that if there was an attempt to unsuccessfully fire that shotgun, [the victims] would not have heard any clicking sound. that is not an accurate description of his testimony. munoz stated that some weapons do not make a clicking sound because the trigger disconnects when the weapon misfires. he also stated that he did not know whether this particular weapon makes a clicking sound when it misfires. accordingly, he did not discredit the victims testimony about the clicking sound. the victims testimony is not inherently improbable. to the extent, if any, their statements changed over time, it is not our function to resolve discrepancies in the evidence. because an appellate court does not reevaluate witness credibility or resolve conflicts in the evidence, we defer to the jurys logical inferences and credibility findings. (people v. mejia, supra, 211 cal.app.4th at p. 602.) although an appellate court will not uphold a judgment or verdict based upon evidence inherently improbable, testimony which merely discloses unusual circumstances does not come within that category. [citation.] to warrant the rejection of the statements given by a witness who has been believed by a trial court, there must exist either a physical impossibility that they are true, or their falsity must be apparent without resorting to inferences or deductions. [citations.] conflicts and even testimony which is subject to justifiable 10 suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends. (people v. thornton (1974) 11 cal.3d 738, 754.) (people v. maciel (2013) 57 cal.4th 482, 519.) defendants alternative contentionthat the prosecution proved at most only one count of attempted murderis not supported by the record. as previously discussed, attempted murder requires the specific intent to kill and the commission of a direct but ineffectual act toward accomplishing the intended killing. (decker, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 7.) all three victims testified there was an attempted shooting at close range, and an actual shooting as they were running away. the jury found true the allegation that defendant personally discharged a firearm, indicating it believed the victims testimony regarding the firing of a single round. the testimony regarding the shot fired, coupled with the testimony of the attempted shooting of valladarez and cisneros at close range, established defendants guilt of three counts of attempted murder. ii defendant argues the prosecution committed a brady violation. as we discuss below, this contention involves the alleged delay in providing a police report concerning a prosecution witnessvalladarezwho was arrested for an incident that occurred after he testified in this case. we conclude the prosecutor, who disclosed valladarezs arrest at the earliest opportunity, did not violate brady. a. relevant facts valladarez completed his testimony on friday, august 23, 2013. he was arrested later that night after engaging in violent behavior on a bus. when defendants trial resumed on monday, august 26, 2013, the prosecutor immediately informed defense counsel and the trial court of valladarezs arrest. the prosecutor explained that valladarez allegedly got drunk, got on a bus, got in some kind of fight, pulled out a pocketknife. thats the extent of what i know. hes currently in custody. i ran him. hes got an immigration hold as well with a court date, actually, of tomorrow in el monte. i think at this point its basically irrelevant. hes already 11 testified, and i have no idea whats going to happen with the case.  i have personally not gotten involved whatsoever with the law enforcement agency or the d.a.s office over there. ive instructed detective gutierrez to do the same. basically, let it run its course, whatever happens. were not going to get involved with it whatsoever.  again, i just wanted to bring that to the courts attention. so the defense knows, but i dont think its really relevant at this point since he has already testified. defense counsel argued that because the arrest involved moral turpitude, it was admissible for purposes of impeachment. the prosecutor disagreed, and questioned whether an incident occurring after the witness had finished testifying could be used for impeachment. the trial court declined to rule on the admissibility of the arrest, stating: i need to know a little bit more about it before we make it of any significance in this case. we still dont know. i think we are all speculating as to what exactly transpired. were going off very little to no information at all. if there was an arrest, hes in custody. he should be due out probably tomorrow, i would think, for some type of court intervention. [] maybe we can re-inquire perhaps later in the day and find out what, if anything, is planned for tomorrow with that case through law enforcement, maybe el monte p.d., then maybe we can get a little more information as to what may have transpired. [] at this point, whether or not its going to be of any significance in this case is certainly unknown until we receive more information. but lets not dwell on that issue at this point. we need to finish the prosecutions case, and then we can perhaps readdress this issue later in the day. later that same day, both sides rested and, after jury instructions and closing arguments were given, the jury began deliberating. the jury reached a verdict the following day, august 27, 2013, and was dismissed. no further mention was made of valladarezs arrest until the sentencing hearing on september 12, 2013. at that hearing, defendant requested a continuance in order to bring a motion for new trial based on brady error. defense counsel stated that she had just received valladarezs arrest report, which contained new information: [valladarez] went onto a 12 bus and he became verbally assaultive to a bus driver. he made threats to her, criminal threats, saying he was going to kill her. he then took off his shirt and went up and down the bus. he punched a 57-year-old man in the face, pulled a knife on him. so it wasnt really minor conduct by this witness. then it was also said by the witnesses that he was saying gang statements, gang slurs and he pulled off his shirt and he had an sgv tattooed across his stomach. so based on the information that we didnt have during the trial, i would request a continuance so that i could file a motion for a new trial with that knowledge that i did not have previously. the trial court granted a continuance, and defendant filed a motion for new trial. at the hearing on that motion, defendant argued the arrest report was subject to disclosure under brady because it contained impeachment evidence, including valladarezs alleged use of a knife and gangster type slang, the officers description of valladarez as a gang member/associated, and photographs of the sgv tattoo (commonly used by gang members in the san gabriel valley) on valladarezs torso. counsel argued the suppression of this information was prejudicial because its timely disclosure would have allowed the defense to take a completely different approach in its case in chief. the trial court noted the relative strength of the prosecutions evidence: there were a few discrepancies, but they were minor at best, indicating that the incident did, in fact, take place the way mr. valladarez described. the fact that [defendant] fired the single round, the fact that [the victims] fled to a nearby convenience store, met police, reported it instantaneously. [defendant] was subsequently detained in possession of a shotgun that remarkably matched the description of the same weapon used. how would the destruction of mr. valladarezs credibility lend anything to help [defendant] in this case? defense counsel responded that although she could not disclose her clients confidential communications, the new information, coupled with a prior incident (valladarez had a prior arrest for possession of a knife that was disclosed before trial), would have allowed her to argue that he is a person who has a pattern and practice of 13 carrying around a knife. [e]ssentially its three on one and he has a proclivity of carrying around a knife. i think that would change entirely the course of the trial. the prosecutor argued that self defense was not an issue in this case and there was no evidence that the victims were armed. on the other hand, the forensic evidence identified the sawed off shotgun found on defendants person as the weapon used in this case. the prosecutor argued there was no brady violation,5 all of valladarezs prior arrests were disclosed, there were no prior convictions, and there were no prior indications of gang membership. the prosecutor contended the newly discovered sgv tattoo was not sufficient to prove gang membership, and because valladarez was not asked about his gang affiliation at trial, he did not say anything that is subject to impeachment. defense counsel agreed that valladarez was not asked about his gang affiliation, but argued that by recounting cisneross statementwe are not from anywherehe implicitly denied any gang affiliation. counsel argued that evidence of his possible gang affiliation was relevant to show that he is not just a poor innocent boy who was just walking to the arco to get some chips, and that the incident possibly started as a mutual combat. 5 the prosecutor stated: the sequence of events was that [valladarez] testified on a friday. the conduct [leading to his arrest on the bus] happened early saturday morning, so basically within 24 hours . . . i found out about [valladarezs arrest], and the first thing . . . monday morning, i brought it to ms. higginss [defense counsels] attention and the courts attention. the court basically said, well, we dont have all the information. lets finish the peoples case and we can readdress it. thats where the transcript ends. i called detective chism that morning. then i called my last civilian witness, i think it was mr. cisneros. i rested that morning. im sure the court minutes will bear it out. [] ms. higgins i believe called detective gutierrez as her own witness briefly. and that was the end of the case. she never brought it up again, whether it was by tactical choice or whatever, never sought a continuance for the afternoon for us to be able to get a report, a continuance to further discuss it, nothing. i can only assume that was some type of tactical decision and even if, for exampleagain, i dont see the brady violation. i brought it to everyones attention first thing in the morning on monday. [] in addition to that, i think its highly questionable whether that conduct is even admissible, when the conduct occurs after the person testifies. 14 the trial court stated there was no evidence that the victimswho immediately reported the crime to policewere the aggressors. the court said that on this record, it was not plausible that [defendant] was the unsuspecting victim in the case. it was the other way around. and im confident that the evidence showed that and supported that. the court denied the motion for new trial, concluding the new information about valladarez would have had little to no impact on the jurys verdict. b. brady in brady, the united states supreme court held that the suppression by the prosecution of evidence favorable to an accused upon request violates due process where the evidence is material either to guilt or to punishment, irrespective of the good faith or bad faith of the prosecution. (brady, supra, 373 u.s. at p. 87.) the duty to disclose such evidence has since been extended to situations in which no request was made by the accused (united states v. agurs (1976) 427 u.s. 97, 107), to impeachment evidence (united states v. bagley (1985) 473 u.s. 667, 676), and to evidence known only to police investigators and not to the prosecutor (kyles v. whitley (1995) 514 u.s. 419, 438). such evidence is material if there is a reasonable probability that, had the evidence been disclosed to the defense, the result of the proceeding would have been different. ([kyles v. whitley, supra, 514 u.s]. at p. 433.) in order to comply with brady, therefore, the individual prosecutor has a duty to learn of any favorable evidence known to the others acting on the governments behalf in the case, including the police. (kyles [v. whitley], supra, 514 u.s. at p. 437; accord, in re brown (1998) 17 cal.4th 873, 879.) (people v. salazar (2005) 35 cal.4th 1031, 1042 (salazar).) [t]he term brady violation is sometimes used to refer to any breach of the broad obligation to disclose exculpatory evidencethat is, to any suppression of so-called brady materialalthough, strictly speaking, there is never a real brady violation unless the nondisclosure was so serious that there is a reasonable probability that the suppressed evidence would have produced a different verdict. there are three components of a true brady violation: the evidence at issue must be favorable to the accused, either because it is exculpatory, or because it is impeaching; that evidence must 15 have been suppressed by the state, either willfully or inadvertently; and prejudice must have ensued. (strickler v. greene (1999) 527 u.s. 263, 281282, fn. omitted.) prejudice, in this context, focuses on the materiality of the evidence to the issue of guilt and innocence. (united states v. agurs, supra, 427 u.s. at p. 112, fn. 20; accord, u.s. v. fallon (7th cir. 2003) 348 f.3d 248, 252.) materiality, in turn, requires more than a showing that the suppressed evidence would have been admissible (cf. wood v. bartholomew (1995) 516 u.s. 1, 2), that the absence of the suppressed evidence made conviction more likely (strickler, supra, 527 u.s. at p. 289), or that using the suppressed evidence to discredit a witnesss testimony might have changed the outcome of the trial (ibid.). a defendant instead must show a reasonable probability of a different result. (banks v. dretke (2004) 540 u.s. 668, 699.) (salazar, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 1042.) c. analysis a brady claim involves both conclusions of law and mixed questions of law and fact. (salazar, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 1042.) on appeal, the trial courts determinations are subject to independent review. [citation.] because the [trial court] can observe the demeanor of the witnesses and their manner of testifying, findings of fact, though not binding, are entitled to great weight when supported by substantial evidence. [citation.] (ibid.) defendant contends that because the trial court requested a copy of the arrest report, the prosecutions noncompliance constituted a willful suppression of evidence, which violated his right to due process under state and federal law. the record, however, does not indicate a request was made by the court. after stating that maybe or perhaps the issue could be revisited later, the court directed the parties not to dwell on the matter, but to finish the prosecutions case. (italics added.) because there was no violation of a court order or request to produce the report, the assertion of a willful suppression of evidence fails. in support of the motion for new trial, defendant argued that valladarezs prior arrest for possession of a knife, coupled with his latest arrest involving the use of a knife, 16 indicated he has a pattern and practice of carrying around a knife and essentially its three on one. in his opening brief on appeal, defendant argues the prompt disclosure of valladarezs most recent arrest report would have allowed him to argue that this incident was the product of self-defense in that [defendant] only pulled out the shotgun in response to some aggressive action by a rival gang member or members, and only ejected the live round to scare the three men away. (italics added.) in response to plaintiffs suggestion that evidence of gang affiliation would have likely worked against [defendant] because the jury could have inferred an additional gang related motive for the incident, defendant backed away from the rival gang theory in his reply brief: the issue here relates to witness credibility. quite simply, as discussed more fully . . . , [defendant] would not have suggested this was a gang confrontation. instead, [the gang evidence] would have buttressed [defense counsels] argument that [the victims] were not credible witnesses. . . . (italics added.) defendants contention, as we understand it, is that the new arrest report would have been used to attack valladarezs credibility, without raising a gang confrontation theory. if the gang confrontation theory is eliminated, the new arrest report contains little information of substance that was not already provided to the defense. the record shows that the prosecutor promptly informed defense counsel and the court of valladarezs arrest and his alleged conduct on the bus. there was no request, then or later, that the new arrest report be obtained before close of the prosecutors case in chief. defendant argues that without the new arrest report, he was unable to challenge detective chisms testimony that the victims were not gang members. he points out that chisms expert opinion was buttressed by the victims testimony concerning cisneross statementthat were not from anywherewhich constitutes an implicit denial of gang membership, and the prosecutors argument that the victims were normal, everyday young men. no gang ties. nothing like that. he contends that because the prosecutions case rested on the testimony of victims who told three vastly different accounts of what transpired, their credibility was at issue. he argues there is a 17 reasonable probability the new information contained in the arrest report would have impeached valladarezs credibility and changed the outcome of the trial. it is not reasonably likely the impeachment of valladarezs credibility would have affected the outcome of the trial. since no gang membership questions were asked of the victims, there were no responses to impeach on that subject. the argument that valladarez implicitly denied gang membership by recounting cisneross statementwere not from anywhereis unavailing. if defendant is equating the recounting of the statement with silence in the face of an accusatory statement, we conclude that a disavowal of gang membership is not an accusatory statement and therefore valladarezs recounting of the statement is not an adoptive admission. defendants primary difficulty is the strength of the prosecutions case apart from valladarezs testimony. defendant was not only identified by two other eyewitnesses, he was implicated through forensic evidence tying the sawed off shotgun found in his possession to the shotgun round found at the scene of the crime. his membership in the bassett gang further implicated him, given the assailants statement, where you fools from? this is bassett. because of the independent evidence of defendants guilt, this is not a situation in which the prosecutions case rested on a single witness whose credibility was later called into question. on this record, there is no reasonable probability that the impeachment of valladarezs credibilitythrough a subsequent incident and his possible gang affiliationwould have affected the jurys verdict. in order for a nondisclosure of the arrest report to constitute brady error, there must be a showing of a reasonable probability of a different result. (salazar, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 1042.) that showing has not been made. iii defendant alternatively contends his trial counsel was ineffective in failing to request a copy of valladarezs arrest report immediately upon learning of the arrest. to prevail on this claim, [defendant] must establish his counsels representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness and there is a reasonable probability that, but for counsels deficient performance, the result of the trial would have been 18 different. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 686687 (strickland); people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 215.) (people v. mesa (2006) 144 cal.app.4th 1000, 1007.) it is not sufficient to show the alleged errors may have had some conceivable effect on the trials outcome; the defendant must demonstrate a reasonable probability that absent the errors the result would have been different. (people v. williams, supra, 16 cal.4th at p. 215 . . . .) (people v. mesa, supra, 144 cal.app.4th at p. 1008.) in considering a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel, it is not necessary to determine whether counsels performance was deficient before examining the prejudice suffered by the defendant as a result of the alleged deficiencies . . . . if it is easier to dispose of an ineffectiveness claim on the ground of lack of sufficient prejudice, which we expect will often be so, that course should be followed. (in re fields (1990) 51 cal.3d 1063, 1079, quoting strickland, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 697.) in order to establish prejudice, defendant argues the same factors mentioned above. for the reasons previously discussed, we conclude there is no reasonable probability the new evidence would have changed the outcome of this case. we therefore reject the claim of ineffective assistance of counsel. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports epstein, p. j. we concur: manella, j. collins, j. 