filed 9/19/14 p. v. mays ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. clide mays, defendant and appellant. b252950 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sa078100) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of the county of los angeles, mark e. windham, judge. affirmed. kelly c. martin, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell, supervising deputy attorney general, thomas c. hsieh, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction defendant and appellant clide mays (defendant) was convicted of transportation of a controlled substance (health & saf. code,  11352, subd. (a)1), and possession for sale of a controlled substance ( 11351). on appeal, defendant requests that we conduct an independent review of the in camera hearing on his motion made pursuant to pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531 (pitchess) to determine whether it discloses error by the trial court, and contends that the trial court erred in instructing the jury on aiding and abetting, and his conviction transportation of a controlled substance must be reversed because section 11352 was amended during the pendency of his appeal to require that the transportation of the controlled substance be for its sale. we affirm the judgment. background a. factual background 1. prosecution evidence on august 13, 2010, postal inspector peter holt was working in a back office at the los angeles international airport post office. inspector holt was with, inter alia, s department detective tom logrecco and sergeant keith lieberman, who were assigned to the parcel and cargo narcotics enforcement team. using surveillance cameras, inspector holt and detective logrecco saw defendant enter the lobby of the airport post office with an express mail package. defendant went to the counter, handed the package to the employee, and paid cash. the employee placed the package in a bin and defendant exited the room. 1 all statutory citations are to the health and safety code unless otherwise noted. 3 inmarina del rey, california, and the package was being sent to michigan. that closer to marina del rey to mail the package and michigan was 2 description to detective logrecco. when defendant entered a vehicle parked in the airport post office parking lot and drove off, detective logrecco and lieutenant lieberman were in an unmarked car parked in that parking lot. detective logrecco and lieutenant lieberman followed defendant and stopped him after he committed a traffic several items in plain view on the back seat, including a foodsaver vacuum, a heat seal machine, gloves, vacuum seal bags, and tissue paper. detective logrecco spoke to defendant. defendant told detective logrecco that los angles from michigan and saw marcus king,3 whom defendant recognized, at the detroit airport. marcus ,ing some money and that [marcus] would defendant was unable to give detective logrecco any contact information for marcus. at the los angeles international airport post office, a police narcotics detection dog assigned to sergeant lieberman t had mailed. 2 narcotics where drugs originate from california and travel throughout the country. . . to aw drugs being shipped from california to michigan. 3 defendant testified that he was king because er to marcus by his first name. 4 inspector holt obtained a search warrant. about a week later, inspector holt and 998 grams of cocaine powder. the cocaine brick was inside multiple layers of a vacuum-sealed or s. the wrapped cocaine was, in turn, located in a day planner that was located in a leather zipped binder and that binder was inside a sealed yellow envelope surrounded by tissue paper. inspector holt and detective logrecco testified that narcotic shippers commonly use vacuum sealed bags and multiple containers in narcotics packages to hide the odor of the drugs, and cash payments to ship the narcotics package because it provides the shipper with anonymity. detective logrecco testified that a foodsaver machine requires gloves to avoid leaving fingerprints. inspector holt testified that narcotics packages typically were detective logrecco opined that the cocaine was possessed for the purpose of sale. he formed this opinion on the basis that the amount was more than someone would need for personal use, and the valueabout $30,000 to $40,000 outside of california, that can is high. 2. evidence defendant testified to the following. a few days before the incident, he flew from detroit, michigan to los angeles, california to see a friend, lashanda luster. defendant had only name and telephone number. although luster knew that defendant was coming to california to see her, when defendant arrived at the los angeles international airport, his attempts to reach luster failed; she did not answer her telephone. defendant did not hear from luster until the following day, when he received a message from her that she was in ohio. he was in california. 5 when defendant was boarding the airplane at the detroit airport to fly to los angeles, he saw marcus. after arriving at the los angeles airport, defendant went to a rental car business. as defendant was entering his rental car, he overheard an employee tell marcus that there house. defendant agreed and dropped him off. hours together, and exchanged phone numbers. during the morning of the incident, marcus called defendant and asked him for a hotel. marcus put his suitcase in the trunk of the vehicle, and brought the express mail package and a bag into the car. defendant placed the bag on the back seat of the vehicle, and kept the package with him as he sat in the front passenger seat of the vehicle. defendant did not know what was contained in either the bag or the package. marcus asked defendant to mail the package for him, and to drop the bag off at his house. address label for the package. marcus gave defendant about $100 in cash to mail the package, a after defendant dropped off marcus at the airport, defendant went to the nearest post office and mailed the package. defendant drove away from the post office but was eventually pulled over by detective logrecco. defendant told detective logrecco, defendant did not know if the bag that marcus put on the back seat of the vehicle was open, but everything was inside the bag. once defendant realized that he was under investigation for mailing a controlled substance, he numbers because they were in his cellular telephone that he had left at the hotel. 6 defendant b. procedural background the district attorney of los angeles county filed an information charging defendant with transportation of a controlled substance (cocaine powder) in violation of section 11352, subdivision (a) (count 1), and possession for sale of a controlled substance (cocaine powder) in violation of section 11351 (count 2). defendant filed a pretrial discovery motion pursuant to pitchess, supra, 11 cal.3d 531, and after conducting an in camera hearing, the trial court found that there was no discoverable information. following trial, the jury found defendant guilty on all counts. the jury also found defendant guilty of possession of cocaine ( 11350, subd. (a)), a lesser offense of count 2. the trial court sentenced defendant to state prison for a term of three years, consisting of a low term of three years on count 1. the trial court sentenced defendant to a low term of three years on count 2, the imposition of which sentence was stayed. the trial court ordered defendant to pay various fines and assessments, and awarded defendant custody credit. in which motion defendant argued that the trial court should not have given jury instructions on aiding and abetting. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion a. pitchess motion before trial, defendant filed a pretrial discovery motion pursuant to pitchess, supra, 11 cal.3d 531 seeking the discovery of confidential personnel records for detective logrecco relating to prior wrongful acts of moral turpitude, dishonesty, and mishandling evidence. the trial court granted the pitchess motion. after conducting an in camera review, the trial court ruled that no discoverable evidence existed. defendant 7 requests, and the attorney general does not disagree, that we independently review the on the in cameral hearing to determine whether the required pitchess procedure was followed. s ruling on a motion for access to law enforcement personnel records is subject to review for abuse of discretion. (people v. hughes (2002) 27 cal.4th 287, 330.) we have independently reviewed the sealed record of the in camera proceeding as to detective logrecco to determine if any discoverable information was withheld. the seales transcript of the hearing in which the trial court provided a detailed description of the documents it examined. (see people v. myles (2012) 53 cas statement of the documents it examined is adequate for purposes of conducting a meaningful appellate review]; people v. prince (2007) 40 cal.4th 1179, 1285-1286 [same]; people v. mooc (2001) 26 cal.4th 1216, 1229 [same].) we conclude that the trial court did not abuse its discretion s pitchess motion. (people v. hughes, supra, 27 cal.4th at p. 330.) b. aiding and abetting jury instructions defendant contends that the trial court erred in instructing the jury that aiding and abetting was a basis on which defendant may be found guilty on count 2 for possession for sale of a controlled substance because there is insufficient evidence in support of that theory. defendant argues that possessor of the drugs [i.e., defendant] cannot aid and abet an anonymous recipient of the drugs [i.e., the addressee of the package] in the absence of evidence that the alleged recipient committed the elements of the offense. defendant also applies that same theory to an anonymous seller. defendant therefore argues that aiding and abetting was a legally inadequate theory. we disagree. 8 1. standard of review and applicable law a trial court errs when it givwhich, while correctly stating a principle of law, has no application to the facts of (people v. guiton (1993) 4 cal.4th 1116, 1129.) iding and abetting liability cannot attach unless the substantive elements of a predicate offense are met. this requirement may be satisfied by proof of an attempt people v. perez (2005) 35 cal.4th 1219, 1227.) when one of the theories presented to a jury is legally inadequate . . . the jury cannot reasonably be expected to divine its legal inadequacy. . . . in such circumstances, reversait is possible to determine from other portions of the verdict that the jury necessarily found the defendant guilty on a proper theory.[citpeople v. perez, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 1233; people v. guiton, supra, 4 cal.4th at p. 1130.) 2. background facts regarding count 2 (possession for sale of a controlled substance in violation of section 11351), the trial court instructed the jury with calcrim no. 2304, stating, he defendant is charged in count 2 with possession for sale of cocaine, a controlled substance. [] to prove the defendant is guilty of this crime, the people must prove that: [] 1, the defendant possessed a controlled substance; [] 2, the defendant knew of its presence; [] 3, the s nature or character as a controlled substance; [] 4, when the defendant possessed the controlled substance, he intended to sell it; [] 5, the controlled substance was cocaine; [] and 6, the controlled substance was in a usable amount. [] selling for the purpose of this instruction means exchanging cocaine for money, services, or anything of value. [] a usable amount is a quantity enough to be used by someone as a controlled substances. useless traces are not usable amounts. on the other hand, a usable amount does not have to be enough, either in amount or strength, to affect the user. in the afternoon of friday, september 20, 2013, during the second day of deliberations, the jury sent a note to the trial court stating 9 the jury foreperson thereafter agreed with the trial court that there are three separate charges, and the jury was asked to deliberate on two counts.4 the jury foreperson informed the trial court that the votes were 10 to 2 on count 1, and 9 to 3 on the charge regarding count 2 for which the jury did not reach a verdict.5 the trial court excused the jury for the weekend instructed the jury to resume deliberations on monday. in the morning of monday, september 23, 2013, the jury sent a note to the trial court requestingclarification of the following: [] when the defendant possessed the controlled substance, he [6] [] does this mean he is part of the process (knew of the intent to sell), or does it mean he has to physically or personally have to sell a portion of it, or does it mean he has to sell all of it himself? outside the presence of the jury, the trial court explained to counsel that in it intended to instruct the jury on constructive possession, and defendant may be guilty of committing the crime of possession for sale of a controlled substance by directly committing the crime or by aiding and abetting another who directly committed the crime. defencounsel objected to the aiding and abetting instructions on the grounds that the prosecution never argued the theory and the instructions were not supported by the facts. the trial court overruled the objections by 4 the jury was instructed that a lesser included offense to count 2 is possession of a controlled substance. 5 in motion for new trial, defenounsel declared that, the conclusion ] on friday, september 20, 2013, the jurors were deadlocked in their verdict of not guilty by a vote of 10 to 2 on count 1. . . and 9 to 2 on count 2 . . . . [] . . . subsequently, on this same day, the jurors reached a unanimous decision of not guilty on count 2. another bench officer decided not to take this verdict on friday, september 20, 2013. [] . . . at the y 6 this phrase was included in the jury instructions as an element that the prosecutor must prove regarding count 2. 10 to sell a portion of the just figure it out yourself. they need some help here. and i think this does answer the question. n of it; and if you are knowingly and the trial court, in giving additional instructions, did not intend to insinuate that defendant was guilty, but was merely giving the additional instructions to see if it would help the jury. the trial court agreed. the trial court instructed the jury, inter alia, with modified versions of calcrm nos. 400 and 401, stating, of aiding and abetting. general principles. a person may be guilty of a crime in two ways: [] one, he or she may have directly committed the crime. i will call that person the perpetrator; [] two, he or she may have aided and abetted a perpetrator who directly committed the crime. [] a person is guilty of a crime whether he or she committed it personally or aided and abetted the perpetrator. [] intended crimes. to prove the defendant is guilty of a crime based on aiding and abetting that crime, the people must prove that: [] one, the perpetrator committed the crime; [] two, the defendant knew that the perpetrator intended to commit the crime; [] three, before or during the commission of the crime, the defendant intended to aid and abet the perpetrator in committing the crime; [] s words or conduct did in fas commission of the crime. someone aids and abets a crime if he or she knows of the perpetrators unlawful purpose and he or she specifically intends to and does in fact aid, facilitate, promote, encourage, or instigate the s commission of that crime. [] if all of these requirements are proved, the defendant does not need to actually have been present when the crime was committed to now, an admonition. some of these instructions may not apply depending upon your findings about the facts of the 11 case. do not assume that just because i give a particular instruction that i am suggesting anything about the facts. after you have decided what the facts are, follow the instructions that do apply to the facts as you find them. [] that answers your question. after the jury deliberated for about eight minutes, it found defendant guilty on all counts. 3. analysis a) forfeiture the attorney general contends that by failing to object to the aiding and abetting jury instructions on the specific ground that aiding and abetting was a legally inadequate theory, defendant forfeited his claim that the trial court erred on that basis. defendant did not forfeit his contention. a party may not raise an argument on appeal that he or she did not raise before the trial court.people v. mayham (2013) 212 cal.app.4th 847, 856.) generally requires . . . a specific objection . . . to preserve an issue for appeal. (people v. smith (1998) 64 cal.app.4th 1458, 1468; people v. lopez (2011) 198 cal.app.4th 1106, 1118-1119 [a challenge to jury instruction that was generally accurate was forfeited for failure to seek modification or clarification].) s on the ground that the instructions were not supported by the facts. asserted on appeal is premised on there not being substantial evidence to support the giving of the aiding and abetting instructions. that is, defendant argues that there is not substantial evidence that defendant aided and abetted someone who committed the offense and, therefore, aiding and abetting was (people v. parra (1999) 70 cal.app.4th 222, 227, fn. 5; people v. singleton (1987) 196 cal.app.3d 488, 493.) by objecting to the jury instructions on the ground 12 that it was not supported by the evidence defendant did not forfeit his contention that the jury was instructed on a legally inadequate theory. b) error the trial court instructed the jury, inter alia, with modified versions of calcrm nos. 400 and 401 concerning aiding and abetting. defendant argues defendant, as a possessor of the drugs, cannot aid and abet someone in the absence of evidence that the someone committed the underlying offense. (people v. parra, supra, 70 cal.app.4th at p. 227, fn. 5; people v. singleton, supra, 196 cal.app.3d at p. 493.) defendant argues therefore that because there is no evidence of a perpetrator having committed the crime, aiding and abetting was a legally inadequate theory on which defendant could be found guilty for possession for sale of a controlled substance. there is no reasonable likelihood that the jurors would have applied calcrm nos. 400 and 401 to mean that they could convict defendant of possession for sale of cocaine based on the theory that he aided and abetted some recipient or another seller who had not committed the crime. the jury was instructed that for defendant to be guilty whom defendant aided and abetted. instructions. (people v. avila (2009) 46 cal.4th 680, 719; people v. bennett (2009) 45 cal.4th 577, 596.) there is substantial evidence in the recordthat a marcus committed the crime, and defendant aided and abetted him. defendant testified that marcus existed; he was a real person. defendant said that marcus had possession of , and marcus then asked defendant if he could mail the package for him and gave defendant one hundred dollars to do so. detective logrecco, a member of the parcel and cargo narcotics team with about 26 years of experience as a peace officer, opined that the controlled substance in this casecocainewas possessed for the purpose of sale. he based his opinion on the large amount of the controlled substancealmost a kilogram of 13 cocainethat of the cocaineabout $30,000 to $40,000 outside of california. in addition, the package that defendant testified was given to him to mail by marcus, was addressed to be delivered in michigan, and defendant said that he did not there is evidence that california is considered to be a source state of narcotics. drugs originate from california and travel to various places, including michigan, which state is considered to be a the shipping of narcotics. see drugs being s the jury would not have construed the aiding and abetting instruction as applicable to marcus because (1) the jury received no guidance from the court or from the attorneys during argument as to how the aiding and abetting instruction could apply, and (2) the prosecutor argued that marcus did not exist, but that if he did, appellant was not guilty the prosecutor argued, in effect, that that marcus existed was to support the theory that defendant did not know what was in the package. the prosecutor further argued that marcus did not exist; however, defendant directly committed the crime, and defendant knew about the contents of the package because of the materials found i.7 the aiding and abetting instructions were clear, and there was no indication in the record that the jury failed to understand and follow those instructions. (people v. avila, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 719; people v. bennett, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 596.) in addition, although the prosecutor argued that marcus did not exist, the jury was free to reject that argument and conclude reasonably that defendant knew about the contents of the package. the trial court did not err in instructing the jury on aiding and abetting. 7 there was also evidence that defendant told detective logrecco that the package him. 14 c. amendment to section 11352 requiring that the transportation of the controlled substance be for its sale. defendant contends that his conviction transportation of a controlled substance must be reversed because section 11352 was amended during the pendency of his appeal to require that the transportation of the controlled substance be for its sale. we disagree. 1. background facts regarding count 1 (transportation of a controlled substance ( 11352, subd. (a)), the trial court instructed the jury with calcrim no. charged in count 1 with transporting cocaine, a controlled substance. to prove the defendant is guilty of this crime, the people must prove that: [] 1, the defendant transported a controlled substance; [] 2, the defendant knew of its presence; [] 3, the [] 4, the controlled substance was cocaine; [] and 5, the control substance was in a usable amount. [] a person transports something if he or she carries it or moves it from one location to another, even if the distance is short. [] enough to be used by someone as a controlled substance. useless traces are not usable amounts. on the other hand, a usable amount does not have to be enough, either in 2. analysis defendant was convicted in count 1 of the transportation of a controlled substance in violation of section 11352. effective january 1, 2014, during the pendency of the legislature amended section 11352, adding thatfor the transportsmeans to transport for sale. (stats. 2013, ch. 504,  1.) clause, a criminal defendant is entitled to the benefit of a change people v. babylon (1985) 39 cal.3d 719, 722.) 15 no savings clause was included in the amendments to section 11352. (stats. 2013, ch. 504,  1.) under the amendment to section 11352, therefore, transportation is not a crime unless the prosecution establishes beyond a reasonable doubt that the transportation is now an element of the offense. ( 11352, subds. (a) and (c).) on count 1 for transportation of a controlled substance in violation of section 11352, subdivision (a) should not be reversed because the omission beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. flood (1998) 18 cal.4th 470, 503; people v. ortiz (2002) 101 cal.app.4th 410, 416.) defendant transported almost a kilogram of cocaine, which amount, detective logrecco opined, was for purposes of sale because it was a [amount] than somebody would use for personal use, and its value was high. in count 2, the jury found defendant guilty of possession of a controlled substance (i.e., cocaine) for sale. thus, the efendant. 16 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. mosk, acting p. j. we concur: kriegler, j. mink, j. retired judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 