filed 2/20/15 p. v. buckels ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. darryl c. buckels, defendant and appellant. b252862 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka094626) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. mike camacho, judge. affirmed. james koester, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and esther p. kim, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________ 2 a jury found darryl buckels guilty of three counts of attempted murder and found firearm and gang enhancement allegations to be true. after buckels admitted a prior serious or violent felony conviction, the trial court sentenced him under the three strikes law to 170 years to life in prison. in a prior appeal,1 buckels contended the trial court erred in sentencing him. this court agreed, finding the record indicated the trial court misunderstood the scope of its discretion to impose concurrent sentences for convictions and erroneously believed consecutive sentences were mandatory. we sentencing hearing, expressing no opinion on whether the trial court should impose concurrent or consecutive sentences in the exercise of its discretion. in this appeal, buckels again contends the trial court abused its discretion in imposing consecutive rather than concurrent sentences on the three attempted murder counts. imposing consecutive sentences, we affirm. background trial, verdicts and original sentencing hearing in setting forth the evidence presented at trial, the verdicts, and the original sentence, we quote from our opinion in the prior appeal in this case: valdez (the victims) were sitting under a tree smoking when buckels walked up to them neccland crips gang. buckels walked away. 1 people v. buckels (june 27, 2013, b242631) [nonpub. opn.]. 3 when buckels was about 15 feet away from the victims, he started shooting a gun at them. a bullet struck lopez near his left shoulder and lodged inside his body. as lopez ran away, another bullet entered and exited his left arm near his wrist. a bullet red six stitches. video recorded. the video was played for the jury. during the interview, buckels not trying to hit them. he said he was angry because he believed the victims were responsible for firing residence. he approached the victims and asked them about the car shooting, but they .2 buckels denied the shooting was gang motivated and denied asking the victims where they were from. the parties stipulated neccland crips is a criminal street gang within the meaning of [penal code] testified buckels is an admitted member of neccland crips and had numerous tattoos demonstrating his affiliation with neccland crips. the expert also testified the scene of the offenses in this case is an area claimed by a rival gang of neccland crips. the expert stated a neccland crips gang member goes into rival gang territory with a gun to put in work case, the expert opined the shooting was committed for the benefit of the gang. according to the expert, this type of shooting instills fear within the community that neccland crips will act any time, day or night, and it also builds his status up within the crime. 2 based on this evidence, the trial court decided to instruct the jury on attempted voluntary 4 the jury found buckels guilty of the attempted murders of alfredo lopez, benjamin valencia and raul valdez (pen. code,3  187, subd. (a) & 664), and found true allegations that the attempted murders were willful, deliberate and premeditated. the jury also found true allegations that, in the commission of the attempted murders, buckels personally and intentionally discharged a firearm, causing great bodily injury to lopez and valencia. ( 12022.53, subds. (b)-(d).) finally, the jury found true gang enhancement allegations under section 186.22, subdivision (b). buckels waived his constitutional rights and admitted the allegations that he had sustained a prior conviction of a serious or violent felony (attempted robbery) within the meaning of the prior serious felony enhancement and the three strikes law. ( 667, subd. (a)(1), (b)-(i) & 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d).) murder of lopez (count 1), the court sentenced buckels to 15 years to life ( 186.22, subd. (b)(5)), doubled to 30 years to life under the three strikes law, plus a consecutive term of five years for the prior serious felony enhancement under section 667, subdivision (a)(1), and a consecutive term of 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (d). the court sentenced buckels consecutively on the attempted murders of valencia (count 2) and valdez (count 3), imposing the same terms it had imposed on count 1, minus the 5 years for the prior serious felony. hence, the court sentenced buckels to 55 (people v. buckels, supra, b242631, pp. 2-4.) prior appeal and remand for resentencing as stated above, buckels appealed from the judgment, challenging his sentence. this court vacated the sentence and remanded the matter for a new sentencing hearing, finding the record indicated the trial court erroneously believed it was required to impose consecutive sentences on the three counts of attempted murder. the trial court had discretion to impose either consecutive or concurrent sentences. we expressed no 3 further statutory references are to the penal code. 5 opinion on whether the trial court should impose concurrent or consecutive terms in the exercise of its discretion at the resentencing hearing. (people v. buckels, supra, b242631, pp. 6-9.) on october 7, 2013, buckels submitted a sentencing memorandum urging the trial the result of a single, albeit intertwined intent, to exact revenge upon the individual or individuals whom mr. buckels believed were somehow responsible for the just recent of liability in which his intent to kill any one of the three individuals could be transferred to on october 23, 2013, buckels submitted a supplemental sentencing memorandum asking the trial court to dismiss his prior strike conviction for attempted robbery in the furtherance of justice under section 1385.4 he also again urged the court to impose in evaluating whether consecutive terms would constitute cruel and unusual punishment. he acknowledged, however, that he was 19 years old when he committed the offenses the district attorney submitted a sentencing memorandum, arguing the trial in the instant case, as well as his prior conduct in his attempted robbery case and while he district attorney urged the court to denfor dismissal of his prior strike conviction, and argued consecutive sentences were warranted because buckels, a 19-year-old adult on probation, separate victims, and did so by firing more than one shot at them. 4 buckels was on probation for the attempted robbery at the time he committed the present offenses. 6 at the outset of the november 6, 2013 resentencing hearing, the trial court explained it understood the scope of its discretion to impose either concurrent or consecutive terms when it originally sentenced buckels, but acknowledged it did not clearly articulate that understanding on the record at the original sentencing hearing. the 5 at the resentencing hearing, the trial court imposed the same sentence it had imposed at the original sentencing hearing, 170 years to life in prison (as outlined in more detail above with respect to each count). the court noted buckels was on probation when he committed the present offenses. in exercising its discretion to run the term on count 2 consecutively with count 1, the court stated: victims were not a threat to mr. buckels at the time those shots were fired; quite frankly, even before the shots were fired. mr. buckels obviously was aggravated with these three individuals because they had nothing of value for him to steal at gunpoint except for that buckels. these three individuals turned and walked away from mr. buckels. mr. buckels separated himself from those three individuals and for whatever reason turned around, produced a firearm, and shot several rounds at these three young men, causing them to flee from the gunfire on foot and obviously two of the three were struck and injured with gunfire. mr. buckels allegedly made . . . his statements to law enforcement justifying that conduct, claiming that he felt those three individuals or at least one of the three was rshooting at it and damaging the vehicle. even if that was true that they committed an act of vandalism, that does not in any way, shape, or form justify taking the life of those individuals in any respect, not as a matter of law or even as a matter of reasonableness, quite frankly. 5 we do not set forth the reasons challenge this ruling on appeal. 7 in electing to sentence buckels to another consecutive term on count 3, the trial court made the following additional comments: ate victim whose life is also in danger as a result of this conduct. this is not a case where a group of individuals are grouped together and a single round is fired toward the group, intending to kill one of the people. these are multiple shots fired and obviously endangering the life of all three individuals by each discussion buckels contends the trial court abused its discretion in sentencing him to consecutive terms on the three attempted murder counts. on to impose consecutive sentences when a person people v. shaw (2004) 122 cal.app.4th 453, 458, citing  669.) the court must state on the record its reasons for imposing consecutive sentences. (cal. rules of court, rule 4.406(a) & (b)(5).) in the absence of a clear showing of abuse, the trial courts discretion in this respect is not to be disturbed on appeal. [citation.] discretion is abused when the court exceeds the bounds of reason, all of the circumstances being consideredpeople v. bradford (1976) 17 cal.3d 8, 20.) (a) criteria relating to crimes facts relating to the crimes, including whether or not: other; different times or separate places, rather than being committed so closely in time and place as to indicate a single period of aberrant behavior. 8 (b) other criteria and limitations deciding whether to impose consecutive rather than current sentences, except: e used to impose consecutive sentences. (cal. rules of court, rule 4.408(a).) people v. bravot (1986) 183 cal.app.3d 93, 98.) the trial court sentenced buckels to consecutive terms because there were three separate victims. people v. caesar (2008) 167 cal.app.4th 1050, 1061, disapproved on other grounds in people v. superior court (sparks) (2010) 48 cal.4th 1, 18.) three separate victimsthat [buckels] was prosecuted under a kill zone theory of liability in which he may have harbored just a singular intent to harm only one of the individuals rather than pointing out buckels fired multiple rounds at the three victims, striking two of them. the and a single round is fired toward the group, intending to kill one of the people. these are multiple shots fired and obviously endangering the life of all three individuals by each be a 9 the court considered this factor and vehicle on a prior occasion, buckels responsefiring multiple rounds at three individualswas disproportionate and was not a factor in mitigation warranting concurrent sentencing on the three attempted murder counts. discretion in imposing consecutive sentences is his age at the time he committed the offenses, 19 years and four months. (see graham v. florida without parole sentence on a juvenile offender added; people v. caballero (2012) 55 cal.4th 262, 265 [-year-to-life sentence imposed on a juvenile convicted of nonhomicide offenses contravenes grahams mandate against cruel and unusual punishment under the eighth amendment buckels defendants [those under 18 years of age] upon whom a life without parole sentence is necessarily constit he argues, however, his age and should have been a concurrent rather than con we cannot hold the trial court abused its discretion in declining to impose concurrent sentences based on buckels was not a juvenile offender when he committed the offenses. the trial court did not exceed the bounds of reason in imposing consecutive sentences for buckelsa 19-year-old adult on probation for attempted robberywho committed three counts of attempted murder by firing multiple rounds at three separate victims. 10 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. chaney, acting p. j. we concur: johnson, j. bendix, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 