 filed 3/27/15 p. v. mitchell ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. aaron javon mitchell, defendant and appellant. b252808 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya081154) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mark s. arnold, judge. affirmed as modified with directions. lynette gladd moore, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle, deputy attorney general, and pamela c. hamanaka, assistant attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant, aaron j. mitchell, appeals his conviction for premeditated attempted murder, assault with a firearm (2 counts), and shooting at an occupied motor vehicle, with criminal street gang, great bodily injury and firearm use enhancements (pen. code,  664, 187, 245, 246, 186.22, subd. (b), 12022.7, 12022.53).1 he was sentenced to state prison for a term of 31 years to life, plus life. the judgment is affirmed as modified. background viewed in accordance with the usual rule of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established the following. 1. prosecution evidence. a. the shooting. on march 4, 2011,2 at around 9:00 p.m., erneshia t. arrived at the corner of 108th street and western avenue inside her sister-in-in the front passenger seat, her sister-in-law was driving, and her sister-in-in the back. also in the back was a dog inside a cage. sister-in-law parked near a laundromat which had bright lights. erneshia called her son, kameron, who was in an apartment in an adjacent building to come help unload the dog cage. as kameron and erneshia were struggling to get the cage out of the car, they were approached by defendant mitchell, who addressed kameron with whead gesture. when kameron did not respond, mitchell said: from? neighborhood in the illumination of flood lights that were mounted on top of the laundromat building. kameron again did not say anything. instead, he looked over at his mother. erneshia testified her attention had been drawn to mitchell when he asked kameron where h . . i 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 2 all further date references are to the year 2011 unless otherwise specified. 3 immediately looked over at him and told him that no one gang bangs. we all family over hands were inside the pocket of statement shooting. mitchell shot at kameron, who was standing behind erneshia. a bullet hit kameron in the mouth, knocking him to the ground. erneshia jumped in front of kameron and held her hands out to protect him. the beetle had been parked in such a way that there was an open car door between mitchell and kameron, so mitchell shot underneath the car door at kameron who window. mitchell was only four or five feet from him at this point. kameron got up and ran. after kameron escaped, mitchell shot at erneshia, hitting her in the foot. mitchell then ran off. the beetle had been hit by gunfire. kameron had been shot in the mouth, twice in the chest, twice in the buttocks, once in the left leg above the kneecap, and once in the right ankle. b. the investigation. on march etective eric mcdonagh, who worked as a gang investigator, went to the crime scene. mounted on the outside of the laundromat, there was a video surveillance camera that faced the street. footage from s image was too indistinct to be identifiable. there was a second camera located inside the laundromat, but this one had not been set up to record anything that happened out in the street. mcdonagh recovered expended bullet casings from the sidewalk, but no gun was ever found. on march 9, mcdonagh talked to erneshia on the telephone. she described the gunman as being 5tall, 18 to 25 years old, with a medium build, dark skin, and short hair. on march 23, mcdonagh spoke to kameron by telephone. kameron described with a dark complexion and a short afro haircut. 4 on april 12, mcdonagh showed photo arrays, separately, to erneshia and kameron. erneshia viewed two six-packs and selected mitcof them. she testified she she told mcdonagh that mitchell looked younger in the photograph than he had during the shooting. she did not identify anyone in the other six-pack. erneshia also viewed a binder containing about 50 photographs, but she did not see the gunman in any of those pictures.3 kameron a six-pack photo array. immediate, that he the photo. his eyes got big and he looked at the photo, and he circled . he, too, told detective mcdonagh that mitchell looked younger in the picture than on the night of the shooting. on april 21, mcdonagh met separately with erneshia and kameron again because he wanted to show them six-packs that included a photograph in which mitchell looked older. erneshia and kameron again identified mitchell as the gunman. on may he recovered a black hoodie that matched the description given by erneshia and kameron. mitchell was arrested. in the search warrant affidavit, written on may 16, mcdonagh stated erneshia had descritall and 18 to 20 years old. mcdonagh acknowledged having testified erneshia also told him the gunman was 18 to 25 years old tall. mcdonagh explained this height discrepancy by testifying erneshia had told him on other occasions tall. mcdonagh 3 mcdonagh testified he did not recall bringing a binder of photographs to 111 neighborhood, 115 neighborhood, and block crips were gangs that congregated in the area where the shooting occurred. mcdonagh did not recall erneshia identifying anyone in a photograph binder, but if she had he would have notified the appropriate parties. 5 acknowledged the search warrant affidavit stated kameron had described the gunman as weighing 130 to 150 poundsreport said 140 to 150 pounds. mcdonagh testified kameron had given different accounts at different times. on october mitchell from live lineups. in march 2012, they identified mitchell at the preliminary hearing. c. the gang evidence. kameron testified neighborhood 90, the gang mitchell had mentioned just before he started shooting, was a crips gang active in the local area. the local gangs were the 90 neighborhood crips, the 111 neighborhood crips, and the rollin 100s block crips. crips gang members tended to wear the color blue. kameron had been wearing blue jeans and a shirt with blue in it on the day of the shooting. he could tell mitchell was trying to figure out if kameron was from the area, and that mitchell himself was not from the neighborhood 90 crips: a neighborhood 90 gang member would not come to 100s territory and make this kind of challenge because the two gangs got along. inglewood police detective kerry tripp worked in a gang intelligence unit. as far as african-american gangs were concerned, inglewood was a bloods town as opposed to a crips town. one of the inglewood bloods gangs was the avenue piru, which had at least 50 members and had been around since the late 1980s. bordering on inglewood were areas controlled by various neighborhood crips gangs, including the 111 neighborhood crips, 90 neighborhood crips, rollin 60 crips, block crips, underground crips and rollin 100 crips. all these crips gangs were enemies of the avenue piru gang. avenue piru members wore the color red, the letters or ,and sometimes a california angels hat. their primary activities included murders, shootings, robberies, drug possession and sale, and weapons possession. over the years, tripp had spoken to a few hundred avenue piru members and investigated more than 50 crimes in which avenue piru members had been suspects. he had read all the inglewood police reports 6 regarding the avenue piru gang, reports from other law enforcement agencies, and spoken to other police officers about the gang. when contacts were made with individuals on the street, field interview cards were filled out, which included information such as tattoos, reason for the stop, gang affiliation, etc. the shooting in this case occurred in neighborhood crips gang territory. tripp testified a liquor store at the corner of 108th and western, near the laundromat in front of which the shooting had taken place, often ts tagged up. that territory, and you oftentimes see them writing crossed out. and oftentimes in that same liquor store, avenue piru bloods are coming crossing out neighborhood crips the liquor store was less than a mile from avenue piru territory. the following colloquy occurred: ficance of an avenue piru gang member being at that location, being in the rival crip[s] territory? looking for enemies. gang members commit nity. you happen to see somebody out. they happen to be between the ages of what gang members are, somewhere between the ages of 14 and 45. he fits the general race of the majority of the people in that gang, sees that person as a rival and shoots them. q. does it affect your opinion [i.e., that this shooting had been committed for the benefit of the avenue piru gang] something to the effect of avenue piru gang or avenue piru bloods when he commits those crimes? a. no. q. why not? [s] in order to commit a crime. the [s] gang member in rival territory shooting at what he believes to be a rival gang member or somebody who fits the general age and 7 description of a rival gang member in rival gang territory is more than enough. whether he . . tripp testified it was not at all unusual for a gang member to pretend to belong to gang member. [] oftentimes, for example, a blood[s] gang member will go into a crip[s] territory . . what kind of reaction they get from this person. if this person lives in that kind of a . . . [s] from or throwing up a hand sign. and that would be a way for this rival gang member to positively, in his mind, assume that this although tripp had never personally spoken to mitchell, he was acquainted with him through photographs, talking to other officers, [field interview] cards, police reports, and this case.in his opinion, mitchell was a gang member. this was based on , police reports, and speaking with other officers to whom mitchell had admitted his gang membership. the he had signified he was an avenue piru member. based on the facts of this case, tripp opined the crimes had been committed to benefit the avenue piru gang. mitchell was an avenue piru gunman in territory belonging to the rival neighborhood crips. he approached kameron, who could have been a gang member given his age and race, and asked where he was from in order to determine if he belonged to an enemy gang. the shooting would have benefitted avenue piru even if kameron was not a gang member because neighborhood crips members in the area would learn of it, thus instilling fear and intimidation. also, younger avenue piru members would learn about the shooting and the recognition the perpetrator had gained thereby, which would encourage them to commit similar crimes. tripp told detective mcdonagh he thought the gunman belonged to either the inglewood family or the avenue piru gang. that was [b]ecause at the time [of this 8 shooting] there was a gang war going on between the neighborhood crips and the blood[s] gangs in the city [of] inglewood. there were so many shootings and homicides that we actually got [a] multi-task force with ourselves, combat these crimes. [] so when this crime occurred in the location it occurred, i spoke with detective mcdonagh, and i told him i believe this is probably inglewood family or more than likely avenue piru bloods. [] i gave him a list of names of people from avenue piru bloods who i thought were the shooters in the gang and gave that to him, and then he conducted his investigation and came up with 2. defense evidence. mitchell testified that on march 4, the date of the shooting, at about 9:00 p.m., he getting ready for a party. his friends, including aaron parker and jeoni hill, were there. mitchell testified he particularly remembered that night because hill was shot at about 9:30 p.m. the police and an ambulance arrived. mitchell himself went to the hospital at 10:30 p.m. he denied having been at 108th street and western avenue that night, or having shot at erneshia and kameron. after his arrest, mitchell spoke to his girlfriend, telling her that he remembered his friend had been shot on march 4. however, mitchell admitted on cross-examination that the person he told his girlfriend about was not hill but someone else, a man named devontae harrell. mitchell testified he thought harrell had gotten shot in march, but it actually might have occurred in april. mitchell denied being either a member of the avenue piru gang or associating with themaaron parker. the black sweatshirt police took from his house when he was arrested belonged to his sister. mitchell testified his name had been entered onto a field interview card in 2008 ; the police had come and detained everyone, but he was not arrested or accused of doing anything wrong. nicole washington testified that on march 4, between 8:45 and 9:15 p.m., she was in eddie at the corner of 108th street and western avenue. as she was 9 walking up to the register she heard gunshots. going to the front door, she saw an african-american man in a dark hoodie walk across the parking lot. she could nwashington described the man as -six and five-eight, five-five, five-testified she was not 3. rebuttal evidence. when mitchell was arrested in may 2011, mcdonagh asked him about the march shooting in front of the laundromat near the corner of 108th street and western avenue. mitchell said he had been in lancaster the entire month of march and did not return until march 31. a tape recording of this exchange was played for the jury. contentions -conviction pitchess4 motion. 2. there was insufficient evidence to support the gang enhancement. 3. the trial court improperly sentenced mitchell for a great bodily injury enhancement. discussion 1. pitchess motion was properly denied. mitchell contends the trial court erred by denying his post-conviction pitchess motion for discovery of ess. a. background. after the jury returned the guilty verdicts, but before sentencing, mitchell filed a motion seeking pitchess mcdonagh] engaged in acts of bias, dishonesty, coercive conduct or acts constituting a violation of the statutory or constitutional rights of others(fns. omitted.) defense counsel declared this discovery would assist in preparing post-trial motions claiming mcdonagh had: 4 pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531. 10 (1) testified . . . that he destroyed potential brady[5] [or throwing away] photos shown to eyewitnesses; (2) testified that he viewed video tapes of the interior of the business where the shooting occurred, and failed to preserve the evidence, again essentially destroying potential brady [ied] . . . that he lied that skewed all of the physical descriptionsa high level of consistency between what the witnesses saw and the suspect he wished to obtain the warrant for. the actual physical descriptions provided by three . . . percipient witnesses were different from one another, and very different from the physical descripti defense counsel declared: himself in the sworn affidavit for the search warrant, the defense alleges that the y and investigation of the case are false and fabricated. he fabricated topposed pitchess discovery on the ground failed to make any claims of actual police misconduct. the opposition asserted: (1) mcdonagh had merely discarded those six-pack photo arrays that had not resulted in any identifications, while preserving all the six-packs in which a witness had identified mitchell; (2) the surveillance videotape from inside the laundromat was not preserved because mcdonagh had watched it and determined it did not show what was going on outside in the street, which is where the shooting occurred; and (3) the search warrant affidavit was not dishonest because mcdonagh had been given arying detective[ pitchess motion, defense counsel essentially conceded that each allegation by itself would be insufficient to justify discovery, but 5 brady v. maryland (1963) 373 u.s. 83 [10 l.ed.2d 215] (prosecution has duty to disclose exculpatory evidence to defendant). 11 argued the trial court should when the court asked defense counsel to point out where in the trial transcript mcdonagh admitted having lied or perjured himself in the search warrant affidavit, defense counsel could not do so and the following colloquy occurred: ed, the trial court denied pitchess request, insufficient to justify discovery of p b. legal principles. evidence code sections 1043 and 1045, which codified our decision in pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531 . . , allow discovery of certain relevant information in peace officer personnel records on a showing of good cause. discovery is a two-step process. first, defendant must file a motion supported by declarations showing good cause for discovery and materiality to the pending case. [citation.] this court has held that the good cause requifor discovery and the supporting declaration may include allegations based on court is required to conduct an in camera review of the records to determine what, if any, information should be disclosed to the defense. (evid. code,  1045, subd. (b).) the confidentiality and the defendpeople v. samuels (2005) 36 cal.4th 96, 109.) the good cause showing required by evidence code section police misconduct. (city of santa cruz v. municipal court (1989) 49 cal.3d 74, 85, 86.) 12 is plausible when read in light owarrick v. superior court might or could have occurred. such a scenario is plausible because it presents an assertion of specific police misconduct that is both internally consistent and supports the id. at p. 1026.) has been supported by an affidavit sufficient to show good cause and materiality is reviewed for an abuse of discretion. (people v. lewis and oliver (2006) 39 cal.4th 970, 992.) however, even if the trial court erroneously denies a pitchess motion, reversal is not required unless the defendant can demonstrate prejudice. (see people v. samuels, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. showing of good cause in support of his [pitchess] request . . . such error was harmless [under watson6people v. memro (1985) 38 cal.3d 658, 684, disapproved on another ground in people v. gaines (2009) 46 cal.4th 172, 181, fn. c. discussion. the trial court did not abuse its discretion by denying the pitchess motion because mitchell failed to present a plausible factual scenario of police misconduct. as for the discarded photo arrays, it is undisputed that neither eyewitness identified any of those pictures as being the gunman. the photo arrays in which had been identified were preserved. mitchell fails to explain how collections of photographs not resulting in identifications could have been used to show that the actual eyewitness identifications were unreliable. as for the shooter came from the laundromat. the video from the exterior of the laundromat . . . me man had appeared in the surveillance video 6 people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818. 13 of the interior of the laundromat, his face might have been visible and that evidence although it is theoretically possible the videotape from the internal laundromat surveillance camera might have contained a better view of the person recorded on the external camera, the trial record does not show the gunman had in fact come from inside the laundromat. erneshia did at one point say but she later backed away from this characterization and the clear thrust of her entire testimony was that she had not even seen the gunman until after he spoke to kameron: q. you testified today that . . . before [the gunman] said anything, you noticed that a guy who was black with a hoodie on had come out from the area of the laundromat; is that correct? [the prosecutor]: objection. misstates testimony. the court: sustained. q. when did you first see this person? before he said anything to you, did you see him? a. no. a. yes. q. okay. and your testimony today is that he spoke and then you looked at him? moreover, even if been more ambiguous, detective mcdonagh testified the tape from the internal surveillance camera and the la(italics added.) defense counsel never asked mcdonagh for a further explanation of what that meant, and it burden . . a specific warrick v. superior court, supra, 35 cal.4th at 14 p. 1025.) this notion that the videotape from the internal camera might have contained exculpatory evidence amounts to mere speculation.7 finally, mitchell asserts mcdonagh lied in the search warrant affidavit by deliberately altering witness descrtaller nevertheless, mitchell complains that in the search warrant affidavit mcdonagh stated washington told him the man was that mcdonagh gave a final description of the gunman as beiat the same time, however, mitchell testified: [i]t is certainly true that one of the descriptions that erneshia gave of we fail to see how these physical description discrepancies established that mcdonagh purposely wrote a misleading search warrant affidavit. mitchell is forgetting the search warrant affidavit was drafted after erneshia and kameron had already identified face in two different photo arrays, one of which showed mitchell at a younger age than the other. in light of this kind of positive identification, we see no evidence of police misconduct arising from these slight discrepancies in the eye height estimates. without having established any actual police misconduct, mitchell falls back on a the conduct of the investigation seemed to indicate that mcdonagh was interested in producing a particular result, not in following the evidence wherever it might lead,is not farfetched to hypothesize that mcdonagh reached a conclusion about which [avenue piru] gang member committed the 7 mitchell also complains mcdonagh recovered his cell phone during the search, but did not utilize available technology to see if this phone had been used in local area around the time of the shooting. however, this allegation was not mentioned in the pitchess motion and, again, this is merely a complaint about the thoroughness of the investigation. 15 shooting, then nudged erneshia and kameron to support his thesis by identifying appellant. in people v. lewis and oliver, supra, 39 cal.4th 970, a defendant accused of wife] to steal $10,000 and to murder him. he claimed they attempted to murder him by using excessive force during his arrest that would provoke him into defending himself, and that would allow them to apply lethal force in return. he also alleged that the officers were violent men generally, and that they were conspiring to frame him for id. at p. 991.) in ruling the trial court had not abused its pitchess [citations.] and murder him. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in concluding that lewis did not meet the standard for permitting discovery of information from police personnel people v. lewis and oliver, supra, 39 cal.4th p. 992.) although not as elaborate as the police conspiracy alleged in lewis, the scenario mitchell proposes is no more plausible. he has presented no factual scenario tending to show mcdonagh improperly guided the witnesses to identify him as the gunman. indeed, mitchell himself even acknowledges, for instance, that erneshia testified -pack array. rather, the evidence tends to show a very clean identification: the two eyewitnesses got an extremely good look at mitchell in the flood-lit area in front of the laundromat before and after he started shooting; the problem of cross-racial identification was not present; and both eyewitnesses picked mitchell out of photo arrays on two different occasions. pitchess motion. 16 2. the gang enhancement was properly imposed. mitchell contends the gang enhancement should be vacated because there was insufficient evidence to show he shot at kameron in order to benefit a criminal street gang. this claim is meritless. a. legal principles. for a felony if it was related to a criminal street gang. ( 186.22, subd. consequences of the step act, the prosecution must prove that the crime for which the for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or 186.22, subd. (b)(1) . . . .) in addition, the prosecution must prove that the gang (1) is an ongoing association of three or more persons with a common name or common identifying sign or symbol; (2) has as one of its primary activities the commission of one or more of the criminal acts enumerated in the statute; and (3) includes members who either individually or attempting to commit, or soliciting two or more of the enumerated offenses (the so-called tutorily defined period. ( 186.22, subds. (e) and people v. hernandez (2004) 33 cal.4th 1040, 1047, fn. omitted.) enhancement, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidence that is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value from which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] we presume every fact in support of the judgment the trier of fact could have reasonably deduced from the reversal of the judgment is not warranted simply because the circumstances might also 17 people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 59-60.) b. discussion. mitchell asserts there was no evidence what the motive for the shooting was. he is wrong. detective belonged to the avenue piru gang and carried out this shooting for trippbased on the following evidence: mitchell was an avenue piru member in the rival gang territory of the neighborhood crips when he issued a gang challenge to kameron, even if only to determine whether kameron belonged to an enemy gang. kameron was of an age and race that made him a potential rival gang member and mitchell attempted to murder him. tripp opined the crimes benefitted avenue piru, even if kameron was not a member of the neighborhood crips, because local neighborhood crips members would hear about the shooting, thus instilling fear and intimidation. , and the recognition gained thereby, would be encouraged to commit similar crimes. this incident occurred during a time when a gang war had been going on between the neighborhood crips and the inglewood bloods gangs, and shootings were quite common. including evidence of the territory, membership, signs, symbols, beliefs and practices, criminal enterprises, rivalries, and the like can help prove identity, motive, modus operandi, specific intent, means of applying force or fear, or other issues pertinent to guilt of the charged crime. people v. hernandez, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 1049.) here, the gang evidence proved kameron and erneshia, who had tried to avert any violence by not risapparently motiveless, drive-by shooting that is given an understandable context by the presentation of gang culture evidence. (see people v. ruiz (1998) 62 cal.app.4th 234, 239 [notwithstanding potential prejudicial effect of gang evidence, such evidence is 18 people v. martin (1994) bership is important to -related activity, so long as the hypotheticapeople v. gonzalez (2005) 126 cal.app.4th 1539, 1551, fn. 4.) a gang expert may testify on the ultimate question of whether the defendant was acting for the benefit of a gang. (people v. valdez (1997) 58 cal.app.4th 494, 507-509 [where participants were diverse group affiliated with ) reputation for viciousness can be sufficient to raise the inference that the conduct was . . a[ of section 186.22(b)(1). (see, e.g., people v. vazquez (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 347 . . . [relying on crimes like murder elevate the status of the gang within gang culture and intimidate neighborhood residents who are, as a result, fearful to come forward, assist law enforcement, testify in court, re victims of for fear that people v. romero (2006) 140 cal.app.4th 15, 19 . . any african american men would elevate the status of the shooters and their entire people v. albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 63.) here was sufficient evidence to establish the (see, e.g., people v. galvez e committed for the benefit of the gang because, as . . . explained by [the gang expert], the 19 to the .) there was also sufficient evidence to establish mitchell committed the shooting with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in criminal conduct by gang members. the promote/further/assist element of the gang enhancement is satisfied even if the only gang member whose criminal conduct was furthered was the defendant himself in his commission of the underlying offense. (see people v. hill (2006) 142 tion 186.22, subdivision (b), must relate to criminal activity apart from the offense defendant commits. to the contrary, the specific intto promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by ga (pen. code,  186.22, subd. (b), italics added.) s own criminal threat qualified as the gang-related criminal activity. no further evidence on this element was necessary. mitchell cites people v. albarran (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 214, as a case albarran is inapposite because there the gang expert people v. martinez (2008) 158 cal.app.4th 1324, 1333.) in albarran, the defendant and a companion fired shots at a house where a party was going on, but there was no evidence the gunmen had made themselves known by gang signs, announcements or graffiti, and the gang expert people v. albarran, supra, 149 cal.app.4th at p. 227.) here, on the other hand, the evidence showed mitchell made some sort of verbal gang challenge to kameron before opening fire. citing in re frank s. (2006) 141 cal.app.4th 1192, firing on kameron would tend to instill fear in the neighborhood crips, there was no evidence that appellant fired in order to benefit the [avenue piru] gang. the motive for the shooting is simply not known. the fact that there was no known motive for the shooting, does not give rise to a legitimate inference ly, 20 is that appellant was a gang member because he associated with them. if he fired on kameron, he must have done so to advance his gang and denigrate the neighborhood crips. this is a chain of inference even weaker than that presented in frank s. but frank s. was decided by the same court of appeal that decided people v. killebrew (2002) 103 cal.app.4th 644, in response to hypothetical questions, the ective knowledge and intent [citation.] specifically, he testified that each of the individuals in a caravan of three cars knew there was a gun in the chevrolet and a gun in the mazda and jointly possessed the gun with everyone else in the three cars for mutual protection. [citation.] [however,] killebrew does not preclude the prosecution from eliciting expert testimony to provide the jury with information from which the jury may infer the motive for a crime or the killebrew prohibits an expert from testifying to his or her opinion of (people v. gonzalez (2005) 126 cal.app.4th 1539, 1550-1551.) as our supreme court has said: iously, there is a difference between testifying about specific persons and about hypothetical persons. it would be incorrect to read killebrew as barring the questioning of expert witnesses through the use of hypothetical questions regarding hypothetical persons. . . . [u]se of people v. gonzalez (2006) 38 cal.4th 932, 946, fn. 3.) frank s. killebrew, the expert . . . of the minortestimony is much different from the expectations of gang members in general when in re frank s., supra, 141 cal.app.4th at pp. 1197-1198, italics added and omitted.) the crucial point is the difference between testifying about the particular mental state rather than the mental state of gang members in general. here, tripp was asked and answered a detailed hypothetical question based on the facts of this case. there was sufficient evidence to sustain the gang enhancement. 21 3. great bodily injury enhancement term must be stayed. mitchell contends, and the attorney general properly agrees, that the trial court erred by imposing on count 1 (the attempted murder of kameron) both a term of 25 years to life under section 12022.53, subdivision (d), for discharging a firearm and causing great bodily injury, as well as a three-year term for causing great bodily injury under section 12022.7. mitchell asserts the remedy for this error is to strike the sentence imposed under the great bodily injury enhancement ( 12022.7), but the attorney general argues the correct remedy is to reverse the section 12022.7 enhancement finding. the proper remedy, however, is to merely stay imposition of the great bodily injury enhancement term. section 12022.53, subdivision imprisonment under this section shall be imposed per person for each crime. if more than one enhancement per person is found true under this section, the court shall impose upon that person the enhancement that provides the longest term of imprisonment. an enhancement involving a firearm specified in section 12021.5, 12022, 12022.3, 12022.4, 12022.5, or 12022.55 shall not be imposed on a person in addition to an enhancement imposed pursuant to this section. an enhancement for great bodily injury as defined in section 12022.7, 12022.8, or 12022.9 shall not be imposed on a person in addition to an enhancement imposed pursuant to subdivision this statute apparent that section 12022.53 was enacted to ensure that defendants who use a gun remain in prison for the longest time possible and that the legislature intended the trial court to stay, rather than strike, prohibited enhancements under section 12022.53. as noted above, staying rather than striking the prohibited firearm enhancements serves the legislative goals of section 12022.53 by making the prohibited enhancements readily available should the section 12022.53 enhancement with the longest term be found it is staying part of the sentence only because it thinks it must. if, on the other hand, the trial court were to strike or dismiss the prohibited portion of the sentence, it might be misunderstood as exercising 22 [8] [citation.] when the word tood as shorthand to mean impose and then execute, section 12022.53 allows for the same resolution of the prohibited enhancements under sections 12022.53 and 12022.5, namely, that they must be imposed people v. gonzalez (2008) 43 cal.4th 1118, 1129-1130, fn. omitted.) in gonzalez, the trial court imposed firearm enhancements for each of the three section 12022.53 subdivisions,9 as well as an enhancement for a section 12022.5 firearm use finding. section 12022.53 to require that, after a trial court imposes punishment for the section 12022.53 firearm enhancement with the longest term of imprisonment, the remaining section 12022.53 firearm enhancements and any section 12022.5 firearm enhancements that were found true for the same crime people v. gonzalez, supra, 43 cal.4th at pp. 1122-1123.) similarly, in the case at bar, the redundant section 12022.7 great bodily injury enhancement imposed on mitchell must be stayed. accordingly, we will stay the three-year section 12022.7 enhancement term imposed in connection with count 1. 8 section 1385, subdivision magistrate may, either of his or her own motion or upon the application of the 9 section 12022.53 prescribes sentence enhancements for specified felonies in three escalating situations: 10 years for use of a firearm under subdivision (b); 20 years for discharging a firearm under subdivision (c); and 25 years to life for discharging a firearm and causing great bodily injury or death under subdivision (d). 23 disposition the three-year section 12022.7 enhancement term imposed in connection with count 1 is hereby stayed. as modified, the judgment is affirmed. the trial court is directed to prepare and forward to the department of corrections and rehabilitation an amended abstract of judgment. not to be published in the official reports edmon, p. j. we concur: kitching, j. aldrich, j. 