filed 11/3/14 p. v. smith ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. elmo smith, jr., defendant and appellant. b252507 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba384019) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, william c. ryan, judge. affirmed. alan c. stern, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, senior assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, linda c. johnson and theresa a. patterson, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________ 2 elmo smith appeals from the judgment following his conviction for second degree robbery. we affirm. facts and proceedings about 5:50 p.m. in the morning on was walking on vermont avenue on his way to school. horton was carrying his cellphone in his hand. horton walked past appellant elmo smith and a second man. appellant came up from behind horton, tapped him on the shoulderphone. s phone. as they struggled over the phone, appellant the gun, get the gun. appellant then managed to jumped on a silver bike near the second man, and rode away. horton estimated that 45 to appellant fled. horton walked to a nearby laundromat from where he called the police. officers arrived. horton told them his assailant was over 40 years old, was wearing glasses, and had marks or scars on his face and a mustache and goatee. the next morning at about 5 stopped appellanttion, as appellant rode a bike that looked . police arrested appellant because he was riding the bike in the dark without lights. on may 2, 2011, four days after the robbery, horton selected appellant from a six-pack of photographs. the people charged appellant by information with robbing horton. the information further alleged appellant had suffered prior strikes under the three strikes law and had served prior prison terms. -pack identification was introduced. the jury convicted appellant of second degree robbery, and the court found true the special allegations, but at 3 dismissed the prior prison term allegations. the court sentenced appellant under the three strikes law to state prison for 25 years to life. this appeal followed. discussion 1. defense counsel not ineffective during its deliberations, the jury submitted a set of three written questions to the court, which the court answered after conferring with the prosecutor and defense counsel. whether a defendant in a criminal case has a constitutional right for a six pack photo lineup to be used by the victim for the court answered: the six pack photo identification lineup was received into evidence. six pack lineups are a constitutionally permissible way of which the defendant was identified meet the applicable legal and constitutional yes. there is no legal issue as to its admissibility as the court answered: sconduct and a violation of your appellant contends have asked the court to direct the to calcrim no. 315 about eyewitness identification. calcrim no. 315 states in part: 4 you have heard eyewitness testimony identifying the defendant. as with any other witness, you must decide whether an eyewitness gave truthful and accurate testimony. [] in evaluating identification testimony, consider the following questions: [] did the witness know or have contact with the defendant before the event? [] how well could the witness see the perpetrator? [] what were the circumstances affecting the witness's ability to observe, such as lighting, weather conditions, obstructions, distance, and duration of observation? [] how closely was the witness paying attention? [] was the witness under stress when he or she made the observation? [] did the witness give a description and how does that description compare to the defendant? [] how much time passed between the event and the time when the witness identified the defendant? [] was the witness asked to pick the perpetrator out of a group? [] did the witness ever fail to identify the defendant? [] did the witness ever change his or her mind about the identification? [] are the witness and the defendant of different races? [] was the witness able to identify other participants in the crime? [] was the witness able to identify the defendant in a photographic or physical lineup? [] were there any other circumstances affecting the witness's ability to make an accurate identification? . . . . appellant suggests the courtthe lines of something like, matter of law, it is up to you to determine the validity of the eyewitness identification by not requesting that the courtthird answer incorporate calcrim no. 315, appellant contends defense counsel rendered ineffective assistance. we disagree. one element of ineffective assistance of counsel is performance and decisions standard of care. (in re fields (1990) 51 cal.3d 1063, 1069-1070; people v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d 171, 216-218.) if the 5 record is silent about the reasons for a decision by counsel, then we must presume the decision did not fall below the standard of care unless no sound reason for the decision could possibly exist. (people v. mendoza tello (1997) 15 cal.4th 264, 266-267; people v. loza (2012) 207 cal.app.4th 332, 351.) here, there were several possible reasons defense counsel did not ask the court to no. 315. ly stated the law: jurors commit misconduct (people v. engelman (2002) 28 cal.4th 436, 445.) second, defense counsel may have believed that calcrim no. 315 did not asked whether the jury must abide by concerned the legality and constitutionality of photographic six-packs. calcrim no. 315, in contrast, addresses factors the jury ought to consider in determining the reliability of eyewitness identification. the reliability of eyewitness identification and constitutionality of photographic six-packs are different, albeit related, topics. third, the trial court had already instructed the jury with calcrim no. 315. defense counsel may have concluded that emphasizing that instruction did not help -pack identification concerns.1 some factors identified by calcrim no. 315 as affecting reliability of eyewitness identification identity. for example, horton was under stress during the robbery, it was dark outside, one minute. other reliability of identification of appellant. for example, horton was face to face with his assailant 1 appellant had moved to exclude the six-pack from evidence on the grounds that the criteria police investigators used to select the photographs for the six-pack made make a separate argument that the court erred in denying that motion. 6 during the robbery: he police matched appellant; horton identified appellant within days of the robbery; horton never failed to identify -racial; and horton picked appellant out of a group. because we can deduce several possible reasons defense counsel did not request that the court re-no. 315 in answering the third question, decision, that coun a competent standard of care. (people v. mendoza tello, supra, 15 cal.4th at pp. 266-267; people v. loza, supra, 207 cal.app.4th at p. 351.) assistance of counsel fails. 2. failure to dismiss strikes not abuse of discretion the court found true that appellant had suffered three strikes under the three strikes law in 1987 and 1988. noting that his strikes occurred in the late 1980s and thus were remote in time, appellant moved under people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497, for the court to dismiss at least two of those strikes. the court denied . the court thereafter sentenced appellant to state prison for 25 years to life for having three strikes under the three strikes law. appellant contends the court abused its discretion in refusing to dismiss at least two of his strikes. (people v. carmony (2004) 33 cal.4th 367, 376; people v. garcia (1999) 20 cal.4th 490, 503.) we disagree. a trial court may dismiss a defendants strike if the his current offense put the defendant outside the spirit of the three strikes law. (carmony, at p. 377; people v. williams (1998) 17 cal.4th 148, 161.) here, the trial court did not find that appellant fell outside the spirit were . remoteness in time is a factor a court may consider in deciding whether to dismiss strikes, but remoteness is not by itself sufficient to dismiss a strike if 7 the defendant continued to reoffend between the time of the remote convictions and his current offense. (people v. pearson (2008) 165 cal.app.4th 740, 749; people v. humphrey (1997) 58 cal.app.4th 809, 813.) following 1988, he has not led a crime-free life. he was convicted of being under the influence of a controlled substance in 1993; misdemeanor battery in 1996; petty theft with a prior in 1997 and 2000; twice driving with a suspended license in 2010. indeed, he was on probation when he robbed horton moreover, strikes in 1987 and 1988 were for robbery, the same offense as his current conviction. the court noted that if appellantcurrent offense had involved declining seriousness since his 1987 and 1988 robbery convictions, the court might have ruled motion to dismiss the prior strikes. but because concluded that dismissing those strikes was unwarranted. the court did not abuse its discretion. disposition the judgment is affirmed. rubin, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. flier, j. 