filed 2/2/15 p. v. howard ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(a). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115(a). in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. james w. howard, defendant and appellant. b253031 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la070782) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, joseph a. brandolino, judge. reversed. david andreasen, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, kenneth c. byrne, supervising deputy attorney general and ana r. duarte, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________________ 2 defendant and appellant james howard appeals from the judgment after a jury trial in which he was convicted of the premeditated murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)) of his girlfriend, sharilit matthews. defendant contends: (1) the prosecutor committed misconduct in argument to the jury by misstating the mental state necessary for voluntary manslaughter; (2) numerous pieces of evidence should have been excluded as more prejudicial than probative; (3) the evidence of premeditation and deliberation is insufficient to support the verdict; (4) the standard jury instruction for voluntary manslaughter improperly allocates the burden of proof; and (5) evidence of prior acts of domestic violence should have been excluded. we conclude that argument was misleading, some highly prejudicial evidence was improperly admitted, and that the cumulative effect of these errors was prejudicial. we therefore reverse for a new trial. procedural background defendant was charged by information with one count of murder. it was further alleged that he used a deadly weapon in the commission of the murder (pen. code,  12022, subd. (b)(1)). it was also alleged that defendant had suffered a single prior serious or violent felony conviction, within the meaning of penal code sections 1170.12 and 667, subdivision (a)(1). additionally, it was alleged that he suffered a prior prison term within the meaning of penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b). defendant entered a not guilty plea and the case proceeded to jury trial. at allegations. prior to trial, the prosecution submitted a trial brief1 setting forth anticipated testimony and evidence. based on this trial brief, defendant interposed numerous objections which the trial court resolved out of the presence of the jury. during opening statements, defense counsel conceded that defendant killed matthews. defense counsel argued, however, that the killing occurred during the heat of passion, and was therefore only voluntary manslaughter. 1 the trial brief is not part of the record on appeal. defendant requested its inclusion, but the clerk found no such document in the trial court file. 3 case, defendant moved for acquittal under penal code section 1118.1, which motion was denied. defendant put on his case, and the matter was submitted to the jury. after just over five hours of deliberation, the jury concluded defendant was guilty of first degree murder. the deadly weapon allegation was found to be true. defendant subsequently waived trial on the prior conviction allegations and admitted them. he was sentenced to a term of 25 years to life in prison, doubled (pursuant to penal code section 1170.12) plus one year for the dangerous weapon, plus an additional five years (pursuant to penal code section 667, subdivision (a)), for a total term of 56 years to life in prison. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal. facts defendant lived with matthews for just under six months. he had moved into her apartment when he was released from prison, on parole, for a prior robbery conviction. defendant was approximately 20 years younger than matthews. by all accounts, the relationship was tumultuous. defendant had other women over to while matthews was at work. defendant was unfaithful. defendant and matthews frequently argued; the arguments would get physical. defendant killed matthews some time after she came home from work on february 2, 2012. he slashed her throat with a knife; the autopsy revealed a single not seek help for matthews, although she may have struggled for breath for some time. in the apartment, while he sold and pawned her possessions for money to buy marijuana. he stayed with friends and went days later, when her concerned friends and family asked the police to check on her welfare. defendant testified that he killed matthews in the heat of passion when, during an argument, matthews told defendant she had aborted their baby. the evidence at trial established that matthews and defendant had both told friends and family that matthews 4 an abortion, nor had she been pregnant at the time of her death. indeed, she had likely menstruated approximately three weeks before she was killed. 1. nature of the relationship the prosecutor introduced substantial evidence of the nature of the relationship between defendant and matthews. the evidence painted the following picture. matthews worked at a grocery store deli counter; she was on her feet all day. matthews provided for defendant and paid his phone bill. defendant, in contrast, spent his days in the apartment, hanging out with his friends and smoking marijuana. defendant smoked marijuana frequently. defendant did not treat matthews well. despite the fact that she worked and he did not, he was not considerate toward her. instead, when she came home from work, he would demand that she cook for him or get him liquor or ot like defendant; they did not like the way he treated matthews. defendant was unfaithful to matthews with several other women. he exchanged sexual text messages with other women2 and a man who identified as transsexual. 2. prior domestic violence defendant and matthews frequently argued. neighbors would often complain to the apartment manager about their loud arguments. neighbors heard defendant cursing at matthews and matthews crying during the fights. during one fight, matthews was heard despera heard noises which sounded like struggles and heavy objects falling during the fights. at one point, on october 25, 2011, a neighbor called the police because of one of the fights. when the police arrived, matthews appeared to have some fresh red scratch marks on her face, as if fingernails had been pulled over her skin. she was crying and upset. however, she told police that she had been in a fight with a female friend. no arrest 2 defendant sent his text messages in all capital letters. when we quote the messages, we use lower case. 5 bragged that she did not tell the police on him. defendant told that same friend that he your bitch get out of line, you grab over and you reach around her neck and grab a bitch least one other instance when matthews was seen with bruises and other injuries, for which she offered a questionable explanation. 3. the killing physical evidence. based 7:11 p.m. matthews was eventually found on her bed, and there is no evidence that she had been killed elsewhere and moved. she was killed by a 4 1/2 inch horizontal wound across her neck, some 3 1/4 inches below her chin. the cut was in the folds of who discovered her body did not initially see that her throat had been slashed. the cut was made with a sharp instrument, like a knife. the depth of the wound varied from 1/8 to 1/2 of an inch. beneath the skin, it cut several muscles and the cartilage through the wall of trachea cartilage from front to back. the deputy medical examiner testified that a certain amount of strength is necessary to cut through the cartilage of the trachea, similar to the strength used in cutting a drumstick from a chicken thigh. the deputy medical examiner did not testify, however, as to if the trachea damage could cutting the trachea would have required stopping mid-strike and applying additional force. the direction of the wound could not be determined. matthews was alive when her throat was cut. the wound would have caused problems in breathing as blood entered the trachea. while it was possible that 6 matthews could have died very quickly from spasms, she might have gagged and struggled for additional time, ranging from a few minutes to an hour. alternatively, she might have been unconscious. no additional wounds were fon february 11, 2012, he had no injuries on his face or chest area. there was a slight red scratch above the knuckle on his left forearm, and a circular scratch below his left knuckle. defendant ultimately testified that one of these scratches was from the fight with matthews, but the other was not. 4. although defendant had been interviewed by police, he did not admit to killing matthews until trial. at trial, for the first time, defendant admitted the killing and claimed it had occurred during the heat of passion. defendant testified to the following course of events. by november of 2011, he and matthews were arguing regularly, and he had considered leaving her. he did not leave, however, because, in late november, matthews told him that she was pregnant. they were both excited about the pregnancy. on february 2, 2012, when matthews came home from work, she went straight to the bedroom. defendant was in the kitchen washing dishes. matthews came out of the bedroom and started questioning defendant about a woman he had over at the apartment that day. an argument ensued and intensified. defendant decided to get out of the situation; he went to the bedroom to pack up his belongings. he did not know if he was leaving temporarily or permanently at this time. matthews returned to the bedroom and asked defendant what he was doing. when defendant responded that he was leaving, matthews told him that he was not going anywhere. the argument continued. matthews had a knife in her hand. defendant asked her what she was doing and took the knife from her hand. when he took the knife from her, matthews fell back on the bed. they continued to argue, and defendant told matthews to calm down and think about the baby. matthews replied that there was no more baby. defendant asked what 7 she meant, and matthews said that she had killed his child and had an abortion. a single cut. he was upset and confused. everything was blurry. matthews was gasping for air, trying to breathe. defendant did not try to help her; all that he could think to do was leave. 5. events after the killing prosecution, there was little dispudefendant contacted friends to try to find a place to stay for the night. his text message records indicate an attempt to arrange something more long-term.3 that night, defendant stayed with friends. caught her cheating. he said that he had beaten up the other man, slapped matthews, and left. that night, defendant stayed with his friends, watching tv and smoking marijuana. the next day, defendant went to a party with his friends. over the next week, defendant returned to the apartment several times. each on february 3, 2012, planned to trade in matt he texted a friend, krystahe did not do it. however, before defendant was arrested, he told zepeda that matthews had undergone an abortion and that he was mad, sad, and shocked about it. text messages with another friend, kristine sanchez, on february 5, 2012, are to the same 3 specifically, defendant had previously texted a woman named renee robbie about coming to live with her. after he killed matthews, defendant texted robbie, asking her how she would feel if he came out to see her in two days. when robbie said to make that move righ 8 for that. sanchez responded that defendant would have to deal with matthews because she was pregnant with his baby. defendant . . . 4 6. the discovery of the body and matthews had previously dated victor johnson. although they were no longer in -year-old child as her stepson. she helped johnson raise the boy. when matthews failed to return johnsohad also been unable to contact matthews. finally, on february 10, 2012, johnson apartment, ecomposing body was discovered. police investigated and ultimately suspected defendant of the crime.5 when he was interviewed by police, he admittedly lied to the officers about nearly everything. he lied about killing matthews, lied about when he last saw her, lied about taking her tv, and lied about driving her car. he told police that, when matthews had come home, she was angry because he had invited a woman over while she was at work, and she told him to leave. he specifically told police that matthews would never have an abortion, and that, if she had had one, he would have left her. defendant admitted that 4 this was not the only explanation for leaving matthews which defendant offered a 5 as defendant testified that he killed matthews, we do not discuss the evidence connecting him to the offense. nonetheless, the prosecution introduced incontrovertible evidence establishing that defendant was the killer, including cellular telephone tracking data. 9 police had discovered a steak knife in the kitchen sink of mattdefendant testified that this was the knife he had used to kill matthews. at trial, however, the prosecution introduced rebuttal evidence to cast doubt on this testimony. specifically, a criminalist had tested the knife, and it was negative for blood. contentions on appeal on appeal, defendant contends: (1) the prosecutor committed misconduct in argument to the jury by misstating the mental state necessary for voluntary manslaughter; (2) numerous pieces of evidence should have been excluded as more prejudicial than probative; (3) the evidence of premeditation and deliberation is insufficient to support the verdict; (4) the standard jury instruction for voluntary manslaughter improperly allocates the burden of proof; and (5) evidence of prior acts of domestic violence should have been excluded. we conclude that the prosecutor misstated the mental state necessary for voluntary manslaughter, and that some of the been excluded as more prejudicial than probative. we also conclude that there is sufficient evidence of premeditation and deliberation to establish first degree murder. we therefore reverse the judgment of conviction for a new trial on all counts, without reaching discussion 1. prosecutorial misconduct/ineffective assistance of counsel defendant contends the prosecutor committed misconduct in argument to the jury. specifically, defendant contends that the prosecutor misstated the mental state necessary for heat of passion voluntary manslaughter. mens rea element required for murder is a state of mind constituting either express or implied malice. a person who kills without malice does not commit murder. heat of passion is a mental state that precludes the formation of malice and reduces an unlawful killing, the reason of the accused was obscured or disturbed by passion to such an extent as would cause the ordinarily reasonable person of average disposition to act rashly and 10 [citation.] heat of passion, then, is a state of mind caused by legally sufficient provocation that causes a person to act, not out of rational thought but out of unconsidered reaction to the provocation. while some measure of thought is required to form either an intent to kill or a conscious disregard for human life, a person who acts (people v. beltran (2013) 56 cal.4th 935, 942, fn. omitted.) on of average disposition would be moved to kill focuses on the wrong thing. the proper adequate, the provocation must be one that would cause an emotion so intense that an ordinary person would simply react, people v. beltran, supra, 56 the average person would act in a certain way: to kill. instead, the question is whether the average person would react in a certain way: with his reason and judgment ibid.) this is not a new standard. it is well-established that the issue raised by a claim of heat of passion is not whether a reasonable person would have done what the defendant did (kill), but rather, if a reasonable person would have been provoked to act rashly. (people v. najera (2006) 138 cal.app.4th 212, 223.) in this case, in argument to the jury, the prosecutor focused on the issue of whether a reasonable person would kill in response to the purported provocation of an aby. i aborted your baby. i terminated it. i submit to you 11 she had had an abortion, would a person of average disposition who was told there was no more baby cut jury to find defendant guilty of first degree murder, the prosecutor again emphasized, because they sa voluntary manslaughter. there is no heat of passion. there is no provocation. if you thought person, not the defendant, but a reasonable person do the same thing under the same and not only did the prosecutor focus on the issue of whether the provocation was sufficient to make a reasonable person kill in her oral argument to the jury, the same mistaken focus was reasonable person would do the same in the same circumstancesa later slide notes that the defense argument is that defendant was provoked by being told by matthews that she had an abortion. underneath that statement, the text reads: a on that question is a large red circle with a line through it, demonstrating that the prosecution believes that the test is not met, and that, therefore, the killing was not voluntary manslaughter. o the jury and the powerpoint slides, the prosecutor set forth the proper test, whether a reasonable person 12 would act rashly standards was meant to give the impression that they were, in fact, the same.6 prosecutorial misconduct. the prosecution does not attempt to argue that the prosecutor correctly set forth the law of voluntary manslaughter; it is very clear that the person to kill (rather than to act rashly) was a significant misstatement of the law. for appeal a claim of prosecutorial misconduct, the defendant must make a timely objection at trial and request an admonition to the jury. [citation.] a defendant is excused from the necessity of objecting and requesting an admonition if either would have people v. najera, supra, 138 cal.app.4th at p. 224.) here, defendant does not suggest that an objection would have been futile. indeed, it would not have been. defense counsel interposed several objections to other portions of defendant therefore argues that his trial counsel was ineffective for failing to prove: (1) objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional standards; and (2) his 6 n, the provocation would have caused a person of average disposition to act rashly: the average person is all of you. would the average person kill a person because she says, i aborted your baby. i terminated it. the average person would not think like that. the average person is all of you. you have to think, well, was that sufficient provocation for this to be a heat of passion, to go to voluntary manslaughter? 13 the respeople v. najera, supra, 138 cal.app.4th at p. 225.) in most cases, the failure to object does not constitute ineffective assistance of people v. maury (2003) 30 cal.4th 342, 419.) however, defs performance from meaningful scrutiny and thereby automatically validate challenged people v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d 171, 217.) in this case, we are at a loss to conceive of any sort of tactical reason defense counsel may have had for opening statement to the jury, counsel conceded that defendant had killed matthews; argument set up an impossible standard, that a reasonable person would have been provoked to kill, rather than the actual standard, that a reasonable person would have been provoked to act rashlyvoluntary manslaughter standard, a murder conviction was guaranteed. at oral argument on appeal, the prosecutor argued that defense counsel may have made the tactical decision not to object in order to demonstrate to the jury that the defense had so much confidence in its case that it believed the voluntary manslaughter defense would survive even the constitute ineffective assistance of counsel. as our supreme court has made clear, people v. beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th should have, or as much as common experience tells us he could have, nor as much as the ordinarily law-abiding person would does kill in this state, his punishment is mitigated. such a killing is not justified but understandable in 14 extraordinary reaction, the unusual exception to the general expectation that the ibid.) in other words, no reasonable person kills in response to provocation. if the standard were as the prosecution stated it, the standard could not be met, as a matter of law. the law, defense counsel did not address and correct this misstatement in her own argument to the jury. we are left with the unfortunate conclusion that defense counsel failed to object not out of any tactical reason, but because she, too, misunderstood the applicable standard established by governing law.7 a reasonable probability that the result would have been different. we conclude that this is not a case in which any jury misunderstanding would have been cured by the fact that the trial court instructed the jury on the proper test for heat of passion voluntary manslaughter (calcrim no. 570) and gave the standard instruction that the jury must follow the law as explained by the court, not the arguments of counsel (calcrim no. other words, the jury would not disregard the comments of the prosecutor unless it first believed that but the prosecutor here phrased her comments in such a way as to give the impression that she was simply offering a consistent interpretation of the instruction, and neither defense counsel nor the court gave the jury any reason to even consider the possibility that the prosecutor was misstating the law. it is not reasonably probable that a jury, untrained in the law, 7 people v. beltran was issued on june 3, 2013, nearly two months before the trial in this case began. in any event, the supreme court in beltran people v. beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 957.) 15 would independently latter. (see people v. beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 952 & fn. 10 [collecting cases which erroneously used language suggesting the two standards were the same].) nor do we conclude the evidence of murder was so overwhelming, it was not reasonably probable that the erroneous argument contributed to the verdict. while there was certainly evidence to support a verdict of murder, there was also evidence from which a verdict of voluntary manslaughter could have been reached. defendant testified that he was provoked into acting with his reason and judgment obscured because matthews, during the course of an argument, told him she had aborted their baby. that this would provoke a reasonable person to act rashly is not outside the realm of possibility. (cf. people v. beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 941.) moreover, there is told her friends and relatives that she was pregnant. however, the medical evidence indicates that matthews had menstruated at least three weeks before she was killed. further, there is evidence that defendant still believed matthews was pregnant up until ly, the prosecution never suggested that defendant knew, two days before the killing, that matthews was not pregnant, but texted a friend about it in order to create a paper trail to support his planned voluntary manslaughter defense. after the killing, barrest, he told multiple friends that matthews had killed their baby this evidence a recent fabrication. while it is possible that the jury rejectthat he was, in fact, provoked by this statement, it is also reasonably probable that the jury concluded that the purported provocation was simply inadequate because it would not have provoked a reasonable person to kill. this is sufficient to undermine our confidence in the outcome of this trial. 16 2. highly prejudicial evidence was admitted defendant contends that the trial court abused its discretion in admitting a great deal of highly prejudicial evidence with limited or no probative value. evidence code section value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue determination under this statute will not be disturbed on appeal absent a clear showing of abuse of discretion. (people v. linkenauger (1995) 32 cal.app.4th 1603, 1610.) [citation] or if it would cause people v. foster (2010) 50 cal.4th 1301, 1331.) in this case, the evidence the admission of which most clearly violated evidence code section 352 was the evidence related to regina, a transsexual man with whom defendant exchanged text messages. in the pretrial hearing, the prosecutor volunteered those texts were irrelevant. by the end of the trial, however, the prosecutor sought to objected, but the trial court admitted the messages as more probative than prejudicial. we set forth some of the text messages, all of which were admitted into evidence, in order to illustrate the level of detail addressed. on january 26, 2012, road lil mama . . . i 17 that meant 8 on january 29, 2012, defendant exchanged sexual text messages with regina texts with regina . . . u ever . . . on february 8, 2012, several days after he had killed matthews, defendant texted . . . repl . . . im just saying . . . u fuck the exp . . . u tryna fuck something and i am too . . . so we can u 8 regina was not the only male with whom defendant exchanged sexually explicit text messages. later that evening, defendant texted an unknown individual about this time . . . r u good . . . dont trip . . . but i am tryna have u feel me inside u . . . i really want to digg u but like i said ima work it tryna do that again so soon . . . i was gonna suck u up and lick you balls and ass . . . im tryna take it slow wit the hole . . . 18 fucking earth is gonna tell me how shits gonna go . . . u think u just gonna ram me??? [laughing my mother-fucking ass off] . . . . . . aint no defendant being open to the possibility. on appeal, defendant argues that the rather detailed sex messages with regina were highly prejudicial, and not probative of anything. the prosecutor responds that assertion that he was a happy expectant father. that defendant was unfaithful with multiple women was undisputed. that he planned to be unfaithful with a man that identified as transsexual added nothing.9 the particular details of planned mutual relative merits of giving and receiving anal penetration are relevant to no issues in this case. moreover, the evidence is clearly prejudicial and likely to evoke an emotional happened and put it squarely on defendanin admitting the details of the text messages with regina. prejudicial of all of the challenged evidence admitted, it is not the only evidence improperly admitted against defendant. the court admitted into evidence a letter 9 messages. indeed, perhaps the most relevant inferences one can make from the dozens e that he rarely mentioned matthews, and he clearly did not behave as though he was in a committed long-term relationship with her. may thus be admissible on retrial. 19 he text of the that this reference is to another woman, not matthews. nonetheless, the trial court tate of mind at the time of the killing.10 evidence code section 1101, subdivision (a), prohibits, with certain exceptions, . . . when offered to prove his or her conduct on a specified odoes not discuss matthews,11 and therefore does not address his views toward her. simply a character trait. the prosecution sought to have the jury infer that defendant used matthews for money because he had discussed using another woman for money. in other words, this evidence was intended to support character was to use women, and that he acted in accordance with this character in his relationship with matthews. this is improper character evidence which should have been excluded under evidence code section 1101, subdivision (a). to the extent the was at issue, it was weak evidence indeed. the theory of admission was that, since 10 the letter also includes referemy face i got valley going down the hair line. [a]nd on the other side i got badmon. [a] badmon is that one crazy nigga in the hood nobody fucks wit cause he fucked up in 11 the letter may other female the black girl in the flix i showed finding of relevance was not related to it. 20 not the sort of individual who would be so concerned about the fetus his girlfriend was carrying that he would lose rational judgment when told she aborted it. to state this theory of relevance is to demonstrate how tenuous it is.12 using one woman for money bear no relationship to his thoughts about his potential child another woman may be carrying. any minimal probative value of the evidence is vastly outweighed by the nature of undue prejudice, in that the jury is likely to have a negative emotional reaction toward a defendant who discusses women in such a cavalier manner. the trial court therefore abused its discretion in admitting this letter. 3. cumulative error considering the effect of the errors together, we are convinced that the seek correction of, evidence with minimal or no probative value, it is reasonably probable that the result would have been different. (people v. cardenas (1982) 31 cal.3d 897, 907.) deliberations were quick in comparison to the length of the trial. there was sufficient evidence to support a possible voluntary manslaughter conviction. it is reasonably probable that, in light of the highly prejudicial evidence wrongfully admitted, and the standard, that the jury simply convicted defendant as charged, without considering the relevant evidence and the proper standard. we therefore reverse for a new trial. 4. sufficient evidence of premeditation and deliberation alternative argument pertaining to the sufficiency of the evidence since the absence of sufficient evidence would preclude retrial. [citations.] when reviewing the evidence 12 if the prosecution sought to admit the document to show that, since defendant intended to murder matthews and take her money, the connection is equally tenuous. 21 for purposes of deciding whether retrial is permissible, we consider all of the evidence people v. jackson (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 590, 600.) defendant contends the evidence of premeditation and deliberation is insufficient evidence was insufficient to support the a conviction or to support the denial of a section 1118.1 motion, the standard of review determine whether it discloses substantial evidenceevidence that is reasonable, credible and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence. [citation.] [] the same standard of review applies to cases in which the prosecution relies primarily on circumstantial evidence . . . . may not be reversed simply because credibility of a section 1118.1 motion made at the close of a -in-chief focuses on the state of the evidence as it people v. hajek and vo (2014) 58 cal.4th 1144, 1182-1183.) human being with malice aforethought. [citation.] malice may be either express or implied. express malice exists when there is a deliberate intention unlawfully to take away the life of a fellow creature. [citation.] it is implied when no considerable provocation appears or when the circumstances people v. boatman (2013) 221 cal.app.4th 1253, 1263.) 22 degree. murder of the first degree the legislature apparently emphasized its intention to require as an element of such crime substantially more reflection than may be involved in the people v. boatman, supra, 221 ex ibid. t is (ibid.) in considering whether circumstantial evidence is sufficient to support a finding of premeditation and deliberation, courts consider three factors first set forth in people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15. these factors are: (1) planning activity; (2) motive; and (3) manner of killing. traditionally, courts uphold findings of first degree murder when there is evidence of all three types, or extremely strong evidence of type (1), or evidence of (2) combined with (1) or (3). (people v. sanchez (1995) 12 cal.4th 1, 32.) however, the anderson factors simply set forth guidelines for analysis; this is not a strict test. (ibid.) if the anderson factors are not present, a finding of premeditation and deliberation can still be upheld based on substantial evidence from which rational jurors could have found that the killing was the result of preexisting thought and the careful weighing of considerations. (people v. boatman, supra, 221 cal.app.4th at p. 1270.) we first consider the anderson factors. there is the greatest amount of evidence of the third factor: the manner of killing. the manner of killing can constitute evidence of premeditation when the mannof [a] people v. crandell (1988) 46 cal.3d 833, 868.) here, it appears that matthews was lying on the bed, relaxing with her shoes off, when 23 defendant slashed her throat. that tevidence that defendant held her head up in order to expose her throat and make the cut. that defendant had small scratches on his left arm and knuckles is consistent with this view; if defendant held mattthere is also some evidence of motive. a neighbor heard matthews tell defendant to leave during an earlier fight; defendant told police matthews had kicked him out on the night of the killing. if the jury believed this evidence, it could reasonably have concluded that defendant killed matthews because she would no longer provide for him. moreover, other evidence may support a finding of premeditation, even when the anderson conduct after the killing may constitute evidence of premeditation.13 specifically, we can a (see people v. perez, supra, 2 cal.4th at p. 1128.) here, defendant failed to obtain assistance for matthews when she gasped for breath. instead, he packed up his belongings, and contacted friends to try to find a place to stay. he stayed with friends that night, behaving normally, and went to a party the following mind was not rash and impulsive but, instead, was cold and calculating. considering the evidence of two anderson factors, as well as the evidence of s finding of first degree premeditated murder. consequently, defendant may be retried on that offense. 13 this could also be considered as part of the third anderson factor. (people v. perez (1992) 2 cal.4th 1117, 1128.) 24 disposition the judgment is reversed and the matter remanded for further proceedings consistent with this opinion. because we reverse, in part, due to prosecutorial misconduct and ineffective assistance of defense counsel, a copy of this opinion will be sent to the state bar. (bus. & prof. code,  6086.7, subd. (a)(2).) not to be published in the official reports lavin, j.* we concur: kitching, acting p. j. aldrich, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 