filed 10/27/15 p. v. ngov ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. matthew ngov, defendant and appellant. b253584 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na090593) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, james b. pierce, judge. reversed and remanded. deborah l. hawkins, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, stephanie a. miyoshi and david a. voet, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________ 2 matthew ngov, whose first trial ended in a hung jury, appeals from the judgment entered following his conviction by a second jury of first degree murder and related felonies arising from the drive-by shooting of pablo ortiz. ngov, whose dna was found at the crime scene, contends the evidence was insufficient to establish he was present when ortiz was murdered and his convictions were obtained as a result of judicial bias, prosecutorial misconduct and the ineffective assistance of his counsel. we agree it is reasonably probable the jury would have returned a more favorable verdict for ngov but improper intervention preventing the introduction by defense counsel of statements made by ngov when accused of the crime, evidence that had been allowed at the first trial. accordingly, we reverse. factual and procedural background 1. the information ngov was charged by information with first degree murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a));1 shooting from a motor vehicle ( 12034, subd. (c)); and unlawful possession of a firearm ( 12021, subd. (a)(1)). as to the first two counts it was specially alleged ngov had personally and intentionally discharged a firearm resulting in great bodily injury or death ( 12022.53, subds. (b)-(d)). the information also charged all three counts had been committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)).2 2. at 7:32 p.m. on june 21, 2011 security cameras attached to a house near the intersection of 14th street and dawson avenue in long beach captured footage of a dark gray lexus sedan driving through the neighborhood. as the car turned from dawson avenue onto 14th street, an arm extended from the ear passenger window and 1 statutory references are to this code unless otherwise indicated. 2 for simplicity on occasion this opinion uses the shorthand phrthe benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1); see people v. jones (2009) 47 cal.4th 566, 571, fn. 2.) 3 dropped a white cup onto the pavement. a minute later, the car returned and again drove slowly along 14th street. what appeared to be the same arm, holding a handgun, extended again from the rear passenger window and fired several shots at ortiz, who was riding a bicycle on the street next to the car.3 officers from the long beach police department responded to the shooting, located the footage from the surveillance cameras and isolated a white plastic subway cup near the corner of dawson avenue and 14th street that resembled the cup dropped from the car. the cup had fallen on its side with the straw still attached to the lid. long beach police officer alfonso garcia was directed to recover the cup. he testified the cup contained some liquid, including some melting ice, which he poured on the ground, before placing the cup in an evidence bag. although he also noticed condensation on the cup, he did not mention the ice inside the cup or the condensation on the outside of the cup in his report. ngov, a member of the asian boyz gang, was arrested two months later in connection with an unrelated investigation, and his dna was found to match that recovered from the straw of the subway cup. after receiving the dna results detective peter lackovic questioned ngov. interrogation: [prosecutor]: did you confront mr. ngov about the evidence that you had in this case? [detective]: yes. what specifically did you confront him with? he was aware of why he was there. he was shown a picture of the suspect car. he was given a generic description of where the crime occurred. did you confront him about dna? tive]: yes. 3 ortiz was struck by three bullets and died from his wounds. 4 when you confronted him about dna, did you show him anything? department crime lab that showed that his dna was recovered from the crime scene. [] . . . [] did you also tell him that there were witnesses? yes. i did. and were there witnesses? there were not eyewitnesses. no. there were no eyewitnesses, but you told the defendant there were witnesses. correct? i take it back. there were eyewitnesses to the shooting. there were no eyewitnesses that identified anybody. thank you for that clarification. why did you tell the defendant there [were] eyewitnesses that may be able to identify him, or did identify him? use to tell him that there may be particular evidence one way or another as part of the inte following the interrogation ngov was placed in a cell with another asian boyz gang member, barry prak; and their conversation was recorded. after complaining to each other about lackovicwered, ; had jammed. ngov told prak the shooting occurred on 14th street and st. louis (avenue), a block from dawson avenue, a detail made important by omission of the cross-street during his interrogation. a member of the suicidal town crips, a gang affiliated with asian boyz. 5 a forensics expert testified the straw contained a mixture of dna from a major probability estimated as one out of one septillion (1024). the expert did not test any portion of the cup other than the straw. she acknowledged that dna can last for some time when deposited on a surface. another forensic expert testified she had lifted a latent print off the side of the cup toward the bottom. the print had been made on the cup when it was dry and had not later become wet. officer richard solorio testified as an expert on the asian boyz street gang. ngov had previously admitted to the officer he was a member of the asian boyz gang, which has an alliance with the suicidal town crips. the area where the shooting occurred is claimed by the asian boyz. when presented with a hypothetical containing the facts of the case, officer solorio opined the shooting had been committed to benefit the asian boyz gang. 3. on the afternoon of june 21, 2011 ngov and his girlfriend, jasmyn fajardo, went to home depot in lakewood to buy an air conditioner. fajardo used her debit card to purchase the air conditioner at 6:48 p.m. fajardo testified they were in the store for 30 minutes and had their cell phones with them. as they were walking to the car, ngov decided to return to get a drink. using his debit card, he purchased a soda at 6:56 p.m.4 after returning , they discovered the unit did not work and at 8:08 p.m called the customer service number on the box to report the problem.5 ngov testified on his own behalf and admitted he had prior convictions for sale of a controlled substance and gun possession. ngov identified the lexus shown in the surveillance footage as the one belonging to his friend knuckles. he had been in the car 4 an employee of home depot testified about the purchases based on receipts 5 fajardo testified at an earlier proceeding she had spent the entire day with ngov. she was impeached with cell phone records showing they had called and texted each other earlier in the day. she revised her testimony to say they had been together for about 90 minutes before driving to home depot. 6 before the june 21, 2011 shooting but was not there on that evening. attempting to explain the presence of his dna on the cup, ngov stated he believed someone else threw knuckles likely shot ortiz. ngov testified his jail cell conversation with prak referred to the first time he had handled a gun when he was 16 and had been caught by the police. ngov also believed prak was talking about his first time handling a gun when it jammed. phone between 6:45 and 8:00 p.m. on june 21, 2011. ngov made no calls during this time but his phone initiated an 88-minute data connection with the tower northeast of his between 6:47 p.m. and 6:50 p.m. and then connected to the tower near home at 7:20 p.m. at the time of the shooting -mobile, had a range of one and one-half miles. and fingerprints did not match the latent print found on the subway cup. a second forensic identification expert concurred the print had been placed on the cup when it was dry and would have deteriorated if exposed to liquid. 4. ebuttal evidence in their rebuttal case the people called the defense fingerprint expert and questioned him further about the print found on the cup. he reaffirmed his opinion the print had been placed on the cup when it was dry and stated the print would have shown signs of the presence of any condensation after the print had been made the people also called detective lackovic to testify about the time it took to drive from home to the crime scene. the detective testified he drove about six times along different routes around the same time of day and the trips averaged approximately 11 minutes.6 6 time to drive between his house and the murder site along various routes required between 19 and 21 minutes. we grant his request, however, to the extent the maps reflect 7 5. the verdict and sentencing the jury convicted ngov on all three counts and found true the firearm and gang enhancements. he was sentenced to an aggregate state prison term of 57 years to life. discussion 1. the trial court-examination violated a. governing law tribunal in both civil and criminal cases. this requirement of neutrality in adjudicative proceedings safeguards the two central concerns of procedural due process, the prevention of unjustified or mistaken deprivations and the promotion of participation and dialogue by affected individuals in the decisionmaking process. [citation.] the neutrality requirement helps to guarantee that life, liberty, or property will not be taken on the basis of an erroneous or distorted conception of the facts or the law. [citation.] at feeling, so important to a popular government, that justice has been done,ensuring that no person will be deprived of his interests in the absence of a proceeding in which he may present his case with assurance that the arbiter is not predisposed to find marshall v. jerrico, inc. (1980) 446 u.s. 238, 242 [100 s.ct. 1610, 64 l.ed.2d 182]; see caperton v. a.t. massey coal co., inc. (2009) 556 u.s. 868, 876 [129 s.ct. 2252, 173 l.ed.2d 1208]; bracy v. gramley (1997) 520 u.s. 899, 904-905 [117 s.ct. 1793, 138 l.ed.2d 97].) tutory duty to control trial proceedings, including the introduction and exclusion of evidence. [citation.] as provided by section 1044, it is introduction of evidence and the argument of counsel to relevant and material matters, the distance between the two geographical locations by surface streets (7.1 miles) and freeway (9.4 miles). (see evid. code,  452, subd. (h), 459, subd. (c); colberg, inc. v. state of california (1967) 67 cal.2d 408, 423; appeals bd. (1981) 116 cal.app.3d 248, 261.) 8 with a view to the expeditious and effective ascertainment of the truth regarding the her] judicial posipeople v. sturm (2006) 37 cal.4th 1218, 1237 (sturm); accord, people v. harris (2005) 37 cal.4th 310, 346-347.) in reviewing a claim of judicial error in this regard, our role is to determine whea fair trial. (people v. cook (2006) 39 cal.4th 566, 598; see people v. snow (2003) 30 conduct left something to be desired, or even whether some comments would have been better left unsaid, [but] . . b. s conduct ngov contends the the related intimidating discussion between the court and his counsel in front of the jury, as well as a second acrimonious exchange between court and counsel during the examination of a defense witness, demonstrate improper judicial intervention and bias toward his counsel that denied him a fair trial.7 m detective a line of questioning the court had permitted at [defense counsel]: you asked him to try to proveto show you that he was not at the [site of the shooting] during that time. correct? [detective]: yes, sir. 7 the people contend ngov forfeited this contention by failing to object to the r his recusal. ngov may have forfeited any argument he had for statutory recusal (see code civ. proc.,  170.3), but he has not forfeited his constitutional claim. (see people v. chatman (2006) 38 cal.4th 344, 363; people v. brown (1993) 6 cal.4th 322, 335; people v. panah (2005) 35 cal.4th 395, 445, fn. 16.) 9 [defense counsel]: you asked him to try to remember where . . . he may have been that day? [detective]: asked him where he was. i asked him if he has alibis to tell us. [defense counsel]: this was in november. correct? [detective]: i believe so. yes. [defense counsel]: did he have an alibi off the top of his head? [the court] [defense counsel]: from defense [the court]: lled an admission. and only a party opponent can introduce teach you the law. you know the law. and as soon as i said it, you recognized it. so me when i make a ruling. [defense counsel]: i am not arguing, your honor. sorry. [the court]: you said a party admission. and you introduce a party admission. you understand that. [defense counsel]: goes to impeach the statement, too. honor. [the court]: [defense counsel]: [the court]: next question. please. no impermissible questions. [defense counsel]: during the interview, were you able to get information based on that? [the court]ase. next question. [defense counsel]: now, you believe that thosepart of those audio recording[s]strike that, please. [the court] 10 consequehad been identified as the shooter.8 8 the detective: [defense counsel]: you told [ngov] multiple people pointed him out doing the you? [detective]quite possible. [defense counsel]: and his demeanor when you were telling him this, he got [detective]: his demeanor changed throughout the conversations that we had with him. [defense counsel]: wellbut he got upset with you and told you to do your job. [detective]: that was one of the things he told me. yes, sir. [defense counsel] [detective]: he did. [defense counsel] [detective]: yes, sir. [defense counsel] [detective]: yes, sir. [defense counsel] not me. and hopefully a jury will. do your job [prosecutor]: objection. hearsay. [the court] [defense counsel] [] . . . [] [detective]: he made lots of statements, sir. some complete lies. some statements like that. [defense counsel] [detective] 11 in the after fajardo twice referred to the previous trial during her testimony. the prosecutor asked for a sidebar, and the court excused the jury: [prosecutor]: . . . . . . . if other word. [defense counsel]: i should have repeated that before we came in. [the court]: it seemed like the answer to every question is around the last trial. [defense counsel]: sorry. [the court] [defense counsel]: i think the detective already testified to the existence of a previous trial. [the court]: so therefore what? to have every witness thereafter say the same thing over and over and over and over again . . . ? what do you mean by [defense counsel]: think the jury is prejudiced by it. and [the court]: him repeat it over every single witness that you call. is that what you are saying? you seem to be saying that, justifying it by saying if . . . a wrong has been committed, i can commit wrongs as many times as i want. is that what you are saying to me? [defense counsel]: no, sir. in our past, judge, for you to assume that. now, first [the court]: detecti therefore i can do whatever i want? [defense counsel]: and he sa [detective] 12 [defense counsel]: no, sir. i think that is unfair to say. [the court]: okay. [defense counsel]: unfair assumption. [the court]: well, that seems to be what otherwise, what does it mean? what does it mean the detective already said it? defense counsel then voiced his belief had not been unduly prejudicial and explained he had instructed her the previous week not to mention the earlier trial but had forgotten to reinforce that admonition before she testified. he also pointed out he had successfully avoided the issue with other witnesses and prior trial from fajardo. the court turned to fajardo and asked whether she recalled such a conversation: [the court]: ms. fajardo, do you remember that conversation? [ms. fajardo]: i do. [the court]: conversation? [the witness]: i forgot about it. [the court]: oh. you forgot about it? do you remember the rest of the conversation that he said? and have you forgotten everything that he said to you? [] . . . [] [defense counsel]: does the court feel there is a prejudice based on her statement? [the court]: think about it [counsel]. [defense counsel]: is there a legal issue here? [the court]: yes. there is. keep mentioning that in front of the jury. [defense counsel]: and i think . . . at this point we can remind her. [the court]: you want me to ring the bell again? tell the jurors to disregard it, [defense counsel]: [] . . . [] 13 [the court]: you want me to do that? is [defense counsel]: trying to do. [the court] [defense counsel] [the court]: because i got a ignored or forgotten anyways, either by the witness or counsel. [defense counsel] [the court] fair either. does that matter? [defense counsel]: yes. [the court]: it does? [defense counsel]f insinuation. [the court] c. ordinarily, a single instance of improper judicial conduct in front of the jury is not sufficient to demonstrate judicial bias that has deprived a defendant of a fair trial. (see, e.g., people v. banks (2014) 59 cal.4th 1113, 1175-he only comment the court made in front of (prospective) jurors was the remark that proceedings had been delayed one problem obtaining the presence of the defendant in a timely fashio people v. houston (2012) 54 cal.4th 1186, 1221 ven if improper . . . two fall short of the intemperate or biased judicial conduct [that] warrants people v. fudge (1994) 7 cal.4th 1075, 1107 trial court commits persists in making discourteous and disparaging remarks to a s counsel . . . and utters frequent comment from which the jury may plainly perceive that the testimony of the witness is not believed by the judge, and in other ways ].) in sturm, supra, 37 cal.4th 1218, for instance, the 14 supreme court reversed id. at p. 1233), id. at p. id. at p. 1234) and interposid. at p. 1235).9 (see also people v. santana, supra, 80 cal.app.4th at p. 1207 [trial court asked extensive questions of defense witnesses and belabored points than that of an impartial judge].) tyeven when erroneousdo not establish a charge of judicial bias, especially when they are subject to review.people v. pearson (2013) 56 cal.4th 393, 447.) although we are concerned here with a single incident of improper judicial intervention, the c usurping t and improperly excluding exculpatory evidence.10 defense counsel was attempting to elicit detective iption of reaction statements during his interrogation dna had been found at the crime scene and that he had been identified as the shooter by several unidentified eyewitnesses. this same testimony had been admitted at the previous trialover which the same judge had presideddespite a belated hearsay objection by the same prosecutor. in other words, the judge, the lawyers and the witness all knew where defense counsel. nonetheless, 9 in sturm and counsel wanot grasping my ruling,trying to sninordinate amount of time whereby objections are raised with regard to questions by [defense counsel],counsel to the jursupposedly learn[ed] the rules of evidenceschoolpeople v. banks, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 1176.) 10 we do not separately address the second episode in which the court chastised defense counsel and fajardo about her two references to the earlier trial. the tenor of the his counsel. 15 without waiting for an objection from the prosecutor, the court interrupted with a ruling excluding the testimony, a lecture in open court about hearsay rules and a warning not to argue the point when counsel attempted to state a ground under which the testimony would be admissiblemanifest determination to block this testimony, ultimately assert any other basis for their admission.11 in fact, the question that prompted the court to interject its evidentiary rulingwhether ngov had offered an alibi off the top of his headcalled for a simple yes or no response and, answered in the negative. as such, it was not hearsay at all. moreover, the answers to this line of questioning, were admissible under evidence code section 356 evidence code section 356 provides, part of an act, declaration, conversation, or writing is given in evidence by one party, the whole on the same subject may be inquired into by an adverse party; . . . when a . . . conversation . . . is given in evidence, any other act, declaration, conversation, or writing which is necessary to make it evidence code section 356 is founded not on reliability but on fairness selected aspects of a conversation, act, declaration, or writing, so as to create a misleading impression on the subjects addressed. (people v. parrish (2007) 152 cal.app.4th 263, 273.) n applying evidence code section 356 the courts do not draw narrow lines around the exact subject of inquiry. ent a statement admitted in evidence constitutes part of a conversation or correspondence, the opponent is entitled to have placed in evidence all that was said or 11 when counsel does not complain or object that evidentiary rulings reflect judicial bias, the party forfeits the claim on appeal. (people v. pearson, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 447; people v. snow, supra, 30 cal.4th at pp. 77-78.) one exception to this general rule is when objecting would be futile. (see sturm, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 1237 [finding it would have been futile for defendant to raise with the judge his derogatory comments and objections where it could cause the judge to be more negative toward defendant in front of the jury].) 16 written by or to the declarant in the course of such conversation or correspondence, provided the other statements have some bearing upon, or connection with, the admission or declaration in evidence (people v. harris, supra, 37 cal.4th at pp. 334-335; accord, parrish, at p. 274; see people v. williams (1975) 13 cal.3d 559, 564-565 [testimony properly admitted pursuant to evidence code section 356 not subject to hearsay objection]; see also people v. vines (2011) 51 cal.4th 830, 862 [rejecting sixth amendment rsay exception embodied in evidence code section in this case, the prosecutor asked detective lackovic foundational questions about his interrogation of ngov that were intended to portray ngov as concerned his involvement in the murder of ortiz was already known to police and that the people then used to explain lackovic testified he showed ngov a photograph of the car and told him he had been identified as the shooter in a drive-by murder on 14th street in june 2011. he also told ngov his dna had been found at the scene. the prosecutor then introduced the recorded conversation in which . . the first time something ortiz murder. in addition, on the tape ngov is heard saying the shooting occurred on 14th street and louis. lackovic subsequently testified he had not told ngov where on 14th street the shooting had occurred.12 prior counsel at the first trial, detective lackovic would have been compelled to testify that, although ngov did not offer an alibi, he repeatedly asserted his innocence and told 12 the emphasis placed on this evidence by the people does not seem to be warranted. ngov testified he read about the murder in the newspapers and knew a $10,000 reward had been offered, presumably for information leading to a conviction. the defense introduced evidence the los angeles times identified the location of the murder as the 2100 block of 14th street, the block between st. louis and dawson avenues. 17 lackovic keep looking for more evidence.13 fairness required that defense counsel be permitted to inquire about those statements. relying on evidence code section 356 courts routinely allow prosecutors to introduce additional statements made by defendants in such circumstances. (see, e.g., people v. vines, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 861 ntitled under evidence code people v. wharton (1991) 53 cal.3d 522, 592-593 [under  356, when the defendant elicited evidence showing his culpability in a favorable light, the prosecution was entitled to rebut that inference with evidence from the entire conversation to place s evidence in context].) absent these respoprakset up by lackovic during the interrogationbecame far more incriminating. (see vines, at p. of portions of a statement needed to make othpeople v. parrish, supra, 152 cal.app.4th at pp. 273-factor in determining admissibility under the rule of completenessindeed, the evidence proffered by the defendant and the prosecu14 13 ngertions by ngov of his innocence. (see people v. garcia (2008) 168 . . hearsay evidence if such evidence is offered to provenot the truth of the matter that is stated in such statement expresslybut the truth of a matter that is stated in such even separate from evidence code section 356, ngimplied assertions of his innocence during the interrogation would have been admissible after he testified in his own defense under evidence code sections 1236 and 791, subdivision (a), as prior consistent statements made before the allegedly incriminating (and inconsistent) statements he made to prak in the jail cell. 14 conversation does not remove his responses to detective lackovic from the ambit of evidence code section 356. lackovic was allowed to testify broadly about the interrogation to provide a needed context for the statements ngov made to prak. as the 18 while we are reluctant to second-guess the intentions of trial judges, it is apparent the court in a hung jury, determined this evidence should not be admitted and acted, improperly, to exclude it even before the prosecutor could perform his assigned role. seen in this light, the court abandoned its role as a neutral and impartial arbiter of justice. in doing so, it committed an error of con . . on the scales of . . . people v. gammage (1992) 2 cal.4th 693, 705 (conc. opn. mosk, j.); see also people v. cowan (2010) 50 cal.4th 401, 457 [[a] constitutionally intolerable probability of actual bias exists only when the the burden of proof required to convict the defendant, or which might lead him not to hold tias and ].) in these circumstances, in which the principal defense was one of identity and the evidence contradictory, we cannot conclude the error was harmless, whether prejudice is evaluated under the standard for state law or federal constitutional error.15 (see people v. supreme court has repeatedly explained, [t]he purpose of evidence code section 356 is people v. chism (2014) 58 cal.4th 1266, 1324; see people v. harris, supra, 37 cal.4th at pp. 334-335 n the event a statement admitted in evidence constitutes part of a conversation or correspondence, the opponent is entitled to have placed in evidence all that was said or written by or to the declarant in the course of such conversation or correspondence, provided the other statements have some bearing upon, or connection with, ].) 15 evidence code section 354 prohibits the reversal of a judgment because of the error or errors is of the opinion that the error or errors complained of resulted in a miscarriage of justice and it appears of record that: [] (a) the substance, purpose, and relevance of the excluded evidence was made known to the court by the questions asked, an offer of proof, or by any other means; [] (b) the rulings of the court made compliance with subdivision (a) futile; or [] (c) the evidence was sought by questions 19 watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836; people v. pearson, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 463 [-a-reasonable-doubt standard of chapman [v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 [87 s.ct. constitutional error to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the error complained of did .) y corroboration of the chief evidence against himhis dna on the straw of a cup. that he offered a detailed alibi, corroborated independently by credit card receipts and cell phone records, s duct might be found harmless. moreover, confronted with the same evidence response to detective lackovic, a different jury was unable to reach a verdict. in light of these facts, it is reasonably probable a result more favorable to ngov would have been reached had that testimony been allowed. accordingly, his convictions must be reversed.16 2. the verdicts were supported by substantial evidence ardy clause forbids a second trial for the purpose of affording the prosecution another opportunity to supply evidence which it failed to muster in the burks v. united states (1978) 437 u.s. 1, 11 [98 s.ct. 2141, 57 l.ed.2d 1].) to avoid placing a defendant in double jeopardy, a reviewing court that sufficiency of the evidence to determine whether the defendant may be retried for some or all of the offenses. (see people v. morgan (2007) 42 cal.4th 593, 613; people v. hayes (1990) 52 cal.3d 577, . . may preserve for himself whatever double jeopardy benefits accrued in his first trial notwithstanding some fatal asked during cross-examination or recross-all of these elements. 16 based on our finding of prejudicial error requiring reversal, we need not discuss the additional grounds of prosecutorial misconduct and ineffective assistance of counsel raised by ngov. 20 defect in the ppeople v. superior court (marks) (1991) 1 cal.4th 56, 72, fn. 14.) detective lackovic requires reversal of his convictions in this exceptionally close case, there was substantial evidence that cup and his incriminating statements to prak. ngov contends, however, citing mikes v. borg (9th cir. 1991) 947 f.2d 353, that a conviction resting solely upon fingerprint or dna evidence is infirm as a matter of law. in mikes the ninth circuit found the mere s fingerprints on the murder weapon, a turnstile post discovered at the crime scene, was insufficient evidence to infer he was the murderer, absent other circumstantial evidence. (id. at pp. 357-358.) prior to the murder, the turnstile posts had been offered for sale (as part of a used turnstile) in a hardware store where they were accessible to the general public. (id. at p. 358.) the victim had purchased the used turnstile and stored it in the basement of his fix-it-shop, which became the scene of the crime. (id. at p. 355.) the mikes n fingerprint-only s theory is based on the premise that the defendant handled certain objects while committing the crime in question, the record must contain sufficient evidence from which the trier of fact could reasonably infer that the fingerprints were in fact impressed at that time and not at some e (id. at pp. 356-357.) to be sure, california courts have overturned convictions for insufficient evidence when the sole evidence tying the defendant to the crime is biological evidence (fingerprints or dna) found on items to which the defendant had access prior to the crime. (see, e.g., people v. trevino (1985) 39 cal.3d 667, 696-697, disapproved on other grounds in people v. johnson (1989) 47 cal.3d 1194 [fingerprint on dresser drawer insufficient where defendant stayed in home with the dresser prior to the charged murder].) particularly when the item or place touched was not something to which the defendant had access prior 21 to the crime. (people v. tuggle (2012) 203 cal.app.4th 1071, 1076 s fingerprints sufficient to infer guilt of burglary when discovered on a vase in a model home that had been regularly cleaned and had not been accessible to the general public for more than six months]; see also people v. figueroa (1992) 2 cal.app.4th 1584, 1588 [palm prints on window that was point of entry for burglary sufficient where no evidence defendant had been near window before]; people v. preciado (1991) 233 cal.app.3d 1244, 1247 [fingerprints on wristwatch box sufficient where no evidence defendant had access to the box].) we need not decide whether the dna evidence in this case, standing alone, could support s.17 the additional evidence here distinguishes this case from mikes and the others discussed. because substantial evidence supported the verdicts, therefore, ngov is subject to retrial on the charges against him. 17 ence for purpose of appellate review. nonetheless, the evidence ngov used the cup mere minutes before the shooting is contradictory. according to the people, the presence of bits of testified to by officer garcia) proves ngov sipped the drink through the straw immediately before the shooting. however, the latent print found on the lower portion of the cup did not belong to ngov according to the defense expert; and the fingerprint experts from both sides agreed that print was made when the outside of the cup was dry and was not later exposed to moisture, testimony inconsistent with the assertion there was ice in the cup when it was retrieved by the police. 22 disposition the judgment is reversed and the matter remanded for retrial. perluss, p. j. we concur: zelon, j. beckloff, j.* * judge of the los angeles county superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 