filed 9/7/16 p. v. chavez ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. alberto ricardo chavez, defendant and appellant. b253686 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va123642) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. robert j. higa, judge. affirmed. jorge gonzalez for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell, supervising deputy attorney general, and william h. shin, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 alberto ricardo chavez appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial in which he was convicted of one count of assault with a deadly weapon (pen. code,1  245, subd. (a)(1)) and one count of attempted murder ( 187, subd. (a), 664). great bodily injury, personal use of a deadly weapon, and three prior prison term allegations were found to be true. ( 12022.7, subd. (a), 12022, subd. (b)(1), 667.5, subd. (b).) the court sentenced appellant to an aggregate term of 13 years in state prison. appellant contends that he was deprived of effective assistance of counsel and the trial court erred in failing to properly advise appellant or obtain his consent for a substitution of counsel prior to trial in accordance with code of civil procedure section 284. we affirm the judgment on appeal.2 factual background on february 8, 2012, around 2:50 p.m., gregorio chairez and his girlfriend, stephanie villasenor, were taking their 14-month-old son to a medical clinic for his vaccinations. chairez had parked his suv in the parking lot of a walgreens store and a white lexus sedan driven by appellant behind his vehicle. appellant rolled down his window and said to chairez, ted 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 following oral argument, appellant filed a petition for writ of habeas corpus (b277133) in which he made substantially the same allegations with supporting declarations and documentary evidence. while we conclude that the record on appeal states a prima facie case for habeas corpus relief. we therefore issued an order to show cause why the relief requested in the petition should not be granted. 3 passenger seat and exit his vehicle. feeling threatened, chairez grabbed a pipe bender3 from the suv. appellant approached chairez with his hand in his pocket, and the two men exchanged words. chairez was afraid appellant might attack him with whatever he had in his pocket. holding the pipe bender in one hand, chairez shoved appellant with his left hand. appellant returned to his car and drove slowly away. chairez returned to his vehicle and started to leave, but before he reached the exit, he car in front of him, and he could see appellant looking at him through the out of their vehicles and appellant charged at chairez. villasenor could see a black object in hand. chairez tried to run away, but appellant tripped him and he fell to the ground. as chairez lay on his back, appellant stabbed chairez in the heart and arm with a pocket knife. villasenor ran over with the pipe bender and struck appellant twice on the right side of his head. as appellant started to run away, he was struck by another vehicle, but managed to get up and reach his car. chairez took the pipe bender from villasenor and smashed the rea before appellant drove away. appellant testified that he was parked in the walgreens parking lot sending text messages when he made eye contact with chairez. the two men started arguing. appellant received a text message and reached over to pick up his cell phone from the passenger seat of his car. as he was checking the text message, appellant saw chairez appellant got out of his car. chairez appellant and chairez argued until appellant left in his car. as appellant drove away, he noticed chairez following him, making threatening gestures toward appellant. appellant was behind another car at the exit when chairez got 3 a pipe bender is a four-foot long aluminum tool used by electricians to bend electrical piping. 4 life, appellant got out of his car, subdued chairez, and stabbed him in self-defense. when chairez dropped the pipe bender, his girlfriend picked it up and started hitting appellant on the head with it. as appellant tried to run to his car, he was struck by another vehicle and rolled up over the hood. appellant got up, ran to his car, and drove home. appellant testified that he suffered a stab wound to his right knee, and injuries to his left hand, chin, shoulder, and the top of his head as a result of the altercation. he told his parents he had been stabbed and hit by a pipe. appellant sought treatment at the emergency room of a nearby hospital. he told the treating physician, dr. quang le, that he had fallen off a ladder and hurt his knee and chin; he did not report any stab wounds or injuries to his head. dr. le sutured at the hospital, appellant reported that he had a history of bipolar disorder, depression, and schizophrenia. he testified that he had been diagnosed with adhd when he was seven years old, and with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, for which he was on medication. but the schizophrenia medication he was taking on february 8, 2012, was testified, confirming appellantschizophrenia diagnosis. appellant also testified that in february 2005 he had suffered a gunshot wound to his face. as a result of the shooting, appellant is missing bone in his cheek, and the remaining bone is fractured in three places. at the time of the incident he was still going to the hospital every day and was waiting to have reconstructive surgery on his right eye. appellant explained that when chairez began swinging the pipe bender, appellant was afraid for his life because any blow to his face could be fatal. discussion i. ineffective assistance of counsel a. applicable standards sixth amendment to the united states constitution and article i, section 15 of the (people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 417.) the 5 constitutional right to counsel includes the right to effective legal assistance. when challenging a conviction on grounds of ineffective assistance, the defendant must s inadequacy. to satisfy this burden, the defendant must first show s performance was deficient, in that it fell below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms. second, the defendant must show resulting prejudice, i.e., a reasonable probability that, but for s deficient (people v. mai (2013) 57 cal.4th 986, 1009; see strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 694 [104 s.ct. 2052].) howeverdeficient before examining the prejudice suffered by the defendant as a result of the alleged deficienciesperformance. if it is easier to dispose of an ineffectiveness claim on the ground of lack of (strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 697; see also in re fields (1990) 51 cal.3d 1063, 1079.) a defendant claiming ineffective assistance must establish prejudice or omissions of counsel. in re cox (2003) 30 cal.4th 974, 1016.) given the intrinsic difficulties in reviewing a claim of ineffective assistance of strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 689; people v. lucas (1995) 12 cal.4th 415, 437.) as our supreme court has lucas, at p. 437), for inadequate counsel only if the record on appeal affirmatively discloses that counsel had people v. vines (2011) 51 cal.4th 830, 876.) indeed, [j]highly deferential. it is all too tempting for a defendant to second-assistance after conviction or adverse sentence, and it is all too easy for a court, 6 act or omission of counsel was unreasonable. [citation.] a fair assessment of attorney performance requires that every effort be made to eliminate the distorting effects of evaluate s perspective at the time.strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 689.) moreover, our appeal sheds no light on why counsel acted or failed to act in the manner challenged[,] . . . unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or unless there [citations.] a claim of ineffective assistance in such a case is (people v. mendoza tello (1997) 15 cal.4th 264, 266267; people v. carrasco (2014) 59 cal.4th 924, 980981.) b. the record on appeal does not support appelineffective assistance of trial counsel appellant contends he received ineffective assistance of counsel because his attorney failed to call a mental health or medical expert, and because he elicited character prior convictions. appellant further contends his icient due to ineffective cross-examination of prosecution witnesses and failure to demand production of the pipe bender. in the absence of any declarations setting forth the on direct appeal fail. 1. failure to call a mental health or medical expert the absence of any declaration setting forth the proffered expert testimony is fatal to claim of ineffective assistance of counsel based on the failure to call a defense expert. in order to prevail on such a claim, appellant must identify exculpatory or impeachment evidence that counsel could have revealed by further 7 questioning of prosecution witnesses [or examination of defense experts] and that would have produced a more favorable result at trial. [] . . . such claims must be supported by declarations or other proffered testimony establishing both the substance of the omitted evidence and its likelihood for exonerating the accused. (people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 334.) the only indication in the record of the mental health testimony is defenassertion in the opening statement that dr. armando neither offers the substance of dr. s omitted testimony, nor explains how such testimony would have exonerated appellant. aineffective assistance claim again, appellant presents no declaration setting forth the substance of any proffered testimony, and specific intent to kill by presenting evidence that [a]ppellant had previously suffered traumatic injuries to his face and head, possibly causing him to suffer cognitive defects, and/or caus [w]e cannot evaluate s reps unsubstantiated speculation (people v. bolin, supra, 18 cal.4th at p. 334), we reject various defense experts. we further note that to call certain witnesses is a matter of trial tactics, unless that decision results from an unreasonable failure to investigate. (people v. bolin, supra, 18 cal.4th at p. 334.) here, given the abundant repercussions from the gunshot to his face, there is no indication tal health or medical expert stemmed from any lack of investigation. on the other hand, counsel could well s been cumulative at best, and possibly even detrimental, depending on what his 8 examination of appellant had revealed. counsel could also have reasonably decided that serious nature and ramification thus, d decision not to call various expert witnesses in this case must be deemed a matter of trial tactics and strategy, which we may not second-guess on appeal. (people v. mitcham (1992) 1 cal.4th 1027, 1059; see also people v. stanley (2006) 3 2. we also reject appellant that his counsel was ineffective because he nonviolence, not anticipating that prior convictions and arrests. appellant testified on his own behalf, admitting on cross-examination three prior felony convictions for vehicle theft, resisting a police officer, and felony vandalism. ho gave her opinion that appellant is not a violent or an angry person. on cross-examination, the prosecutor asked the mother if she was aware that appellant had been arrested in september 2005 for attempted murder and carjacking. ified she was aware of the arrest, but nonetheless maintained her son is a nonviolent person. when continued to insist that appellant is not violent. on redirect examination, defense counsel attempted murder and that the charge had been dismissed. evidence code section 1101, subdivision (a) character . . . but the exception to this prohibition carved out by evidence code section 1102 authorizes admission of such evidence in a criminal action if offered by the defendant to prove his 9 conduct in conformity with such character, or by the prosecution to rebut favorable character evidence presented by the defendant. thus, [w]hen a defense witness, other than the defendant himself, has testified to the reputation of the accused, the prosecution may inquire of the witness whether he [or she] has heard of acts or conduct by the defendant inconsistent with the witness testimony. (people v. payton (1992) 3 cal.4th 1050, 1066.) appellant contends that evidence of his prior convictions and arrest was estify to his character for nonviolence. however, this assertion is only partially true. discretion, evidence code section 788 authorizes admission of a prior felony conviction (ibid.; people v. hinton (2006) 37 cal.4th 839, 887; people v. castro (1985) 38 cal.3d 301, 316.) during his own testimony appellant admitted three prior felony convictions for crimes of moral turpitude. (see, e.g., people v. rodriguez (1986) 177 cal.app.3d 174, 178 [felony of automobile theft necessarily involves moral turpitude]; people v. williams (1999) 72 cal.app.4th 1460, 1465 [felony of resisting a peace officer is crime of moral turpitude]; people v. campbell (1994) 23 cal.app.4th 1488, 1496 [felony murder and carjacking as the one prior violent act about which the jury had not already heard when mother testified. defense counsel was able to minimize the negative impact of this evidence by eliciting testimony that appellant was not convicted of attempted murder and the charge had been dismissed. counsel could well have made the reasonable tactical decision that the benefit of outweighed the minimal prejudicial effect of the jury learning of appeldismissed charge and rehearing about his prior convictions. (people v. vines, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 876 [reversal of conviction on direct appeal on grounds of ineffective affirmatively discloses that counsel had no rational tactical 10 for act or omission].) even if the tactic amounted to deficient performance, however, we find no reasonable probability that the result of the trial would have been different in the absence of the character evide(see strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 694; in re cox, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 1016.) his opinion testimony fails. 3. failure to demand production of the pipe bender and to effectively cross-examine prosecution witnesses appellant next asserts his counsel was ineffective for failing to obtain production of the pipe bender, inadequate cross-examination of the investigating officers regarding -examination of dr. le regarding . insofar as appellant fails to demonstrate his s inadequate performance, much less prejudice, his claim lacks merit. the pipe bender is that its absence however, aclaim is both factually inaccurate and fails to establish (in re cox, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 1016.) contrary to obtain production of the pipe bender. during the cross-examination of chairez, counsel requested a court order to require the prosecution to produce the pipe bender. counsel also cross-examined both chairez and officer perez as to the whereabouts of the pipe bender. in any event, nothing in the record indicates that production of the pipe bender would have made any difference in the case. (see people v. mai, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 1009.) potential as a lethal weapon: chairez described the pipe bender as an orange four-foot 11 length of aluminum pipe, and a photograph of the pipe bender was shown to the jury and admitted into evidence. appellantcomplaints about the inadequacy of -are also unpersuasive. that defense counsel to this, he maintains, [a]ppellabut the record demonstrates that, -examine specific location of those dents in a photograp4 thus, not only did counsel fully -examining the officer, but there is no evidence in the investigating to support claim of ineffectiveness. appellant further contends that defense counsel failed to adequately develop caused by a knife wielded by chairez. -trial -examination of the emergency room physician who treated appellant after the incident, or offered the medical report as an -again, appellant fails to indicate how any of these measures would have improved at trial. 4 -examination of both investigating officers as to the damage to the car, but only one of the officers who testified at trial had any personal knowledge of the condition of the vehicle. 12 the prosecution asked dr. le if thcross-examination consistent with a stab wound. counsel also tried to link the wound to a possible stabbing by asking dr. le if he would describe the wound as a deep open wound. dr. le admitted it was an open wound, but stated he did not measure its depth. during dr. -examination, and the medical report was properly used to refresh dr. 5 laim of deficient performance on the basis of his injury. appellant concludes reversal. but these ineffective assistance of counsel claims, woven from assertions other factual scenarios, amount to nothing but pure speculation. in the absence of any . ii. substitution of counsel appellant contends the trial court erred when it retained attorney with another privately retained attorney from the same law firm without 5 ffer the medical report used to refresh dr. dr. le acknowledged the report indicated a puncture wound, it is not apparent how the contents of the report could have made a difference in the trial had the report been admitted as an exhibit, and appellant fails to specify any legitimate basis for admitting the report. 13 section 284. on the record before us, any error appears harmless. code of civil procedure section 284, which governs the right of a party to discharge retained counsel, provides for the substitution of counsel as follows: 1. upon the consent of both client and attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered upon the minutes; [] 2. upon the order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after (ibid.; people v. ward (1972) 27 cal.app.3d 218, 234; see also people v. ortiz (1990) 51 cal.3d 975, 983.) the procedure applies to both criminal and civil cases. (in re haro (1969) 71 cal.2d 1021, 1029.) comply with code of civil procedure section 284 in substituting counsel in a criminal case constitutes error, such error does not require reversal in the absence of a showing of prejudice. (people v. donel (1967) 255 cal.app.2d 394, 401; people v. prince (1968) 268 cal.app.2d 398, 406; see also in re martinez (1959) 52 cal.2d 808, 813814; people v. bouchard (1957) 49 cal.2d 438, 441442.) moreover, without a timely objection, such a claim may be forfeited on appeal. (people v. ward, supra, 27 cal.app.3d at p. 234.) in the instant case, lawrence young substituted into the case privately retained counsel on december 12, 2012, and attorney at the next two pretrial hearings. at a pretrial hearing on april 10, 2013, carlos perez s counsel, advising tyoung, not substituting. mr. perez then requested a continuance of the trial date because both he and mr. young were engaged in back-to-back trials until may. at the next pretrial hearing on may 13, 2013, maureen ward appeared as ance based on a motion signed by mr. in which mr. perez stated, when the court sought clarification as to who was the attorney of record, the court 14 ex parte application,[6] the attorney of record, and granted the continuance. at this point, appellant addressed the court directly, had already signed an order for an evaluation. thereafter, mr. perez represented appellant as counsel of record for the remainder of the case, without objection or any indication from appellant that mr. perez was not his counsel of choice. indeed, on december 9, 2013, the date set for the court trial on priors, another attorney, greg kechichian, appeared specially for mr. perez, who was engaged in trial. the minute order reflects that appellan that specially appearing defense counsel may stand 7 on this record, it is apparent that appellant forfeited any claim of error based on code of civil procedure status as his attorney of rethe court declared mr. perez to be counsel of record, and appellant addressed the court directly, appellant did not raise any objection to the substitution of counsel, but instead inquired about . failure to question or object to mr. suggests at a minimum that appellant implicitly consented to representation by mr. perez. when mr. perez stood in for mr. young on april 10, 2013, he requested a continuance on the ground that both he and mr. young were engaged in trial through may. thereafter, it 6 the record on appeal does not include the confidential ex parte application filed by mr. 15 was mr. perez alone who made every single appearance in the case, except one, each time asserting without contradiction that he was the attorney for appellant. the one time mr. , appellant was required to consent to that special appearance for mr. perez. in short, nothing in the record on appeal suggests the representation by mr. pereza member of the same criminal defense law firm as mr. youngwas not consensual or in any way abridged ight to counsel of his choice. finally, a claim fails for lack of prejudice. although appellant does not identify any particular harm that resulted from the allegedly improper substitution, as a result of being forced to accede to representation by an attorney not of his choosing. however, as set forth above, the record on appeal reveals no demonstrable inadequacy in mr. nor any prejudice from the tactical decisions made in the course of mr. on this record, appellant fails to persuade us that he would have received a better result if mr. young had remained his attorney through trial. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) 7 the court granted mr. keappearing for appellant. 16 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. lui, j. we concur: chaney, acting p. j. johnson, j. 