filed 1/20/15 p. v. olivo ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. fernando olivo, defendant and appellant. b253021 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka099931) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, george genesta, judge. affirmed. robert derham, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, linda c. johnson and michael katz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant and appellant fernando olivo appeals his conviction for second degree murder. olivo contends that the trial court prejudicially erred by failing to instruct the jury on voluntary manslaughter on a heat-of-passion theory. discerning no reversible error, we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. facts a. the shooting randy bonilla, for approximately three years. during most of that period the couple also began living at the south el monte apartment. on october 18, 2012, at approximately 4:30 p.m., bonilla picked estrada up from work and drove her to the apartment. he intended to drop her off and continue on to a ack of the apartment but cracked open, while estrada retrieved her belongings and exited the car. olivo la argued. estrada left and walked toward the apartment. a minute or two after estrada walked away, olivo shot bonilla four or five times thr bonilla rapidly pulled out of the carport and onto a nearby street, where he lost control of the honda and paramedics arrived and treated him, but his wounds proved fatal. autopsy results showed bonilla had both methamphetamine and marijuana in his system. a defense expert testified that bonilla was under the influence of methamphetamine when he died. depending on how much is ingested, 3 methamphetamine can cause hyperactivity and agitation, and can cause a user to become hostile and violent. olivo fled immediately after firing the shots. b. witness statements and testimony while it was undisputed that olivo shot bonilla, the key witnesses at trialestrada and olivogave varying accounts of what precipitated the shooting. (i) police conducted an audiotaped interview of estrada at approximately 11:30 p.m. on the night of the shooting, after bonilla had died. an hour-long excerpt was played for the jury. during the interview, estrada was distraught, frightened, and evasive. she told detectives the following. when bonilla picked her up from work that day, he pushed her. as a result she rode in the back seat of the honda, where she felt safer. when bonilla pulled into the carport, he and loved each other. as estrada was getting her things out of the back seat, olivo he approached within three to five olivo said to bonilla u a bitch, step outside the car. bonilla denied calling estrada a bitch. olivo replied that he had heard bonilla do so. . . . i already told you . . ve said it too many times in front of [t]his [has] . . . happened too man at some point during the argument, which s view implied that bonilla never exited the honda, -you-gonna-do? 4 engage in a fistfight. at that point they were quiet and not arguing. then she heard bonilla say, confronted with a person brandishing a gun in a previous, unrelated road rage incident. as estrada walked away, she heard gunshots, which she assumed were fireworks. she did not see her brother shoot bonilla. when asked by detectives whether bonilla and olivo had argued that morning, estrada replied that she had not seen them argue before she left for work at 6:45 a.m. on prior occasions, bonilla had hit or pushed estrada while they were driving in october 18, 2012. olivo sister in front of me, okay? olivo had also bonilla had been using methamphetamine the week before the shooting. when he was high he became obnoxious and said obnoxious things. (ii) at trial, estrada testified that she and bonilla had been arguing during the days preceding the shooting. on the morning of the shooting, bonilla declined to wake up and drive her to work, so olivo offered her a ride instead. as they were preparing to leave, bonilla came downstairs yelling and cussing. estrada ignored him. en route to the hospital where estrada worked, olivo pointed out that bonilla was following them. passed, he made when olivo and estrada arrived at her workplace, bonilla was waiting for them. 5 olivo drove away. ada, who called her [ed] [estrada] 1 he pushed her and spat at her. he was rude and accusatory and kept reats. when her work day concluded, estrada walked toward a local park. she had planned to call olivo for a ride, but before she did so, she encountered bonilla, who gave her a ride instead. she was no longer worried about the threats he had made that morning. estrada believed that bonilla was jealous and thought she was going to the park to meet men. he grabbed her, pulled her hair, and spit on her. they argued in the car, but had largely resolved their differences by the time they reached the apartment. olivo approac[ed] olivo bonilla responded by stating he did not want any problems, but his body language at first randy did get crazy. he did get loud through the window.bonilla bonilla partially opened the door. he pushed his chest out and put his hands up. bonilla then shut the car door. estrada admonished the men to keep calm and clean, and walked away. based on the comments from both men, she believed they were going to fight, but a big deal.as she was leaving, it was apparent the men were arguing, but their conversation was not loud. when bonilla was using drugs he was he would become violent and spit at her, pull her hair, and push her. bonilla had never given her a black eye or broken any bones. she did not tell olivo that bonilla had pulled her hair or spat at her on the date of the shooting, and she had no visible injuries. 1 olivo was present. 6 (iii) olivo testified that he shot bonilla in self-defense. his account of the incident was as follows. the morning of the shooting, estrada asked him for a ride to her job at the hospital. as they were preparing to leave, bonilla came downstairs and cussed at olivoshe should have woke[n] m told him to stay out bonilla up, but bonilla had continued sleepingla. he simply wanted to get estrada to work and as olivo was driving estrada to work, bonilla followed. bonilla flashed his lights at olivo, tailgated his vehicle, flipped him off, tried to go around him, and hung out the window, saying things ol he did s but simply continued driving regularly. when they arrived at the hospital, bonilla approached olivothe back door to olivocussing. he reiterated that estrada should have taken the bus when she was unable to said that olivo it involves my sister, it inv drove away. when olivo had driven two blocks from the hospital, estrada called, in tears, and told him to be careful. bonilla had said that as going to get a gun and shoot vo felt he explained bonilla had 7 olivo obtained a loaded gun from an acquaintance in order to protect his family. olivo then returned to the apartment, where he spent the morning. he picked up his girlfriend from work. [u]. olivo brought the gun with him. when the prosecutor asked at that point, olivo olivo ulled into the apartment complex and parked. olivo drove his car back to the complex and parked. he did he keep disrespecting my sister, olivo complained that bonilla had been calling estrada a bitch. olivo wanted bonilla to exit the car so he could be sure bonilla did not have access to a he should not ge estrada exited the car and ,retty much just like battling words, like i wanted him to get [out of] the car so we could . . . see e suddenly bonilla put the honda in reverse, and then drove forward. olivo moved to the middle of the driveway. the car sped right towards olivo, so olivo backed up and fired when the car was approximately three feet away from him. he pulled the gun when he thought the car was going to hit him. he did not point the gun at bonilla. he explai[b]ecause i was in danger, bonilla was trying to run him over. 8 olivo testifiedbout what was happening, reiterated, after the shooting olivo threw the although he planned to turn himself in to police eventually. 2. procedure trial was by jury. olivo was convicted of the second degree murder of bonilla.2 (pen. code,  187, subd. (a).)3 the jury also found that olivo personally and 12022.53, subds. (b), (c), (d).) olivo admitted serving two prior prison terms within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). the trial court denied overdict to manslaughter, and sentenced him to 42 years to life in prison. it ordered olivo to pay victim restitution and imposed a restitution fine, a suspended parole restitution fine, a court operations assessment, and a criminal conviction assessment. olivo appeals. discussion the trial court did not err by failing to instruct on voluntary manslaughter on a heat-of-passion theory. the trial court instructed the jury on first degree murder, second degree murder, self-defense and defense of another, and voluntary manslaughter based on imperfect self-defense. defense counsel requested that the trial court also instruct on voluntary manslaughter based on sudden quarrel or heat of passion. the court declined to do so. it concluded there was insufficient evidence of provocation by the victim, and estrada had 2 the jury acquitted olivo of first degree murder. 3 all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 9 testified he shot in self-defense, not in the heat of passion. olivo contends this was prejudicial error. a. applicable legal principles a trial court must instruct the jury on all general principles of law relevant to the issues raised by the evidence, including lesser included offenses. (people v. moye (2009) 47 cal.4th 537, 548; people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 154; people v. millbrook (2014) 222 cal.app.4th 1122, 1137.) instructions on a lesser included offense must be given when there is substantial evidence from which the jury could conclude the defendant is guilty of the lesser offense, but not the greater. (people v. thomas (2012) 53 cal.4th 771, 813; people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 584.) substantial evidence is evidence that a reasonable jury could find persuasive. (people v. benavides (2005) 35 cal.4th 69, 102.) the existence of any evidence, no matter how weak, will not justify instruction on a lesser included offense. (people v. whalen (2013) 56 cal.4th 1, 68; people v. wyatt (2012) 55 cal.4th 694, 698.) in deciding whether substantial evidence exists, we do not evaluate the credibility of the witnesses, a task for the jury. (wyatt, at p. 698; manriquez, at p. 585.) substantial evidence to support an instruction may exist even in the face of inconsistencies presented by the defense itself. (millbrook, at p. 1137.) the duty to instruct on lesser included offenses is not satisfied by instructing on only one theory of an offense if other theories are supported by the evidence. (people v. lee (1999) 20 cal.4th 47, 61.) we independently review the question of whether the trial court erred by failing to instruct on a lesser included offense. (people v. souza (2012) 54 cal.4th 90, 113; people v. booker (2011) 51 cal.4th 141, 181.) doubts about the sufficiency of the evidence to warrant an instruction shous favor. (people v. moye, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 562; people v. tufunga (1999) 21 cal.4th 935, 944.) when considering whether lesser included instructions should have been given, we view the evidence in the light most favorable to the defendant. (people v. millbrook, supra, 222 cal.app.4th at p. 1137; people v. turk (2008) 164 cal.app.4th 1361, 1368, fn. 5.) 10 voluntary manslaughter is the intentional but nonmalicious killing of a human being, and is a lesser offense of murder. ( 192, subd. (a); people v. moye, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 549; people v. benavides, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 102; people v. lee, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 59.) a killing may be reduced from murder to voluntary manslaughter if it occurs upon a sudden quarrel or in the heat of passion on sufficient provocation, or if the defendant kills in the unreasonable, but good faith, belief that deadly force is necessary in self-defense. (people v. beltran (2013) 56 cal.4th 935, 942, 951; people v. manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 583.) heat of passion arises when at the time of the killing, the reason of the accused was obscured or disturbed by passion to such an extent as would cause the ordinarily reasonable person of average disposition to act rashly and without deliberation and reflection, and from such passion rather than from judgment. [citations.] (people v. barton (1995) 12 cal.4th 186, 201; people v. beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 942; people v. enraca (2012) 53 cal.4th 735, 759; people v. moye, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 550.) although section 192, subdivision (a), refers to sudden quarrel or heat of passion, the factor which distinguishes the heat of passion form of voluntary manslaughter from murder is provocation. people v. souza, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 116; people v. lee, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 59.) a heat-of-passion theory of manslaughter thus has both an objective and a subjective component. (people v. moye, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 549; people v. manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 584 incites the defendant to homicidal conduct . . . must be caused by the victim . . . or be conduct reasonably believed by the defendant to have been engaged in by the victim. (people v. lee, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 59; manriquez, at p. or verbal, but it must have been sufficiently provocative to cause an ordinary person of average disposition to act rashly or without due deliberation and reflection. (people v. beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 939; people v. enraca, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 759; lee, at p. 59.) provocation can arise as a result of a series of events over time. (people v. 11 wharton (1991) 53 cal.3d 522, 569; people v. kanawyer (2003) 113 cal.app.4th 1233, 1245; calcrim no. 570.) to satisfy the subjective component, the defendant must have killed (people v. moye, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 550passions to cool and his or her judgment to be restored, malice is not negated. (people v. beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 951; people v. millbrook, supra, 222 cal.app.4th at p. 1139.) n]o specific type of provocation [is] required, and the passion aroused need not be anger or rage, but can be any [v]iolent, intense, high-wrought or [citation] other than revenge [citation]people v. breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 163; beltran, at p. 950; millbrook, at p. 1139.) b. application here. because there was not substantial evidence that olivo actually acted in the heat of passion provoked by the victim, the trial court did not err by refusing to instruct on voluntary manslaughter based on sudden quarrel or heat of passion. first, it is questionable whether sufficient evidence of legally adequate provocation existed. estrada testified that bonilla sometimes pushed her, pulled her hair, and spit on her, but there was no evidence olivo was aware of these actions. estrada admittedly did not tell him bonilla had engaged in this abuse on the date of the shooting. olivo did not testify that he had observed such conduct, nor did he specifically complain about such conduct when he confronted bonilla in the carport.4 there was evidence that 4 the evidence presented at trial. the only evidence in the record came from estrada, who . . because my here was orting a heat of passion instruction. 12 bonilla had repeatedlolivo. in general, however, the use of verbal epithets does not constitute legally sufficient provocation. (see people v. manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at pp. 585-586 [being called a mother fucker people v. najera (2006) 138 cal.app.4th 212, 216, 226 faggotnot drive any ordinary person to act rashly or without due deliberationstatements that he did not like how bonilla treated or talked to estrada were too nonspecific to demonstrate provocation. that bonilla was a methamphetamine user who olivo believed he needed to act in self-defense, but does not appear germane to prove provocation. estrada and olivo both testified that at approximately 6:45 that morning, bonilla shoot them. however, the shooting occurred hours later, near 5:00 p.m., after olivo had ample time to cool off. (see people v. beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 951; people v. moye, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 551 [physical fight that occurred the prior evening did not constitute legally sufficient provocation for killing the next morning].) olivoabout his activities for the remainder of the day did not suggest otherwise. similarly, although estrada testified that bonilla had made unspecified threats to her and olivo in the past, such threats were too remote to amount to provocation for the shooting. while the evidence regarding exactly what transpired in the carport discussion was conflicting, the best case scenario for the defense was that both men made unspecified threats; yelled through the rolled-up car window, told olivo not to interfere in his relationship with estrada, pushed out his chest in a confrontational manner, and called olivo a the victim did not initiate the argument that culminated in the shooting; instead olivo, armed with a gun, initiated the carport encounter and challenged bonilla to get out of the car and fight. furthermore, o be adequate, the provocation must be one that would cause an emotion so intense 13 that an ordinary person would simply react, (people v. beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 949.) in the carporta denial that he had mistreated estrada, and an admonition to olivo to stop interferingwere not of an ilk to reactibid.; see people v. gutierrez (2009) 45 cal.4th 789, 826-827 [fact defendant engaged in a verbal argument with the victim, who cussed at him voluntary manslaughter instruction is not warranted where the act that allegedly provoked people v. manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at pp. 585-586 [victim taunted defendant, called him a mother fucker, that if he had a weapon he should take it out and use itplainly were insufficient to cause an average person to become so inflamed as to lose reason and people v. lucas (1997) 55 cal.app.4th 721, 739-740 [that victim smirked, ty, names, and glared in an intimidating way could not be deemed enough to provoke a reasonable person].) while none of the foregoing circumstances, considered separately, was sufficient evidence of provocation, the question remains whether, viewed cumulatively, they did. olivo -bonilla. olivo also analogizes the instant matter to people v. barton, supra, 12 cal.4th 186. there, the defendant was convicted of voluntary manslaughter. he argued on appeal that the trial court had erred by giving a heat-of-passion instruction over his objection. our supreme court rejected argument that the record contained insufficient evidence to prove heat of passion or sudden quarrel. (id. at pp. 201-202.) tprosecution and some by the defense, from which the jury could reasonably find that defendant intentionally killed sanchez in a sudden quarrel or heat of passion. defendant testified that shortly before the killing of sanchez, his daughter andrea had come to him, 14 extremely upset, and told him that [sanchez] . . . had threatened her with serious injury by trying to run her car off the road, and that he had spat on the window of her car. when defendant and his daughter confronted sanchez about his conduct, sanchez called s defendant and sanchez angrily confronted ea challenging defendant. after defendant asked his daughter to call the police, sanchez started to get into his car; when defendant asked sanchez where he was going, sanchez ando you think screaming and swearing, defendant, before firing, ordered drop the and to get out of his car, threatening to shoot if sanchez did not do so. this testimony provided substantial evidence from which a reasonable jury could conclude that when defes reason was obscured by passion to such an extent as would cause an ordinarily reasonable person to act rashly and without reflection, and that defendant thus shot sanchez in a sudden quarrel or heat of passion.id. at p. 202.) barton is similar to the instant case in several respects. both cases involved also people v. millbrook, supra, 222 cal.app.4th at p. 1142 [finding barton presented that a person close to the defendant was threatened or disrespected, the defendant and the victim argued, and the defendant felt threatened when he shot the ences as well: barton immediately preceded and precipitated the shooting, whereas here hours had elapsed; and the argument in barton was more heated and prolonged than the relatively brief, and less furious, carport argument here. but assuming arguendo that there was sufficient evidence under barton to support a finding of legally sufficient provocation, we believe there was insufficient evidence to show so inflamed that he actually killed the victim in a heat of passion. (see people v. moye, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 550.) 15 credited, unlike in barton the morning of the killing: tment and largely continued driving normally. he obtained the gun because he was afraid bonilla would act on his threats, not because he was angry at him. he shot at bonilla because he believed bonilla was about to run him down with his car. thus, his testimony did not suggest, explicitly or implicitly, that he shot because he was enraged. when asked at trial about his state of mind in the carport, olivo did not state that he was blinded by passion or anger. to the contrary, he testified that he intended to talk to bonilla about the threats , based on his own testimony, olivo did not shoot because he was acting under the influence of a strong passion. (see moye, at pp. 553-555 [where defendant testified that he killed the victim in self defense, and no other evidence demonstrated his state of mind, no reasonable juror could conclude he killed in the heat of passion].) not preclude a heat of passion instruction if there was other direct or circumstantial evidence that he was actually acting in the heat of passion when he shot. (see people v. barton, supra, 12 cal.4th at p. 202; people v. elize (1999) 71 cal.app.4th 605, 612.) but such evidence is lacking here. relevant jury instructions make clear the extreme intensity of the heat of passion required people v. beltran, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 950.) olivo approached the car and sought to talk to the victim about his treatment of estrada and his threats. this evidence is more consistent with a calculated decision by olivo to challenge bonilla than with a sudden quarrelimprudently or out of anger. even imprudent conduct done while angry is ordinarily the product of some judgment and thought, however fleeting. this is not the type of truly ibid.) during the argument, olivo had the presence of mind to try to get bonilla to step out of the car to ensure he was unarmed. in [t]here was no showing that defendant exhibited anger, fury, or rage; thus, there 16 people v. manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 585.) because there was an r or passion so strong that his judgment was eclipsed and his reason was obscured (beltran, at pp. 949-950), the trial court did not err by declining the requested heat of passion instruction.5 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports aldrich, j. we concur: kitching, acting p. j. kussman, j.* 5 in light of our conclusion, we need not reach the issue of prejudice. * judge of the los angeles county superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 