 filed 6/26/15 p. v. soto ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. carlos soto, defendant and appellant. b253607 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba412259) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, george g. lomeli, judge. affirmed. alan s. yockelson, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and blythe j. leszkay, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant carlos soto raises contentions of sufficiency of the evidence and instructional error following his conviction of kidnapping and corporal injury to a cohabitant, with an enhancement for a prior serious felony conviction. for the reasons discussed below, the judgment is affirmed. background viewed in accordance with the usual rules of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established the following. the victim, denise g., testified as follows. she and defendant soto were in a relationship and had two children together. all four of them lived together in apartment 25 on pasadena avenue in los angeles. on june 7, 2013, soto was going s phone and discovered texts from a male acquaintance. soto became enraged, calling denise approximately five times in the down to [her] elboresulted from these punches. soto also punched her twice on the right leg, near her knee, leaving a big bruise, which denise again identified in a photograph. their children began to cry. soto continued to harangue denise, and at one point threw the phone at her , leaving a small bruise on her back which she identified in a photograph. he also poked her hard in the left eye with two fingers, bruising her face. denise identified a photograph showing her half-closed left eye with a slight bruise underneath. only after soto children pleaded tearfully for him to stop did the attack subside. denise left apartment 25 with her children. hearing soto to apartment 12, in an adjacent building, where her friend consuelo lived, locking the door behind her. apartment 12 faced apartment 25 from the adjacent building, but as no direct path linked the doors to each other, denise rectangular walkway and over a bridge between the buildings to reach apartment 12. soto followed, shouting and banging on the door of apartment 12. denise called 9-1-1 on consue and said her boyfriend was trying to hit her. soto then 3 walked back to apartment 25. denise testified at trial. . . see him going through my hitting the 9-1-1 told the 9-1-1 operator she was in apartment 12. at some point, consuelo left to run an errand and, as consuelo was returning, soto followed her into apartment 12 just as denise was calling 9-1-1 a third time. she threw the phone down onto the couch. the 9-1-1 call remained connected. as the operator listened, soto shouted at denise, demanded -slapped her, spat in her face and grabbed her hair. at one point, soto said he did not after approximately fifteen minutes, soto flung denise to the ground, took her by the hair, and dragged her about 20 feet until the two of them were just outside apartment. once outside, soto pulled denise to her feet and marched her back to their apartment, still holding her by her hair. denise noticed some other neighbors watching the commotion from downstairs. when denise apparently tried to extricate herself from sotograsp, he bit her hand. denise did not suffer any injuries from the bite. once back inside apartment 25, soto resumed his attack, slapping and spitting on denise and pinning her to the couch with his knee. at this point, police officers responding to s 9-1-1 calls entered the apartment and arrested soto. soto did not call any witnesses. soto was convicted of kidnapping and corporal injury to a cohabitant, with an enhancement for a prior serious felony conviction. (pen. code,  207, 273.5, subd. (a), 667, subd. (a)(1)).1 he was sentenced to state prison for a term of 15 years. this appeal followed. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 4 contentions soto contends: (1) the kidnapping conviction must be reversed because the evidence was insufficient to establish asportation element; and (2) the trial court erred in failing to instruct the jury to consider whether the alleged kidnapping was movement that was merely incidental to the commission of a kidnapping-associated crime. discussion 1. skidnapping verdict. soto contends the kidnapping conviction must be reversed because the evidence claim. a. legal principles. review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidence that is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] . . . . the standard of review is the same in cases in which the prosecution relies mainly on circumstantial evidence. [citation.] duty of the jury to acquit a defendant if it finds that circumstantial evidence is susceptible of two interpretations, one of which suggests guilt and the other innocence [citations], it is the jury, not the appellatbeyond a reasonable doubt. findings, the opinion of the reviewing court that the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled w (people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 11.) to prove the crime of simple kidnapping ( 207, subd. (a)), the prosecution must prove three elements: (1) a person was unlawfully moved by the use of physical force or fear; (2) the movement was withous consent; and (3) the movement of the 5 person was for a substantial distance. (people v. jones (2003) 108 cal.app.4th 455, 462.) the third element is the asportation element. in evaluating the element of asportation, a jury may convict only upon finding that the victim was moved a distance that (people v. martinez (1999) 20 cal.4th 225, 237 (martinez). the jury may so decide by evaluating the distance alone, and need not consider any other factor. (ibid.) however, where the evidence permits, the finder of fact may examine not only the physical distance the victim was moved, but may also take into account movement and the increased risk of harm to the victim. (id. at p. 236.) t]he jury should consider the movement increased the risk of harm above that which existed prior to the asportation, decreased the likelihood of detection, and increased both s foreseeable attes enhanced opportunity to commit (id. at p. 237.) we emphasize that contextual factors, whether singly or in combination, will not suffice to establish asportation if the (ibid.) b. application. soto makes two arguments why the evidence at trial failed to establish that his movement of denise was for a substantial distance: (1) the actual distance of the movement was too short; and, (2) the martinez non-distance factors did not render the distance substantial because the police already had been called, they knew where denise was, and the movement occurred in view of her neighbors. we address these arguments in turn. (1) the distance was sufficient to prove asportation. soto argues the distance he forced denise to travel was insufficient to support his kidnapping conviction. he assertsdenise g.only distance estimate offered into evidence was 20 feet for the distance appellant dragged denise g. within 6 (italics added.) pointing to the language in martinez whether singly or in combination, will not suffice to establish asportation if the people v. martinez, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. denise however, while it is true the jury never received an estimate of the total distance, the jury did view several photographs of the apartment complex on which denise used a permanent marker to indicate the location of both apartments, and the path she and soto traveled between them. based on the evidence submitted to it, the jury was capable of estimating the . exhibit 1, a photograph, shows a view of the two apartment doors and a good portion of the walkway on either side. denise, in the presence of the jury, drew the path she took on this photograph. exhibit 2 shows the door of apartment 25, as well as the walkway leading away from it and half of the walkway bridge. exhibit 8 shows a circled door, identified at trial as the same door circled in exhibit 1, and the walkway in front of it, continuing to the left out of the frame. these exhibits enabled the jury to estimate the distance denise was moved and to reasonably conclude the distance was substantial.2 soto fails to cite any case law for the proposition that the distance traveled here was so short that the prosecution failed to prove asportation, no matter what other factors might have been present. in fact, cases have found movements for fairly short distances to be sufficient where the evidence showed the existence of other relevant factors. (see, e.g., people v. arias (2011) 193 cal.app.4th 1428, 1435 [movement of victim a distance of 15 feet from public area to apartment interior sufficient for kidnapping conviction]; people v. smith (1995) 33 cal.app.4th 1586, 1594 [movement 40 to 50 feet from 2 we attach exhibits 1, 2 and 8 as exhibits a, b, c, respectively, to this opinion. 7 driveway to interior of camper sufficient to sustain sentencing enhancement ( 667.8) based on simple kidnapping].) the distance soto forced denise to move was not by itself insufficient to prove the asportation element of kidnapping. (2) the evidence was sufficient for the jury to conclude the distance was substantial under the totality of the circumstances. soto next argues that the totality of the circumstances fails to render the distance substantial; i.e., that there was no increase in risk of harm or decrease in likelihood of detection as a result of the movement. he notes denise had given the police both apartment numbers, the police were on their way, and indeed they arrived shortly after soto forcibly returned denise to apartment 25. in addition, the commotion had drawn neighbors from their apartments, and they apparently watched the entire movement from below. soto argues, therefore, that the movement did not decrease the likelihood of detection, and might even have increased it. however, even assuming arguendo that the movement did indeed increase the likelihood of detection, this does not dispose of the matter. decreased likelihood of detection is but one factor among several that martinez empowers juries to examine in determining whether the distance was substantial. soto seemingly asserts that in evaluating these other factors, i.e., whether the movement increased the risk of harm above that which existed prior to the asportation, foreseeable attes enhanced opportunity to commit people v. martinez, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. 237, fn. omitted), the jury . . . what could have been but . . . what was, and here, the facts show that the movement of denise g. did not increase the risk of harm to her nor did it decrease the likelihood of detection however, martinez ese dangers do not in fact materialize does not, of course, mean that the risk of harm was not (id. at p. 233) the jury heard 9-1-1 call in which soto told her, ing the jury could 8 have interpreted this to mean soto did not want to be observed, and that removing denise froapartment 25 would afford him additionally, denise testified that soto bit her when she attempted to escape his grasp while he was forcing her to go nt back to their apartment. like the risks accompanying asportation in a vehicle or under other dangerous conditions, sotoreaction was indicative of the increased danger from a to escape. i tried to get [and] although the distance was not quantified, the jury viewed exhibits showing the distance denise was moved and it supported a finding that she was moved a substantial distance. the jury heard the recording of a 9-1-1 call containing a statement by soto that he did not the evidence demonstrated that soto treated denise more roughly when they were outpresence (poking denise hard in the eye and punching her) than when they were inside apartment 12 (slapping, spitting and grabbing her hair). the jury also heard the sounds of the mle, and could in light of the evidence reasonably have concluded that the movement created a greater risk of harm to denise in the seclusion of their apartment than if soto had continued his attack where they were. we therefore reject sotoas insufficient to support his conviction for kidnapping. 2. the exclusion of the from caljic 9.50 was not error. soto contends the movement of denise was merely incidental to the associated crime of corporal injury to a cohabitant charged in count 1. accordingly, he argues the trial court erred in excluding from its kidnapping instruction language discussing movement incidental to an associated crime. we reject this contention because the crime of corporal injury to a cohabitant was not in progress at the time the movement occurred and, therefore, the failure to instruct was not error. 9 a. legal principles a trial court must instruct the jury on the essential elements of an offense (people v. flood (1998) 18 cal.4th 470, 504) and court must instruct on the general principles of law relevant to the issues raised by the evidence. [citations.] the general principles of law governing the case are those principles closely and openly connected with the facts before the court, and which are people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 154.) on the defen (people v. bell (2009) 179 cal.app.4th 428, 434.) to consider whether the distance a victim was moved was incidental to the commission of that cr (people v. martinez, supra, 20 cal.4th at 237.) is any criminal act the defendant intends to commit where, in the course of its commission, the defendant also moves a victim by (people v. bell, supra, 179 cal.app.4th at 438-439, original italics.) crime, then this is a factor the jury should take into account when deciding if the distance whether or not a movement is incidental to an associated crime is a fact-specific inquiry turning on the defendant in a specific case, not a (people v. bell, supra, 179 cal.app.4th at 438.) for example, in people v. washington (2005) 127 cal.app.4th 290, this court held that the ller area into its vault room was employee includes the risk of movement of the victim to the location of the valuables owned by the business that are held on the business pr (id. at p. 300.) was no excess or gratuitous movement of the victims over and above that necessary to this court observed. (id. at p. 299.) likewise, in people 10 v. bell, the victim 70 feet in his car was sufficiently related to the associated crime of evasion3 to trigger an incidentalness instruction jury could have found that in the course of the evasion, [the victim] was moved by force (people v. bell, supra, 179 cal.app.4th at p. 439, italics added.) however, in people v. salazar (1995) 33 cal.app.4th 341, the movement of the victim from a motel balcony, across a motel room, and into a bathroom was not incidental to an associated rape the victim] was not necessarily related to the rape crime itself; rather, a jury could reasonably conclude it was an essential part of (id. at p. 347.) b. application sotoclosing argument, was that denise sustained injuries from sotowounding or injury is an element of corporal injury to a cohabitant ( 273.5, subd. (a)), the movement occurred during a single unitary course of assaultive conduct. on appeal, soto contends that the trial court should, in light of the evidence, have instructed the jury sua sponte on movement incidental to an associated crime. the jury was instructed on kidnapping with caljic no. 9.50. however, the language in this instruction relating to movement incidental to an associated crime was not included. the omitted language would have saidinvolved, the movement also must be more than that which is incidental to the commission of the defendant intends to commit where, in the course of its commission, the defendant also (caljic no. 9.50.)4 3 vehicle code section 2800.2 proscribes evading a police officer while driving recklessly. 4 as it happens, the language the court deleted from the instruction is not a correct statement of the law. it implies the jury can convict only where the movement was not incidental, when in fact incidentalness is only one factor the jury should consider in 11 is language in the kidnapping instruction constitutes reversible error, we must first determine whether sotosupported by the law and evidence (people v. bell, supra, 179 cal.app.4th at 434.) in doing so, we examine sotoactual acts (id. at 438.) soto beat denise repeatedly until she left apartment 25. once she arrived at apartment, she remained there and soto remained stymied on the other side of the door. when consuelo let him in, soto spat at denise, slapped her and pulled her hair, and then dragged her through the door, across the walkway (where he bit her hand), and back into apartment 25. the offense of corporal injury to a cohabitant requires the infliction of a traumatic condition, defined in section 273.5, subdivision (d), tion of the body, such as a wound, or external or internal injury. . . , whether of a minor or serious nature, caused by section the essence of any battery is the touching of the victim. [citation.] in section 273.5, the touching must result in bodily injury. thus, evidence of one punch to the face resulting people v. johnson (2007) 150 cal.app.4th 1467, 1477.) section 273.5 is violated if there is evidence of bruising (people v. beasley (2003) 105 cal.app.4th 1078, 1085) or redness (people v. wilkins (1993) 14 cal.app.4th 761, 771), but not by evidence of pain without any physical manifestation (see people v. abrego (1993) 21 cal.app.4th 133, 138 constitute requisite traumatic condition].) deciding whether the movement was substantial. (see people v. martinez, supra, 20 cal.4th at 237.) calcrim 1215, on the other hand, correctly informs the jury that . . you may also consider other factors such as . . . whether the distance the other person was moved was beyond that merely incidental to the commission of <insert associated crime>. 12 the evidence here was that the only traumatic injuries denise sustained bruising to her arm, leg, back and face were all inflicted in apartment 25 before she fled to apartment 12, which is where the kidnapping began. soto has not pointed to any evidence in the record demonstrating denise suffered traumatic injuries except those she sustained prior to being kidnapped. denise testified there was no resulting injury when soto bit her hand while he was apartment, the evidence demonstrates soto assaulted denise by slapping her, pulling her hair and dragging her on the floor, but he did not inflict any section 273.5 traumatic injuries because there was no evidence that he left physical marks from those actions. the jury was instructed that corporal injury to a cohabitant requires infliction of a traumatic injury, which the instructions wound or external or internal injury, whether of a minor or serious nature caused by a during closing argument, the prosecutor noted this instruction and then g. you saw the pictures and the pictures . . . will go in the back room with you. you saw the pictures where on denise g.] on her leg there were bruises. you saw the picture on [sic] her back. there was a bruise and under her left eye, there was swelling and a bruise. ladies and gentlemen of the jury, that is the physical injurs element 1. i need to prove no mocaused by the defendant punching her. the bruise on her back was caused by the defendant throwing her phone at her back, and the bruise on her eye was caused by the defendant basically poking her in the eye. [] all of that is a direct application of force. and each of those incidents caused a wound or an injury to her. defense counsel asserted in closing argument occurred before she ran from apartment 25 apartment, she had the phone thrown at her. during rebuttal argument, however, the prosecutor correctly pointed out the phone-throwing incident occurred before denise left 13 apartment 25her a specific question . . . i asked her . . . . [d]id she receive any injury? she said no. that is important. why? because you heard the element for count number 1, domestic violence. in order for there to be a domestic violence, there must be a traumatic condition. when she was . . bruises. when she was being pulled, she incurred no bruises. when she was bit, she apartment, you would have had two counts of domestic violence because once she fled and got to safety hence, the evidence clearly establishes that soto finished committing the crime of corporal injury to a cohabitant before he gained access to apartment 12 and seized denise in order to commit the kidnapping. we thereasportation of denise was merely incidental to the domestic violence crime alleged in count 1. because the associated crime of corporal injury to a cohabitant had already been committed at the time of sotof denise, the failure to instruct on incidental movement was not error. (see people v. delacerda (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 282, 291 [trial court did not err in failing to instruct on kidnapping as possibly incidental to assault with a firearm because the ass the trial court did not err in failing to instruct the jury to consider whether the alleged kidnapping was merely incidental to the crime of corporal injury to a cohabitant. supported by the law and evidencepeople v. bell, supra, 179 cal.app.4th at 434.) pr people v. breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 154.) 14 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports edmon, p. j. we concur: kitching, j. egerton, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 15 16 17 