filed 7/24/15 p. v. tittle ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. tyrone tittle et al., defendants and appellants. b253135 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta126434) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. eleanor j. hunter, judge. judgment affirmed as modified. john f. schuck, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant tyrone tittle. christine c. shaver, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant kevin jackson. kamala d. harris, attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, linda c. johnson and theresa a. patterson, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______ 2 tyrone tittle and kevin jackson appeal from their convictions and sentences on charges of attempted murder, shooting at an inhabited dwelling, and related offenses. in an opinion filed on february 17, 2015 and modified on march 3, 2015, we corrected a clerical error and agreed with the defendants that the court erred in imposing sentence enhancements for prior serious felonies on counts that were not statutorily defined as serious felonies. we rejected an argument by tittle that the trial court erred by adding prior prison term enhancements to the determinate sentences on each of two counts; these enhancements, he argued, should have been imposed only once. on june 15, 2015, the with directions to vacate our decision and to reconsider the cause in light of people v. sasser (2015) 61 cal.4th 1 (sasser), a case decided after our opinion was filed. we have done so and, based on sasser, conclude that the prior prison term enhancement must be added to the aggregate sentence once, not to each determinate sentence. we modify the judgment accordingly. background the amended information charged tittle and jackson with one count of attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder under penal code section 187, subdivision (a), and section 664 (count 1) and one count of shooting at an inhabited dwelling under penal code section 246 (count 2).1 it charged each defendant with one count of possession of a firearm by a felon, in violation of subdivision (a)(1) of section 29800 (count 3 as to jackson and count 4 as to tittle).2 it further charged tittle with one count of attempting to elude a pursuing peace officer with willful or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property, in violation of subdivision (a) of vehicle code section 2800.2 (count 5). it also included firearm use enhancements pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivisions (b), (c), (d), and (e)(1), gang enhancements 1 all subsequent statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 apparently because of a typographical error, counts 3 and 4 of the amended information refer to section 22900 instead of section 29800. (see also part vi, post.) 3 pursuant to section 186.22, and various prior conviction and prior prison term enhancements. both defendants pleaded not guilty and denied all allegations. the prior convictions allegations were bifurcated, and the charges were tried to a jury. the jury found tittle and jackson guilty on all counts and found as to both defendants that the attempted murder in count 1 was willful, premeditated, and deliberate. also as to count 1, the jury found true the allegations that jackson personally used and personally and intentionally discharged a handgun within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (c). the jury was unable to reach a verdict as to the other special allegations. the prior conviction allegations were tried to the court, which found them true. the court sentenced tittle to an indeterminate term of 21 years to life plus a consecutive determinate term of 21 years 4 months, calculated as follows: an indeterminate term of 21 years to life on count 1 (7 years to life, doubled for a prior strike, plus 5 years for a prior serious felony, plus 2 years for two prior prison terms); plus a determinate term of 13 years on count 4 (the upper term of 3 years, doubled for a prior strike, plus 5 years for a prior serious felony; plus 2 years for two prior prison terms); plus a determinate term of 8 years 4 months on count 5 (1 year 4 months, plus 5 years for a prior serious felony, plus 2 years for two prior prison terms). the court also imposed a 7-year sentence for count 2 but stayed it pursuant to section 654. the court imposed various statutory fines and fees, ordered tittle to provide dna samples, and credited him with 268 days of presentence custody (234 days actual time and 23 days good time/work time). the court sentenced jackson to an indeterminate term of 41 years to life plus a consecutive determinate term of 13 years, calculated as follows: an indeterminate term of 41 years to life on count 1 (7 years to life, doubled for a prior strike, plus 20 years for the firearm enhancement, plus 5 years for a prior strike, plus 2 years for two prior prison terms); plus a determinate term of 13 years on count 3 (upper term of 3 years, doubled for a prior strike, plus 5 years for a prior serious felony; plus 2 years for two prior prison 4 terms). the court also imposed a 7-year sentence for count 2 but stayed it pursuant to section 654. the court imposed various statutory fines and fees, ordered jackson to provide dna samples, and credited him with 380 days of presentence custody (335 days actual time and 45 days good time/work time). the evidence introduced at trial showed the following facts: on january 1, 2013, dachia jackson was attending a birthday chouse. there were about 30 or 40 people attending the celebration, including children playing outside in front and in back. at approximately 4:00 p.m., a silver mitsubishi suv arrived. tittle was the driver, jackson was in the front passenger seat, and there were two other young men in young men were using her silver mitsubishi suv to help her move to a new residence. she was following them in another car but lost them when she stopped at a red light, and she did not see her suv again until she picked it up at the impound lot several days later. jackson got out of the car and was holding a gun in his hand. two of the people confronted jackson and asked him to leave. jackson got back in the suv, which then drove away. the suv returned a few minutes later, with tittle still driving. jackson got out and fired multiple shots toward the yard, wounding one person in the leg. a witness suv holding a rifle but did not see it fired. after one of the witnesses called 911, police officers responded to the scene of the shooting and then broadcast by radio a description of the suspects and the suv. other officers, who were on their way to respond to the 911 call, then heard the description and spotted a silver suv matching it. the officers followed, activated the d to pull over the suv, but the suv sped away. 5 in the course of the chase, the suv ran two red lights and was going approximately 60 miles per hour in a 35 mile per hour zone. the suv eventually crashed, and its occupants scattered. three of them were detained near the scene of the crash, but the fourth (tittle) was not arrested until april 2013. officers searched the suv after the crash and found a rifle and a submachine gun on the floor in the back seat. discussion i. wheeler/batson motion during jury selection, tittle and jackson jointly objected on the basis of batson v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 79 (batson) and people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258 (wheeler-american prospective jurors, numbers 15, 22, and 36. the trial court denied the motion. tittle and jackson argue that the court erred, but we are not persuaded. when asked whether his experience of growing up and living in compton when asked in what way it might cause problems, he rinformed him that the jury is not involved in sentencing and must, if convinced of the verdict, regardless of what the sentence might be. but when repeatedly asked essentially the same questionwhether he could put aside his misgivings about sentencing and return a guilty verdict if convinced of guilt on the basis of the evidence number 15 be removed for cause, but the court denied the request. the prosecutor then exercised a peremptory challenge to prospective juror number 15. 6 prospective juror number 22 had a brother who was had extended family members who were gang members. when another prospective juror fairest system that we have in the anyone disagreed. prospective juror number 22 was the only one who when asked to identify such outside forces, he mentione prosecutor exercised a peremptory challenge to prospective juror number 22. prospective juror number 36 was a pastor whose younger brother was murdered in gang violence. as a pastor, he counsels young men to try to steer them away from gangs he has also performed funeral services for gang members. when asked on a weekly basis is bothyoung men that i believe are innocent who are being arrested and thrown as so afraithe g an advocacy role in court? i , that i write a lot of letters ofchallenge to prospective juror number 36. 7 the following day, defendants made a joint motion under batson and wheeler, contending that they were being dprosecutor had excluded prospective jurors numbers 15, 22, and 36 on the basis of their asked the prosecutor to state his reasons for excusing those prospective jurors. as to prospective juror number 15, the prosecutor mentioned, among other things, his expression of doubt about whether he could be fair and his reference to people he knew a shoo to prospective juror number 36, the injustices in the criminal justic the trial court denarticulated a race-neutral basis for excluding each of those three prospective jurors. the court also mentioned, with respect to prospective juror number 22, that prospective juror number 27 had expressed a similar belief that the criminal justice system is not fair, and the prosecutor had excused him as well. prospective juror number 27 was a caucasian male physician. the united states supreme court has given this explanation of the process required when a party claims that an opponent has improperly discriminated in the exercise of peremptory challenges: [o]nce the opponent of a peremptory challenge has made out a prima facie case of racial discrimination (step one), the burden of production shifts to the proponent of the strike to come forward with a race-neutral explanation (step two). if a race-neutral explanation is tendered, the trial court must then decide (step three) whether the opponent of the strike has proved purposeful racial discrimination.people v. silva (2001) 25 cal.4th 345, 384 (silva).) the -neutral people v. fuentes (1991) 54 cal.3d 8 silva, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 386orted by the record, ibid.are both inherently plausible and supported by the record, the trial court need not ibid.) the record. prospective juror number 15 repeatedly expressed uncertainty about whether he could put considerations of sentencing aside and vote for a guilty verdict even if he was convinced that the elements had been proven beyond a reasonable doubt. prospective juror number 22 was the only prospective juror who (during the relevant portion of voir dire) expressed the disagreement with the view that the criminal justice system is fair. prospective juror number 36 also expressed concerns about injustices in the criminal justice system and had acted as an advocate for gang members. because all of those reasons are inherently plausible and supported by the record, we defer to the trial -neutral explanations were genuine. we wheeler/batson motion. ii. lack of instruction on grossly negligent discharge of a firearm appellants argue that, as to count 2, the trial court had a duty to instruct the jury on grossly negligent discharge of a firearm, which is a lesser included offense of shooting at an inhabited dwelling (people v. ramirez (2009) 45 cal.4th 980, 990). we disagree. substantial evidence the defendant is guilty of the lesser offense, but not the charged people v. moye (2009) 47 cal.4th 537, 556, quoting people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 177.) the elements of a violation of section 246 (shooting at an d (2) shooting at an ramirez, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 985.) the elements of a violation of 9 (2) the defendant did so intentionally; (3) the defendant did so in a grossly negligent ramirez, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 986.) appellants quote ramirez primarily to deter the dangerous practice that exists in some communities of discharging firearms into the air in celebration of festive occasions . . . ramirez, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 987.) appellants then argue that, at the scene of the charged inicelebratory mood, appellants infer that the jury could have convicted him of violating section 246.3 but not section 246. we are not persuaded. it does not matter whether there was a celebration in the house or whether jackson was in a celebratory mood. the issue is whether the record contains substantial evidence from which a jury could infer that jackson committed the crime of grossly negligent discharge of a firearm but did not commit the crime of shooting at an inhabited dwelling. it does not. there is no evidence that jackson fired the gun but not at the house. nor is there evidence that he fired at the house but it was not inhabited. rather, the evidence showed that he fired multiple shots at the house and outside at the time of the shooting, and the gunfire wounded one of them in the leg. because the record does not contain substantial evidence that jackson violated argument that the court erred by failing to instruct the jury on section 246.3. 10 iii. reasons for imposing consecutive sentences appellants argue that the trial court erred by failing to state its reasons for imposing the determinate and indeterminate sentences consecutively rather than concurrently. appellants failed to raise the issue at sentencing, however, so they have forfeited it. (people v. powell (2011) 194 cal.app.4th 1268, 1297-1298.) appellants also argue that they received ineffective assistance from their trial consecutive sentences. we disagree because the consecutive sentences were mandatory conviction for more than one felony count not committed on the same occasion, and not arising from the same set of operative facts, the court shall sentence the defendant argues that under that statute, as interpreted by people v. lawrence (2000) 24 cal.4th 219, attempting to elude a peace officer (tittle only) were committed on different occasions and arose from different operative facts, so consecutive sentences were mandatory. appellants present no argument to the contrary in their reply briefs. trial sentences was therefore both reasonable and harmless, because the trial court did not have discretion to impose concurrent sentences. iv. prior serious felony enhancements on felon in possession and evading a peace officer counts appellants argue that the trial court erred by adding five-year enhancements to the sentences imposed for counts 3 and 4 (felon in possession of a firearm) and count 5 (evading a peace officer) on the basis of section 667, subdivision (a)(1). appellants are correct, and respondent concedes the error. the enhancement under subdivision (a)(1) of section 667 applies to only the section 1192.7 (see  667, subd. (a)(4)), and neither possession of a firearm by a felon nor evading a peace officer is on the list. those enhancements must accordingly be stricken. 11 v. recidivism enhancements for each of multiple determinate sentences the court added to the determinate sentences imposed on counts 4 and 5 a two-year sentence enhancement based upon tittle argues that the trial court erred by adding the enhancement to each count; instead, the enhancement should have been added only once, to the aggregate sentence. we agree.3 in people v. tassell (1984) 36 cal.3d 77, the trial court imposed determinate sentences for rape and oral copulation convictions. in addition, the court imposed enhancements for prior convictions under section 667.5, subdivision (b) for each count. (id. at p. 89.) the supreme court reversed. the court explained that, under the determinate sentencing law, enhancements based on the characteristics of the current offense (such as firearm use) could be added to the determinate term for each applicable prior prison terms) could be added only once, to the aggregate sentence. (tassell, supra, 36 cal.3d at p. 90.) tassell, however, was decided before the enactment of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12). whether tassell applied to a case involving the three strikes law was addressed in people v. williams (2004) 34 cal.4th 397. in that case, the defendant had two prior strikes when he committed new, multiple felonies. the trial court imposed indeterminate sentences under the three strikes law of 25 years to life on each count. in addition, the court added two five-year enhancements (for two prior serious felonies) to the sentence for each count. (id. at pp. 400-401.) the supreme court affirmed. the court distinguished tassell on the ground that tassell was based on the deterdeterminate williams, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 402.) 3 tittle makes the same argument as to the enhancement for the prior serious felony enhancements imposed under section 667, subdivision (a). because, as explained in the preceding part, we strike those enhancements, we address only the enhancements imposed under section 667.6, subdivision (b). 12 after williams, it was not clear whether tassell or williams would control when the defendant is sentenced to multiple determinate sentences under the three strikes law, but has only one prior strike, not two. (see sasser, supra, williams the issue was resolved in sasser. the supreme court held that tassell controls when a defendant is sentenced in a second strike case. in that situation, a prior conviction enhancement may be added only once to multiple determinate terms. (id. at pp. 7, 17.) williams, the court explained, is limited to third strike cases, when indeterminate sentences are imposed. (id. at p. 13.) here, tittle, like the defendant in sasser, had only one prior strike conviction. in to particular counts but instead are added just once as the final step in computing the total sasser, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 15, quoting tassell, supra, 36 cal.3d at p. 90.) because the trial court erroneously added the prior prison term enhancements to each of counts 4 and 5, we will strike the enhancements and modify the judgment to provide for a single, two-year prior prison enhancement pursuant to section 667.5, subdivision (b)(1). vi. clerical error appellants argue that both the minute orders reflecting the jury verdicts and the abstract of judgment contain clerical errors, namely, that they cite the wrong penal code provision for possession of a firearm by a felon. we agree. the correct penal code section is subdivision (a)(1) of section 29800. on remand, the trial court shall modify the minute orders as to count 3 (jackson) and count 4 (tittle) and also prepare new abstracts of judgment for each defendant, correcting that error. 13 disposition as to counts 3, 4, and 5, the five-year enhancements under subdivision (a)(1) of section 667 are stricken. as to counts 4 and 5, the two-year enhancements under subdivision (b)(1) of section 667.5 are stricken, and a single, two-year enhancement under that subdivision is added to the aggregate sentence. the trial court is directed to enter an order modifying, nunc pro tunc, the minute orders of november 19, 2013, to reflect that count 3 (jackson) and count 4 (tittle) charged violations of subdivision (a)(1) of section 29800. the court shall also prepare new abstracts of judgment, correcting those sentencing and clerical errors, and forward copies to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. rothschild, p. j. we concur: johnson, j. miller, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 