filed 9/26/14 p. v. hernandez ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jesus ivan hernandez, defendant and appellant. b253717 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va123752) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. john a. torribio, judge. affirmed. james koester, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant jesus ivan hernandez. kamala d. harris, attorney general, dane r. gillette, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, david glassman, timothy m. weiner and steven d. matthews, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 jesus ivan hernandez (hernandez) appeals from the judgment following his conviction for aggravated sexual assault upon his preteen daughter. he contends that there was insufftrial court based its finding on a legally incorrect theory. he also contends the trial court failed to award him the proper presentence custody credits. we affirm the judgment, finding the custody credit claims moot and the other contentions without merit. facts and procedural history prosecution case in 2009, when v.h. was eight years old, she was sexually assaulted by hernandez, her father. she had fallen asleep in her and when she awoke hernandez was removing her clothes. he turned her onto her stomach and inserted his penis into her anus. v. cried and .hernandez told v. not to tell her mother what he had done. in 2010, v.was gone to class, hernandez sexually assaulted v. he took v. into the bathroom, bent her over the toilet and inserted his erect penis into her anus. hernandez admitted doing this on two separate occasions.1 v. said it hurt at first but it happened so many times that it stopped hurting. hernandez also admitted taking v. into his bedroom and showing her pornographic videos on his ipod. while watching the videos, hernandez used his right hand to touch v.he used two fingers to open her vagina and then inserted one finger inside her vagina. v. said hernandez did this to her at least once or twice a week, and it hurt. v. was 12 years old at the time of trial and hernandez weighed 210 pounds at the time of his arrest. at trial, v. was very reluctant to testify about the details of the sexual assaults. d her father 1 3 and missed him and talking about what he did made her sad and hurt her heart. v. did not tell anyone at first about the sexual assaults because she was scared that her father would be taken away. v. did not want hernandez to do the things he did to her and she asked him to stop but felt helpless as it was happening. defense case appellant did not testify or present any evidence in his defense. procedural history following a bench trial, hernandez was convicted of three counts of aggravated sexual assault upon a child, sodomy (pen. code,  269, subd. (a)(3), counts 1, 3, and 5),2 and one count of aggravated sexual assault of a child, sexual penetration ( 269, subd. (a)(5), count 7). the trial court acquitted hernandez of 10 other counts of sexual assault of a minor. hernandez was sentenced to 60 years to life in state prison. the trial court imposed various fines and court fees and awarded appellant 372 days of presentence custody credit. discussion i. sufficiency of evidence of duress a. contention hernandez claims the evidence of duress was insufficient to support his convictions for the forcible sexual assaults in counts 3, 5, and 7. hernandez does not challenge the sufficiency of the evidence for his conviction on count 1. b. standard of review our review of any claim of insufficiency of the evidence is limited. we examine only . . . whether there is substantial evidence, i.e., evidence from which a reasonable trier of fact could conclude that the prosecution sustained its burden of proof beyond a reasonable doubt. . . . [citation]people v. assad (2010) 189 cal.app.4th 187, 194.) we review the evidence in the light most favorable to the verdict and assess solely 2 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 4 whether the supporting evidence is . . . reasonable, inherently credible, and of solid value . . . .ibid.) c. after argument by counsel and having reviewed the applicable law, the trial court [had] addressed in their argumentfind hernandez guilty in counts 1, 3, and 5, of aggravated sexual assault of a child (sodomy) in violation of section 269, subdivision (a)(3), and in count 7 of one count of aggravated sexual assault (sexual penetration) in violation of section 269, subdivision (a)(5). in maimplied threats of force except for count 1 d. relevant law sodomy or sexual penetration of a child under the age of 14, the defendant is guilty of the elevated crime of sexual assault. ( 267, subds. (a)(3), (5), referencing  286, subd. (c)(2); 289, subd. (a).) [t]he legal definition of duress is objective in nature . . . .people v. soto (2011) 51 cal.4th 229, 246 (soto).) duress means a direct or implied threat of force, violence, danger, hardship or retribution sufficient to coerce a reasonable person of ordinary susceptibilities to (1) perform an act which otherwise would not have been performed or, (2) acquiesce in an act to which one otherwise would not have submitted.(id. at p. 246, italics & fn. omitted.) duress can arise from the relationship between the defendant and the victim and their relative ages and sizes, where the defendant is a family member and the victim is young, the position of dominance and authority of the defendant, and the continuous exploitation of the victim. (people v. schultz (1999) 2 cal.app.4th 999, 1005.) other relevant factors include threats to harm the victim, physically controlling the victim when the victim attempts to resist, and warnings to the victim that revealing the molestation 5 would result in jeopardizing the family. (people v. veale (2008) 160 cal.app.4th 40, 46 (veale).) the parent-child relationship does not, as a matter of law, establish force or duress. (people v. cochran (2002) 103 cal.app.4th 8, 16, fn. 6 (cochran), disapproved on another ground in soto, supra, nonetheless, as a factual matter, when the victim is as young as [nine years old] and is molested by her father in the family home, in all but the rarest cases duress will be present.cochran, supra, at p. 16, fn. 6.) e. analysis sufficient evidence confirms hernandez committed the acts with duress. duress v. and his position of dominance and authority, his older age and greater size, his continuous exploitation of v., and her fear that disclosure of the abuse would result in some kind of hardship. hernandez controlled v. at her young age. he is her biological father. he began molesting her when he was 37 years old, and v. was eight years old. he continued to molest her until just prior to her 11th birthday. hernandez weighed 210 pounds and while the record does not disclose v.molestations, she was described as v. was a young victim molested by her father in the family home. the bulk of the molestations occurred when v.mother was attending zumba classes. hernandez took v. to his bedroom and sometimes to the bathroom where he sexually assaulted her. the evidence establishes hernandez psychologically coerced v. to obey him. hernandez continued to molest her using the same general pattern and v. felt helpless to prevent it. although there is no evidence hernandez expressly threatened v. with harm, physically restrained her, or verbally warned her of harm, there is sufficient evidence that telling her not to tell her mother about the molestations constituted an implicit threat to comply with his demands. v. 6 testified that she was scared and wanted hernandez to stop but she also feared hernandez would be taken away if she reported the molestations. hernandez relies on people v. espinoza (2002) 95 cal.app.4th 1287 (espinoza), and argues the facts here are directly analogous to those the espinoza court held were insufficient to establish duress. espinoza is distinguishable. the victim in espinoza was 12 years oldthe molestations here began when v. was eight years old. espinoza, itself, acknowledged that where the defendant is a family member and the victim is young, the position of dominance and authority of the defendant and his continuous exploitation of the victim are relevant to the existence of duress. (id. at pp. 1319-1320.) the evidence clearly shows that hernandez used duress to commit the aggravated sexual assaults. this record paints a picture of a small, vulnerable and isolated child who engaged in sex acts only in response to parental and physical authority. her compliance was derived from intimidation and the psychological control he exercised over her and was not the result of freely given consent. [citation.]veale, supra, 160 cal.app.4th at p. 48.) ii. remarks did not reflect its actual conclusions or reasoning hernandez contends the trregard to duress. the contention has no merit. a. background after the prosecution and defense rested, the trial court issued a tentative ruling stating its intention to find hernandez guilty of four counts of sexual assault, but to find the use of force or duress only as to count 1. on the issue of duress. the trial court preferred the reasoning in people v. hecker (1990) 219 cal.app.3d 1238, 1250-1251 (hecker) more does ] over that in veale, supra, 160 cal.app.4th at page 49 [where the vicwill be present however, the trial court made it clear that it did not want its tentative to be interpreted as its ruling and recessed to review the case law. 7 after the recess, the trial court stated that hecker appears to have been hecker is still good law . . . it certainly is not well received by all of the other courts. the trial court then asked the prosecution to identify the facts which supported a finding of duress for counts 3, 5, and 7. the prosecutor emphasized that hernandez as v.biological father exploited her vulnerability. he seized the opportunity to sexually assault her while her mother was at zumba classes and ordered her not to disclose it to her mother. the prosecutor further argued that v.that she was helpless to prevent hernandez from assaulting her and was going to continue and she just let as a form of psychological coercion. in making its ruling, the trial court hecker and the . the court hecker [stood] alone the court found, pursuant to veale and cochran . . . including the age of the victim b. applicable legal standards where a guilty verdict may rest on a legally correct theory or a legally incorrect theory, the conviction must be reversed unless the reviewing court can determine from the record that the conviction necessarily rested on the legally correct theory. (people v. perez (2005) 35 cal.4th 1219, 1233; people v. morales (2013) 212 cal.app.4th 583, 595.) however, this rule has no application when we review a verdict returned by a trial court sitting without a jury. as a broad general proposition, cases have stated that a trial courts remarks in a bench trial cannot be used to show that the trial court misapplied the law or erred in its reasoning. (people v. grana (1934) 1 cal.2d 565, 571; people v. simmons (1971) 19 cal.app.3d 960, 964.) these statements are founded on the principle that, in a criminal bench trial, the trial court is not required to provide a statement of decision and that any explanation of his or her decision a trial judge provides is not part of the record on appeal. (people v. grana, supra, 1 cal.2d at p. 571.) 8 o indulge in that interpretation that will result in upholding the action of people v. megladdery (1940) 40 cal.app.2d 748, 774, overruled on other grounds in people v. simon (2001) 25 cal.4th 1082, 1093, and people v. posey (2004) 32 cal.4th 193, 205.) c. analysis in hecker, the defendant had anal and vaginal intercourse with his 13-year-old stepdaughter. she testified that during a previous molestation she had unsuccessfully tried to resist, but she did not resist on this occasion. the sex acts hurt.hecker, supra, 219 cal.app.3d at p. 1241.) she suffered both vaginal and anal injuries from these acts. the defendant warned her not to reveal the molestations because it would hurt his marriage and his career. (id. at p. 1242.) she testified that she felt psychological pressure and was afraid. (ibid.) the trial court was in fact correct in determining that courts have questioned the reasoning of hecker [p]sychological coercion without more does not force, violence, danger, hardship, or retribution.hecker, supra, 219 cal.app.3d at pp. 1250-1251.) espinoza relied in part on hecker, but after espinoza was decided, the cochran courtthe same court that decided heckerdisapproved hecker in part, finding it (cochran, supra, 103 cal.app.4th at p. 15.) veale endorsed cochran and its rejection of reasoning, reiterating that when a young victim is molested by her father in the family home in all but the rarest cases duress will be present.veale, supra, 160 cal.app.4th at p. 49, citing cochran, supra, at p. 16, fn. 6.) hernandez hecker was not the law in california. citing no legal authority, he law is analogous to a jury receiving proper instructions. we need not dwell on the trial courts comments which we do not consider in assessing whether conviction 9 was correct. as stated in people v. grana, supra, 1 cal.2d at page case tried by a judge alone an appellate tribunal will affirm or reverse the judgment of conviction upon errors of law alone. if errors of law in admitting or rejecting evidence have prevented a fair trial, or if the evidence does not support it, the judgment of conviction will be reversed. the court will not examine the trial courts remarks to discover whether or not it mentally applied the correct law as the case unfolded itself, or whether after completion of the evidence and argument it applied the correct law or reasoning in arriving at a judgment.also people v. towner (1968) 259 cal.app.2d the inquiry on appeal is whether, in fact, the decision of the trial court was correct, not the reasons he may have stated for making it].) although the trial court misspoke, we affirm the result because the task of an appellate court is to review the correctness of the challenged ruling, not of the analysis used to reach it.in re baraka h. (1992) 6 cal.app.4th 1039, 1045.) as discussed above (see part i, ante.), the evidence of duress was sufficient to support convictions for the forcible sexual assaults in counts 3, 5, and 7. iii. presentence custody credit in his opening brief, hernandez claimed the trial court erred in denying him the appropriate presentence custody credit. on june 11, 2014, we granted motion to augment the record to include a revised sentencing abstract and minute order in this case. the revised abstract and order show that hernandez was granted the appropriate custody credit on may 22, 2014. since hernandez was given the appropriate presentence custody credit, the claims are moot. 10 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. _____________________, j. * ferns we concur: ____________________________, p. j. boren ____________________________, j. chavez * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 