filed 12/16/14 p. v. jones ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. robert jones, defendant and appellant. b253470 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta122782-01) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. kelvin d. filer, judge. affirmed. mona d. miller, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for respondent. 2 appellant robert jones was convicted of attempted carjacking and robbery. his court-appointed counsel has filed an opening brief raising no issues. following our independent examination of the entire record pursuant to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 (wende), we conclude that no arguable issues exist, and affirm. relevant procedural background on april 10, 2012, appellant was arrested for the attempted carjacking (pen. code,  215, 664) and robbery (pen. code,  211) of annie-claude sanchis.1 on june 5, 2012, prior to preliminary hearing, the trial court denied marsden motion for a new court-appointed attorney.2 on july 5, 2012, following the preliminary hearing, an information was filed charging appellant with attempted carjacking (count 1) and robbery (count 2). accompanying the charges were allegations that appellant had suffered one prior felony conviction constituting a serious felony ( 667, subd. (a)(1)) and a strike under the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)), for which he had served a prison term ( 667.5, subd. (a)). appellant pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. in august 2012, after aphad been reassigned to another court-appointed attorney, the trial court denied marsden motion regarding that attorney. trial, appellant was determined to be not competent to stand trial, and a mistrial was declared. 1 all further statutory citations are to the penal code. 2 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118. 3 in early january 2013, the trial court found appellant competent to stand trial. on january 14, 2013, appellant asserted his right to self-representation under faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806, and was permitted to represent himself. in april 2013, after the jury in appellants second trial was unable to reach a verdict, the court declared a mistrial. , at which he again represented himself, found him guilty as charged. after finding the prior conviction allegations to be true, the trial court denied new trial and to strike his strike, and sentenced him to a total term of nine years in prison. the court selected the conviction for robbery as the principal count, imposed the two-prior strike ( 667, subd. (e)(1), 1170.12, subd. (c)(1)), and added a five-year enhancement ( 667, subd. (a)(1)). the court also imposed and stayed a five-year term on conviction for attempted carjacking ( 654). this appeal followed. facts a. prosecution evidence john johnson testified that on april 10, 2012, he was working as a security in compton. while outside the main clinic of that facility, johnson saw anne-claude sanchis drive into its parking lot. as sanchis left her car, appellant ran into the parking lot from a neighboring street and approached her from behind. following some body sanchis turned to face appellant, and the pair appeared to sway back and forth. when sanchis johnson 4 , and tried unsuccessfully to start it with what appeared to be a key. johnson further testified that when he arrived at the car, he directed appellant to get out of it. appellant left the car, confronted johnson, and asked, in response, johnson told appellant that he needed to leave the property, and that the police had been called. instead of departing the property, appellant entered the main clinic and then left it through another set of doors. upon leaving the main clinic, appellant dropped what he appeared to have taken from sanchis. anne-claude sanchis testified that in april 2012, she worked as a nurse family center in compton. on april 10, sanchis arrived at that facility and parked her car. upon leaving the car, she paused to close her purse. as she did so, she saw a man at the parking lot entrance. after making eye contact with sanchis, the man ran toward her and grabbed her key chain, which held the fob required to start her car. according to sanchis, because she was holding her key chain and fob he tore . . . 3 the man entered a then directed her to enter the main clinic and call the police. later, after entering johnson and sanchis reported the incident in a 911 call, a recording of assailant was wearing a white tank top and blue shorts. within a few minutes of 3 t-]shap[ed] 5 the call, los angeles county sheriffs department deputy sheriffs detained los angeles county sheriffs department deputy sheriff mara osuna and her partner eld identification show-ups. sanchis and johnson viewed appellant, and identified him as the man responsible for the attempted carjacking.4 according to osuna, appellant was wearing a white tank top, blue shorts, and blue shoes. the jury viewed video recordings and photos from the security cameras at the , which showed appellant running into the parking lot, and later entering the main clinic, leaving it, and dropping some keys. the cameras were not positioned to b. defense evidence ronald guzek, an photographs from the video recordings of the incident for comparison with photographs of appellant. the photographs prepared by guzek were admitted into evidence. discussion -appointed counsel filed an opening brief raising no issues and requesting this court to review the record independently pursuant to wende. in addition, counsel advised appellant of his right to submit by supplemental brief any contentions or argument he wished the court to consider. appellant has neither presented a brief nor identified any 4 car. 6 potential issues. our examination of the entire record ecounsel has fully complied with his responsibilities and that no arguable issues exist. (people v. wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at p. 441.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports manella, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. willhite, j. 