 filed 9/30/15 p. v. brown ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. antwon brown, defendant and appellant. b253052 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba389319) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, jose i. sandoval, judge. affirmed. j. kahn, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and eric e. reynolds, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant antwon brown raises multiple issues following his conviction of first degree murder, premeditated attempted murder, aggravated mayhem and carjacking, with firearm use and gang enhancements. for the reasons discussed below, the judgment is affirmed. background viewed in accordance with the usual rules of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established the following. 1. prosecution case. a. carjacking and shooting of kevin hayes. on july 21, 2011, kevin hayes was when he stopped at a gas station at the intersection of century boulevard and van ness avenue. defendant brown approached the passenger side window of the mercedes. hayes had seen brown around the neighborhood. hayes had formerly been a member in july 2011, the two gangs were allies. hayes rolled down the car window and greeted brown cordially. brown asked hayes to give him a ride and hayes agreed. brown got in and hayes drove off. after hayes had driven no more than a few blocks, brown pulled out a gun, pointed face and said, at first hayes thought brown wanted his money, so he started to reach into his pocket as he to attempt an escape. hayes opened th, intending to jump from the moving mercedes, but before he could do so brown shot him twice in the abdomen. hayes fell from the mercedes onto the ground, got up, and ran a short distance before collapsing. as a result of the shooting, hayes sustained a lacerated liver and a damaged colon, and he lost one kidney. 3 b. killing of carlos martinez. brown and jeremey house were acquaintances.1 house testified that although he did not currently belong to a gang, he had been a member of the hard time hustlers in 2004. he knew brown as a friend of a friend. on july 22, 2011, brown and house decided to visit a mutual acquaintance who lived near 52nd and wall street. brown gave house a ride in a white mercedes benz. during the drive, brown collided with another car on the harbor freeway. brown did not stop, but continued driving and then parked near 52nd and wall. house got out of the car and was walking when he heard a commotion and gunshots behind him. house initially denied having looked back but, after being confronted with the record of his police interview, he acknowledged that he turned around and witnessed the shooting. he saw brown, standing in the street and shooting tility vehicle that was parked behind the mercedes. house ran away. g.m. testified she was standing at the corner of 52nd and main street near an elementary school on july 22, 2011, at approximately 11:45 a.m. she saw a man in the en jeep that was parked behind a white car. she also saw a man standing at the side of the jeep. this man pointed a gun at the , fired into the jeep, and then ran to the white car, which sped away. g.m. identified brown as the gunman in a photo array and then at trial. carlos martinez, the driver of the green jeep, was hit by four bullets and died of his wounds. police found his jeep on 52nd street, just east of main. window was shattered and there were four shell casings on the ground. inside the jeep was a cell phone and a clipboard with notes written on it; these notes included the license plate number of the white mercedes benz that brown had taken from kevin hayes. 1 house did not appear at trial; his preliminary hearing testimony was read to the jury. 4 according to phone records and gps data, s cell phone on july 22, 2011, traveled south on the harbor freeway to 51st street. at 11:45 a.m., a call from his phone lasting 15 seconds was made from the general area of 50th street and broadway to 6-1-1.2 c. gang evidence. ial in april 2013. los angeles police department officer kevin currie, a former gang enforcement officer, testified as an expert on criminal street gangs and on the hard time hustlers gang in particular. he described the hard time hustlers as a crips gang with approximately 90 members, about 30 of whom were active. currie described the parameters of the , and characterized t murder, robbery, burglary, gun possession, and vandalism. members of the gang had recently been convicted of attempted murder and robbery. officer currie opined that brown was an active member of the hard time hustlers. his opinion was based in part on two personal encounters during which brown identified himself to currie as a member of the gang and said his gang monikers were . currie also based his opinion on other factors: brown; information recorded by other law enforcement officers on field investigation cards; and tattoos referred to the hard time hustlers. currie testified he was personally familiar with hayes and he knew that hayes . this gang had been friendly with the hard time hustlers in july 2011, but later the two gangs became enemies. responding to a hypothetical question tracking the evidence presented in this case 2 6-1-1 is apparently a telephone company customer service number. the prosecution theory was that martinez witnessed the freeway collision, followed the mercedes, and wrote down its license plate number. 5 benefited the gang itself by enhancing its reputation for viciousness, and by creating an atmosphere of fear and intimidation that would allow the gang to commit other crimes and make witnesses reluctant to come forward. 2. defense case. the defense presented no testimony at trial. 3. verdict and judgment. the jury convicted brown of first degree murder, premeditated attempted murder, aggravated mayhem and carjacking, with firearm use and gang enhancements (pen. code,  187, 664, 187, 205, 215, 12022.53, 186.22, subd. (b)).3 the trial court sentenced him to an aggregate term of 91 years eight months to life, and brown timely appealed the judgment. contentions brown contends: (1) the trial court erroneously deprived him of his right to self-representation; (2) the court erred by (3) from trial of the substantive crimes; (4) the trial court erred by admitting evidence about ers; (5) the evidence was insufficient to support the true findings on the gang allegations; (6) the evidence was insufficient to support his conviction of aggravated mayhem; (7) the court erred by failing to stay punishment on the carjacking conviction; and, (8) there was cumulative error. 3 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 6 discussion 1. trial court properly terminated brownpro se status. brown contends the trial court erred when, after initially granting his request to represent himself at trial under faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806 [45 l.ed.2d 562] (faretta), it subsequently revoked his pro se status. there is no merit to this claim. a. procedural background. on september 5, 2012, brownin order to locate a percipient witness. brown, however, refused to waive his right to a speedy trial and announced that he wanted to represent himself. he argued the missing witness was really a witness for the prosecution, and that he did not agree with the way defense counsel had been representing him. the trial court (hon. frederick n. wapner) on its own motion conducted a marsden hearing4 to determine whether defense counsel was providing adequate representation. after the marsden hearing, brown told the trial court that if defense counsel was he represent yourself or just because you want to go to trial within the next five days?,brown [defense counsel] to represent me for this trial in the next five days, your honor. but if i do it noting that the examining doctors who found brown competent to stand trial also concluded he had attempted to manipulate them by feigning various medical problems, the trial court denied the request for self-representation as equivocal because brown merely wanted to avoid a continuance. but the following day, september 6, 2012, fearing that an eventual conviction might be reversed on appeal, the prosecutor asked the trial court to give brown another chance to make an unequivocal faretta 4 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 (marsden). 7 request. brown again told the court he wanted to represent himself and said he would be ready to begin trial the next day (on friday, september 7, 2012) if he received certain outstanding discovery. this time the trial court granted faretta request. but on september 10, 2012, when the parties appeared before another judge (hon. john s. fisher), brown announced that he was not prepared for trial because he had not been granted pro se status in jail over the weekend and, therefore, he had not been able to get the services he needed to prepare for trial. the trial court said brown could either proceed to trial that day or he could announce he was not ready for trial, give up his pro se status, and allow his previously appointed counsel to resume representation. after brown said he was ready to proceed pro se, the court asked if he intended to call any witnesses. brown said he wanted to call a person to whom hayes had referred as a mutual friend, although brown conceded he name or even if the person actually existed. when the court said brown was not ready for trial because he needed further investigation, brown agreed. brown then said he wanted to subpoena an alibi witness and the gas station employees. the trial court concluded brown was not ready for trial and that his faretta request was not unequivocal. the court therefore terminated self-representation on the morning of september 10, 2012, reappointed defense counsel, and returned the case to judge wapner. when the parties appeared before judge wapner that afternoon, he continued the matter to october 1, 2012, over brownobjection. on october 1, 2012, defense counsel announced he was not ready for trial because he had recently received 350 pages of medical records from the prosecution and needed to have a doctor review them. brown again asked to represent himself and requested standby counsel and an investigator. after the trial court granted all three requests, brown agreed to a continuance until october 29, 2012. 8 on october 29, 2012, brown appeared in court wearing a paper toilet seat cover around his neck. he did not respond to the judge, did not look at the judge, and kept his eyes closed. standby counsel said brown had given him a note referring to mental health issues. the court declared a doubt concerning browntrial, suspended the criminal proceedings, and appointed two doctors to conduct psychological examinations. on november 27, 2012, the trial court conducted a competency hearing. the court noted that both doctors had found brown competent to stand trial and also reported that he was malingering, intentionally refusing to participate in the psychological evaluations, and hanging his head during the interviews. the court observed that brown was currently exhibiting some of the same behavior in the courtroom by hanging his head with his eyes closed. the court concluded brown was competent to stand trial and reinstated the criminal proceedings. the court also concluded brown was malingering and choosing not to participate, and that he had therefore forfeited his right of self-representation. the court therefore revoked brownpro se status, appointed standby counsel as defense counsel, and continued the matter to january 14, 2013. on january 14, 2013, brown again asked to represent himself. the trial court denied the request. brown then requested a marsden hearing, which the court conducted. the trial court subsequently denied brownhimself on february 22, march 11, and march 27, 2013. at the march 11 hearing, the court reiterated that it had terminated brown-representation because he was malingering and trying to manipulate the system. the court conducted further marsden hearings at brown 22 and march 27, 2013. b. governing law and standard of review. a criminal defendant has a right to represent himself at trial under the sixth amendment to the united states constitution. [citations.] request for self-representation if the defendant knowingly and intelligently 9 [citation.] erroneous denial of a faretta motion is reversible per se. [citation.] [] however, the right of self-representin ensuring the integrity and efficiency of the trial at times outweighs the [citation.] -representation is not a license to abuse the dignity of the courtroom. neither is it a license not to comply [citations.] trial court must undertake the task of deciding whether a defendant is and will remain so disruptive, obstreperous, disobedient, disrespectful or obstructionist in his or her actions or words as to preclude the exercise of the right to self-representation. the trial court possesses much discretion when it comes to terminating a right to self-represe [citation.] (people v. williams (2013) 58 cal.4th 197, 252-253.) a grant of pro se status may properly be revoked due to a defendanfaretta] held that an accused has a sixth amendment right to conduct his own defense, provided only that he knowingly and intelligently forgoes his right to counsel and that he is able and willing to abide by rules of procedure and courtroom mckaskle v. wiggins (1984) 465 u.s. 168, 173 [79 l.ed.2d 122]; see also peters v. gunn -representation may be overridden if he demonstrates an inability or unwillingnespeople v. clark (1992) 3 cal.4th 41, disapproved on other grounds in people v. pearson (2013) 56 cal.4th 393, 462, e ground the (clark, at p. 115.) 10 c. . the trial court initially granted brown-representation on september 6, 2012, and then terminated his self-representation on september 10, 2012. the court granted brown-representation on october 1, 2012, terminated his self-representation again on october 29, 2012, and then denied subsequent requests by brown to regain pro se status. the trial court concluded brown was malingering and manipulating the system, and the record supports this conclusion. brown initially sought self-representation in order to avoid a trial continuance, and he assured the court he would be ready for trial after receiving certain discovery. but brown later said he needed more time in order to identify and subpoena witnesses. after his request for self-representation was granted a second time, brown appeared to display signs of mental incompetency, wearing a toilet seat cover around his neck and hanging his head with his eyes closed. the doctors who examined him concluded he was competent to stand trial, but that he was malingering and intentionally refusing to participate in the psychological examinations. the trial court observed that brown was hanging his head with his eyes closed in court as well. repeated requests for self-representation and multiple marsden motions, his failure to proceed after being granted the right of self-representation, and his courtroom demeanor as reflected in the demonstrate that he was being disrespectful, disruptive, obstructionist and abusing the dignity of the court. brown has not demonstrated the strong showing of clear abuse decision to terminate his pro se status. (see people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 735.) even at the trial level . . . the uring the integrity and lawyer. (martinez v. court of appeal of california (2000) 528 u.s. 152, 162 [145 l.ed.2d 597].) brown argues that his case is on point with two cases holding defendants were improperly denied their right of self-representation under faretta. we disagree. people 11 v. dent (2003) 30 cal.4th 213, 218, held it was improper for the trial court to deny the defendant pro se status simply because it was a death penalty case. people v. carlisle faretta request had been equivocal (because it was emotionally motivated), his subsequent -month long repeated requests to proceed in pro se [cannot be equated with] . . . .s four-month-long self-representation anger or frustration . . . . (id. at p. 1390.) here, on the other hand, after brown was granted pro se status, he showed himself to be unwilling or unable to abide by courtroom protocol. as our supreme court said in people v. clark, supra, 3 cal.4th at p. faretta itself made clear, a constitutional right of self-self-representation by a defendant who deliberately engages in serious and faretta] held generally that a defendant may represent himself. it did not establish a game in which defendant can engage in a series of machinations, with one misstep by the court resulting in reversal of an otherwise fair ibid.) 2. trial court properly apreliminary hearing testimony. brown contends the admission of jeremviolated the sixth amendment confrontation clause because the prosecution failed to demonstrate that house was an unavailable witness. the argument is meritless. a. background. the trial court conducted an evidentiary hearing to determine whether the prosecution made sufficient detective jose calzadillas testified that when he first interviewed house in july 2011, house identified himself as bruce house, which turned out to be the name 12 of his deceased brother. when calzadillas interviewed him again on september 26, 2011, house gave his correct name. house was reluctant to get involved and said he did not want to testify. near the time of the preliminary hearing in march 2012, calzadillas learned that house had been taken into custody for having violated the terms of his california youth authority (c.y.a.) parole. although transportation had been arranged to secure he refused to leave his jail cell, which forced the trial court to order and bring him to court. calzadillas testified that, at the preliminary hearing on march 5, 2012, house was a very reluctant witness and, during a break in the proceedings, he told calzadillas after testifying at the preliminary hearing, house was taken back to jail. the prosecutor told the trial court5 she had learned from a computer database that 31, 2013. the prosecutor had also been in contact with ada heard, who was c.y.a. parole agent. heard told the prosecutor is needed in court [heard] the prosecutor said she had spoken to heard three or four times and heard never indicated was going to have a even need to give me a subpoena because i would call him to my office and but then, at the end of january 2013 or the beginning of february 2013, the prosecutor learned that 5 the prosecutor was not put under oath, but made the following representations at the evidentiary hearing in her capacity as an officer of the court. 13 already been terminated on january 23 or 25, 2013.6 were told that c.y.a. detective calzadillas testified he attempted to serve a subpoena on house at his residence in november 2012, but house was not home. when the detective returned the . calzadillas approached him, house ran away. calzadillas and his partner chased after him, but house eluded them. calzadillas testified that he immediately spoke to one of . . that i was trying to serve him with a subpoena, he just ran from me, have him give me a call. . . . later on that same day i was advised by [t . . calzadillas attempted to locate house again in january 2013. he contacted role. the detective checked other areas where house had previous ties and searched for other contacts with law enforcement, to no avail. house at the same location from which he had fled in november. they spotted house, but he again fled on foot. a forthwith subpoena was issued, a flier was distributed to all 6 apparently this early termination was a result of recent realignment legislation. the prosecutor told the trial court that detectives who . . . were told that c.y.a. parole is now the prosecutor said her a number of county parole [employees] was that c.y.a. parole . . . no longer exists. (see in re j.s. california legislature passed realignment, which addressed numerous issues, including the transfer of jurisdiction and supervision of juveniles from djj [division of juvenile justice] to local juvenile courts. [citations.] after passage of realignment, once a youth completes his commitment at djj, he is released to the juvenile court for supervision while on probation. the goal of realignment was to eliminate djj parole 14 patrol officers in the area notifying them that house was wanted as a material witness, and surveillance units watched two different locations house was known to frequent. detective calzadillas also alerted other law enforcement agencies through a nationwide database that house was wanted and should be detained. regarding complaint that the people failed to keep a close watch on house although they knew he was a reluctant witness, the prosecutor advised the trial court: house was a reluctant witness, but welcome to a witness who wants the prosecutor continued, over and over. mr. brown went pro per, then revoked, then went pro per, got revoked. very occasion to come the trial court asked if the prosecutor had considered requesting a material witness order under section 13327 when house was in custody at the time of the preliminary hearing. the 7 section . . . [w]hen the court is satisfied, by proof on oath, that there is good cause to believe that any material witness for the prosecution or defense, whether the witness is an adult or a minor, will not appear and testify unless security is required, at any proceeding in connection with any criminal prosecution . . . the court may order the witness to enter into a written undertaking to the effect that he or she will appear and testify at the time and place ordered by the court or that he or she will forfeit an amount the court deems proper. and testify, either with or without sureties, refuses compliance with the order for that purpose, the court may commit the witness, if an adult, to the custody of the sheriff, and if a minor, to the custody of the probation officer or other appropriate agency, until the witness complies or is legally discharged. an automatic review of the order requiring a written undertaking and the order committing the person, by a judge or magistrate having jurisdiction over the offense other than the one who issued the order. this review shall be held not later than two days from the time of the original order of commitment. ody, the witness is 15 prosecutor said such a request would have been futile because just having house say that he feared . . . personal experiences where i would ask the court for a 1332 based on that testimony the prosecutor argued: in the proceedings, the judge will say . . custody for a year because you want to secure his attendance. and that would have been every judge in this building, including your honor . . . the prosecutor also argued that in september 2012, there were not yet proper grounds for requesting a material witness order2012 and finding out that mr. house was off c.y.a., i would have no foundation, no proper basis to come to any judge in this building and ask for 1332, because the judge would have looked at me and said what is the problem. you have a parole agent who says they will . . . here concerned. we have a viable phone number . . . thomas snook, an investigator for the district attorney, testified that he visited three locations in early april 2013 and was told that house occasionally resided at one of them. snook obtained a subpoena and attempted to serve house at that location, but if house had been arrested, checked for his arrest in neighboring counties, and contacted los angeles county u.s.c. medical center. when the trial court asked defense counsel if he thought the prosecution should have sought a section 1332 material witness order at the time of the preliminary hearing, defense counsel jdefense counsel did argue, however, that the prosecution knew by the time of the preliminary hearing that house was unreliable and, therefore, should have arranged for c.y.a. not to release house from parole without notifying the prosecution. 16 defense counsel argued the prosecutor was remiss foassurances. the trial court concluded the prosecution had exercised due diligence in trying to : could to reasonably ensure the preseliberty rights. had they applied for a [section] 1332 [order] early on and kept that witness in jail during the pendency of this trial, that person would have had a right [to a hearing] two days after the original hold and then 10 days thereafter suggesting that perhaps a reviewing judge may not have kept the witness in for that period of time. [] . counsel makes a strong argument, but everything that they did to secure him in fact led to the near securing of that witness. twice they went to the viable location, twice he evaded them. [defense] counsel represents that the people have an obligation to prevent the witness from becoming absent. i believe they tried to do this . . . consistent with 1332 and . . . . liberty rights, but it seems to me that the people the trial court therefore presented at trial. b. legal principles. a criminal defendant has the right, guaranteed by the confrontation clauses of ses. (u.s. const., 6th amend.; cal. const., art. 1,  15.) the right of confrontation seeks o ensure that the defendant is able to conduct a personal examination and cross-examination of the witness, in which [the defendant] has an opportunity, not only of testing the recollection and sifting the conscience of the witness, but of compelling him to stand face to face with the jury in order that they may look at him, and judge by his demeanor upon the stand and the manner in which he gives his testimony whether he is worthy of belief. (people v. louis (1986) 42 cal.3d 969, 982 [232 cal.rptr. 110, 17 728 p.2d 180], quoting mattox v. united states (1895) 156 u.s. 237, 242-243 [39 l.ed. 409, 15 s.ct. 337,].) to deny or significantly diminish this right deprives a defendant calling into question the ultimate integrity of the fact- (chambers v. mississippi (1973) 410 u.s. 284, 295 [35 l.ed.2d 297, 93 s.ct. 1038].) (people v. cromer (2001) 24 cal.4th 889, 896-897 [103 cal.rptr.2d 23] (cromer).) (chambers v. mississippi, supra, 410 u.s. at p. 295; cromer, supra, 24 cal.4th at p. where a witness is unavailable and has given testimony at previous judicial proceedings against the same defendant [and] which was subject to cross-examination. . . . (barber v. page [(1968) 390 u.s. 719,] 722 [20 l.ed.2d 255, 88 (cromer, supra, 24 cal.4th at p. 897.) pursuant to this exception, the preliminary hearing testimony of an unavailable witness may be admitted at trial without violating a confrontation right. (people v. seijas (2005) 36 cal.4th 291, 303 [30 cal.rptr.3d 493, 114 p.3d 742].) [citation.] section 1291, subdivision (a)(2), provides thatestimony is offered was a party to the action or proceeding in which the testimony was given and had the right and opportunity to cross-examine the declarant with an interest section 1291 are met, the admission of former testimony in evidence does not violate a constitutional right of confrontation. (people v. herrera (2010) 49 cal.4th 613, 620-621, fns. omitted.) under evidence code section 240, subdivision (a)(5), a witness is unavailable when he or she is [a]bsent from the hearing and the proponent of his or her statement 18 has exercised reasonable diligence but has been unable to procure his or her attendance (evid. code,  240, subd. (a)(5).) diligence to secure the presence of a witness depends upon the facts of the individual case. [citation.] the term is incapable of a mechanical definition. it has been said that arnest, efforts of a substantial character. [citation.] the totality of efforts of the proponent to achieve presence of the witness must be considered by the court. prior decisions have affirmative efforts but such matters as whether he reasonably believed prior to trial that the witness would appear willingly and therefore did not subpoena him when he was available [citation], whether the search was timely begun, and whether the witness would have been people v. sanders (1995) 11 cal.4th 475, 523.) l witness in a criminal case, for the administrative burdens of doing so would be prohibitive. moreover, it is unclear what effective and reasonable controls the people could impose upon a witness who plans to leave the people v. hovey (1988) 44 cal.3d 543, 564; see also people v. horn believed from the evidence that johnson was probably in hiding and deliberately evading service; this was a factual e lines of inquiry pursued does not affect [a] conclusion [there was due diligence] . . . . it is enough that the people used reasonable efforts to locapeople v. cummings (1993) 4 cal.4th 1233, 1298.) exception to t19 (people v. cromer, supra, 24 cal.4th at p. 901.) review of disputed factual issues under the deferential substantial evidence standard [citation], and independently review whether the facts demonstrate prosecutorial good faith and due diligence (people v. herrera, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 623.) c. discussion. n march and april of 2013, just before trial started, when extensive but futile efforts were made to find house after he had been released from parole. rather, brown claims the prosecution did not exercise due diligence because it failed to take action earlier, during however, we only know for certain that house was in custody at the time he testified at the preliminary hearing in march 2012. he obviously was no longer in custody when detective calzadillas chased him outside his residence in late november 2012. the record does not disclose when that custody terminated or precisely when his c.y.a. parole terminated. brown relies on people v. roldan (2012) 205 cal.app.4th 969, but there the prosecution knew the federal government intended to deport a key witness immediately after the preliminary hearing, yet not only failed to attempt any of the state or federal remedies that might have secured but did not even notify defense counsel of the impending deportation. in these circumstances roldan concluded the prosecution failed to satisfy its burden to prove the due diligence so as to justify presenting his preliminary hearing testimony at trial. (id. at pp. 984-985.) roldan is inapposite because here the prosecutor reasonably believed house would still be reporting to a parole officer in november 2012, and relied on promise that she would deliver house to court. brown offers neither case authority nor reasoned argument to support his claim that assurances was unreasonable. 20 brown also argues elict . . . because she admitted that she should have sought a [section] 1332 [material witness] order in september custody and at risk of absconding; yet, she did not attempt to obtain but the prosecutor admitted no such thing. rather, the prosecutor said she did not believe she could make a sufficient showing in september 2012 to justify a section 1332 order because brown was still on parole at that time and his parole officer had promised to ensure he would get to court.8 the record demonstrates that both the investigating detectives and the prosecutor c.y.a. parole officer, who gave assurances that house would testify. it was not unreasonable for the people to have relied on those assurances. when it was discovered that house was no longer on parole, police officers tried the standard methods of locating a witness and twice came close to apprehending house. the trial court did not err by finding the prosecution used due diligence in attempting to 3. trial court enhancement allegation. brown contends the trial court improperly denied his motion to bifurcate his trial on the substantive offenses from his trial on the gang enhancement allegations ( 186.22, subd. (b)). we disagree. 8 rial ultimately took place in april 2013, which means that under in a case involving two minors who were detained as material witnesses under section 1332 for periods of eight and ten weeks, respectively, . however, the longer the expected detention, the greater the showing required by the state to justify it. the duration of the detentions in the instant case are substantial, and in re francisco m. (2001) 86 cal.app.4th 1061, 1077.) 21 a. procedural background. brown made a pretrial motion to bifurcate trial of the gang allegations from trial spresumption of innocence and be unduly prejudicial. the prosecutor argued the gang allegations were intertwined with the facts of the case, were motive, and served to demonstrate why hayes and house were familiar with brown. the trial court denied bifurcation, reasoning that the gang allegations were probative because they were intertwined with the charged crimes and, because the charged crimes were so violent, the gang evidence was not likely to be prejudicial. b. legal principles. the criminal street gang enhancement, section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1), ho is convicted of a felony committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang members . . . . ibid.) a trial court may bifurcate trial of a gang allegation from trial of the underlying crime if the gang evidence is unduly prejudicial on the issue of guilt of the underlying crime and its probative value of such guilt is minimal. (people v. hernandez (2004) 33 cal.4th 1040, 1049.) a trial court may deny bifurcation of a gang allegation even if some of the gang evidence would be inadmissible in a trial of the charged crime. (id. at p. 1050.) because of the efficiency ifurcation of a gang allegation is broader than its discretion to admit gang evidence in a case with no gang allegation. (ibid.) we ibid.) the admission of gang evidence always carries offered by the prosecution, we have condemned the introduction of evidence of gang (people v. cox (1991) 53 cal.3d 618, 660, disapproved on another ground in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22 often relevant to, and admissible regarding, the charged offense. evidence of the erritory, membership, signs, symbols, beliefs and practices, criminal enterprises, rivalries, and the like can help prove identity, motive, modus operandi, specific intent, means of applying force or fear, or other issues pertinent to guilt of the chargepeople v. hernandez, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 1049; see also people v. avitia (2005) 127 some material issue in the case other than character evidence, is not more prejudicial than probapeople v. olguin (1994) 31 cal.app.4th 1355, gang evidence can also and is therefore admissible. [citations.] testimony a witness is fearful of retaliation similarly relnecessary to show threats against the witness were made by the defendant personally, or e to be people v. sanchez (1997) 58 cal.app.4th 1435, 1449-1450.) c. discussion. hayesgang, and that he knew brown to be a member of the hard time hustlers, was relevant to person who carjacked hayes and then shot him. this evidence was also relevant to explain how those crimes came about because it demonstrated why hayes so readily agreed to give brown a ride in the mercedes, and why brown tried to murder someone from an allied gang. that the location of the carjacking was inside hard time hustlerss territory went to shooting hayes. 23 that house had formerly been a member of the hard time hustlers helped explain execute martinez in order to impress house, rather than just drive away. the same evidence also explained equivocation in his preliminary hearing testimony. the other gang evidence was relevant to the charged crimes and was not unduly prejudicial. brown has not demonstrated the trial court abused its discretion when it denied his bifurcation motion. 4. trial court did not err by admitting evidence about bro. brown contends the trial court violated the confrontation clause by admitting testimony from the prosecution gang expert that brown claimed to have a number of different gang monikers, including hennessy, based on information taken from field information (f.i.) cards. specifically, brown argues the trial court was required to exclude information from the f.i. cards because brown did not have the opportunity to cross-examine the authors of the cards. there is no merit to this claim. crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36 [158 l.ed.2d 177], established a the out-of-court statement. crawford issue, the only indicium of reliability sufficient to satisfy constitutional demands is the -of-court testimonial statements are admissible only when the witness is unavailable and there has been a prior opportunity for cross-people v. cervantes (2004) 118 cal.app.4th 162, 172.) extra-judicial statements that are not offered for the truth of the matter asserted are not testimonial. (see people v. mitchell (2005) 131 cal.app.4th 1210, 1224, fn. -hearsay, and therefore non-24 testimonial evidence, a great portion of the police dispatch tape is not subject to the analysis in crawford kevin house testified he knew brown as a member of the hard time hustlers gang whose moniker was spook. officer currie testified he had personally contacted brown on two occasions, during which brown acknowledged his membership in the hard time hustlers and said j ro currie also testified that when he searched a computerized databank he discovered brown had told other police officers his moniker was hennessy.9 after confirming with the prosecutor that, if asked, currie would testify he had no information that spook, thus suggesting that the gang expert defense counsel objected that brown told other officers his moniker was hennessy based on confrontation clause grounds. defense objection was overruled after the prosecutor told the there were field identification cards on particular dates where he gave a different moniker. ot proving that that was in fact his moniker, we are just going to explain that that was the information given to the officer. on appeal, brown contends this testimony about his monikers violated crawford. but, as our supreme court has pointed out, there are no confrontation clause restrictions on the introduction of out-of-court statements for nonhearsay purposes. as crawford [out-of-court] statements for purposes other than establishing the truth of the matter (people v. cage (2007) 40 cal.4th 965, 975, fn. 6.) evidence that brown had told officers other than currie that his gang moniker was hennessy was not hearsay because the prosecution was not trying to prove moniker really was 9 although this moniker was given various spellings in the reporterthe prosecutor described it as the same as hennessy cognac. 25 hennessy, but only that brown had claimed a variety of nicknames and this was one of the names he gave when police stopped him on the street. there was no confrontation clause error in admitting this testimony. 5. there was substantial evidence to sustain the gang enhancement. on the gang enhancement allegations. benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or there is no merit to this claim. a. legal principles. [street terrorism enforcement and prevention] act prescribes increased punishment for a felony if it was related to a criminal street gang. ( 186.22, subd. prosecution must prove that the crime for which the defendant was convicted had been street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang mem 186.22, subd. (b)(1). . . .) in addition, the prosecution must prove that the gang (1) is an ongoing association of three or more persons with a common name or common identifying sign or symbol; (2) has as one of its primary activities the commission of one or more of the criminal acts enumerated in the statute; and (3) includes members who either individually or collectively have engaged in a two or more of the enumerated offenses (the so-statutorily defined period. ( 186.22, subds. (e) and people v. hernandez, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 1047, fn. omitted.) iency of the evidence to support an enhancement, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidence that is, evidence that is reasonable, 26 credible, and of solid value from which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] we presume every fact in support of the judgment the trier of fact could have reasonably deduced from the evidence. [citation.] if the circumstances reasreversal of the judgment is not warranted simply because the circumstances might also reweighs evidence nor reevaluates people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 59-60.) -related activity, so long as the hypotheticapeople v. gonzalez (2005) 126 cal.app.4th 1539, 1551, fn. 4.) a gang expert may testify on the ultimate question of whether the defendant was acting for the benefit of a gang. (people v. valdez (1997) 58 cal.app.4th 494, 507-509 [where participants were diverse group affiliated with ) reputation for viciousness can be sufficient to raise the inference that the conduct was . . a[ of section 186.22(b)(1). (see, e.g., people v. vazquez (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 347 . . . [relying on expert opinion that the murder of a nongang member benefited the gang because re and people v. romero (2006) 140 cal.app.4th 15, 19 . . of any african-american men would elevate the status of the shooters and their entire people v. albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 63.) 27 b. discussion. officer currie testified that brown was a member of the hard time hustlers. he rder, attempted murder, robbery and other crimes. the carjacking was initiated within the murder of martinez but in the presence of house, a former member of the hard time hustlers. the location of the murder was . . more brazen. the fhis gang because of the violent acviolence tha currie explained how the hayes carjacking and attempted murder benefited the hard time hustlers: the fact that this individual from the gang committing this violent act, even . . built because of the violent acts that this gang does. so it allows them to create that atmosphere of fear which allows them to . . . continue to do other criminal acts where currie also testified, . . an unknown vehicle . . . brown relies on two cases in his attempt to demonstrate that the gang enhancement evidence was insufficient: in re frank s. (2006) 141 cal.app.4th 1192 (frank s.), and people v. albarran (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 214 (albarran). these cases are distinguishable. frank s. held there was insufficient evidence of the defenspecific intent to promote, further, or assist in criminal conduct by gang members, as required under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1). (in re frank s., at p. 1199.) frank s. stated that the only evidence supporting the gang allegation was an 28 exultimate issue under the statute. there was no evidence that the defendant was in gang territory at the time of the incident or was accompanied by gang members and no other evidence that the crime carrying a concealed dirk or dagger was gang-related. (id. at p. 1199.) the only evidence of the gang affiliation in that case was his statement that he had several friends in a particular group of gangs. (id. at p. 1195.) here, in contrast, in addition to the gang expert testimony, the prosecutor presented the presence of a former member of the same gang in which brown was a self-admitted member. in albarran, the defendant and a companion fired shots at a house where a party was going on, but there was no evidence the gunmen made themselves known by gang d not know the people v. albarran, supra, 149 cal.app.4th at p. 227.) here, on the other hand, currie testified brown also cites people v. ramon (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 843, where two fellow gang members were stopped in a recently stolen car inside their own territory with an unregistered firearm. the court of appeal held this evidence was not sufficient could discern whether ramon and martinez were acting on their own behalf the night they were arrested or were acting on behalf of the colonia bakers [gang]. while it is possible the two were acting for the benefit of the gang, a mere possibility is nothing id. at p. 851.) but the court of appeal also said, speid. at p. 853.) here, currie testified that the primary activities of the hard time hustlers gang included robbery and murder. 29 there was also sufficient evidence to establish that brown committed the shooting with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in criminal conduct by gang members. this element of the gang enhancement is satisfied even if the only gang member whose criminal conduct was furthered happened to be the defendant himself in his commission of the underlying offense. (people v. hill (2006) 142 cal.app.4th 770, 186.22, subdivision intent to enable or promote criminal endeavors by gang members must relate to criminal activity apart from the offense the defendant commits. to the contrary, the specific any criminal conduct by code,  186.22, subd. own criminal threat qualified as the gang-related criminal activity. no further evidence in sum, there was sufficient evidence to sustain the gang enhancement findings. 6. substantial evidence supports conviction of aggravated mayhem. brown contends his conviction of aggravated mayhem must be reversed because there was insufficient evidence to prove the specific intent element of this offense. there is no merit to this claim. a. legal principles. review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidence that is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the federal standard of review is to the same effect: under principles of federal due process, review for sufficiency of evidence entails not the determination whether the reviewing court itself believes the evidence at trial establishes guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, but, instead, whether, after viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] 30 the standard of review is the same in cases in which the prosecution relies mainly on t a defendant if it finds that circumstantial evidence is susceptible of two interpretations, one of which suggests guilt and the other innocence [citations], it is the jury, not the d a reasonable of the reviewing court that the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding does not warrant a reversal of the judgmen people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 11.) of the trial court can be set aside for the insufficiency of the evidence, it must clearly appear that on no hypothesis whatever is there sufficient substantial evidence to support people v. sanghera (2006) 139 to affirmatively demonstrate error. [citation.] thus, when a criminal defendant claims on appeal that his conviction was based on insufficient evidence of one or more of the elements of the crime of which he was convicted, we must begin with the presumption that the evidence of those elements was sufficient, and the defendant bears the burden of convincing us otherwise. to meet that burden, it is not enough for the defendant to . . that the evidence is insufficient to support the judgment[ ation.] rather, he must affirmatively demonstrate ibid.) aggravated mayhem is defined by section guilty of aggravated mayhem when he or she unlawfully, under circumstances manifesting extreme indifference to the physical or psychological well-being of another person, intentionally causes permanent disability or disfigurement of another human 31 being or deprives a human being of a limb, organ, or member of his or her body. for purposes of this section, it is not necessary to prove an intent to kill. aggravated mayhem is a felony punishable by imprisonment in the state prison for life with the e defendant specifically intended to cause the maiming injury, i.e., the permanent disability or disfigurement. . . ific intent. [citation.] however, where the evidence shows no more than an people v. quintero (2006) specifically intended to maim to cause a permanent disability or disfigurement. inflicted actually constitutes mayhem; instead, there must be other facts and circumstances which support an inference of intent to maim rather than to attack circumstances attending the act, the manner in which it is done, and the means used, intent people v. szadziewicz (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 823, 831.) b. discussion. in this case, the specific intent element of aggravated mayhem can be inferred from the way the shooting was carried out. brown pulled out a gun, pointed it at , and then shot him twice in the abdomen from such a close distance that the jury could reasonably infer that brown focused his attack on abdomen rather than just firing indiscriminately. for example, people v. ferrell (1990) 218 cal.app.3d 828, found substantial evidence of specific intent to commit aggravated 32 mayhem where the defendant shot the victim in the neck from two feet away, reasoning t id. at p. 835; see also people v. manibusan only five to 10 feet hitting her once in the face . . . and once in the upper arm, near her face. . . . reasonably supports the inference that [the gunman] . . . focused his attack on people v. santana t close range and fired three shots with a .38-caliber revolver into the leg and buttock area of vallejo, who lay unresisting on the ground . . . [which] strongly supports a finding that defendant in addition, shooting hayes in the abdomen was highly likely to result in a maiming injury or even death. (see people v. moore (2002) 96 cal.app.4th 1105, highlighting his testimony he intended to stab but not to kill the victim. however, defendant stabbed the victim not in the arm or leg, but in the abdomen, an extremely vulnerable area of the bodypeople v. dick (1968) 260 cal.app.2d 369, 371, italics that the circumstantial evidence that defendant intended to kill collins when he fired the shot is not only sufficient but compelling. defendant shot collins in the stomach, a highly vulnerable area . . . . relying on justice werdissenting opinion in people v. manibusan, suprabut allow the victim to live this assertion, however, directly conflicts with the majority opinion in manibusan, which [a] defendant may intend both to kill his or her victim and to disable suffs intent to id. at 33 p. 89, fn. omitted.) by the rule of auto equity sales, inc. v. superior court (1962) 57 cal.2d 450, 455, we must follow the majority opinion. brown argues the hayes shooting was a sudden and indiscriminate attack born out because the evidence ed hayes might not relinquish his mercedes. the argument is unsupported by the record. rather, the evidence demonstrated brown only began shooting when hayes opened the car door in his attempt to jump out,10 an act that, if anything, would have left the mercedes in because brown shot hayes as he was in the very act of relinquishing the car. substantial evidence supports the finding that brown acted with the specific intent required for aggravated mayhem. 7. trial court properly declined to stay sentencing on the carjacking conviction. brown contends that, because the attempted murder and the carjacking were committed with the same intent and objective, the trial court erred under section 654 by declining to stay sentencing on the carjacking conviction. there is no merit to this claim. a. legal principles. section 654 prohibits multiple punishment for crimes based on the same act or omission.11 minal conduct is divisible and therefore gives rise to more than one act within the meaning of section 654 depends on the intent and 10 he hayes specifically 11 different ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the act or omission be punished under more than one provision. an acquittal or conviction and sentence under any one bars a prosecution for the same act or omission under any 34 objective of the actor. if all of the offenses were incident to one objective, the defendant may be punished for any one o(neal v. state of california (1960) 55 cal.2d 11, 19, disapproved on other grounds in people v. correa (2012) 54 cal.4th 331, 334 [cits intent and objective, not temporal proximity of his re factual questions for the trial court; [to permit multiple punishments,] there must be evidence to support [the] finding the defendant people v. capistrano (2014) 59 cal.4th 830, 886, fn. omitted.) section 654 is factually applicable to a given series of offenses is for the trial court, and the law gives the trial court broad latitude in making this determination. its findings on this question must be upheld on appeal if there is any light most favorable to the respondent and presume in support of the [sentencing] order the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence. [citation.] people v. hutchins (2001) 90 cal.app.4th 1308, 1312-1313; people v. mccoy (1992) 9 cal.app.4th explicit or implicit, may not be reversed if supported by substantial evidence].) b. discussion. brown argues: pockets suggested that appellant believed hayes might be reaching for a weapon and shot hayes to secure the car appellant intended to steal. moreover, since the shooting was committed before but brown did not need to of the mercedes in order to be guilty of carjacking. (see people v. duran (2001) 88 cal.app.4th 1371, 1374-77 [defendant committed carjacking when he 35 entered , ordered victim to drive, and victim drove]; see people v. lopez (2003) 31 cal.4th 1051, 1062 [citing duran for principle that carjacking occurs whether the perpetrator drives off with the carjacking victim in the car or forcibly removes the victim from the car before hence, the evidence demonstrated that brown did not shoot hayes until after brown had already committed carjacking by directing hayes, at gunpoint, where to drive. indeed, the evidence demonstrated that the shooting occurred only after hayes opened the car door preparatory to make his escape by jumping from the mercedes. that substantial evidence supports the finding that brown had separate objectives for the carjacking and the attempted murder and was appropriately punished for both crimes. (see in re chapman (1954) 43 cal.2d 385, 388-389 [section 654 did not bar punishing defendant for both robbery and aggravated assault where victim handed over wallet at gunpoint, and then tried to flee but was hit on head with a gun].) 8. there was no cumulative error. brown contends that, even if harmless individually, the cumulative effect of these claimed trial errors mandates reversal of his convictions. because we have found no error, his claim of cumulative error necessarily fails. (see people v. seaton (2001) 26 cal.4th 598, 639; people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 335.) 36 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports edmon, p. j. we concur: kitching, j. aldrich, j. 