 filed 4/13/15 p. v. alamillo ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. rafael alamillo, defendant and appellant. b253659 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba399567) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of the county of los angeles, gail ruderman feuer, judge. affirmed. william s. pitman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, michael r. johnsen, supervising deputy attorney general, gary a. lieberman, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction defendant and appellant rafael alamillo (defendant) was convicted of possession for sale of a controlled substance, methamphetamine (health & saf. code,  113781). defendant appeals from his judgment of conviction, challenging the denial of his motion to suppress evidence. on appeal, defendant contends that illegal. we affirm. background a. factual background2 1. prosecution evidence a) deputy hwang on july 3, 2012, deputy hwang was conducting a surveillance of a residence located in east los angeles. he was part of a group of law enforcement officers that was going to search the residence pursuant to a search warrant.3 deputy hwang saw frias arrive in a minivan and enter the residence. a few minutes later, deputy hwang saw defendant arrive in a vehicle and approach a door to 1 all statutory citations are to the health & safety code unless otherwise noted. 2 motion to suppress the evidence under penal code section 1538.5. the prosecutor called as witnesses deputy raymond hwang, detective jeff alvarado, and sergeant kelly huffman, from the los s department. 3 the search warrant authorized a search of the residence, suspect gerardo frias , and any person(s) whose identity has not been established and is present at the time of the search, . . . [and a]ny person(s) who are present at the location, who are involved in the possession and/or sales of narcotics.prosecution could not rely on the warrant to support the search of defendant. 3 the residence. the door opened, and defendant appeared to have a 30 to 60 second conversation with someone inside the residence. front yard, and they appeared to speak for a few seconds. frias exited the residence, engaged in a short conversation with defendant and the other man, and left in the minivan. after frias left, defendant and the other man in the front yard. about 10 to 15 minutes after frias left in the minivan, the other members of the search team arrived at the scene, and they detained defendant. deputy hwang never saw a who was in the front yard other than the peace officers. b) detective alvarado detective alvarado had been a deputy sheriff for approximately 15 years, had been assigned to the narcotics bureau for approximately four years, had training and experience in the area of narcotics, and had testified about 20 times as an expert witness regarding narcotics. detective alvarado was in radio contact with deputy hwang, who said to him that it appeared briefly had contact with frias. frias left the residence in his minivan while defendant remained in the front yard. detective alvarado instructed patrol deputies to conduct a traffic stop of the minivan. after the traffic stop, detective alvarado made contact with frias and informed him of the search warrant. in response, frias denied having any connection with the residence.4 when detective alvarado went to the residence to execute the search warrant, he saw three men, including defendant, standing together in the front yard of the residence. 3 individuals initially, and then we . . . secured the residence, clearing it o four other people, who were in the back yard or inside a back house, were also detained and escorted to the front yard. 4 approximately 10 days before detective alvarado applied for the search warrant, he saw frias enter and exit the residence. 4 hands and defendant complied with the instructions and did not engage in any activity that caused detective alvarado to believe defendant possessed a weapon. for officer safety, everyone detained was searched for weapons or any other illegal contraband. detective alvarado testified that detained on the site of search warrants are patted down for weapons, detective alvarado testified that based on his training and experience, it was common for narcotics dealers and purchasers to carry weapons, and c detective alvarado testified that at the time sergeant huffman conducted a pat down search of defendant, detective alvarado believed that defendant was involved in the possession or sales of narcotics. detective alvarado testified that his conclusion was as], usually the way we review the relationship. . . . two friends of family members hanging out so to speak. so this seemed to be more of like a business relationship. quick contacts. [defendant] go[es] up, [he] talks to [frias] briefly. [frias] then leaves the location, possibly to get either money or additional narcotics. . . . [] on top of that, [defendant] was . . . they are not usually relationships in which . . . the supplier or the buyer might trust the other individual that family member or a really good friend of yours, you would probably tell them to . . . wait u would trust them around . . . your personal valuables . . . detect 5 docontaining a large, thin tupperware container. c) sergeant huffman sergeant huffman had been a deputy sheriff for 19 years. at the time of the incident, she was newly assigned to the narcotics unit, and was present at the scene of the when sergeant huffman arrived at the residence, she observed two or three men, including defendant, detained, lying face down on the ground in the front yard. their either to their sides or above their heads so that you could see them. sergeant huffman had defendant, who was not handcuffed, stand up, and she conducted a pat down search of him. on cross- sergeant time, and we pat them down defendant did not engage in any behavior that caused her to believe that he was involved in illegal activity, and defendant was compliant with her requests. sergeant huffman did not recall if someone instructed her to search defendant, [but] recall if she spoke to detective alvarado prior to searching defendant. sergeant huffman conducted the search about 20 minutes after she arrived at the scene of the incident, after cured the location first [and] during the search, sergeant huffman felt a hard object in front waistband, and was concerned that it could be a weapon. sergeant huffman removed the object, found that it was a tupperware container, which contained a large amount of a 6 white crystal substance resembling methamphetamine. sergeant huffman subsequently found two baggies containing what appeared to be methamphetamine in front pants pocket. 2. evidence defendant did not testify or present any evidence at the hearing on his motion to suppress evidence. b. procedural background the district attorney of los angeles county filed an information charging defendant with one count of possession for sale of a controlled substance (methamphetamine) ( 11378). the district attorney also alleged that defendant had three prior drug-related convictions ( 11370.2, subd. (b)), and that he had served one prior prison term (pen. code,  667.5, subd. (b)). defendant filed a motion to suppress evidence under penal code section 1538.5, and the trial court denied it. pursuant to a plea agreement, defendant pleaded no contest and admitted the prior drug conviction allegations. the prior prison term allegation was dismissed. the trial court sentenced defendant to county jail for a term of 6 years. discussion a. standard of review the standard of appellate review of a s ruling on a motion to suppress is well established. s factual findings, express or implied, where supported by substantial evidence. in determining whether, on the facts so found, the search or seizure was reasonable under the fourth amendment, we exercise our independent judgment. [citations.] (people v. glaser (1995) 11 cal.4th 354, 362 (glaser).) 7 b. applicable law under terry v. ohio (1968) 392 u.s. 1, when an officer detains a suspect, the officer may pas outer clothing if the officer has a reason to believe the suspect may be armed. (id. at p. 30.) in that case, the united states supreme court held here a police officer observes unusual conduct which leads him reasonably to conclude in light of his experience that criminal activity may be afoot and that the persons with whom he is dealing may be armed and presently dangerous, where in the course of investigating this behavior he identifies himself as a policeman and makes reasonable inquiries, and where nothing in the initial stages of the encounter serves to dispel his reason safety, he is entitled for the protection of himself and others in the area to conduct a carefully limited search of the outer clothing of such persons in an attempt to discover weapons which might be used to assault him.(fla. v. j.l. (2000) 529 u.s. 266, 270, citing terry v. ohio, supra, (1968) 392 u.s. at p. 30.) the individual is armed; the crux of the issue is whether a reasonably prudent person in the totality of the circumstances (people v. avila (1997) 58 cal.app.4th 1069, 1074, citing terry v. ohio, supra, 392 u.s. at p. 27.) it is sufficient for the search if there is a substantial possibility that the person is armed. (people v. osborne (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 1052, 1061.) c. analysis defendant contends that his patdown search was unlawful because sergeant huffman, who conducted the search, was not aware of any specific facts that reasonably supported a suspicion that defendant was armed and dangerous; and [e]ven if [detective] sergeant huffman, it would not we disagree. in people v. thurman (1989) 209 cal.app.3d 817, the law enforcement officers entered a residence to be searched and found the defendant sitting silently and passively 8 on a sofa. even though the defendant did not appear to be a threat, the officers ordered a pat search of him and found drugs. (id. at pp. 820-821.) in holding that the search was we have no hesitation whatever in holding that [the officer] acted reasonably and prudently in conducting the pat search of appellant in the circumstances. . . . the officers whose duty required them to execute the warranted search were . . . well aware they were engaged in an undertaking fraught with the potential for sudden violence. they were necessarily cognizant of the very real threat that the occupants of the residence were within an environment where weapons are readily accessible and often hidden, nor could they discount the possibility that one or more of the individuals found inside were personally armed. [] [that defendant did not appear to present an immediate threat] does not in any measure diminish the potential for sudden armed violence that his presence within the residence suggested. to require an officer to await an overt act of hostility . . . before attempting to neutralize the threat of physical hars presence in a probable drug trafficking residential locale, would be utter folly.(id. at p. 823; see people v. samples (1996) 48 cal.app.4th 1197 [affirming the legality of a patdown search of an individual driving a car in which two subjects of a warrant were passengers].) detective alvarado and deputy hwang criminal activity may be afoot (terry v. ohio, supra, 392 u.s. at p. 30); they had a reasonable belief that defendant was involved in the possession or sales of narcotics. deputy hwang saw frias enter the residence, and shortly thereafter defendant arrive at the residence and briefly have contact with someone inside the residence. immediately thereafter, deputy hwang saw frias leave the residence in his minivan while defendant remained in the front yard. deputy hwang told detective alvarado this information. shortly after frias left the residence in his minivan, detective alvarado participated in a traffic stop of with the residence. when detective alvarado went to the residence, he saw defendant still standing in the front yard. defendant was detained. defendant does not dispute that 9 he was lawfully detained at the time he was searched. (see glaser, supra, 11 cal.4th at pp. 360-361.) detective alvarado testified that he believed that defendant was involved in the possession or sales of narcotics at the time defendant was searched by sergeant huffman. of contact between [defendant] and frias was co detective alvarado also testified that, based on his training and experience, it was common for narcotics dealers and purchasers to carry weapons, and he has reason to believe that every individual detained concernarmed. defendant cites people v. sandoval (2008) 163 cal.app.4th 205, in support of his contention that the pat down search here was unlawful, but that case is distinguishable. in that case the police conducted a probation search of a residence where they believed narcotics were being sold. (id. at p. 208.) when they arrived to conduct the search, they found the defendant, who was known to one of the officers for previous drug arrests, sitting on the steps of the residence smoking a cigarette. (ibid.) the police conducted a patdown search of defendant and found a stun gun, a fixed-blade knife, and methamphetamine. (id. at p. 209.) in finding the search illegal, the court stated that the officers testified they had no reason to believe the defendant was armed or involved in criminal activity, and distinguished people v. thurman, supra, 209 cal.app.3d 817 because in that case the police testified they were concerned the persons present in the residence might have guns. (people v. sandoval, supra, 163 cal.app.4th at p. 213.) a authorized narcotics search is taking place, may not be sufficient to believe a suspect is armed. (ybarra v. illinois (1979) 444 u.s. 85, 93-94.) here, however, there was more. as noted above, detective alvarado and deputy hwang had a reasonable belief that defendant was involved in the possession or sale of narcotics. unlike the defendant in people v. sandoval, supra, 163 cal.app.4th 205, defendant here was not merely in close proximity to the scene of the incident. in 10 addition, as also noted above, detective alvarado testified, based on his training and experience, that it was common for narcotics dealers and purchasers to carry weapons. drug-related crimes are classic examples of inherently violent situations in which investigating officers are legitimately concerned about their safety. (ybarra v. illinois, supra, 444 u.s. at p. 106 [firearms are tools of the trade in the drug business]; glaser, supra, 11 cal.4th at pp. 367-368.) the danger is potentially greater when the premises to be searched are a private home than in a place of public accommodations because occupants of private residence are more likely to protect themselves from possible robbers. (glaser, supra, 11 cal.4th at pp. 367-368.) sergeant huffman actually conducted the search of defendant. it is true that she did not recall if she spoke to detective alvarado prior to searching defendant, nor did she recall if someone instructed her to search defendant. she testified, however, that nonetheless instruct her to search defendant. the collective knowledge doctrine allows courts to impute police officers collective knowledge to the officer conducting a stop, search, or arrest.united states v. villasenor (9th cir. 2010) 608 f.3d 467, 475.) that doctrine applies to searches as well as arrests. (terrell v. smith (11th cir. 2012) 668 f.3d 1244, 1252.) defendant contends that for the collective knowledge doctrine to apply, the sergeant huffman. sergeant huffman, detective alvarado, and deputy hwang, were however functioning as a team working in close concert. even if detective alvarado did not expressly order or request sergeant huffman to conduct a pat down search of defendant, it is reasonable to conclude that he implicitly did so because sergeant s search of defendant was done in the presence of detective alvarado. indeed, detective alvarado testified that sergeant huffman conducted the pat down search of defendant because of officer safety. detective alvarado could lawfully conduct a patdown search of defendant for officer safety; sergeant huffman, who was in detective should also be able to do so. similarly, under the circumstances, it 11 is reasonable to conclude that detective alvarado implicitly imparted his knowledge to sergeant huffman. it was not necessary that detective alvarado or any other law enforcement officer present at the scene communicate to deputy hwang all of the facts that they possessed that would justify the pat down search. there remains for consideration the question of whether agent fredericks [who authorized warrantless arrests of defendants] could rely upon information known to agents lackey and nielsen which had not been communicated to fredericks. in united states v. stratton, 453 f.2d 36, 37 (8 cir.), cert. denied, 405 u.s. 1069, 92 s. ct. 1515, 31 l. ed. 2d 800 (1972), the court held that secret service agents who made warrantless arrests were not required at the moment of arrest to possess personal knowledge of all the facts and circumstances, but rather that probable [] we think the knowledge of one officer is the knowledge of all and that in the operation of an investigative or police agency the collective knowledge and the available objective facts are the criteria to be used in assessing probable cause. the arresting officer himself need not possess all of the available information. as stated in stassi v. united states, 410 f.2d 946 (5 cir. 1969), the officers involved were working in close concert with each other and the knowledge of one of them was the knowledge of all. [] we recognize that in some of the cases holding that the collective knowledge of the arresting officers could be considered in determining probable cause, the substance of information obtained by other officers had been communicated to the arresting officers. see, e. g., united states v. pitt, 382 f.2d 322 (4 cir. 1967). we do not find, however, that this is required, particularly where, as here, the agents were working in close concert.united states v. bernard (9th cir. 1979) 623 f.2d 551, 560-561.) furthermore, sergeant huffman knew that defendant had been detained in connection with a narcotics transaction. sergeant huffman testified that she conducted the search after defendant was detained, and after she saw him lying face down on the ground in the front yard with his arms either to his sides or above his head. sergeant 12 huffman said that in addition to defendant being at the incident scene, she had reason to believe that defendant was involved in illegal activity because they were at the residence to execute on a narcotics search warrant, defendant and others that were there, and so . from the fact that the defendant had been ordered to be prone on the ground, sergeant huffman could not only conclude defendant was a suspect but also that he could pose a danger. sergeant cannot be the case that where two officers are present for a terry search that both must have full knowledge to support a reasonable suspicion that the suspect is involved in narcotics activity and armed. . . . [i]t was sufficient that detective alvarado possessed those facts . . . and that sergeant huffman performed the search believing it necessary for we agree with the trial court. suppress evidence was supported by substantial evidence, and the pat down search was reasonable. 13 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. mosk, j. we concur: turner, p. j. kriegler, j. 