filed 8/15/14 p. v. youn ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. alexander youn, defendant and appellant. b253401 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sa080515) appeal from an order of the superior court for the county of los angeles. katherine mader, judge. affirmed. richard l. fitzer, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, victoria wilson and jessica c. owen, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________ 2 summary defendant alexander youn appeals from the denial of his motion to suppress evidence, contending a warrantless draw of his blood violated the fourth amendment as construed in missouri v. mcneely (2013) ___ u.s. ___ [133 s.ct. 1552] (mcneely) and schmerber v. california (1966) 384 u.s. 757 (schmerber). we do not reach the question whether the totalcase justified the warrantless eliance on davis v. united states (2011) ___ u.s. ___ [131 s.ct. 2419, 2423-2424] (davis), and therefore was not subject to the exclusionary rule. we affirm the order denying the motion to suppress. facts on october 3, 2011, at about 6:30 p.m., defendant was involved in a serious vehicle collision. when officer jason olson arrived at the scene, emergency personnel were loading two patients into ambulances. one of them was defendant. the officer at the scene asked officer olson to evaluate defendant for being under the influence. officer olson observed that defendant was strapped to a backboard with full head officer olson followed defendant to the hospital, where medical personnel were in the process of intubating him. defendant was also combative with the hospital staff, so they began to sedate him. officer olson, who was trained (and trained other officers) as a drug recognition expert, concluded defendant was under the influence of a drug stimulant (not a narcotic or alcohol). he observed the staff administer three or four doses of very potent sedatives, state, rapid speech, and skin warm to the touch (during owith defendant at the scene) were factors contributing to his conclusion. 3 officer olson placed defendant under arrest and asked a nurse to draw blood from defendant. the blood draw occurred about three hours after the accident, at about 9:30 p.m. probation for driving under the influence. officer olson did not know if defendant had after he ordered the blood draw, officer olson learned that hospital staff had done an earlier blood draw, and the results were positive for amphetamine and cannabis. laboratory to screen for alcohol as well. when officer olson left the hospital, defendant was still in the emergency room, awaiting a bed in the intensive care unit. defendant was released from the hospital a month later, on november 3, 2011. two years after these events, in october 2013, the trial court held a hearing on described, officer olson stated that he did not try to get a warrant blood. he had worked on vehicular manslaughter cases in the past and obtained blood from drivers without a warrant. he confirmed that procedure to oin october 2011. dr. john treuting, a consulting toxicologist, testified for the defense. the laboratory report on three hours after the accident showed 67 ood. dr. treuting was 20 hours later . . . you would be able to detect it, as far as kn sentencing in an earlier case for driving under the influence was that he was not to drive 4 with any measurable amount of alcohol or drugs in his blood and was not to refuse to take any blood alcohol or drug chemical test when requested by any peace officer. that suppressing the blood result in this case would have a deterrent effect on police i think that the police acted completely reasonably from beginning to end of this investigation. . . . an active investigation of what happened in this accident is ongoing. [] they make observations of the defendant that he is not trying to administer a sedative drug, which raises the suspicion of the police officer as to whet. . . officer olson finds out refuse any type of chemical test. [] i understand that that is not specifically what mcneely[, supra, 133 s.ct. 1552] addresses. but it is a factor that i think is reasonable for a police officer to take into consideration when they have this person who is tremendously injured, who is being restrained, who is being taken into icu. [] the sort of a coma? is it going to be artificially or naturally? if he is going to go into a coma, how long is it going to take for him to have access to this person again? because they obviously ng that has already been done. . . . [] but the defendant is sedated. on to give consent to any type of blood blood draw, particularly under the circumstances of this type of an accident. [] so for all . . . of these reasons and i already took judicial notice of [the conditions of deterrent effect on police misconduct, which is the point of us all being here on a motion to suppress the evidence. 5 defendant then pled no contest to driving under the influence causing bodily injury (veh. code,  23153, subd. (a)), a felony, and being under the influence of a controlled substance (health & saf. code,  11550, subd. (a)), a misdemeanor. the court sentenced defendant to a total term of four years, ordered custody and good time/work time credits and made other orders not at issue in this appeal. order. discussion are per se unreasonable under the fourth amendment -- subject only to a few specifically established and well- [citations.]mincey v. arizona (1978) 437 u.s. 385, 390.) one of these exceptions compelling that a warrantless search is objectively reasonable under the fourth [citation.]mcneely, supra, 133 s.ct. at p. 1558.) whether a law enforcement officer faced an emergency that justified acting without a the totality of circumstances. (id. at p. 1559; id. at p. 1559, fn. hat justified a warrantless search, naturally calls for a case- in 2011, when the warrantless blood draw in this case occurred, schmerber was the controlling authority from the high court. in schmerber, the high court applied the totality of the circumstances approach to find that a warrantless blood test in that case was permissible. this was was confronted with an emergency, in which the delay necessary to obtain a warrant, mcneely, supra, 133 s.ct. at pp. 1559-1560, quoting schmerber, supra, 384 u.s. at p. 770.) schmerber in the blood begins to diminish shortly after drinking stopsas this, where time had to be taken to bring the accused to a hospital and to investigate the scene of the accident, there was no time to seek out a magistrate and secure a schmerber, at pp. 770-771.) given these special facts,schmerber 6 concluded (id. at p. 771.) after schmerber, terpreted schmerber to mean that no exigency beyond the natural evanescence of intoxicants in the bloodstream, present in (people v. harris (2014) 225 cal.app.4th supp. 1, 5, citing cases.) for example: iit is clear that the fourth amendment does not bar a compulsory seizure, without a was blood for the purposes of a blood alcohol test to determine intoxication, provided that the taking of the sample is done in a medically approved manner, is incident to a lawful arrest, and is based upon the reasonable belief that the person is intoxicated.people v. superior court (hawkins) (1972) 6 cal.3d 757, 761 (hawkins), citing schmerber, supra, 384 u.s. at pp. 766-772; see mercer v. department of motor vehicles (1991) 53 cal.3d 753, 758 [same]; see, e.g., people v. ford (1992) 4 cal.app.4th 32, 35 [same]; people v. fiscalini (1991) 228 cal.app.3d 1639, 1642 [same]; people v. ryan (1981) 116 cal.app.3d 168, 182 hawkins schmerber recognizes that once the suspect is arrested, a seizure incident thereto may be properly conducted without a warrant, since the rapid dissipation of the alcohol would make the delay involved in obtaining a search warrant unnecessary and unjustifiablehawkins, supra, at p. 765, fn. 7.) in 1982, the court of appeal applied the same rule to drugs, holding that a search warrant was not a nonconsensual withdrawal of a blood sample, in a medically approved manner, as an incident to an arrestdriving a vehicle under the influence of a drug, where it was settled that the arrest was lawful. (people v. ritchie (1982) 130 cal.app.3d 455, 457, 458-459.) in ritchie, the court rejected the lower here was no evidence that whatever particular drug substance was in the defendants blood would quickly dissipate and thus the extraction of the blood was illegal.id. at p. 457.) after citing schmerber and hawkins, the ritchie court said it the ingestion of alcohol and the 7 ingestion of drugs.ritchie, supra, while the rate of dissipation may depend on many factors, one, of course, being the type of drug involved, nevertheless, the amount of drug in the blood stream does diminish with the passage of time.ibid., fn. omitted.) we can find no basis for a requirement that law enforcement officials ascertain the nature of the drug ingested in order to determine just how fast it will dissipate. a contrary rule would necessitate that in cases such as this not only would the officer have to identify the drug but some expert testimony would have to be presented as to the rate of dissipation of that particular drug. this appears to be completely unreasonable and places an unnecessary burden on the prosecution.id. at p. 459.) this was the state of the law in california until 2013, when the high court in mcneely repudiated the longstanding california interpretation of schmerber. mcneely held that in drunk-driving investigations, the natural dissipation of alcohol in the bloodstream does not constitute an exigency in every case sufficient to justify conducting a blood test without a warrant.mcneely, supra, 133 s.ct. at p. 1568.) -driving investigations where police officers can reasonably obtain a warrant before a blood sample can be drawn without significantly undermining the efficacy of the search, id. at p. 1561.) dissipation of alcohol in the blood may support a finding of exigency in a specific case, as it did in schmerber, it does not do so categorically. whether a warrantless blood test of a drunk-driving suspect is reasonable must be determined case by case based on the id. at p. 1563.) mcneely: a warrant for the blood undermining the efficacy of the search . . . .mcneely, supra, 133 s.ct. at p. 1561.) on this point, the trial court tremendously is it going to be artificially or naturally? if he is going to go into a coma, how long is it 8 have access in icu.on the other hand, there was evidence that officer olson was a drug recognition expert, that he believed defendant was under the influence of a drug stimulant (not alcohol), and that methamphetamine would continue to be detectable in his blood for at least 12 hours. we need not resolve the question whether the warrantless blood test was reasonable under these circumstances, because even if it were not, the results of the test would not be excluded from evidence. this is because in 2011, the high court held that not subject to thdavis, supra, 131 s.ct. at pp. 2423-2424.) this is -. davis fourth amendment violation131 s.ct. id. at p. 2427.) hen the - that their conduct is lawful, [citation], or when their isolated negligence, [citation], the deterrence rationale loses much of its force,pay its way. (id. at pp. 2427-2428.) in davis, the police conducted a search of a vehicle passenger compartment, interpretation of new york v. belton (1981) 453 u.s. 454. barizona v. gant (2009) 556 u.s. 332, which was decided two years after the search occurred. (davis, supra, 131 s.ct. at pp. 2428, 2425.) the parties in davis -binding circuit law and was noid. at p. 2428.) the court -the exclusionary rule to suppress evidence obtained as a result of nonculpable, innocent [p]enalizing ] error 9 could not logically contribute to deterring violations of the fourth amendment. (id. at p. 2429.) the same is true here. officer olson binding california precedent construing schmerber, and there was no police culpability. to this point, defendant contends only that mcneely did not enunciate a new rule, but merely reaffirmed schmerberdecision in schmerber does not mean that police are or were excused from complying davis tell us: the law enforcement officer may not under davis, the davis, supra, 131 s.ct. at p. 2429.) disposition the order is affirmed. grimes, j. we concur: rubin, acting p. j. flier, j. 