filed 8/24/15 p. v. aguirre ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. ricardo m. aguirre, defendant and appellant. b254605 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va125687) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, thomas i. mcknew jr., judge. affirmed with directions. verna wefald, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii and steven e. mercer, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury convicted defendant and appellant ricardo moreno aguirre of two counts of committing lewd or lascivious acts on a child under the age of 14. the victim was his stepdaughter, l., who was approximately six years old at the time. the jury acquitted aguirre of four counts alleging that he committed various acts of forcible sexual assault against l. the trial court sentenced aguirre to eight years in prison. aguirre challenges his conviction on two grounds. first, he argues that the trial court erred in admitting incriminating statements he made during a police interview. during the interview, aguirre admitted he had shown l. his penis and had penetrated her mouth and her vagina or anus with it. he argues that, because he was in custody during the interview, the police should have read him his miranda1 rights before asking the questions that caused him to make the incriminating statements. second, aguirre argues that testified violated his due process and confrontation rights. because aguirre was not in custody when he made the incriminating statements, and because the record does not support aguirrperson engaged in any improper conduct, s. we also direct the trial court to amend the minute order and abstract of judgment to conform to ce. factual and procedural background a. the crimes l. was born in june 2001. when she was two years old, aguirre, who is not her biological father, married her mother together when l. was three years old. aguirre and lived with the children in bell gardens. 1 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436, 86 s.ct. 1602, 16 l.ed.2d 694 (miranda). 3 aguirre often watched the children while . when l. was five or six years old, aguirre engaged in inappropriate sexual conduct while her mother was out of the house. on one occasion, aguirre called l. into his bedroom while she was playing with her half-brother in the living room. when she entered the room, aguirre told her to remove her clothing, including her underwear. after l. complied, aguirre removed his shorts and began touching his penis. eventually l. observed that sperm came out of the tip of his penis.2 aguirre and began touching it again. he told l. to bend over on the bed with her back facing him, and he placed the tip of his penis in he had stopped touching her, aguirre saidinstructed l. to put her clothes back on and leave the room. on another occasion, a few days later, aguirre called l. into the bathroom. aguirre was wearing only a pair of shorts. he told l. to remove her clothes. l. again complied, and aguirre removed his shorts and put his penis in her anus. before he allowed l. to leave the bathroom, aguirre again told her not to tell anybody about what he had done or he would hurt her family. for several years, l. did not tell anyone about either incident. b. the investigation in 2012, when she was 10 years old, l. told her mother that aguirre had sexually abused her. her mother reported . detective rigo barrios of the bell gardens police department investigated aguirre. 2 l. was 12 years old when she testified. she explained that she saw white stuff as she became older, she learned it was likely sperm. 4 during his investigation, detective barrios set up a pretextual telephone call lled aguirre and asked him whether he had sexually abused l. aguirre initially denied showing l. his penis or touching her with it, but as to question him aguirre admitted that he had shown l. his penis and put it near her mouth and genitals because he what she should not let other boys or men do to her. near the end of the conversation, aguirre that he had also touched l. w shortly after this telephone conversation, detective barrios asked aguirre to come station and, after aguirre left and then returned to the station, they discussed allegations. during the interview, aguirre admitted that he had shown l. his penis, and that he had penetrated her mouth and either her vagina or anus with it. he told detective barrios that he only remembered doing so once. before concluding the interview, detective barrios asked aguirre to write l. an apology letter explaining his conduct. detective barrios left the room, and aguirre wrote a letter in which he admitted that he had touched l. inappropriately. at the conclusion of the interview, detective barrios arrested aguirre. aguirre testified at trial. on cross-examination, he admitted that he had shown l. his penis at least once. although he denied touching her with his penis, he testified that he had put it very close to her mouth and vagina. he stated that his penis was not erect while he exposed it to l. c. the charges, verdict, and sentence the people charged aguirre with four counts of aggravated sexual assault of a child under 14 years old (pen. code,  269).3 the people alleged aguirre committed the 3 all statutory references are to the penal code. 5 assaults by means of sodomy ( 269, subd. (a)(3); counts 1 and 4) and oral copulation ( 269, subd. (a)(4); counts 2 and 3). the people also charged aguirre with one count of forcible lewd conduct against a child under 14 years old ( 288, subd. (b)(1); count 5), and two counts of lewd conduct against a child under 14 years old ( 288, subd. (a); counts 6 and 7). the jury found aguirre guilty on counts 6 and 7 (lewd conduct against a minor under 14 years old). the jury found aguirre not guilty on the remaining charges.4 aguirre timely appealed. discussion a. aguirre was not in custody when detective barrios questioned him 1. the interview on july 12, 2012 detective barrios called aguirre. detective barrios said that he knew aguirre had spoken with a social worker wanted to discuss the case with aguirre in person. detective barrios did not tell aguirre that he had to come to the police station. aguirre arrived early at the station and met with detective barrios, who was dressed in slacks and a buttoned shirt. aguirre told the detective that he needed to attend a family court hearing, and he asked if he could leave and come back later for the interview. detective barrios told aguirre that he was free to come and go aguirre left the station to attend the hearing. 4 during trial, the court granted t 6 aguirre returned to the station several hours later. he met detective barrios in the lobby, and they walked together to an interview room. when they arrived, detective barrios assured aguirre that the interview was voluntary and that he was free to leave at any time. detective barrios offered aguirre a glass of water, which aguirre declined. the interview room was near a group of offices in the police station. the office had a table and several padded chairs. aguirre and detective barrios sat on opposite sides of the table, and they were the only people in the room. aguirre was not restrained. at one time the office had a clock and some pictures on the wall, but detective barrios did not recall at some point during the interview, detective barrios closed the door to the room because there was too much noise coming in from outside. detective barrios did not advise aguirre that he was under arrest, and he did not read aguirre his miranda rights. the interview lasted approximately 45 minutes. for the first seven minutes, aguirre and dand family, and they case in general, without going into much detail about barrios that he bathed l. when she was five or six years old. l. alleged that, after one such occasion, aguirre touched her genitals and mouth with his penis. aguirre initially denied this allegation. later on during the interview, however, detective barrios told aguirre that the police knew everything about the allegations. he then told aguirre that from that point, aguirre began explaining what he had done to l. aguirre told the detective that on one occasion, when l. was six years old, he tried to explain to her that she should not let other boys or men touch her. he then exposed his penis and placed it in her mouth . detective barrios then told aguirre not to hold back any details about what he had done because investigators could perform a dna test to confirm whether he had penetrated l. with his penis. 7 aguirre then told detective barrios that he had once put of his penis inside her anus, but he could not remember which one. toward the end of the interview, detective barrios asked aguirre to write l. a letter of apology. aguirre agreed, and detective barrios left the room to get a pen and paper. he gave aguirre the pen and paper and again left the room while aguirre wrote the letter. in the letter, aguirre apologized to l. for what he had done, although he did not explicitly state that he had exposed his penis or that he had touched her with it. aguirre and detective barrios with l. for approximately 30 to 35 minutes. at the end of the interview, detective barrios placed aguirre under arrest and read him his miranda rights. detective barrios asked aguirre no additional questions. 2. the motion to suppress aguirre moved to suppress the portion of the interview in which he described his conduct with l. he argued that, from the time he admitted that he had engaged in inappropriate conduct with her, he was no longer free to terminate the interview or leave. aguirre argued that from that point the interview was a custodial interrogation, which required detective barrios to inform him of his miranda rights before continuing to question him. otion. the court found that a reasonable person would not have believed he was in custody at the time he made the statements to detective barrios. the court observed that aguirre came to the police station voluntarily and that, once there, detective barrios told him several times that aguirre was there voluntarily and was free to leave. the court also noted that the circumstances of the interview would not have led a reasonable person to believe he or she was in custody. the court explained that aguirre was not restrained, detective barrios was the only person in the room with aguirre, and the detective was dressed in plain clothes rather than in a police uniform. the court concluded: [aguirre] was advised that he did 8 not have to stay. it was clear that he could have left and . . . he did not have to make any statements which would have jeopardized or placed him in threat of being placed in custody. he chose to make those statements. i believe he was free to leave the facility 3. applicable law before subjecting a defendant to custodial interrogation, law enforcement officers must advise the defendant of his or her miranda rights. (people v. kopatz (2015) 61 cal.4th 62, 80; see miranda, supra, 384 u.s. at p. 444.) the requirements of miranda only applydefendant. (people v. tate (2010) 49 cal.4th 635, 686.) absent a formal arrest, whether the defendant is in custody for purposes of miranda depends on how a reasonable person would understand the circumstances surrounding the questioning. (yarborough v. alvarado (2004) 541 u.s. 652, 663, 124 s.ct. 2140, 158 l.ed.2d 938; people v. moore (2011) 51 cal.4th 386, 395 (moore).) the court determines whether under the circumstances a reasonable person would have felt he or she was restrained to the degree associated with a formal arrest. (moore, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 395.) in determining whether a defendant is in custody at the time of questioning, courts consider location, length and form of the interrogation, the degree to which the investigation was moore, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 395.) while the fact that the questioning occurs in a police station may or she is in custody, that fact alone does not make the questioning custodial. (howes v. fields (2012) 565 u.s. __, __ [132 s.ct. 1181, 1188, 182 l.ed.2d 17]; moore, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 402.) in addition, the fact that the police arrest the defendant after making incriminating statements during an interview at a police station does not necessarily render the pre-arrest interview custodial. (see moore, supra, 51 cal.4th at pp. 402-404.) moreover, whether the officer believed the defendant was a suspect during questioning is not relevant to the issue of whether the 9 interrogation was custodial unless the officer makes the defendant aware of suspicion. (people v. leonard (2007) 40 cal.4th 1370, 1401.) nevertheless, even accusatorial statements or skeptical questions directed toward the defendant, where there are no other indicia of restraint, do not necessarily make the questioning custodial. (moore, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 402.) we review whether a defendant was in custody for miranda purposes as a mixed question of law and fact. (moore, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 395.) we apply a deferential substantial evidence standard of review factual findings regarding the circumstances surrounding the questions. (ibid.) we independently decide whether, under those circumstances, a reasonable person would have believed he or she was free to stop the questioning and leave. (ibid.) 4. analysis aguirre argues that a reasonable person in his situation would have believed he was in custody and not free to leave the police station. specifically, he contends that expression of suspicion converted the interview from consensual questioning to custodial interrogation. the people argue that the trial court properly suppression motion because he was not in custody at any time during the interview. because aguirre was not in custody when he made incriminating statements to detective barrios, the trial court did not err in denying his motion to suppress. before the interview, detective barrios asked aguirre if he would come to the bell gardens detective barrios never pressured aguirre into coming to the station. (see moore, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 402 [defendant voluntarily give a statement].) when aguirre arrived at the police station, he met detective barrios, who was dressed in plain clothes, in the lobby. detective barrios assured aguirre that he was not under arrest and that he was most indicative of the fact that aguirre was not in custody was that he was allowed to and in fact did leave the police station before the 10 questioning began, and then returned voluntarily several hours later to speak with detective barrios. these circumstances strongly suggest that a reasonable person would believe that he or she could leave the police station without speaking to the police, because, among other reasons, that is exactly what aguirre did. (see, e.g, oregon v. mathiason (1977) 429 u.s. 492, 495, 97 s.ct. 711, 50 l.ed.2d 714 (mathiason) the u.s. v. fleet management ltd. (e.d.pa. 2008the fact that he did leave the interview before the questioning concluded certainly supports a finding that he was free to leave at any time u.s. v. singh (d.d.c. 1997) 973 f.supp. 7, 14 [defendant not in custody had been told he was free to leave, and he in fact left for lunch only to return on his own accord o show that a reasonable person would have continued to believe he or she was not in custody. detective barrios twice reminded aguirre that he was at the station voluntarily, that he was not under arrest, and that he was free to leave: once after aguirre returned to the station and again after he and the detective entered the interview room. in addition, detective barrios never restrained aguirre before or during the interview. aguirre walked unrestrained from the lobby of the station to the interview room, and he remained unrestrained while he spoke with detective barrios. detective barrios did not arrest aguirre until the interview was over. finally, the circumstances of do not suggest a custodial interrogation. there is no evidence that detective barrios was ever combative or aggressive. detective barrios testified that the interview room was plainly decorated, and it contained a table and several padded chairs. there is no evidence of any restraining devices in the room or that detective barrios displayed handcuffs or a weapon. although at some point detective barrios closed the door to the interview room, there is no indication that the door was locked, or, if it was, that aguirre knew it was locked. nor was the interview particularly long; it lasted approximately 45 minutes. 11 aguirre aguirre had done to l. would have caused a reasonable person to believe he was in custody. as both the united states supreme court and the california supreme court have recognized, however, not render the questioning custodial. (see mathiason, supra, 429 u.s at p. 495, 97 s.ct. at p. 714, 50 l.ed.2d 714; moore, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 403.) in the absence of any evidence that before or during the interview aguirre was under arrest or otherwise not free to terminate his discussion with detective barriosxpression of suspicion did not render the questioning custodial. b. there is no 1. the support a support person accompanied l. and her mother when they testified. before l. testified, the trial court instructed the jury that a victim-witness advocate from the district atto her while she testified. thave a young person or sometimes even an adult, we do have support persons come up because obviously when you have a young person, they may be more nervous than the average adult who may come forward to testify and she may need the assistance during , also accompanied by a support person, testified after l. the trial court did not separately instruct the jury that mother. after the court took a recess the court told re is resuming the witness stand and her support person is counsel for aguirre objected to the support person: started crying[,] the support person stood up and comforted her because of course the reporter is in the wanoted that counsel for aguirre had not objected to the 12 conduct of the support person at the time the conduct occurred. counsel for aguirre with . . . .child abuse by her husband and i have observed her crying and i will allow her to have 2. the applicable law where the charges in a criminal case involve, among other crimes, a violation of section 269 or 288, a prosecuting witness may have up to two support persons of his or her choice during testimony. ( 868.5, subd. (a).) only one of the support persons may accompany the witness to the stand. (ibid.) rosecuting witne complaining witness, but also all witnesses who testify for the prosecution. (people v. adams (1993) 19 cal.app.4th 412, 433-434.) the mere presence of a support person with a witness on the stand does not violate people v. spence (2012) 212 cal.app.4th 478, 514, citing people v. myles (2012) 53 cal.4th 1181, 1214-1215 (myles).) there may be a due process or confrontation clause violation, however, where the support pers testimony in a way that adversely affects spence, supra, 212 cal.app.4th at p. 514.) for example, emotional displays or gestures, such as placing hands on the witness, may indicate to the jury that the support person believes or testimony. (myles, supra, 53 cal.4th at pp. 1214-1215; see people v. patten (1992) 9 cal.app.4th 1718, 1724-1727 (patten).) in determining whether a support or conduct implicates a a number of factors, including the nature of the support perso the location of the support person during , the type of conduct the support person engaged in while the 13 witness testified, and the type of admonitions given by the court with respect to the use of a support person. (see myles, supra, 53 cal.4th at pp. 1214-1215; people v. ybarra (2008) 166 cal.app.4th 1069, 1078-1079, disapproved on another ground in people v. gutierrez (2014) 58 cal.4th 1354, 1370.) in order for the defendant to raise such a due process argument on appeal, the record must clearly identify the support person, where the support person was sitting, and the activities of the support person . (patten, supra, 9 cal.app.4th at p. 1733.) the defendant has the burden of demonstrating his or her rights. (see myles, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 1215.) 3. analysis aguirre argues that he was denied the right to a fair trial and the ability to confront an adverse her testimony. he argues that the gesture impermissibly bolstered mother and constituted demeanor evidence he could not confront because the support person was not a witness. the people argue that, because the record does not sufficiently describe what the support person did (if anything), aguirre cannot argue on appeal that . the only evidence in the record of statement to the jury that the support person was back to the witness stand and s statement that tmother. the record does not indicate where the support person was mother (if she did). nor does the record provide any detail of what kind of support the person provided during her testimony (if any). the support person may have done no more than stand her testimony and left the stand. and there is nothing in the record showing that the jury saw whatever it was that the support person may have done. therefore, aguirre has failed to demonstrate that the conduct of the support person during the testimony of l.s mother violated his constitutional rights. 14 c. the trial court should amend the minute order and abstract of judgment to reflect the oral pronouncement of sentence at sentencing, the trial court ordered aguirre to register as a sex offender under section 290, subdivision (c), and to pay a $300 sex offender registration fine under section 290.3. the minute order from the sentencing hearing requires aguirre to pay a sex offender registration fine, but it does not require aguirre to register as a sex offender. the abstract of judgment does not reflect either order. the people seek to conform the abstract of judgment to the oral sentence. judgment and takes precedence over a subsequent minute order or abstract of judgment. (people v. scott (2012) 203 cal.app.4th 1303, 1324.) where the minute order or abstract of judgment deviates from or does not fully reflect the judgment as orally pronounced, the reviewing court should direct the trial court to correct the minute order or abstract of judgment to reflect the oral pronouncement of sentence. (people v. mitchell (2001) 26 cal.4th 181, 188.) therefore, we direct the trial court to correct both the minute order and the abstract of judgment to disposition the judgment is affirmed. the trial court is directed to correct the january 14, 2014 minute order to require aguirre to register as a sex offender under section 290, subdivision (c). the trial court is also directed to correct the abstract of judgment to require aguirre to register as a sex offender and to pay a $300 sex offender registration 15 fine under section 290.3, and then send a copy of the modified abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. segal, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. strobel, j.* *judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 