filed 5/29/15 p. v. parson ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. nicole l. parson, defendant and appellant. b254484 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma059172) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, kathleen blanchard, judge. affirmed. gail ganaja, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance by plaintiff and respondent. ______________________ 2 pursuant to a negotiated plea agreement, defendant nicole l. parson entered a no contest plea to one count of second degree burglary in july 2013. the court suspended imposition of sentence, and placed defendant on probation for three years. the terms of her probation included the requirement of obeying all laws. l at the home of in lancaster. after a determination was made that defendant was not authorized to enter the home, which had been boarded up, defendant was arrested for unlawfully entering the home. her probation was summarily revoked, and she was remanded to custody pending a probation revocation hearing.1 testified that he had responded to a trespassing call at a house on boyden avenue on july 10, 2013. the house was boarded up and had a broken window. defendant, who was inside the house, spoke to him through the broken window. she claimed to have been living there for several years, but was unable to provide written proof of residency. . the letter, which , authorized the pursuit of criminal charges against anyone who entered the property illegally. estate, which included the house on boyden avenue, and that defendant did not have permission to enter the property, mahoney returned to that location and arrested defendant.2 1 defendant sought to represent herself at the probation revocation hearing, but her aised doubts regarding her mental capacity. the trial court defendant competent to represent herself. 2 parson testified that her mother had moved to an assisted living facility after 2008. but defendant does not have a key and does not have permission to enter the house. 3 unlawful and, thus, a violation of the terms of her probation. defendant argued that the evidence failed to show that she was on the property illegally, or that the property belonged to her mother. is to go into my family home, for the shelter and warmth of an electric blanket from inside the covers of so expensive . . . $1,076.62 because the price of southern california edison have been increased and the whole amount, your honor, it became due while i was incarcerated and i was unable to keep my payment arrangements, which have been going ongoing payment a at the conclusion of the probation revocation hearing, the trial court found that l, and constituted a violation of the requirement that she obey all laws. in imposing a 3-year prison term on the second degree burglary conviction, the court explained the high term was appropriate d two prior revocations of probation in which she was sent to state prison for 12 months in one case, and 2 years in another. this appeal followed. in the opening brief, defendants appointed counsel requested this court to independently review the record pursuant to the holding of people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, 441. on july 18, 2014, we directed counsel to send the record on appeal and a copy of the opening brief to defendant. also on that date, we notified defendant that she had 30 days within which to personally submit any contentions or issues that she wished us to consider. after receiving two extensions of time in which to file a supplemental brief, defendant did not file any additional materials. the case was deemed to be fully briefed. robinson testified that about eight or nine months earlier, she had found a backpack by the garage door of the house. robinson opened the backpack and found that 4 section 1203.2, subdivision (a) authorizes a court to revoke probation if the interests of justice so require and the court, in its judgment, has reason to believe that the person has violated any of the conditions of his or her probation. [citation.] when the evidence shows that a defendant has not complied with the terms of probation, the order of probation may be revoked at any time during the probationary period. [citations.] [citation.] . . . the standard of proof in a probation revocation proceeding is proof by a preponderance of the evidence. [citations.] probation revocation proceedings are not a part of a criminal prosecution, and the trial court has broad discretion in determining whether the probationer has violated probation. [citation.] (people v. urke (2011) 197 cal.app.4th 766, 772 (urke).) we review a probation revocation decision pursuant to the substantial evidence standard of review [citation], and great deference is accorded the trial courts decision, bearing in mind that [p]robation is not a matter of right but an act of clemency, the granting and revocation of which are entirely within the sound discretion of the trial court. [citations.] [citation.] [] the discretion of the court to revoke probation is analogous to its power to grant the probation, and the courts discretion will not be disturbed in the absence of a showing of abusive or arbitrary action. [citations.] [citation.] many times circumstances not warranting a conviction may fully justify a court in revoking probation granted on a prior offense. [citation.] [citation.] [o]nly in a very extreme case should an appellate court interfere with the discretion of the trial court in the matter of denying or revoking probation. . . . [citation.] and the burden of demonstrating an abuse of the trial courts discretion rests squarely on the defendant. [citation.] (urke, supra, 197 cal.app.4th at p. 773.) upon examining the record, we conclude the finding of unauthorized entry into the home on boyden avenue is supported by substantial evidence. as a probationer, defendant was required to obey all laws, which she failed to do when she entered the the record does not demonstrate an abuse of discretion. we are satisfied that defense counsel has fully 5 complied with her responsibilities and that no arguable appellate issue exists. (smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 278; people v. kelly (2006) 40 cal.4th 106, 110.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports epstein, p.j. we concur: manella, j. collins, j. 