filed 5/5/15 p. v. sarinana ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. roberto j. sarinana, defendant and appellant. b254012 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba403024) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. leslie a. swain, judge. affirmed in part, reversed in part and remanded with directions. katharine eileen greenebaum, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, stephanie a. miyoshi and nima razfar, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________ 2 a jury found defendant roberto sarinana guilty of one count of possession of a firearm by a felon (pen. code,  29800, subd. (a)(1)) and one count of carrying a loaded, unregistered handgun (pen. code,  25850, subd. (a)). on appeal, defendant contends the trial court erred in denying his motion for pitchess discovery.1 we agree and conditionally reverse the judgment. factual and procedural background the sole issue on appeal is the trial court ruling denying pitchess discovery. we provide only a brief summary of the facts. in september 2012, two los angeles police officers were on patrol in an unmarked car. the officers themselves were in uniform. they noticed defendant jaywalking and impeding traffic. the officers drove told defendant to stop so that amador could speak with him. defendant looked at the car, grabbed the right part of his waistband, and began to run. the officers followed in the car, then amador got out to pursue defendant on foot. as defendant ran to the rear of an apartment complex, amador saw him lift his shirt. amador slowed and saw defendant but heard the sound of metal hitting metal. soon after, defendant stopped running and surrendered. amador arrested defendant and did not find any weapons on him. leonardo olea, arrived, amador directed olea to the location where defendant had thrown the weapon over a fence. amador and olea returned to the location. olea found a black semiautomatic pistol in a dirt area of the apartment complex yard. tom novak was visiting his in-laws in the apartment complex on the day and time of the incident. novak twice heard a man ye-to-past the building, followed by a police officer. when a police officer later walked down 1 pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531 (pitchess). 3 the driveway, novak went outside to speak to him. the officer said an individual had thrown something in the area, possibly a weapon. as novak looked around the yard, he saw a gun in between a car and the building. novak also noticed there was a scratch on the back of his father-in- car, which was parked near the house. the scratch was fresh. it appeared to novak that the scratch was consistent with the gun hitting the car. a jury found defendant guilty of possession of firearm by a felon (pen. code,  29800, subd. (a)(1)) and carrying a loaded handgun (pen. code,  25850, subd. (a)). the jury found true an allegation that the firearm was not registered to defendant. in a bifurcated proceeding, the jury found true that defendant had suffered a prior strike and had served a prior prison term. (pen. code,  667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d), 667.5, subd. (b).) defendant was sentenced to a total prison term of three years. pitchess motion prior to trial, defendant filed a pitchess motion seeking review of the personnel records of officer amador. defense counsel asserted that on the date of the incident, a stop and heard a man yelling for him to stop. defendant did not realize he was being followed by a police officer until he had run around the apartment building, at which point he stopped. defense counsel declared defendant was not in possession of a firearm at any point during the incident, and defendant specifically denied throwing anything over the fence and into the yard of the apartment building. the motion stated: cated factual allegations and the statement of a purported corroborating civilian witness. therefore, discovery of pitchess material is relevant and appropriate for the officer. the people opposed the motion. the people argued the defense declaration in support of the motion was a mere denial that defendant was in possession of a firearm or that he threw anything over the fence. the people further noted defendant did not deny running away from the officers, nor did he deny that he grabbed his waistband and held it while running away. the people additionally argued his 4 denial that he possessed or threw a gunwas contradicted by novak statement that he heard amador identify himself as a police officer; novak heard a hard object hit his car; he saw amador chasing appellant; and novak was present when amador recovered the gun. the people also asserted the scope of requested materials was overly broad. at a subsequent hearing, the court asked if defendant was arguing the police lied about the third party witness. dances of this purported chase that a third party witness could have perceived whatever would have the trial court denied the pitchess motion. the court explained: hat to have been officer misconduct, that is to say, allegedly planting of the gun, supporting it the third party not met his burden and deny the pitchess discussion i. a conditional reversal is required we agree the trial court abused its discretion pitchess discovery. a. legal principles cause fwarrick v. superior court (2005) 35 cal.4th 1011, 1018-1019 (warrick); evid. code,  1043-discovery, the defendant must file a motion s first by demonstrating the materiality of the information to the pending litigation, and second by stating that the police agency has the records or information at 5 issue. ( 1043, subd. (b)(3).) this two-prelatively low warrick, pitchess d is reviewable for abuse. people v. sanderson (2010) 181 cal.app.4th 1334, 1339.) in warrick, the california supreme court analyzed the good cause requirement. io of officer (warrick, supra, 35 cal.4th id. at pp. 1024-1025.) the defendant is not required to provide a motive for the alleged officer misconduct. (id. at p. instead it must simply be plausible: a scenario that might or could have occurred. (id. at misconduct that is both internally consistent and supports the defense proposed to the charges. a defendant must also show how the information sought could lead to or be ibid.) b. defendant demonstrated good cause for an in camera review of officer s and evidence planting here, defendant met his burden to present a plausible factual scenario of officer misconduct. he asserted he was in the area of the incident because he was on his way to n the car demanding he stop was a police officer; he feared a gang confrontation because he was in a known gang area; and, based on this incorrect assumption, he ran. defendant denied possessing or throwing a specific alternative factual scenario that was internally consistent and supported a defense to the charges. the declaration did more than simply deny the elements of the offense charged. instead defendant provided a reason for his being in the area, an explanation for why he ran when confronted, and an assertion of police misconduct in fabricating the 6 report that defendant threw a weapon over the apartment complex fence. (people v. thompson (2006) 141 cal.app.4th 1312, 1317.) events, including the allegation that amador planted evidence and fabricated the police report, was not significantly contradicted by at made a metal-hitting-metal sound. according to the police report, novak heard amador the driveway and he saw amador running through the property next door. account in the police report did not expressly contradict, or otherwise render implausible, claim that he did not throw the gun. statement was not implausible, in that the police report indicated novak heard amador police officer was chasing him until after he had run around the apartment building. although defense pitchess motion were less than clear, the written defense declaration did not claim amador had fabricated the existence of a and the statement of a purported corroborating civ the people argue statement, one who threw something over the fence during the case in an effort to plant evi2 but, the people contend, since defendant did assert novadefendant llegation that 2 pitchess hearing was that the gun was in fact planted, as borne out by the request for records related to planting and fabrication of evidence. 7 as an initial matter, the people cite no authority for the proposition that it is appropriate for us to consider the evidence adduced at trial when determining whether the trial court erred in denying the pitchess motion based on the information available to it at that time, pre-trial. even were we to do so, is not persuasive. not s trial testimony fail to directly of events advanced in the pitchess motion, the testimony was statement in the police report. novak testified he heard a man heard a man yell, ce report. and, in neither the police report nor the trial testimony did novak state he saw who threw the object that made the metal-on-metal sound. the threshold for establishing good cause for pitchess discovery is low. (warrick, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 1019.) defendant set forth a scenario in which the police could or might have planted the gun by throwing it over the fence themselves. we need not determine if this scenario is credible or persuasive to conclude defendant showed good cause to search for records of false statements or planting evidence. (id. at pp. 1025-1026.) c. remedy: conditional reversal as explained in people v. gaines (2009) 46 cal.4th 172, 180, when a trial court has erroneously rejected a showing of good cause for pitchess discovery and has not reviewed the requested records in camera is not outright reversal, but a conditional reversal with directions to review the requested documents in chambers if the trial court determines the requested personnel records contain no relevant information, it is to reinstate the judgment. if the court determines discoverable information exists and should be disclosed, the court is to order disclosure of the information, allow defendant an opportunity to demonstrate prejudice, and order a new trial if there is a reasonable probability the outcome would have been different had the information been disclosed. (id. at p. 181.) 8 pitchess request was overly broad. (people v. jackson (1996) 13 cal.4th 1164, 1220.) defendant asked the trial court to review: complaints from any and all sources relating to acts of aggressive behavior, violence, excessive force, or attempted violence or excessive force, gender bias, ethnic bias, coercive conduct, violation of constitutional rights, fabrication of charges, fabrication of evidence, fabrication of reasonable suspicion and/or probable cause, illegal search/seizure; false arrest, perjury, dishonesty, writing of false police reports, writing of false police reports to cover up the use of excessive force, planting of evidence, false or misleading internal reports including but not limited to false overtime or medical reports, and any another evidence of misconduct amounting to moral turpitude within the meaning of people v. wheeler (1992) 4 cal.4th 284 pitchess motion called into question evidence. it did not demonstrate good cause for discovery of the many other requested proposed defenwarrick, supra, 35 cal.4th at pp. 1022similar to the misconduct alleged by defendant in the pending litigation is relevant and (california highway patrol v. superior court (2000) 84 cal.app.4th 1010, 1021, 1024.) -chambers fabrication of charges, fabrication of evidence, fabrication of reasonable suspicion and/or probable cause, false arrest, perjury, dishonesty, writing of false police reports, and planting of evidence. disposition the judgment is reversed and remanded in part. the trial court is directed to conduct an in camera inspection of the personnel records of officer amador for complaints of fabrication of charges, fabrication of evidence, fabrication of reasonable suspicion and/or probable cause, false arrest, perjury, dishonesty, writing of false police reports, and planting of evidences inspection on remand reveals no 9 relevant information, the trial court is directed to reinstate the judgment of conviction and sentence. if the inspection reveals relevant information, the trial court must order disclosure, allow defendant an opportunity to demonstrate prejudice, and order a new trial if there is a reasonable probability the outcome would have been different had the information been disclosed. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. bigelow, p.j. we concur: rubin, j. grimes, j. 