filed 8/6/15 p. v. rodriguez ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(a). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115(a). in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose luis rodriguez, (aka: enrique amaya), defendant and appellant. b254903 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka053282) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, steven d. blades, judge. affirmed. jared g. coleman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, jason tran and herbert s. tetef, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________________ 2 jose luis rodriguez, also known as enrique amaya, appeals from an order finding him in violation of his felony probation and imposing his suspended sentence of five years in the state prison. on appeal, rodriguez contends there was no substantial argues the people and the court violated his due process rights by failing to give him wridecision. rodriguez also contends the court did not understand it had the option to reinstate his probation. we find no error and therefore affirm. factual and procedural background 1. the charge, plea agreement, and bench warrant in 2001 the people charged jose luis rodriguez -- then using the name enrique amaya -- with possession of cocaine for sale in violation of health & safety code section 11351. the people alleged that rodriguez was personally armed with a firearm in the commission of that offense in violation of penal code section 12022(c). according to the testimony at the preliminary hearing, police found four packages of powder cocaine, a loaded handgun, and money in a . after a detective advised rodriguez of his miranda rights1 and he waived them, rodriguez told the detective that a friend had given him the gun and that he sold cocaine. on january 22, 2002, rodriguez entered into a plea agreement with the people. allegation. rodriguez and the people agreed the court would sentence him to the low term of two years on the possession for sale count plus the low term of three years on would suspend execution of that sentence and place rodriguez on three years of formal felony probation. rodriguez would serve 90 days in the county jail and perform 1 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 3 90 days of community labor for cal-trans or tree farm at the direction of the probation department. a court-certified spanish language interpreter assisted rodriguez throughout the plea proceedings. rodriguez initialed and signed a tahl waiver form.2 the court then (among other things): . . . immediately upon your entering probation you must register as a narcotic[s] offender. your failure to register would constitute a new crime which could violate your probation and cause the state prirodriguez said yes. and sentencing hearing and surrender until february 5, 2002. the court ordered rodriguez -- who was out of custody on bail -- to return on that date. rodriguez returned on february 5, 2002, and the court sentenced him in accordance with his plea agreement with the people.3 again, a court-certified interpreter assisted rodriguez. the court placed rodriguez on formal felony probation for three years. the court ordered rodriguez to obey all laws, court orders, and probation department rules and regulations. with [his] probation officer in a plan for druto periodic anti- also ordered him and to pay a restitution fine and probation supervision costs. the court ordered 2 in re tahl (1969) 1 cal.3d 122. 3 court sentenced rodriguez to five years in the state prison and placed him on probation. accordingly, the trial court obviously suspended execution rather than its imposition. no transcript of the february 5 sentencing is available. the court reporter submitted a declaration that, because the court destroys court repornotes after ten years, a transcript for the february 5 proceedings cannot be prepared. (declaration of kathryn tippings, april 23, 2014.) 4 to search and seizure, and not to possess any weapons. even though the plea agreement recited on january 22 provided for 90 days in the county jail and 90 days of community labor, the prosecutor and the court apparently agreed t4 the defendant is ordered to serve 90 days in the work furlough, tree farm or cal-trans programs as determined by 5 rmine rodriguez did not appear in court on april 9, 2002. his attorney told the court the court held a bench warrant until april 24, 2002. the court ordered a supplemental probation report. recommendation re the court issued a no- 2. rodriguezarrest on the warrant more than 11 years later, the probation violation hearing, and the corder rodriguez returned to the united states a few months after he was deported in 2002. he never came to court. he never reported to the probation department. he 4 as of february 5, 2002, rodriguez had presentence credit for four actual days in custody. 5 indicates that these conditions were translated or interpreted to appellant in his native are without merit. the minute order of the february 5, 2002 proceedings plainly states that the court told rodriguez the terms of his probation and that a court-contention seems to be that the court told rodriguez nothing but the judicial assistant entered a minute order reflecting proceedings that never happened. there is no support for such a contention. 5 never did his community labor. he never participated in a drug counseling program or submitted to drug testing. he never registered as a narcotics offender. he never made any payments toward restitution or probation costs. in october 2013 -- more than 11 years and six months after being sentenced -- rodriguez was arrested on the warrant for driving without a license. on october 21, 2013, the trial court recalled the warrant, set the matter for a hearing, and ordered a supplemental probation report. on november 13, 2013, the 10, 2014, rodriguez requested a formal hearing and the court set the hearing for january 31, 2014. at the hearing on january 31, 2014,6 the people called probation officer david states a reported to probation or complied with any of the terms of his probation. crowley said that it was unfair that he was deported and thought that e probation the prosecutor asked the court to find rodriguez in violation of probation and to execute mr. 6 at the outset of the hearing, the people offered rodriguez two years. presumably this would have been accomplished by the court executing the five-year sentence, immediately recalling it, and sentencing rodriguez to the low term of two years for the offense, with punishment for the firearm allegation stayed. rodriguez rejected the people 6 sentence and sentence him to six to 12 months instead.7 the prosecutor objected that . . . the court stated it had considered all the arguments. it found rodriguez to be in violation of his probation and executed the five-year sentence. the court granted rodriguez presentence credits of 586 days.8 ontentions rodriguez contends the evidence was insufficient to show he willfully violated the terms of his probation. he argues the people and the court violated his due process to appear at a hearing in 2002 and by not stating the reasons the court found him in violation. that it had discretion to reinstate probation rather than impose [the] discussion 1. burden of proof and standard of review section 1203.2, subdivision (a) of the penal code authorizes a court to revoke a judgment, has reason to believe . . . that the person has violated any of the conditions of his or her supervispeople v. rodriguez (1990) 51 cal.3d 437, 440 (rodriguez); people v. johnson [w]hen the evidence 7 apparently defense counsel was proposing that the court reinstate rodriguez on probation, order him to serve county jail time, then terminate probation. the sentencing triad for the offense to which rodriguez pleaded was two, three, or four years in the years. accordingly, the court could not legally sentence rodriguez to six to 12 months in the state prison given the charge and the enhancement. 8 the -2014 credits to be 105 actual days. the court erroneously gave rodriguez credit for an additional 188 actual days in 2001-2002 rather than the four actual days he served. the court was under the misimpression that rodriguez had remained in custody from his arrest to his sentencing. in fact, he had bonded out. neither party has raised this error on appeal. 7 shows that a defendant has not complied with the terms of probation, the order of probation is an act of clemency . . . . people v. superior court (du) (1992) 5 cal.app.4th 822, 831.) people v. beaudrie (1983) 147 cal.app.3d 686, 691.) the standard of proof in probation revocation proceedings is proof by a preponderance of the evidence. (rodriguez, supra, 51 cal.3d at p. 447; people v. stanphill (2009) 170 cal.app.4th 61, 72.) the trial court is vested with broad discretion in determining whether to reinstate probation following revocation of probation. (people v. jones (1990) 224 cal.app.3d 1309, 1315.) discretion. (rodriguez, supra, 51 cal.3d at p. 443; people v. downey (2000) 82 cal.app.4th 899, 909-910.) a probation revocation decision is subject to the substantial evidence standard of review. (see people v. superior court (jones) (1998) 18 erential: determination is attacked on the ground that there is no substantial evidence to sustain it, the power of an appellate court begins and ends with the determination as to whether, on the entire record, there is substantial evidence, contradicted or uncontradicted, which will support the determination . . . . ibid.) [o]nly in a very extreme case should an appellate court interfere with the discretion of the trial court in the matter of denying or revoking probation. . . . rodriguez, supra, 51 cal.3d at p. 443.) the appellant. (people v. vanella (1968) 265 cal.app.2d 463, 469.) 8 2. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in finding rodriguez in violation of probation and in executing his suspended sentence a. substantial evidence supports the trial cfinding that rodriguez willfully violated his probation by ignoring all of his probationary terms for more than a decade rodriguez asserts there was no substantial evidence that he willfully violated his that he needed to report to probation after his deportation to mexico, when he returned to the united states. 9 but -- by his own admission -- he returned almost immediately to the united states. yet for nearly 12 years he did absolutely nothing to comply with the terms of his probation. he never reported to the probation department. if he were -- as he now says -- confused, he never came to court to ask what his obligations were. he never completed the community labor the court and the prosecutor permitted him to do instead of jail time, nor began (much less completed) a drug treatment program, nor drug tested, nor registered as a narcotics offender as the law required. rodriguez was represented by counsel at the time of his plea and at sentencing, and a court-certified spanish language interpreter interpreted for him at each court proceeding. in listing the terms of his -- or immediately upon your entering probation you must register as a narcotic[s] offender. your failure to register would constitute a new crime which could violate our obligation to register with the police department as 9 a probationer who fails to report because federal authorities deported him has not willfully violated his probation. (people v. galvan (2007) 155 cal.app.4th 978, 984 (galvan).) 9 rodriguez cites galvan, supra,155 cal.app.4th 978. that case is distinguishable. galvan was convicted of burglary and narcotics possession. the court placed him on probation and ordered him to report to the probation department within 24 hours of his release from custody. the court also told galvan he was to report to probation within 24 hours of his return to the united states if he were deported or left the country. federal authorities deported galvan. he returned at some point to the united states and was arrested on an outstanding warrant. the court of appeal ruled the trial court should not have found galvan in violation of his probation because his deportation was not willful galvan had been back in the united states before he was arrested . . . . galvan, supra, 155 cal.app.4th at p. 982-983 (emphasis added).) here, in contrast, by 10 he returned to the united states within a few months of his april 2002 deportation. yet he made no effort for more than a decade to report to probation, to come to court, or to comply in any way with his plea agreement with the people or the terms of his probation. on this record, the trial court acted well within its discretion in finding and his probation violation to be willful. b. the court did not vdue process rights rodriguez also contends he was entitled to written notice of the violation and to written findings by the trial court. we conclude the trial court complied with the requirements of due process and that rodriguez has forfeited this argument in any event. a probationer is entitled to both state and federal due process rights in determining a violation of probation. (black v. romano (1985) 471 u.s. 606, 612; 10 offender mandates the inclusion [in evidence at the violation hearing] of his admission . . . . people v. monette (1994) 25 cal.app.4th 1572, 1576 [court properly probation officer admitting gun possession].) 10 people v. vickers (1972) 8 cal.3d 451, 457-458 (vickers).) although due process requires that the people give a defendant notice of a claimed probation violation, the less formal nature of violation proceedings allows some measure of flexibility in affording due process standards. a strict set of procedural rules is not mandated. (id. at p. 458; people v. felix (1986) 178 cal.app.3d 1168, 1171-1172.) the trial court issued a warrant for rodriguez in april 2002 and he was arrested on that warrant in october 2013 when he was stopped for driving without license. on october 21, 2013, rodriguez was brought to court; the court recalled the warrant and ordered a supplemental probation report. on november 13, 2013, appearance and asked to continue the probation violation hearing setting. on december 5, 2013, rodriguez again was in and told accordingly, the court set the matter for a formal hearing on january 31, 2014. on january the master calendar court sent the case to a trial court for the hearing. somewhere along the way, the court and counsel received the supplemental report from the probation department prepared by deputy probation officer david crowley.11 accordingly, there were four court dates after rodriguez was arrested and before his probation violation hearing began. the probation department prepared a supplemental report for the court and counsel. those reports typically summarize the history of the case and describe what has happened in the intervening years, and the probation officer typically makes a recommendation to the court. regardless of was alleged to have violated his probation, on this record rodriguez and his attorney were well aware of the basis for the alleged violation. 11 the superior court has been unable to locate the report. 11 moreover, by announcing ready to proceed and going forward with the hearing without demanding a written document, rodriguez forfeited any argument that the lack of a written notice violated his due process rights. (see people v. buford (1974) 42 cal.app.3d 975, 982 [defendant and counsel received probation department report; they asked for and received a continuance to prepare; they proceeded with the revocation hearing ; rodriguez did not object to the hearing on the ground of inadequate notice; at the formal hearing the prosecutor elicitcounsel defended against that allegation. in short, rodriguez was afforded notice and an opportunity to respond. thus, due process was satisfied. (people v. hawkins (1975) 44 cal.app.3d 958, 967; people v. campos (1988) 198 cal.app.3d 917, 921.) nor did a written order. plainly the court found rodriguez in violation of probation for never reporting or doing any of the things he promised to do when granted probation. the a difficult time believing that he was so naive or failed to understand what was quoting from the plea transcript, the court noted the sentencing court had asked rodriguez if he understood his obligation to register as a narcotics offender . . . assumes that he is out of custody, but when he left the united states and then eventually came back, he was out of custody. so he understood he had an obligation to register with the police department as a narcotic[s] again, defense counsel did not demand or request a written sta therefore has forfeited the issue. 12 c. rodriguez had not shown that the trial caware finally, rodriguez contends probation with modified conditions was within its discretion when it imposed the five- deputy probation officer crowley testified his recommendation was that the authorities had placed a hold on rodriguez, he was going to be deported again, and so he would not be able to report to probation. defense counsel told the court a year, because he will be deported again. i reinstate his probation (other than to give him jail time and then terminate probation), because to do so would only set rodriguez up for another probation violation when he was deported again and then failed again to report. after discussing the options with counsel, the court told defense counsel it had execute the suspended five-year sentence. the court did not abuse its discretion in doing so. 13 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports jones, j.* we concur: kitching, acting p. j. aldrich, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 