filed 3/27/15 p. v. hill ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jimmy hill, defendant and appellant. b254663 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba408086) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, william sterling, judge. affirmed. lynn ta, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii and kathy s. pomerantz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ________________________________ 2 introduction jimmy hill appeals from a judgment and sentence, following his plea of no contest to possession of cocaine base for sale. he contends the trial court erred in denying his motion to suppress, pursuant to penal code section 1538.5, the cocaine base discovered on his person and in a toyota van.1 appellant argues the trial court erred in determining that his encounter with the police officers was consensual, and that he voluntarily consented to a search of his person and the vehicle. finding no reversible error, we affirm. procedural history on september 9, 2013, the los angeles county district attorney filed a one-count amended information charging appellant with possession of cocaine base for sale (health & saf. code,  11351.5). it was further alleged that appellant had suffered two prior strike convictions for a serious or violent felony pursuant to sections 1192.7 and 667.5, subdivision (c). appellant pleaded not guilty and denied the allegations.2 after the court , he pled guilty to the charged count and admitted the two strike allegations. he also admitted a prior conviction under health and safety code section 11370.2, subdivision (a). the trial court sentenced appellant to eight years in state prison, consisting of the upper term of five years on the charged offense, plus three years for the prior conviction. it struck the two prior strikes pursuant to section 1385. appellant timely filed a notice of appeal. 1 all further statutory citations are to the penal code, unless otherwise stated. 2 appellant initially elected to represent himself, but was represented by counsel at the suppression hearing. 3 factual background3 a. prosecution evidence at the hearing on the motion to suppress, los angeles police department officer phillip chan testified as follows. on february 19, 2013, he and detective jorge trejo were monitoring the e town motel, a place known for narcotic activities. chan had previously conducted investigations at the motel, and had made more than 20 narcotics arrests there. trejo had information that narcotics dealers were staying at the motel. chan and trejo were in plainclothes and driving an unmarked police vehicle. they were working with several other officers, including officer uehara and detectives martin and kearney. detective kearney was a caucasian man who was well over 6 feet tall. during the surveillance of the e town motel, chan observed appellant walking through the parking lot of a fast food restaurant adjacent to the motel. chan recognized appellant, having arrested him in june 2012 for possession of cocaine base. when chan lost sight of appellant, he contacted officer uehara and detective martin to see if they could see appellant. the officers informed chan that appellant had entered the e town motel. approximately 10 minutes later, appellant left the motel, walked back to the parking lot, a saturn. chan and trejo followed appellant, who drove one block east to the jj park motel. chan had been to this motel numerous times, conducting narcotics investigations, executing search warrants, and making arrests. appellant entered the parking lot of the motel, 3 as the sole issue on appeal relates to the motion to suppress, the factual background is based on the testimony presented at the hearing on the motion. 4 parked in the back of the parking lot next to a tan toyota sienna van, and got out of his car. chan and trejo exited their car and walked up to appellant. their car was not blocking chan identified himself as a police officer, showed appellant his badge, and asked if he could speak with appellant. he did not yell ,and did not recall hearing any . chan spoke to appellant at a normal volume[b]asically like talking to neither chan nor trejo had a gun drawn, and appellant was not handcuffed when chan asked to speak with him. appellant agreed to speak with chan. when chan asked appellant whether he was on probation, appellant responded that he was on probation for chan asked appellant trejo asked appellant if he could retrieve the drugs, and appellant as chan and trejo were speaking with appellant, other police officers arrived at the jj park motel. trejo searched appellant. he left front shirt pocket, and $966 in cash and a motel the officers then arrested appellant and handcuffed him. the police also recovered a key for the toyota van from appellant; it was attached to the key for the saturn. when the police asked appellant whether they could search the van, appellant responded, i inside the van, the police found one and one-half ounces of cocaine base and $4,000 in cash. in addition, the police also recovered an envelope . 5 b. defense evidence appellant did not testify. jennifer tucker testified she was staying at the jj park motel when she witnessed the incident. she was not familiar with appellant, as she was coming down the back stairs of the motel, -- -looking white -- ,appellant with his hands up. appellant was standing near a small red car. a mexican or hispanic officer and an asian officer then pulled up in a car. the white officer searched appellant and pulled some the hispanic and asian officers tucker had previously been convicted of forgery, being under the influence of a controlled substance, numerous counts of possession of a controlled substance, loitering with intent to commit prostitution, and second degree burglary. on february 19, 2013, marsiana burnette was at the jj park motel. he knew of appellant because he had seen him before. burnette was parked in the motel parking lot in his van. the white male -- who was -- approached appellant, who was standing behind according to including a hispanic male and an asian male. [t]hey got him and told him -- put his hand[s] behind his back and they went inside his pocket and brought something out and it looked like money. burnette was approximately 35 to 40 feet away when he made his observations. burnette and jeannine prepared a written statement about the incident together and had it notarized. burnette wrote another statement on his own and also had it notarized. burnette had been convicted of four counts of attempting to sell a controlled substance, assault with a deadly weapon likely to 6 cause great bodily injury, pandering, giving false identification to a police officer, corporal injury to a spouse, possession of a controlled substance, burglary, and passing a fake check. jeannine thomas-malone was living with a friend at the jj park motel in february 2013. appellant drove a burgundy or red-colored car. on february 19, 2013, thomas-malone and burnette were in a van parked at the motel. thomas-malone was talking to burnette when she heard someone s she turned to look, and saw a tall, large white male approach appellant, who was standing at the back of his car with the trunk open. two hispanic males and one asian male were following behind the white male. thomas-malone observed appellant putting his hands behind his back and the white male removing some papers from she did not recall being at the e town motel that morning. however, and out of sleepingburnette could have driven it to the e town motel before going to the jj park motel without her knowledge. she did not recall having been at the e town motel later that night. c. rebuttal evidence on february 19, 2013, detective trejo was conducting surveillance of the e town motel with other police officers. officer chan was his partner. trejo first saw appellant exit a burgundy car in the parking lot. trejo lost sight of appellant for approximately 10 minutes before seeing him get back in his car and drive away. trejo and chan followed appellant to the jj park motel, where appellant parked and exited his vehicle. the officers parked their car and approached him on foot. the police car was not blocking 7 chan asked appellant a series of questions, including whether appellant had anything on his person. neither officer it, put similar. detective kearney was not present, and trejo had no recollection of detective kearney approaching appellant and yelling according to trejo, police officers use. neither officer had his gun drawn. trejo asked if he c trejo proceeded to remove approximately one $966 from appellant was arrested and handcuffed. detective kearney was not present when trejo conducted his search later that night, town motel, trejo came in contact with thomas-malone. she was with some other people whom detective trejo had arrested for narcotics offenses in the past. d. ruling on motion to suppress motion to suppress, concluding that the encounter was consensual. the court found that officer chan was credible, noting that his testimony was corroborated by detective trejo. with respect to the defense witnesses, the trial court stated: [appellant] was stopped, ordered to freeze, and searched a short while later by this country-looking person who first made that encounter. it could very well be that the truth is somewhere in the middle -- that this happened somewhat later in the encounter, after this consensual search had been effectuated and [appellant] ultimately was told to stop after it was determined either he was on probation or 8 that he was in possession of drugs by his very statement, if, in fact, that is what he the trial court noted that tucker and burnette had credibility problems due to their prior criminal records. as to thomas-malone, although she had no prior convictions, she was frequently in the area of the motel and was presumably familiar with the narcotics activity in the neighborhood. the court noted that there was some evidence that are engaged in this sort of activity, which would wholly be consistent with their being less than truthful.circumstances, the credibility determination preponderates . . . pretty strongly in discussion appellant contends the trial court erred in determining that his initial encounter with officer chan and detective trejo was consensual. he further contends that the officers lacked reasonable suspicion to detain him, and that the subsequent warrantless search of his person and the toyota van was unlawful. we disagree. in ruling on a motion to suppress the fruits of an allegedly unlawful search, sits as a finder of fact with the power to judge credibility, resolve conflicts, weigh people v. carrington (2009) 47 cal.4th 145, 166, quoting people v. laiwa (1983) 34 cal.3d 711, 718.) in s factual findings, express or implied, where supported by substantial evidence. in determining whether, on the facts so found, the search or seizure was reasonable under the fourth amendment, we exercise our independent judgment. 9 (people v. glaser (1995) 11 cal.4th 354, 362.) the testimony of even a single witness, even if contradicted, is sufficient to support a finding of a trier of fact, unless physically impossible or obviously false. (estate of reed (1955) 132 cal.app.2d 732, 735; accord, in re frederick g. (1979) 96 cal.app.3d 353, 366; daly v. wallace (1965) 234 cal.app.2d 689, 692.) moreover, as stated above, witness credibility is the exclusive province of the trial court hearing a suppression motion. (people v. barnes (2013) 216 cal.app.4th 1508, 1520.) here, the trial court found the testimony of officer chan and detective trejo to be credible. the officers testified that they parked their vehicle parking lot hey approached appellant with their guns holstered, that appellant was not handcuffed when they spoke with or anything similar, that they asked if they could speak with him in a normal tone of voice, and that appellant agreed to speak with them. as the testimony is neither physically impossible nibility determinations. encounter between appellant and the two police officers was consensual. as the unite states a seizure does not occur simply because a police officer approaches an individual and asks a few questions. so long as a reato disregard the police and go , the encounter is consensual and no reasonable suspicion is required. the encounter will not trigger fourth amendment scrutiny unless it loses its consensual nature.florida v. bostick (1991) 501 u.s. 429, 434 (bostick); accord, in re manuel g. (1997) 16 cal.4th 805, 821 only when the officer, by means of physical force or show of authority, in some manner restrains the ].) when officers have 10 no basis for suspecting a particular individual, they may generally ask questions of that individual, [citations]; ask to examine the s identification, [citations]; and request consent to search his or her luggage, [citation] -- as long as the police do not convey a message that compliance with their requests is requiredbostick, supra, at pp. 434-435; accord, people v. castaneda (1995) 35 cal.app.4th 1222, 1227 [].) must consider all the circumstances surrounding the encounter to determine whether the police conduct would have communicated to a reasonable person that bostick, supra, 501 u.s. at p. 439.) examples of circumstances that might indicate a seizure, even where the person did not attempt to leave, would be the threatening presence of several officers, the display of a weapon by an officer, some physical touching of the person of the citizen, or the use of language or tone of voice indicating ts request might be compelled.(united states v. mendenhall (1980) 446 u.s. 544, 554.) here, officer chan and detective trejo were the only officers initially present. they did not brandish their firearms, utter any commands, or speak in a threatening or forceful tone. appellant was not handcuffed, and there is no evidence he was touched. the encounter occurred in a public place, not a police station. (see bostick, supra, 501 u.s. at p. 437 [where an encounter takes place is a factor in determining whether encounter was consensual].) finally, no physical impediment prevented appellant from re-entering his car and driving away. in short, under the totality of the circumstances, the police conduct here did not convey to a reasonable person that he was not free to decline the police 11 requests or otherwise terminate the encounter. accordingly, the trial court did not err in finding the encounter consensual. nor did the court err in determining that search of his person and the toyota van was voluntarily given. recognized exception to the fourth people v. cantor (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 961, 965.) when the subject of a search is not in custody and the state attempts to justify a search on the basis of his consent, the state result of duress or coercion, express or implied. voluntariness is a question of fact to be determined from all the circumstances . . . .schneckloth v. bustamonte (1973) 412 u.s. 218, 248-249.) the question of the voluntariness of the consent is to be determined in the first instance by the trier of fact, and we defer to the trial on this issue, if supported by substantial evidence. (people v. james (1977) 19 cal.3d 99, 107 (james).) here, the trial court impliedly found that appellant voluntarily consented to the search of his person. the officers testified that after appellant informed officer chan that he had some narcotics on him, detective trejo asked if he could retrieve in handcuffs when he gave consent to the search and seizure of his person for the narcotics. (cf. people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 341 [product of an illegal detention is not voluntary and is ineffective to justify a search o].) moreover, t . . . either from the (schneckloth v. bustamonte, supra, 412 u.s. at p. 247.) as stated above, appellant was questioned during a consensual encounter in a public place. the officers neither displayed their weapons, nor uttered threats or commands. accordingly, 12 llant voluntarily consented to the search of his person. likewise, the trial court impliedly found that appellant voluntarily consented to a search of the toyota van. the officers testified that they recovered a key to the van from appellant. officer chan asked appellant if the police could search the van, and he responded, i go ahead.although appellant had been detained at this point, we conclude that he voluntarily consented to a search of the van. he fact that a defendant is under arrest and in handcuffs at the time of giving consent does not per se make a consent to a search involuntaryjames, supra, 19 cal.3d at p. 110, quoting people v. valdez (1961) 188 cal.app.2d 750, 756.) we find james instructive. there, after the defendant was placed under arrest and handcuffed[,] [the officer] told defendant that he was conducting a robbery investigation, and asked if he could look in the house for items taken. defendant appeared to have no difficulty understanding the reques (james, supra, at p. 107.) our supreme court the arresting officer neither held defendant at gunpoint, nor unduly detained or interrogated him; the officer did not claim the right to search without permission, nor act as if he intended ts answer.(id. at p. 113.) similarly, here appellant appeared to have no difficulty in understanding the promptly gave his consent. the officers did not hold appellant at gunpoint, and had not unduly detained or interrogated him. additionally, the officers did not claim the right to search the van without permission or intimate that they would search it regardless of his answer. thus, determination that he voluntarily 13 consented to a search of the van. in sum, we discern no error in the trial courtdenial of disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. manella, j. we concur: willhite, acting p. j. collins, j. 