filed 9/15/16 p. v. taylor ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. richard james taylor, defendant and appellant. b254821 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va132519) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, yvonne t. sanchez and john a. torribio, judges. affirmed. waldemar d. halka, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., joseph p. lee and david a. voet, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction richard james taylor appeals from the judgment after a jury convicted him of one count of battery with serious bodily injury (pen. code  243, subd. (d))1 with a related gang enhancement ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(a)), one count of pimping ( 266h, subd. (a)) with a related gang enhancement ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(a)), and one count of active participation in a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (a)). he argues that the trial court violated his sixth amendment right to counsel of choice or that he received ineffective assistance of counsel when his lawyers failed to preserve his right to counsel of choice; the court erred in admitting evidence from police interviews of witnesses and a search of there was insufficient evidence to support the convictions for battery and active participation in a criminal street gang; the court committed multiple sentencing errors; and cumulative error requires reversal of his convictions. we conclude that the courtadmitting certain hearsay evidence from two police interviews and four text-message exchanges phone, were harmless. therefore, we affirm. factual and procedural background a. marsadais daise and the events of february 7, 2013 marsadais daise, a prostitute, had been dating taylor, her pimp, intermittently for approximately three years. on february 7, 2013 taylor was at a motel with daise and two other womentoilet of the motel room, daise confronted taylor. daise and taylor argued. when law enforcement arrived at the motel, daise had a bloody lip, a big lump over her eye, and a 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 she gave him the money she made working as a prostitute. the deputy sheriff placed taylor under arrest. b. jessica sisneros and the events of march 27-28, 2013 at 11:00 p.m. on march 27, 2013 jessica sisneros was standing outside a fast-food restaurant waiting for her friend to pick her up when taylor, driving a white van, stopped . two women were already in the van. for the next seven and a half hours taylor tried to convince sisneros to work for him as a prostitute. taylor drove to a truck stop and told one of the two woman she saw them walk in different directions. r os got out of the van, but taylor, still driving the van, tried to run her over. sisneros jumped out of the van. at approximately 3:00 or 4:00 a.m., taylor called the women he had dropped off earlier and arranged to meet them at a doughnut shop in compton. the same two women, along with a third woman, got into the van. taylor drove to a house where he got out of the car and exchanged something with johnny randall. the police arrived soon after, between 6:30 and 7:00 a.m. the police officers said that the van was 4 stolen, and arrested both men (taylor and randall) and all four women (sisneros, sister, lexy bowen). detective cynthia sanchez interviewed taylor. taylor admitted that he was a member of the elm street gang and went -tifani stonich interviewed the women who were arrested. harper told deputy stonich of the other women who had been in the van. harper, rembert, bowen, and sisneros also made written statements, not included in the record, the trial judge described the statement as including prostitute for taylor. counsel for taylor questioned deputy stonich about rembert and evidence, apparently included information about rembert and bowen working as prostitutes for randall and giving money to randall. the police confiscated all of the personal property that taylor, randall, sisneros, harper, rembert, and lexy bowen were carrying, including their cell phones and cash. screenshots of four text--t-message exchange, rembert texted taylor, text-message exchanges were between lexy bowen and taylor. lexy aint caught no date but im goin to get one dont trip i already gave you 120 i need 7 more . . . [h]undred to go . . . 5 c. daise although it is not entirely clear why she was in custody, the record suggests that the people had earlier filing (there is a reference that this case was a re-filing of a previous case), and she had not appeared.2 there is no evidence or suggestion that daise was in custody pending the trial of any charges against her. in any event, daise was in custody for three months, until she daise denied much of what she had told the deputy ff and on for about taylor on february 7, 2013, was a prostitute at that time, but did not have a pimp. she testified that she did not remember talking to law enforcement that day. stated that she argued with taylor about the condom she found in the toilet, thought it meant that he was cheating on her, and was very angry about itmaybe angry enough to lie to law enforcement about taylor. d. the attempt by to retain a private attorney to replace court-appointed attorney the trial was scheduled to begin on january 30, 2014, which was day 57 of 60. taylor was represented by court-appointed counsel, and daise was still in custody. the day before trial was scheduled to begin, brenda vargas, an s family, filed a motion to continue the trial so that she could substitute in as counsel and a short continuance to allow the defendant time to examine documentary evidence, to wit, 2 the record does not indicate when daise failed to appear. 6 ,probably meaning october 2014. on january 30, 2014, while taylor was not in the courtroom but still represented by court-appointed counsel, vargas came to court for the hearing on her motion. after an off-the-record discussion at sidebar about the motion, the court stated on the record: had filed a request to become counsel of record and continue trial but since then counsel has withdrawn the motion and left the courthouse. [court-appointed counsel] and the pwith taylor still not present in the courtroom, the prosecutor an-appointed counsel announced they were ready for trial. the court ordered a panel of jurors, and the case was transferred to a different judge with the trial to begin the following day. e. the evidence code section 402 hearing at a hearing pursuant to evidence code section 402, taylor objected to deputy written statement. ents on sixth amendment grounds-to deputy stonich, because the written statement was more prejudicial than probative. overruling explai . . for establishing, first of all, who [harper] is, rds, it appears the court reasoned ts would be admissible against harper, they were also admissible against taylor. 7 f. the trial on the battery count, deputy robert lloyd testified that he spoke with daise at the motel on february 7, 2013. daise told him that taylor hit her several times in the face with his fists, causing the lump over her eye and the cuts to her lip, and she showed deputy lloyd a tooth she said broke when taylor hit her. daise also told deputy lloyd t daise, still in custody, testified that, although she and taylor had been dating and she found a condom in the toilet of his motel room, she did not believe he had had sex with either of the two other women she saw with him in the room, he was not her pimp, and he did not hit her. after she finished testifying, the trial court asked, prosecutor released her. on daise said taylor was her pimp and that she gave the money she made as a prostitute to taylor, sisneros testified about the events of march 27 and 28, 2013. in particular, she testified about how taylor dropped the two women off at the truck stop, told them to work as prostitutes, and picked them up several hours later. sisneros also related how taylor told her he was a pimp, and tried to convince her to work for him. deputy stonich testified about lexy she was a prostitute, had been working for taylor for a month, and gave all of her money either to taylor or d not object to the admission of this testimony. in counsel for taylor elicited on cross-examination additional testimony about what lexy bowen told deputy stonich and wrote in her written statement. counsel for taylor also asked deputy stonich about what rembert wrote in her written statement about randall being her pimp. only on redirect examination did the people elicit the testimony that was the subject of the evidence code section 8 the people also introduced the four text-cell phone. counsel for taylor . . . [t]o the extent [the text-messages] might be make a fourth amendment objection. the court overru on the active participation in a criminal street gang count and the gang enhancement, detective cynthia sanchez testified that taylor admitted he was a member of the elm street gang, and detective richard sanchez, a gang expert, testified that the elm street gangpattern of criminal activity included prostitution and the neighborhoodwhole gamut from the pettiest crimes to the most serious, whsanchez also identified two members of the elm street gang who had been convicted of felonies. detective sanchez further that work in conjunction with one another. they call [them] pimps. . . . i get money from [a] certain amount of girls, he gets money from a certain amount of girls, the girls keep a certain percentage. . . . make sure that everybody else in the gang is profiting from it, whether they are sanchez explained how pimps use violence to avoid that a daddy or pimp has, the mentality is like going into the military. you inflict fear the first time into someone, and for the rest of the time that person will be scared of you, and she will lie for the pimp, she will do whatever she can to not get that pimp in trouble pimp hantaken care of by beating, torturing them, inflicting fear for them to get back on track . . . 9 wome3 to support theory that randall (but not taylor) was a pimp, taylor presented evidence, through the testimony of detective sanchez, that randall had over $2,000 when arrested, while taylor had only $300. taylor also told detective sanchez that for the past three years he had been working at a car wash that paid him in cash during the peop argument, the prosecutor explained that the jury should apply the facts to the law. to illustrate this point, he asked the jury to suppose jury unlesthe prosecutor then took off his jacket, tie, shoes, pants, and shirt, so that, in the courtroom, he was wearing only gym clothes. the prosecutor argued that, ny that he took off his clothes and a stipulation that he was a deputy district attorney at the time, the jury could not convict, because there would be no evidence that he took off his clothes during closing argument. also during closing argument, the prosecutor argued that taylor was guilty of pimping because sisneros itaylor threatened her into giving him $40. referencing sisnerosaylor told her that if she did not give him her money he would throw her out of the van naked, the prosecutor emphasized that the prosecutor continued, 3 on, that taylor sent cross- . witness statements that i read, . . . [taylor has] received money and not only given it taylor does not argue that the court erred in admitting this testimony. 10 n bieber and you want to show . . . off your little micro penis or finally, in his rebuttal argument, the prosecutor told the jury that he had the windstar, counsel for taylor did not object during the closing argument. instead, during his closing argument, counsel for taylor argued that, a little bit of the jury should counsel for taylor urged the jury to consider that taylor had a history of dating a prostitute (daise), and that maybe he picked up to counsel for tayloryou . . . you either believe [daise] and find [taylor] not guilty, or you g. verdict and sentencing the jury found taylor guilty on all three counts, and found true the gang allegations. taylor moved for prosecutor . . . engaged in a breach of decorum by partially disrobing during closing argument, which disrupted justice, interfered with the fairness of the trial, and denied tion, the trial court stated that, although the so much as [the prosecutor] was trying to make 11 in a bifurcated trial, the court found true the allegations that taylor had suffered a prior serious or violent felony conviction within the meaning of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12), a prior serious felony conviction within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (a)(1), and had served a prior prison term for a felony within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). the court sentenced taylor to an aggregate prison term of 23 years, consisting of 12 years for the pimping conviction (the upper term of six years, doubled under the three strikes law), plus four years for the gang enhancement and five years for the prior serious felony conviction, and two years for the battery conviction (one-third the middle term of three years, doubled under the three strikes law). the court imposed and stayed pursuant to section 654 the sentence for term enhancement. taylor filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion a. 1. relevant proceedings taylor argues that the trial court violated his constitutional right to counsel of choice when the court suggested, in an off-the-record sidebar conference, that it would not grant a continuance to allow his newly-retained attorney, vargas, to prepare for trial. there was no record of what happened at the sidebar conference except statement, when the case was called later that morning, that vargas h the motion [for a continuance] and left the courthoue ordered appellate counsel for taylor to serve and file in the superior court an application for permission to prepare a settled statement under california rules of court, rule 8.346. (see people v. taylor (2010) 48 cal.4th 574, 660 he procedures for using settled statements are used to fill in the gaadequate to permit meaningful appellate 12 the trial court held two hearings to discuss the settled statement. at the first hearing, the court explained: r is my only recollection . . . when ms. vargas walks over and says something about she wants to substitute in. i said it is untimely. we are ready to go. if you are ready to go, we can do it. when i call the case, she is gone . . . . hearing, the court addressed vargas: told you -- hearing but to the effect that i had a witness in custody, everybody is ready to go, you can expsshould i raise the motion. so i went outside and i spoke with the family, and i made the indication to them that look, defense counsel is going to say that they are ready, the d.a. is going to object if i make a motion. . . . and i told the family, to do? . . . , rom what the circumstances are, i . . . then the family . . -appointed counsel] indicated to me that he was ready to go to trial. . . . and i just politely bow out. after the hearing, appellate counsel for taylor prepared a draft settled statement. at the second hearing, the court took issue with a line in the draft settled made the motion, the court would deny it and would allow ms. vargas to substitute in only if she was ready to go to trial. tentative is not to grant it, but i never ruled. . . . [t]here was no ruling at sidebar. . . . it t. . . . [m]y only problem [with the draft settled statement] is that [it states] i indicated . . . that i would deny [the motion.] no . . . on 13 april 1, 2016 appellate counsel for taylor and the prosecutor who represented the people at trial stipulated to a settled statement, which they filed in the superior court. the settled statement states in pertinent partdiscussed the case off-the-record with judge sanchez. . . . [] during the sidebar discussions[,] ms. vargas informed judge sanchez that she had been retained by mr. . . . . [] judge sanchez told ms. vargas that her motion was untimely and that a witness was in to deny the motion and that ms. vargas would be allowed to substitute in only if she was the record, especially in instances where a written motion has been filed. . . . [] ms. vargas withdrew her motion before it was called for a hearing and l 2. by not ruling on a motion that retained counsel withdrew a defendant who does not require a court-appointed attorney has the right under the sixth amendment to chou.s. v. gonzalez-lopez (2006) 548 u.s. 140, by an otherwise qualified attornluis v. u.s. (2016) 136 s.ct. 1083, 1089.) fair opportunity id. at p. 1102; see people v. keshishian (2008) 162 cal.app.4th 425, 428.) in addition, because newly-retained counsel may people v. courts (1985) 37 cal.3d 784, 794, fn. 8.) the right to counsel of choice, however, is not 14 face of a justifiable request for delay can render the right to defend with counsel an empty people v. keshishian, supra, 162 cal.app.4th at p. 429; see people v. dowdell (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 1388, 1411 how to defend himself should be respected unless it will result in significant prejudice to the defendant or in a disruption of the orderly processes of justice unreasonable under the circu].) right to be represented by co[n]o additional showing of prejudice is (u.s. v. gonzalez-lopez, supra, 548 u.s. at p. 146; people v. dowdell, supra, 227 cal.app.4th at p. 1411.) when there is an erroneous counsel of choice, we must reverse. (people v. dowdell, supra, at p. 1411.) as noted, the settled statement suggests that the trial court told vargas it was inclined to deny the request for a trial continuance because the court considered the motion untimely and because a trial witness, daise, was in custody for some unspecified . both reasons are questionable. taylor had not trial continuance was s first. there is also no evidence that taylor was impeding the trial through intentional delay. thus, a short continuance may have been appropriate. the fact that daise was in custody is troubling. it is unlawful to detain a domestic violence victim in order to secure his or her testimony. code of civil procedure section otwithstanding any other law, a court shall not imprison or otherwise confine or place in custody the victim of a sexual assault or domestic violence crime for contempt if the contempt consists of refusing to testify concerning that sexual assaunder family code section 6211, subdivision (c), a victim of domestic violence includes respondent is having or has had a dating or engagement relationship, which describes daise. daise testified that she and taylor had 15 and it was undisputed that daise and taylor argued because daise confronted taylor with her suspicions about his infidelity.4 daise was in custody because she failed to comply with a subpoena to testify, and the court released her after her testimony. therefore, it appears that daise was the victim of a domestic violence crime who was . . . [for] refusing to testify concerning that . . . domestic violence .,  1219, subd. (b).) thus, the fact that daise was in custody was not a reason not to continue the trial because daise should not have been in custody. nevertheless, we cannot now determine whether the court abused its discretion in continuance would have caused because vargas withdrew the motion and the court never ruled on it. therefore, there is no ruling for us to review. the motion . . . circumstances surrounding the withdrawal of the motion suggest that the court may have invited or even suggested that vargas might as well withdraw the motion so that the court would not have to deny it, we cannot say on this record that it was futile to maintain the motion or that the court actually issued a tentative ruling that it later adopted as its final ruling. the trial court did not deny taylor the counsel of his choice. taylor also argues -of-choice/continuance hearing based on penal code section 977, article i, section 15 of the california constitution, and the sixth and fourteenth amendments of the united states -of-choice/continuance 4 in fact, the trial judge asked prospective jurors whether they, or any of their friends or relatives, had been victims of domestic violence. 16 however, there was no such hearing for taylor to attend. vargas withdrew the motion. b. cannot show prejudice taylor argues that both his retained counsel, vargas, and his court-appointed counsel -of-choice/coright to counsel of choice, which requires reversal, the denial of generally requires a defendant to establish prejudice (u.s. v. gonzalez-lopez, supra, 548 u.s. at p. 146; see people v. hernandez (2012) 53 cal.4th 1095, 1105.) to show ineffective assistance of counsel, counsel defendant by the sixth amendment. second, the defendant must show that the deficient errors were so serious as to deprive the defendant of a fair trial, a trial whose result is reliable. unless a defendant makes both showings, it cannot be said that the conviction . . . resulted from a breakdown in the adversary process that renders the strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687 (strickland); see people v. hernandez, supra, at p. 1105.) a defendant shows pt of the proceeding would have been different. a reasonable probability is a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the strickland, supra, at strickland solely one of outcome determinadeficient performance renders the result of the trial unreliable or the proceeding in re hardy ry his burden of proving prejudice as a demonstrable reality, 17 (people v. montoya (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 1139, 1147; see in re cox (2003) 30 cal.4th 974, 1016.) taylor argues his court-appointed counsel was ineffective for failing to demand attorney and obtain a trial continuance. because there was no hearing, however, the court did not have to ensure that taylor was present for the hearing. because vargas withdrew her motion, the court never heard it, and taylor never had to be present during a hearing -appointed counsel ineffective for motion. she was the one who could file it, argue it, or, as occurred, withdraw it. there -appointed attorney to argue. taylor cites no authority for the proposition that an attorney has an obligation to argue the merits of a motion filed by a different attorney.5 taylor argues that vargas rendered ineffective assistance of counsel when she nce during the hearing (which did not occur) and when she withdrew her motion based solely on a tentative ruling, rather than asking for a hearing and a ruling on her [r]easonably competent defense attorneys, acting as diligent advocates, simply do not withdraw motions based on an even if withdrawal of her motion (rather than arguing it) fell below an objective standard of reasonableness, and even if such an error decision) resulted in representation by the court-appointed lawyer rather than vargas,6 5 -appointed attorney right to counsel of his choice) to urge vargas not to withdraw the motion and to argue the motion on the record, in order to preserve the issue for appeal. court-appointed attorney had implored vargas not to withdraw her motion without a hearing, there is no reason to believe vargas would have stayed in the courtroom and argued the motion. 18 taylor has not satisfied his burden of showing prejudice. only argument of prejudice is that the ineffective assistance of counsel led to a denial of his sixth amendment right to counsel of choice, which is per se prejudicial. taylor cites no authority for the proposition that there is an exception to the prejudice requirement of strickland for ineffectiveness in protecting right to counsel of choice. although there are limited exceptions to the strickland prejudice requirement, ineffective the circumstances of this case, is not one of them.7 c. any violation o taylor argues that the trial court violated his sixth amendment right to confrontation under crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36 (crawford) when the s testimony repeating out-of-court statements by harper, lexy bowen, and rembert. we conclude that taylor forfeited his right to challenge the admissibility of the statements by lexy bowen and rembert, and that the less. to evaluate whether the court violated confrontation, we first determine whether taylor preserved the objection for appellate review. (see people v. valdez [f]ailure to press for a ruling on a motion to exclude evidence forfeits appellate review of the claim because such failure deprives the trial court of the opportunity to correct potential error in the first ; people v. romero the 6 the settled statement suggests that vargas withdrew because let the deputy public defender represent taylor at trial. 7 one exception is the complete denial of counsel . . . at a critical stage of [the] people v. hernandez, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 1104.) taylor, however, did not -appointed attorney. 19 failure to object to errors committed at trial relieves the reviewing court of the obligation to capplies to claims based on statutory violations, as well as claims based on violations of fundamental constitutional second, we determine under crawford whether the out-of-court statements were [t]estimonial crawford. (crawford, supra, 541 u.s. at p. 59; see people v. pearson (2013) 56 cal.4th 393, 462.) third, if the trial court erred by admitting the statements, we determine whether the resulting error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt under chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 (chapman). (see people v. bryant (2014) 60 cal.4th 335, 395 -error analysis under chapman]; see also delaware v. van arsdall (1986) 475 u.s. 673, 681 [an otherwise valid conviction should not be set aside because of a violation of the right to confrontation if, on the whole record, the constitutional error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt].) chapman] test requires the people . . . to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the error complained of did not contribute to the verdict obtained. (people v. elizalde (2015) 61 cal.4th 523, 542.) as noted, the trial court conducted a hearing pursuant to evidence code section 402 regarding the admissibility of the statements to detective stonich. the only testimony at the hearing, however, was dete statements by harper. there was no testimony about statements by bowen or rembert to detective stonich. at the end of the evidence code section 402 hearing, counsel for taylor addressed going to have a chance to cross-thus, taylor did not forfeit his right to argue the trial court erred in admitting to detective stonich. (see people v. ramos (1997) 15 cal.4th 1133, 1171 properly directed motion in limine may satisfy the requirements of evidence code section 353 and preserve objections for appealpeople v. mayfield (1997) 14 cal.4th 668, 731-732 [objection during the evidence code section 402 hearing preserved the objection for 20 appeal], disapproved on another ground in people v. scott (2015) 61 cal.4th 363, 390, fn. 2.) taylor, however, did not object at trial when the people asked detective stonich about what bowen had said to her.8 and the people never elicited any testimony about in fact, during cross-examination, counsel for taylor , and elicited testimony about the statements rembert made to detective stonich. therefore, taylor forfeited his crawford challenge to the statements by bowen and rembert. (see people v. rangel (2016) 62 cal.4th 1192, 1215.) taylor argues that his objection at the evidence code section 402 hearing necessarily applied to all in-custody statements made by harper, bowen, and rembert. there is nothing in the record, however, suggesting that objection applied to anything other than statements. nor did people v. ramos, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 1171) that statements by rembert or bowen were inadmissible. in fact, it appears that for strategic reasons taylor wanted to introduce statements by bowen and rembert, in an effort to bolster his theory that randall, and not taylor, was their pimp. taylor further argues that, crawford objection -custody testimonial statements, any further specific crawford 8 specifically, the prosecutor after counsel for taylor did not object, the prosecutor bowen telafter counsel for taylor again did not object, did after counsel for taylor still did not object, detecasked, after counsel for taylor again did not object, detective 21 -custody statements that were obtained under identical circumstances would havneed to object. (people v. kitchens (1956) 46 cal.2d 260, 263; people v. curlee (2015) 237 cal.app.4th 709, 715; people v. hopkins (1992) 10 cal.app.4th 1699, 1702.) nothing in the record suggests that an objection to the statements by rembert or bowen to detective stonich would have been fruitless or idle, nor did the trial court ever indicate that it inte(see people v. schmies (1996) 44 cal.app.4th 38, 54here an entire class of evidence has been declared inadmissible or the trial court has clearly intimated it will receive no evidence of a particular class or upon a particular issue, an offer of proof is not a prerequisite to raising the question on appealquoting beneficial fire & casualty ins. co. v. kurt hitke & co. (1956) 46 cal.2d 517, 522not have been futile. (see people v. redd (2010) 48 cal.4th 691, 745 [although the defendant objected to six of the 18 instances of claimed misconduct, support for the assertion that it would have been futile to interpose [additional] tayloron people v. chism (2014) 58 cal.4th 1266 in support of his futility argument is misplaced. in chism objections. (id. at p. 1291.) the supreme court nevertheless considered the merits of the defendant reasonable basis to present ibid.) thus, the defendant in chism ibid.) here, there were no objections to the testimony by detective stonich about the statements by bowen or rembert (and, as noted, counsel for taylor elicited some of those statements). 22 trial, and . . . (crawford v. washington, supra, 541 u.s. at p. 51.) statements made during police inteare testimonial when the circumstances objectively indicate that there is no . . . ongoing emergency, and that the primary purpose of the interrogation is to establish or prove past events potentially relevant to later criminal prosecution. (people v. chism, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. 1288.) absent from trial have been admitted only where the declarant is unavailable, and only where the defendant has had a prior opportunity to cross-crawford, supra, at p. 59.) the statements by harper were testimonial because she made them during police interrogation in the absence of any ongoing emergency, and because the primary purpose of the interrogation was to gather information for the criminal prosecution.9 the record does not indicate, and the people do not argue, that harper was unavailable at trial, or that counsel for taylor had the opportunity to cross-examine her.10 (see people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 411, 440 cution bears the harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (see people v. bryant, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 395 [an error is harmless under chapman it is clear beyond a reasonable doubt that a rational jury .) whether a violation of the sixth 9 the statements by bowen and rembert were also testimonial. as noted, however, taylor forfeited his argument that their admission was erroneous. 10 again, this is also true for bowen and rembert. the record similarly does not indicate, and the people do not argue, that bowen and rembert were unavailable or that counsel for taylor had the opportunity to cross-examine them. 23 amendm is harmless in a particular case depends upon a host of factors [whether the testimony was cumulative, the presence or absence of evidence corroborating or contradicting the testimony of the witness on material points, the extent of cross-case.people v. hernandez, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 1108, quoting delaware v. van arsdall, supra, 475 u.s. at p. 684.) here, on the pimping .11 although the court erred when it that harper told her she was working as a prostitute and that she gave the money she earned from prostitution to taylor as her pimp, the jury heard evidence of these same facts (that taylor was a pimp who took money from women working as prostitutes) many other times throughout the trial. for example, deputy lloyd testified that daise had told him that she had sex with people for money and gave the money to taylor, and said this to deputy lloyd. sisneros testified that taylor told her that he was a pimp and she was going to work for him as a prostitute. sisneros also testified that he told two other hours later. finally, detective stonich testified without objection that bowen said she in light of this evidence, we can conclude beyond a reasonable doubt that a rational jury would have reached the same verdict even if the court had excluded statements. 11 , knowing another person is a prostitute, lives or derives prostitution . . . 24 d. any error in admitting the text-message exchanges was harmless taylor argues that the text-message exchanges from his cell phone constituted inadmissible hearsay and were obtained in violation of the fourth amendment, and that error, there exists a reasonable probabilit although the court should have excluded the text messages, the error was harmless. witness while testifying at the hearing and that is offered to prove the truth of the matter stated. []  1200, subds. (a), (b); see people v. cowan (2010) 50 cal.4th 401, 472.) the text messages were out-of-court statements between taylor and harper, between taylor and rembert, and between taylor and bowen. and the people introduced the text messages for the hearsay purpose of showing that the other women in the van were working as prostitutes for taylor.12 the trial ting the text-hearsay objection, however, was harmless, despite the fact that, as taylor points out, the prosecutor discussed the text messages in closing argument. we review the erroneous admission of hearsay evidence for harmless error under the standard articulated in people v. watson people v. harris (2005) 37 cal.4th 310, 336.) we 12 the people do not argue that the prosecutor sought to admit the text messages for the non-a prostitute. (see evid. code,  1250; people v. scally (2015) 243 cal.app.4th 285, 292 [trial court properly admitted text messages to show intent where argument at trial was, essentially, that defendant was an innocent bystander, a helpful boyfriend who took no part in indo the people argue ts (his outgoing text messages) were admissible as admissions. (see people v. kovacich (2011) 201 cal.app.4th 863, 892.) the people focus only on the messages the prosecutor referenced in closing argument 25 review any error arising out of the admission of the text messages in violation of the fourth amendment under the harmless-beyond-a-reasonable-doubt standard of chapman. (see ibid.)13 the evidence -message exchanges overwhelming. the jury heard deputy lloyd testimony about what daise told himthat she had sex with people for money and gave the money to taylor; sisnerostestimony that taylor told her he was a pimp and she was going to work for him, and that he instructed two other testimony that bowen said she had been working as a prostitute for taylor for about a this compelling evidence was uncontroverted. error in admitting the text messages was harmless under either chapman or watson. (see people v. houston (2012) 54 cal.4th 1186, 1222 [errors were harmless under either chapman or watson people v. sanchez (2014) 228 13 although taylor did not raise a fourth amendment objection to the admission of the text messages at trial, at the time of his trial california did not recognize the of the fourth amendment. (see people v. diaz (2011) 51 cal.4th 84, 88 (diaz).) after the united states supreme court held that such a search does violate the fourth amendment. (see riley v. california (2014) ___ u.s. ___, _amendment grounds is excusable because the trial court was bound to follow governing law at the time (diazan unreasonable burden on defendants to anticipate unforeseen changes in the law.people v. rangel, supra, 62 cal.4th at p. 1215.) in the meantime, the california supreme court has granted review to decide whether the exclusionary rule applies to evidence from a cell-phone search conducted incident to an arrest after diaz but before riley. (see people v. macabeo, review granted nov. 25, 2014, s221852; see also davis v. u.s. (2011) 564 u.s. 229, 248-250 [the exclusionary rule does not apply reasonable reliance on binding appellate precedent we do not reach this issue because the error in admitting the text messages is harmless under both watson and chapman. 26 so strong that the jury w e. there was sufficient evidence to support the convictions for active participation in a criminal street gang and battery with serious bodily injury taylor argues that there was insufficient evidence to support his convictions for active participation in a criminal street gang and battery with serious bodily injury. conviction, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the (people v. rangel, supra, 62 cal.4th at p. 1212.) after reviewing the record, presum[ing] in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reas(id. at p. 1213), we conclude that there is sufftaylor was guilty of active participation in a criminal street gang, and that he battered daise causing serious bodily injury. 1. there was sufficient evidence of active participation in a criminal street gang first, active participation in a criminal street gang, in the sense of participation that is more than nominal or passive; second, knowledge s members engage in or have engaged in a pattern of criminal gang activity; and third, the willful promotion, (people v. rodriguez (2012) 55 cal.4th 1125, 1130.) taylor appears to argue only that there is insufficient evidence to the third element; i.e., that taylor willfully promoted, furthered, or assisted in any felonious criminal conduct by 27 members of his gangndant must willfully advance, encourage, contribute to, or help members of his gang commit felonious criminal conduct. the plain meaning of section 186.22(a) requires that felonious criminal conduct be committed by at least two gang members, one of whom can include the defendant if he is a gang member.14 (people v. rodriguez, at p. 1132; see people v. velasco (2015) 235 cal.app.4th 66, 75 [the second gang member must be a member of the same gang as the defendant].) there was sufficient evidence, viewed in the light most favorable to the verdict, for a reasonable jury to find ; i.e., a fellow elm street gang member taylor worked with while pimping in order to earn money for the gang. first, there was evidence that randall and taylor pimped together. bowen stated randall, whom she knew by the moniker poodah. sisneros testified that taylor and randall exchanged something immediately before their arrests (although she could not see what it was). when arrested, taylor had $300 and randall had $2,000, which 14 the trial court correctly instructed the jury pursuant to caljic no. 6.50 on the third element of active participation in a criminal street gang did not object to the instruction, ask that the court add any language to it, or ask the court members of that same gang must have participated in committing the felony offense. the defendant may count as one of those members if you find that the defendant was a people v. vega (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 484, 505 fn. 11 his amended version of the instruction first appeared in the fall 2013 edition of ) at trial neither the prosecutor nor counsel for taylor argued that taylor committed (or did not commit) the crime of pimping with another member of the same gang. on appeal, taylor does not argue the jury instruction was erroneous or he was have his jury determine each fact necessary to his conviction beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. vega, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at p. 505.) taylor argues only conclude defendant directly committthis argument and do not contend there was substantial evidence that at least two gang members committed the felonious conduct in this case, as required by people v. rodriguez, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 1132. 28 supported the inference that the exchange sisneros witnessed involved taylor giving cash (that he earned through pimping) to randall. second, there was expert testimony establishing that pimp partners work together in order to benefit their gang. (see people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665, 698 [expert people v. velasco, supra, 235 cal.app.4th at p. 78, fn. culture and practices of criminal street gangs are matters outside the common experience of jurors justifying expert witness testimony to explain how certain activity might be gang relatedpeople v. ferraez (2003) 112 cal.app.4th 925, 930 t is well settled that expert testimony about gang culture and habits is the type of evidence a jury may rely on to reach a verdict on a gang-related offense or specifically, detective richard sanchez, who teaches classes on gang-subculture throughout the united states, testified that pimps have business partners who help each other earn money for their gang. they collect money for and transfer money to each other and to other members of the same gang. detective sanchez explained that, one of the reasons for the pimping , if one of the pimps is incarcerated, his - keep that female in that gang doing the same she will keep in for the gang. from this evidence, a reasonable jury could find that taylor and randall were pimp partnersmembers of the same gang who worked together in the criminal conduct of pimping. (see people v. ferraez, supra, 112 cal.app.4th at p. 930 s testimony was circumstantial evidence, but it was still evidence suactive participation in a criminal street gang].) 2. there was sufficient evidence of battery with serious bodily injury en a battery is committed against any person and serious bodily injury is inflicted on the person 29 section 243, subdivision (f)(4), provides: ious impairment of physical condition, including, but not limited to, the following: loss of consciousness; concussion; bone fracture; protracted loss or impairment of function of any bodily member or organ; a wound requiring extensive suturing; and serious disfigur injury which requires prnot suffer serious bodily injury. the court in people v. wade (2012) 204 cal.app.4th if the serious i that also required medical treatment, it could have so provided. in subdivision (f)(5) does not render ambiguous the clear language of subdivision (f)(4), because subdivision (f)(5) clearly applies to section 243, subdivision (c), for batteries against peace officers or other id. at p. 1149.) for example, the court in wade held that a loss of coserious impairment of physical without any showing that the injury required ibid.) we agree with wade. subdivision (f)(4) of section 243 provides that impairminc the list that follows; in other words, the list is not exclusive.people v. belton (2008) 168 cal.app.4th 432, 440.) the evidence included showing a bloody lip, a large lump over her eye, and a daise said taylor had hit her and caused those injuries. (see id. at pp. 436, 440 30 f. the trial court did not commit instructional error taylor argues that the trial court erred in failing to give the jury two instructions taylor asserts the court had a sua sponte duty to give. first, taylor contends the court should have given the jury a unanimity instruction on the counts for pimping and active participation in a criminal street gang. second, he contends the court should have given the jury an instruction defining aiding and abetting because the jury may have convicted him on an aiding and abetting theory without understanding what aiding and abetting means. there is no merit in either contention. 1. unanimity instructions were not required a jury verdict in a criminal case must be unanimous. (people v. hernandez (2013) 217 cal.app.4th 559, 569; see cal. const., art. i,  16.) [e]ach individual juror must be convinced, beyond a reasonable doubt, that the defendant committed the specific people v. hernandez, supra, at p. 569.when violation of a criminal statute is charged and the evidence establishes several acts, any one of which could constitute the crime charged, either the state must select the particular act upon which it relied for the allegation of the information, or the jury must be instructed that it must a(people v. jennings (people v. hernandez, supra, at p. 569.) f the case falls within the continuous-course-of-conduct exception, which arises . . . a unanimity instruction is not required. (people v. jennings, supra, at p. 679.) pimping and pandering.people v. leonard (2014) 228 cal.app.4th 465, 491; see people v. jenkins (1994) 29 cal.app.4th 287, 299 [citation] such as . . . people v. dell (1991) 232 cal.app.3d 248, 265-266 31 been held to be crimes of a continuous ongoing nature and are therefore not subject to the requirement the jury must agree on the specific sua sponte duty to instruct the jury on unanimity for the pimping count. taylor also argues that, because the active participation in a criminal street gang count was based on the same felonious conduct as the pimping count, the trial court had a sua sponte duty to give a unanimity instruction for both counts. because the underlying conduct for both counts was continuing and ongoing, however, the court did not have a sua sponte duty to give a unanimity instruction for either. 2. an instruction defining aiding and abetting was not required taylor argues that, because the trial court instructed the jury pursuant to caljic no. 6.50 that the people could prove the last element of the active participation in a criminal street gang count by showing rectly and actively committed or aided and abetted other members of that gang in committing the crimes of pimping and pandering the court should have instructed the jury on the definition of aiding and abetting. according to taylor, without such an instruction ee to define with the result that the people, however, did not proceed on an aiding and abetting theory. instructions on people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1201; see people v. whitmer (2014) 230 cal.app.4th 906, 92prosecutor tries the case on the theory that the defendant was one of the direct perpetrators of the crimes, neither side relies on an aiding and abetting theory, and no evidence is presented suggesting that the defendant acted merely as an aider and abettor there was no evidence that taylor merely aided and abetted other pimps. indeed, not only did the trial court not have a sua sponte duty to give an aiding 32 and abetting instruction, it would have been error for the trial court to have given such an instruction. (see people v. debose [i]t is error to give an instruction [that], while correctly stating a principle of law, has no application to the facts of the case15 if there were any instructional error, it was when the court instructed the jurors that they could convict taylor as an aider and abettor, not when the court failed to give the jury a definition of aiding and abetting. to the extent taylor may be arguing not that the court failed to define aiding and abetting but that the court failed to remove the phrase caljic jury instruction on active participation in a criminal street gang, taylor forfeited the argument. taylor did not ask the trial court to strike that phrase or otherwise object to those words correct in law and responsive to the evidence was too general or incomplete unless the people v. canizalez statement of the law (see people v. rodriguez, supra, 55 cal.4th at pp. 1135-1136), and in the facts presented in [his] case, he was obliged to object to it or to request clarification people v. canizalez, supra, at p. 849.) therefore, he forfeited any argument that the court should have modified the instruction on active participation in a criminal street gang. (see ibid.) in any event, any such instructional error was harmless because there was overwhelming evidence that taylor 15 taylor points out that the prosecutor mentioned aiding and abetting during closing argument while discussing the active participation in a criminal street gang count. the prosecutor, however, did not argue that taylor was guilty as an aider and abettor; he simply parroted the jury instruction before explaining how the evidence supported a conviction based on taylor having (directly and actively) committed the felony of pimping to support the substantive crime of active participation in a criminal street gang. the prosecutor similarly recited the jury instructions on each crime with which taylor was charged before explaining how the evidence supported a guilty verdict for those crimes. 33 directly and actively committed the crimes (and no evidence that he did so as an aider and abettor). g. the trial court did not err in sentencing taylor 1. the trial court did not err in imposing sentencing enhancements and consecutive sentences under section 667, subdivision who previously has been convicted of a serious felony . . . shall receive, in addition to the sentence imposed by the court for the present offense, a five-year enhancement for each such prior conviction on charges ection 667, subdivision (a)(4), provides sted in subdivision (c) of ection 1192.7 subdivision (c)(8), any pers taylor argues that the trial court erred in imposing a five-year enhancement under section 667, subdivision (a)(1), because none of his current offenses co, subdivision (c). according to taylor, while section 1192.7, subdivision (c)(8), provides that in which the defendant personally inflicts great bodily injury on any person, other than an is , inflicting serious bodily injury under section 243, subdivisions (d) and (f)(4), is not inflicting great bodily injury under section 1192.7, subdivision (c)(8). . . . in the section 12022.7 enhancement for the infliction of such injury on a person during the commission people v. wade, supra, 204 cal.app.4th at p. 1149; see people v. moore 34 e a sentence under the of penal code section[ ] 667, subdivision (a), because the 16 therefore, the battery conviction of section 667, subdivision (a)(1), and the trial court properly imposed the five-year prior serious felony enhancement.17 taylor also argues tcount 1 battery with serious bodily injury conviction should be vacated because it is an trial of its discretionto impose a sentence for the battery with serious bodily injury conviction that would run concurrent with his other sentencesand erroneously believed consecutive sentences were mandatory section 1170.12, subdivision (a), provides, 16 s the prosecutor expressly told the jury that there was a distinction between serious bodily injury and great bodily injurythis misstatement of the law (to which taylor did not object) is irrelevant because the jury was only uted serious bodily injury. also, although taylor argues that the prosecutor conceded upon . . . daise amounteconcession. 17 taylor argues that using the gang benefit enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1), to elevate either the pimping or battery conviction to a serious felony (under section 1192.7, subdivision (c)(28), which provides any felony offense, which would also constitute a felony violation of ), in order to enhance his sentence under section 667, subdivision (a), would be punishing him twice for the gang benefit enhancement. we need not address this issue because the battery conviction independent of the section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1), gang benefit enhancement. in any event, taylor concedes that, if we reject (as we have) his arguments for reversal of his conviction for violating section 186.22, subdivision (a), the substantive offense of active participation in a criminal street gang, that conviction is a separate, sufficient foundation for the enhancement under section 667, subdivision (a). 35 any other provision of law, if a defendant has been convicted of a felony and it has been pled and proved that the defendant has one or more prior serious and/or violent felony convictions, as defined in subdivision (b), the court shall adhere to each of the following: . . . (7) if there is a current conviction for more than one serious or violent felony as described in subdivision (b), the court shall impose the sentence for each conviction consecutive to the sentence for any other conviction for which the  1170.12, subd. (a)(7), italics added.) section 1170.12, subdivision (b)(1), in relevant part, defines a serious felony as any offense listed in subdivision (c) of section 1192.7. ( 1170.12, subd. (b)(1).) as noted, , which was the first serious felony conviction for purposes of section 1170.12, subdivision (b)(7). the second serious felony conviction was for active participation in a criminal street gang. taylor was convicted of violating section 186.22, subdivision (a), and he concedes that that conviction constitutes a serious felony conviction. thus, because there were current ction 1170.12 was appropriate. 2. the trial court did not violate section 654 in sentencing taylor taylor argues that the trial court violated section 654 by imposing sentences for both the battery with great bodily injury and pimping convictions and not staying the shorter of the two sentences. we conclude that the trial court properly punished taylor for both because the two crimes involved separate intents and objectives. different ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the act or prohibits multiple people v. 36 jones whether a course of criminal conduct is divisible and therefore gives rise to more than one act within the meaning of section 654 depends on the intent and objective of the actor. if all of the offenses were incident to one objective, the defendant may be punished for any one of such offenses but not for more than one.people v. capistrano if [the] defendant harbored multiple criminal objectives, which were independent of and not merely incidental to each other, he may be punished for each statutory violation committed in pursuit of each objective, even though the violations shared common acts or were parts of an otherwise indivisible course of conduct.people v. rodriguez (2015) 235 cal.app.4th 1000, 1005.) the de[to permit multiple punishments,] there must be evidence to support [the] finding the defendant formed a separate intent and objective for each offense for which he was sentenced.people v. capistrano, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 886.) the de(people v. morelos (2008) 168 cal.app.4th 758, 769.) involving separate objectives, must be upheld on appeal if supported by substantial people v. brents (2012) 53 cal.4th 599, 618; see people v. morelos, supra, 168 cal.app.4th at p. 770 [the trial court, not the jury, determines whether multiple crimes arose from a single objectivewe 37 the trier of fact could reasonably dedpeople v. andra (2007) 156 cal.app.4th 638, 640-641.)18 sentence taylor to separate terms for the battery with serious bodily injury conviction and for pimping implied a finding that the two crimes were distinct offenses with distinct objectives. (see people v. alford concurrent terms is treated as an implied finding that the defendant bore multiple intents people v. garcia (2008) 167 cal.app.4th 1550, 1564-.) objectives when he committed the battery with serious bodily injury. there was substantial evidence that when daise, whom taylor had been dating for three years, confronted taylor with allegations of infidelity, in inflicting serious bodily injury was to keep a daise and taylor argued after she confronted him with evidence that he had cheated on her. the court could reasonably find that taylor intended to hurt daise out of anger or defensiveness, or because he wanted to deflect her attention away from his infidelity. this is not a case wpeople v. vu (2006) 143 cal.app.4th 1009, 1034; cf. people v. latimer evidence does not suggest any intent or objective behind the kidnapping other than to ; people v. wynn (2010) 184 cal.app.4th 1210, 1215 here the commission of one offense is merely a means toward the objective of the commission of the other, prohibits separate punishments for the two offenses; people 18 where section 654 prohibits msentence defendant for each count and stay execution of sentence on certain of the people v. jones, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 353.) 38 v. vu, supra, 143 cal.app.4th at p. 1034 .) the fact that the jury found both the battery and the pimping were committed with the intent to promote a gang (the pimping because it brings money into the gang, and the battery because it facilitates the pimping) does not mean the two crimes had entirely identical intents and objectives. ]o accept . . . a broad, overriding intent and objective to preclude punishment for otherwise clearly separate offenses would violate [section people v. jones (2001) 25 cal.4th 98, 110, fn. 7; accord, people v. devaughn (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 1092, 1116.) because the two crimes involved did not err in imposing the consecutive sentence for battery with serious bodily injury.19 h. cumulative error does not require reversal errors, though perhaps individually harmless, were [t]he denial of a fair trial was complete and transformed into a farce once the prosecutor took off his clothes (jacket, pants, shirt, tie and shoes) during [closing] argument to illustrate a non-contested is whether defendant received due process and a fair trial.people v. rivas (2013) 214 cal.app.4th 1410, 1436.) w]e 19 the supreme court has (correa, suprafurther punishment for any other crime a pimp might commit in the course of pimping, commit many different violent crimes in the course of pimping without any possibility of further punishment (unless the punishment for one of those crimes exceeded the punishment for pimping). perhaps for this reason, taylor cites no authority for the proposition that section 654 prohibits punishment for pimping and related crimes. 39 reached a result more favorable to the (people v. jandres (2014) 226 cal.app.4th 340, 361.) we do not reverse for cumulative atively few and . . . the prejudicial effect was in each instance minimal to nonexipeople v. hinton (2006) 37 cal.4th 839, 872.) the trial court erred only in admitting certain cumulative evidenceout-of-court testimonial statements and the four text-message exchanges. and the prosecutor did engage in some unusual theatrics during his closing and rebuttal arguments. perhaps for strategic reasons, taylor did not object when the prosecutor disrobed, referenced a with the jury an inappropriate (see people v. peoples (2016) 62 cal.4th 718, 797 [prosecutorial misconduct argument was specific objection to the alleged misconduct and request the jury be admonished to ; see, e.g., people v. kelley u.s. v. spain (7th cir. 1976) 536 f.2d 170, 175 [prosecutors should avoid -taylor points to the r only to support his cumulative-error argument. it is the duty of [every] attorney to . . . maintain the respect due to the courts of all offensive personality. (people v. zurinaga (2007) 148 cal.app.4th 1248, 1258) prosecutor is held to a standard higher than that imposed on other attorneys because of the unique function he or she performs in representing the interests, and in exercising the sovereign poweibid.) polanski v. superior court (2009) 180 cal.app.4th 507, 557.) t is their sworn duty to see that the defendant has a fair and impartial trialibid.) berger v. u.s. (1935) 295 u.s. 78, 40 88; accord bocanegra v. jakubowski (2015) 241 cal.app.4th 848, 856.) in this case, the prosecutor should not have taken his clothes off during closing argument, used an offensive epithet to describe a witness penis, or shared an original song that, at a minimum, made light of a serious case. justify a reviewing court to reverse a criminal conviction obtained in an otherwise fair u.s. v. young (1985) 470 u.s. 1, 11; see kelley, supra, 75 cal.app.3d at p. uestion whether the trial . . . deteriorated into farce and s].) viewing the trial as a whole, and considering the strength of the prosecutorial theatrics, along with any evidentiary errors, did not deprive taylor of a fair trial.20 disposition the judgment is affirmed. segal, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. zelon, j. 20 in a footnote, taylor argues that we should reference in rebuttal , which was a fact outside the record. taylor concedes that his attorney at trial did not tattoo. in addition, this isolated incident of referring to a matter outside the record did not deprive taylor of a fair trial. 