filed 7/6/15 p. v. bates ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. arthur bates, defendant and appellant. b254934 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va122627) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, brian f. gasdia, judge. affirmed. al f. amer for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, zee rodriguez and mary sanchez, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________ 2 appellant arthur bates appeals from the judgment entered following his convictions by jury on three counts of assault on a peace officer with a semiautomatic firearm (counts 1 3), with firearm findings, and admissions he suffered a prior felony conviction and a prior serious felony conviction. (pen. code,  245, subd. (d)(2), 12022.5, subds. (a) & (d), 12022.53, subds. (b) & (c), 667, subds. (a) & (d).) the court sentenced appellant to prison for 54 years 6 months. we affirm. factual summary 1. evidence. in the present case, appellant argues he merely displayed his weapon by pointing it in the air and the deputies prematurely fired. the people argue appellant pointed his firearm at deputies and then fired. we set forth below the pertinent facts. viewed in accordance with the usual rules on appeal (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206 (ochoa)), the evidence established that on november 29, 2011, norwalk. bliss called 911, telling the dispatcher appellant had a gun and wanted to kill himself. bliss said appellant wanted police to shoot him. appellant ran outside. his st about an emergency call placed from the elmcroft address. delvalle and maybury were christopher johnson, in a marked chevrolet tahoe, also heard the broadcast. delvalle, maybury and johnson (hereafter, the three deputies) each had a 9-millimeter semiautomatic beretta. 3 patrol car drove onto elmcroft, delvalle saw appellant run into the middle of the street. appellant was 20 to 30 yards north of delvalle. appellant was holding a semiautomatic handgun and a bottle of liquor. appellant was pacing. when pacing, appellant was holding the gun in his right hand, at his side, and the gun was pointed down. the three deputies exited their vehicles. mpassenger door, respectively, of the patrol car. johnson was standing nearby, behind the open passenger door of the tahoe. the three deputies were pointing their guns at appellant and yelling for him to delvalle testified appellant walked towards the deputies, leaned forward, and, using his left hand (which was holding the bottle), pointed to his forein his right hand behind his back. appellant walked several feet closer. right hand with the gun and points it at uhe the three deputies returned fire. appellant, who, up to this point, had been standing, fell and dropped the gun. delvalle also testified thathose shots appeared to be fired towards [delvalle].appellant walked several steps when firing. during cross-examination, delvalle testified appellant was shot when he was arm in the air, appellant fire from a crouched position, or appellant shoot when he was on the ground. at the area adjacent to 4 johnson testified as follows. as johnson approached elmcroft, he saw appellant running with a gun to the middle of the street. the three deputies were close to each other. when the three entered elmcroft in their vehicles, the patrol car was near the west curb and the tahoe was in the middle of the street and a little behind the patrol car. johnson also testified as follows. during the incident, appellant was moving around and facing the three deputies. appellant pulled the gun from behind his back, , appellant was holding it johnson then repeatedly fired at appellant. after johnson saw the muzzle flash of during the standoff, johnson was about 25 yards from appellant. during cross-examination, johnson testified that at some point appellant was on appellant later got off his knees with the gun behind his back. when appellant, using his right hand, brought the gun from behind his back in a threatening manner, johnson began shooting. johnson might have fired before appellant fired. johnson saw the muzzle flash was uncertain whether johnson coming out or when its muzzle flashed. johnson did not remember whether he fired after he saw the muzzle flash. johnson testified it hearing appellantgun maybury testified as follows. during the incident, appellant got on his hands and was behind his leg about four or five seconds. appellant then abruptly began walking towards the deputies, raised his gun towards the deputies, and fired. maybury returned knee, but maybury did n 5 kathleen winstead testified as follows. winstead was on the porch of her residence at 11708 elmcroft. during the incident, she saw appellant bow three times and behind his back, his hand was where his belt would be. appellant brought his hand up, fired, and police returned fire. the court observed winstead raised her right hand and arm to shoulder level when she testified appellant brought his hand up. winstead then hand in front of him appellant brought his hand in front of him, he fired. appellant was struck by bullets and fell to his knees. shots were not fired when appellant fell to his knees. appellant eventually lay down. winstead also testified appellant was not aiming at anyone but just brought his hand up and shot. winstead, amplifying on that testimony, gestured, and the court indicated winstead, by her gesture, was testifying appellant did not use two hands to shoot. according to winstead, appellant fired twice. nothing was obstructing e returned fire. winstead could not see where the police were exactly but knew they were at the end of the street. johnathan winstead (johnathan), the 71-year-old husband of winstead, testified as follows. johnathan heard gunshots and a woman scream, and he called 911. police arrived probably 15 or 20 minutes later. during that period, appellant was walking back and forth down the street. johnathan thought that, during that period, appellant shot in the air, but johnathan was uncertain. police arrived and appellant walked towards them. police were telling appellant to drop his gun. appellant had a gun behind his back. johnathan thought appellant was holding the gun in his right hand. johnathan testified appellant took his hand from behind his back forward, pointing foappellant engaged in the above discussed conduct, he shot his gun once and police 6 returned fire. johnathan believed appellant shot in the air two or three times before police arrived. johnathan vaguely remembered police interviewing him after the incident. during that interview, johnathan denied seeing appellant shoot. follows. a gun was found at the crime scene. appellant would have been standing near cartridge cases in the middle of the street. the distance between the cartridge cases and exited into the wheel well. the bullcame to rest inside the left front tire of the tahoe. inches off the ground and the bullet entered the fender and passed through the wheel well in a straight line. the bullet did not ricochet off the ground and was fired from approximately12 inches off the ground. the trajectory of the bullet most likely did not result from a person shooting from the shoulder and did not result from a person shooting from the hip. determined five cartridges found at the crime scene were fired from the gun found at the to that gun, but chavez could not say the bullet was fired from that gun. if the deputies were using 9-millimeter semiautomatic berettas, the deputies did not shoot tire. 2. defense evidence. in defense, sylvia comparini, a physician specializing in forensic pathology, testified as follows. appellant was shot multiple times. comparini came to conclusions wounds and the order in which they were inflicted. she did an [was] 7 the first bullet that struck appellant went through the middle back portion of his upper right arm, and exited about four to six inches from his right shoulder. comparini arm at least at 180-degree from the body exposing the . . . sic.) it was o his body, otherwise his elbow would have been shattered. the first bullet that struck him, it caused him to rotate with the result he was shot in the leg. the last bullet wou during cross-examination, comparini denied knowing whether appellant pointed his gun at deputies before he was shot. rce was justified if, inter alia, a suicidal person who had a gun behind his back raised it in the air and fired. the detective testified he could understand firing in the air and the deputy was confident no one was in danger. issues appellant claims (1) insufficient evidence supports his convictions and (2) the trial court committed instructional error. discussion 1. appellant claims insufficient evidence supports his convictions. we disagree. the jury convicted appellant on three counts of assault on a peace officer with a semiautomatic firearm in violation of penal code section 245, subdivision (d)(2). as appellant observes, the trial court, using calcrim no. 860, instructed on the elements of that offense. there is no dispute calcrim no. 860 correctly states the law. indeed, there is no real dispute as to the sufficiency of the evidence except as to the first four 8 enumerated elements in calcrim no. 860 which, if satisfied, establish assault with a firearm.1 if there is substantial evidence a defendant, with the requisite criminal mental state for assault with a firearm, and with the present ability to apply force with a firearm to a person, concurrently engages in certain acts, there is substantial evidence the defendant committed assault with a firearm. those certain acts include (1) drawing the firearm and holding it in such a position as enables the defendant to use it before the person could it against the person, (2) presenting the firearm at a person who is within its range, (3) pointing the firearm, not at, but towards, the person, (4) pointing the firearm, not at, but downward, between persons, with the firearm thus in a position to be used instantly, (5) pointing the firearm at the person, and/or (6) firing the firearm at the person. (people v. raviart (2001) 93 cal.app.4th 258, 262-264 (raviart).) 1 of this crime, the people must prove that: [] 1. the defendant did an act with a semiautomatic firearm that by its nature would directly and probably result in the application of force to a person; [] 2. the defendant did that act willfully; [] 3. when the defendant acted, he was aware of facts that would lead a reasonable person to realize that his act by its nature would directly and probably result in the application of force to someone; [] 4. when the defendant acted, he had the present ability to apply force with a semiautomatic firearm to a person; [] 5. when the defendant acted, the person assaulted was lawfully performing his duties as a peace officer; [] and [] 6. when the defendant acted, he knew, or reasonably should have (italics added.) 9 the testimony of a single witness is sufficient to support a conviction unless the testimony describes facts or events that are physically impossible or inherently improbable. (people v. young (2005) 34 cal.4th 1149, 1181.) in the present case, there was ample, credible evidence from the testimony of not merely one witness, but the testimony of the three deputies, winstead, and johnathan that appellant, with the requisite mental state and present ability, and as part of a continuum, effectively engaged in all of the six above enumerated acts. there was sufficient evidence to convince a rational trier of fact, beyond a reasonable doubt, appellant committed assault on a peace officer with a semiautomatic firearm (counts 1 through 3). (ochoa, supra, 6 cal.4th at p. 1206; raviart, supra, 93 cal.app.4th at pp. 262-266.) concerning allegedly conflicting evidence compel a contrary conclusion. (see people v. hernandez (1990) 219 cal.app.3d 1177, 1181-1182.) 2. no instructional error occurred. appellant claims the trial court committed instructional error. he makes four main arguments. first, appellant arguefor purposes of the crime of assault on a peace officer with a semiautomatic firearm (counts 1 through 3). however, the court gave the jury calcrim no. 860, which contained all the elements of assault (relating them to assault on a peace officer with a semiautomatic firearm). (see the italicized portion of fn. 1, ante.) calcrim no. 860 adequately instructed on the definition of assault; therefore, no error occurred. second, appellant argues the trial court erred by failing to instruct on assault, assault with a deadly weapon, and assault on a person with a semiautomatic firearm (pen. code,  245, subd. (b)) as lesser-included offenses of assault on a peace officer with a semiautomatic firearm. he sug10 together, there was substantial evidence appellant engaged in various conduct2 in response to which the three deputies prematurely fired at appellant and thus used excessive force, with the result each deputy was his . . . . appellant therefore further suggests that, while he reacted to the excessive force by assaulting the three deputies, he thereby committed only the above mentioned lesser-included offenses and not assault upon a peace officer with a semiautomatic weapon. however, there was no substantial evidence appellant committed only assault (absent any firearm). similarly, there was no substantial evidence appellant committed assault with a deadly weapon that was not a semiautomatic firearm (or assault with a firearm that was not a semiautomatic firearm). a trial court has no duty to instruct on a lesser-included offense when there is no substantial evidence to support the instruction. (people v. souza (2012) 54 cal.4th 90, 115-116.) as to whether the trial court erred by failing to instruct on assault on a person with a semiautomatic firearm (pen. code,  245, subd. (b)) as a lesser-included offense of assault on a peace officer with a semiautomatic firearm, we note the following. ante) was he was weapon towards the police cruiser approximately twelve inches from the ground. however, given the close proximity of the three deputies and their vehicles, and the significant distance between, on the one hand, said deputies and their vehicles and, on the other, appellant, there was substantial evidence that if appellant was crouched and 2 as to appedeputies to engage in order to fulfill [his] 11 in the third scenario, appellant was committing, as to each of the three deputies, assault on a peace officer with a semiautomatic firearm; therefore, the three deputies, by firing at appellant in response, did not use excessive force. it follows appellant did not react to excessive force by committing the lesser-included offense of assault on a person with a semiautomatic firearm and thus the court did not err. that appellant did exactly what the three deputies essentially testified he did, i.e., as to each of the three deputies, appellant committed assault on a peace officer with a semiautomatic firearm in an effort to cause them to kill appellant. further, the court, using calcrim no. 860, told the jury elements of the present offenses were that peace officers were lawfully performing duties as peace officers and appellant knew or reasonably should have known they were peace officers performing their duties. the jury, so instructed, expressly found as to each count the respective peace officer was excessive force with the result they were not engaged in the performance of their duties within the meaning of that subdivision. accordingly, even if the trial court erred by failing to instruct on assault on a person with a semiautomatic firearm (or by failing to instruct on any other offense) as a lesser-included offense of assault on a peace officer with a semiautomatic firearm, the error was not prejudicial. (cf. people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 178 (breverman); people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 (watson).) third, appellant argues the trial court erred by failing to instruct on brandishing a firearm (pen. code,  417, subd. (a)(2)) as a lesser offense of assault on a peace officer with a semiautomatic firearm. we disagree. brandishing a firearm is not a lesser-included offense of assault with a firearm (people v. steele (2000) 83 cal.app.4th 212, 218 (steele); cf. people v. escarcega (1974) 43 cal.app.3d 391, 393, 396-400; contra, people v. wilson (1967) 66 cal.2d 749, 764); therefore, the trial court had no duty to 12 instruct on brandishing as a lesser-included offense of assault on a peace officer with a semiautomatic firearm. brandishing is a lesser-related offense of assault with a firearm. (steele, supra, 83 cal.app.4th at p. 218.) however, during jury deliberations, the prosecutor objected to the court giving the jury an instruction on brandishing as a lesser-related offense of assault on a peace officer with a semiautomatic firearm. an instruction on a lesser-related offense is proper only upon the mutual assent of the parties. (people v. taylor (2010) 48 cal.4th 574, 622.) given the prosecutorobjection, the court did not err by failing to instruct on brandishing. (ibid.)3 fourth, appellant argues the trial court erred by failing to instruct sua sponte on self-defense. however, first, a defendant does not have the right of self-defense if the defendant provokes a fight or quarrel with intent to create an excuse to use force. (people v. ramirez (2015) 233 cal.app.4th 940, 947.) even if self-defense were otherwise available to appellant, it was unavailable here because appellant, when displaying the gun, provoked a fight or quarrel with the three deputies with (1) the intent of causing them to shoot at him and (2) the intent of thereby creating an excuse to use force against them. second, there was no substantial evidence appellant subjectively believed either (1) he was in imminent danger of being killed or suffering great bodily injury, or (2) the immediate use of deadly force was necessary to defend against that danger. no witnesses te-defense was inapplicable. (cf. people v. hill (2005) 131 cal.app.4th 1089, 1102.) 3 even if the trial court erred by failing to instruct on brandishing as a lesser offense, of assault on a peace officer with a semiautomatic firearm. appellant concedes we review under the watson standard any trial court error in failing to instruct on a lesser-related offense. any trial court error in failing to instruct on brandishing as a lesser-included or lesser-related offense of assault on a peace officer with a semiautomatic firearm was not prejudicial. (cf. breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 178; watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836.) 13 finally, after the court gave the jury calcrim no. 860, the jury found each of the three deputies was engaged in the performance of his duties, a finding inconsistent with a conclusion they engaged in an unlawful assault warranting action by appellant in self-defense. any trial court error in failing to instruct on self-defense was harmless under any conceivable standard. (cf. watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836; chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 [17 l.ed.2d 705].) no instructional error occurred. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports kitching, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. egerton, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 