filed 2/24/15 p. v. thurwachter ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. mark thurwachter, defendant and appellant. b254688 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na091292) appeal from the judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. james b. pierce, judge. affirmed. valerie g. wass, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and garett a. gorlitsky, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * * * * * 2 defendant and appellant mark thurwachter was convicted by jury of first degree murder. finding the murder was in the first degree. we conclude the record contains substantial evidence the murder was willful, deliberate and premeditated, and therefore affirm. factual and procedural background we summarize only those facts material to the question of premeditation and deliberation. in february 2012, defendant lived in a mobile home park in long beach, as did the victim, marvin williams. defendant and mr. williams had been friends, but they had a disagreement about money sometime before 2010 and were no longer on good terms. defendant repeatedly told friends and family that mr. williams had stolen $5,000 from him. patricia and carl young were two of the people to whom defendant regularly complained about mr. williams. the youngs were a married couple who had been staying in the mobile home park for several months each year since 1996, and knew both defendant and mr. williams. during their visits from december 2010 through march 2011, and again in december 2011, the youngs occupied a space next to defendant, so they would see him basically every day. they had known mr. williams since 1996. mr. williams was a handyman of sorts and had done odd jobs for the youngs over the years. between december 2010 and march 2011, patricia young heard defendant make threats or complain about mr. williams at least two dozen times, including saying he was when the youngs came back to the mobile home park in december 2011, defendant angrily complained and made negative comments ken mr. williams to court but that all of the he therefore did not recover any money from mr. williams. by that point in time, defendant was claiming the amount mr. williams owed him was $25,000. mrs. young explained that when defendant 3 initially made the threats against mr. williams, he sounded aggravated and would yell, but by december 2011 mrs. young also recalled defendant saying he had a gun, a 45-caliber taurus, as well as ammunition. she heard him talking about it on at least one occasion with her husband, who is a former police officer and knowledgeable about guns. however, mrs. mr. young recalled hearing defendant make threatening statements about mr. mother-[f-----] head off. i hate that son-of-a-defendant also complained that mr. williams was pestering him, throwing rocks at his mobile home and committing other acts of vandalism. mr. young never saw mr. williams do any of those things; he just heard defendant say mr. williams was doing them. on the day before the youngs left the mobile home park the last time before the incident, mr. young saw defendant with a gun. defendant told him he had purchased a 45-caliber handgun. defendant showed it to mr. young, and then told him and mr. young should not tell anybody that he had the gun. defendant also regularly complained to his brother joel about mr. williams, claiming he stole money from him and that he was going to shoot him. some time at the end of 2011, wesley rumsey, another resident of the mobile home park, saw an altercation between defendant and mr. williams. they were about 50 feet away from his trailer, talking in loud voices. defendant threw a punch at mr. all you mr. williams about the altercation, and believed mr. williams did not take threat seriously. around this same time, defendant approached another resident of the park named vincent mangielli. defendant asked mr. mangielli if he knew anyone who would . . . up mr. willia thought it was a very odd thing to say. mr. mangielli told mr. williams what defendant had said. 4 on february 1, 2012, kimberly clarke was inside her trailer with her boyfriend, mr. mangielli. they occupied the first space and saw the other residents coming and going all the time. around 5:00 in the evening, she and mr. mangielli saw defendant drive into the park. it was just starting to get dark outside. mr. mangielli left to go over to the community shower room to take a shower. on his way over, he saw defendant standing outside his trailer staring up at the sky. while mr. mangielli was showering, ms. clarke remained inside their trailer, preparing dinner. she had the front door open and heard what sounded like she thought it might be her cat, so she stepped outside the door and looked around. she saw defendant a few trailers down, walking away from his trailer . sometime later, perhaps 30 or 45 minutes, mr. mangielli had returned from taking a shower and they were eating dinner. they heard a loud noise that ms. clarke believed was a gunshot. sharon andrews was mr. wis girlfriend and lived with him in his trailer. on the evening of february 1, 2012, she got home around 6:30. she and mr. williams were about to start dinner, when mr. williams went outside to lock up his truck. ms. andrews heard a noise, somethi but did not recognize what it was. within a minute or so, she heard a loud bang. ms. andrews heard mr. williams yell out a curse and make some sort of choking noise. when she went outside, mr. williams was lying on the ground, bleeding. the medical examiner determined mr. williams died from a single fatal gunshot trailer, and the bullet recovered s chest wound, established that the bullet used to kill mr. williama type of bullet which folds back and expands upon impact, causing a larger sometime in the early morning hours of february 2, defendant appeared at his brother joelbrother he needed to leave town for awhile, or possibly leave the country. defendant 5 asked his brother to get a list of things from his trailer for him. joel told him he would not do so, and also told him that if he had done anything stupid, he should not contact him. joel did not hear from defendant again until he was arrested. in late march 2012, defendant was arrested in cleveland, ohio. defendant was charged by information with one count of possession of a firearm by a felon (pen. code,  29800, subd. (a)(1); count 1), and one count of first degree murder ( 187, subd. (a); count 2). it was also specially alleged as to count 2 that defendant personally used a firearm and personally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury in the commission of the offense ( 12022.53, subds. (b)-(d)). it was further alleged defendant had suffered two prior serious felonies ( 273.5). defendant pled not guilty and denied the special allegations. during trial, defendant withdrew his not guilty plea on count 1 and entered a plea of no contest. the jury convicted defendant of first degree murder on count 2 and found the special firearm allegations true. the court sentenced defendant to a 25-years-to-life term on the murder charge, plus a consecutive 25-years-to-life term for the firearm use enhancement. the court imposed a consecutive 8-month term on count 1, awarded defendant 644 days of custody credits and imposed various fines and fees. this appeal followed. discussion defendant contends there is insufficient evidence the killing of mr. williams was willful, deliberate and premeditated and that his conviction on count 2 should therefore be reduced to second degree murder. we disagree. review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a people v. rodriguez (199review is the same in cases in which the prosecution relies mainly on circumstantial 6 (ibidno hypothesis whatever is there sufficient substantial evidence to support [the people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 331; accord, people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 577 (manriquez).) in people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15, 26-27 (anderson), the supreme court evidence of planning activity, preexisting motive, and manner of killingthat assist in reviewing the sufficiency of the evidence supporting (people v. mendoza (2011) 52 cal.4th 1056, 1069.) however, the canderson did not purport to establish an exhaustive list that would exclude all other types and combinations of evidence that could [citat [citation.] (mendoza, at p. 1069; accord, people v. perez (1992) 2 cal.4th 1117, 1125, and manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. anderson was simply intended to guide an e that the killing occurred as the result of preexisting reflection rather than unconsidered or rash impulse killed mr. williams. instead, he argues there is a lack of credible evidence the killing was in the first degree. defendant concedes there was evidence of motive, but urges the evidence is otherwise insufficient as to planning and manner of killing because: (1) there andrews could have been the result of a provoking incident between mr. williams and defendant before the gun was fired; (3) the threats by defendant were not made in close proximity to the shooting; (4) mr. williams was shot only once and not multiple times to ensure his death; (5) mr. williams was shot in the early evening when other residents could have been around as witnesses; and (6) even mr. williams did not take threats seriously. we are not persuaded. 7 the record contains ample, credible evidence of all three anderson factors, substantial evidence upon which the jury could have reasonably rested its first degree murder finding. as for planning and deliberation, mr. williams were circumstantial evidence of a preconceived plan to kill mr. williams when the time was right. a month before the shooting, defendant purchased a gun, on the night of the shooting, defendant was standing outside his trailer staring up into the sky, and as it grew dark, defendant started to walk in a slow and deliberate manner away from his trailer. the shooting occurred within 30 to 45 minutes thereafter, raising a reasonable s residence, with a loaded firearm, waited for his opportunity to shoot him, and did so with precision once mr. williams stepped outside to lock up his truck. such evidence supports an inference of the requisite degree of reflection, planning and intent to killfirearm but engaged in no other conduct indicative of premeditation. (see people v. lee (2011) 51 cal.4th 620, 636 [fact the defe people v. young people v. steele (2002) 27 cal.4th 1230, 1250 [evidence the defendant took a knife into the ; people v. martinez (1987) 193 cal.app.3d 364, 371 [evidence of threats of harm by the defendant against his girlfriend occurring over a significant period of time supported the inferen 8 as for motive, there was overwhelming evidence of long-simmering antipathy for mr. williams as a consequence of losing his lawsuit against mr. williams. a month before the shooting, defendant also physically assaulted mr. williams and strong evidence of motive. as for the manner of killing, the testimony of the medical examiner and the firearms expert established that mr. williams was shot at relatively close range, in the heart, with a hollow-point bullet designed to expand upon impact and cause a wide wound path and greater injury than a standard bulletto the contrary, there was no credible evidence -- -- of a pre-shooting altercation that precipitated the shooting. ms. andrews, who was inside mr. s trailer at the time the fatal shot was fired just outside, did not hear any iams crying out in pain, cursing and making a choking noise. (people v. thompson (2010) 49 cal.4th 79, 114-close-range shooting without any provocation or evidence of a struggle, reasonably ; people v. koontz (2002) 27 cal.4th 1041, 1081-1082 [manner of killing in which the defendant fired a shot, at close .) disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed. grimes, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. rubin, j. 