filed 7/6/15 p. v. mendez ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jesus mendez, defendant and appellant. b254376 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba399348) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. ronald h. rose, judge. affirmed. kim malcheski, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and tasha g. timbadia, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________________________ 2 a jury found defendant jesus mendez guilty of first degree murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a))1 (count 1) and second degree robbery ( 211) (count 2). in both counts, the jury found defendant personally and intentionally used and discharged a firearm causing death within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b), (c), and (d). the jury found defendant committed the murder while engaged in the commission of the robbery within the meaning of section 190.2, subdivision (a)(17). the trial court imposed a sentence of life without the possibility of parole for the murder with the special allegation. the court sentenced defendant to the upper term of five years for the robbery and stayed the sentence under section 654. the court imposed a consecutive sentence of 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement in both counts under section 12022.53, subdivision (d) and stayed the enhancement in count 2. the court stayed the remaining firearm enhancements. defendant appeals on the grounds that: (1) the trial court committed reversible federal constitutional error under the fifth and fourteenth amendments by permitting the prosecutor to elicit highly prejudicial testimony about his alleged gang membership and tattoos; and (2) defense counsel was ineffective under the sixth and fourteenth amendments for failing to object to the highly prejudicial testimony regarding gangs. facts prosecution evidence on the morning of april 19, 2012, police officers responding to a call found the body of jamie abuawad outside his suv parked on west 81st street in los angeles. abuawad died of multiple gunshot wounds. abuawad was in the business of buying gold. he employed two women to pass out his business cards on the street and house to house in various los angeles neighborhoods. abuawad would respond to telephone calls from potential sellers of gold by immediately driving to meet them. he would pay cash for the gold he bought. 1 all further references to statutes are to the penal code unless stated otherwise. 3 a resident of west 81st street testified at trial that he noticed a young man sitting on a wall outside his residence at approximately 11:00 a.m. on the day of the shooting. the resident removed his trash cans from the street and went back inside his home. later, he looked outside and saw the young man talking on the phone. the resident went back inside and shortly thereafter heard two or three gunshots in rapid succession. he went outside and saw abuawad lying on the ground. the resident described the young man he had seen on the wall as being dark-skinned, slender, and having a tattoo on his right cheek. he identified defendant as this man in a photographic lineup and at trial. s testified that she and her coworker often distributed cards in the neighborhood of west 81st street where abuawad was shot. detectives recognized. she remembered seeing defendant on west 82nd street, almost in the location where the shooting occurred. she saw her coworker give him a business card and speak with him. wo to an individual who had lost his cell phone some days before. the individual was handicapped and had mental challenges. his phone had been used to call abuawad four times. police looked at the other numbers called on the cell phone and traced some calls to a young girl who was the sister of pictures on another phone in her possession. one of the photographs was of defendant. she identified defendant, who lived on west 80th street, to police. defendant was brought to the police station for an interview. detectives spoke to defendant and then left him alone for a time. defendant subsequently asked to speak to the detectives. this interview was recorded and played at trial. defendant told the abuawad at gunpoint, and abuawad tried to grab the gun, so defendant started shooting. 4 sold the gun. he told the detectives, detective john ferreria testified that he and his partner, detective myra kellum, had previously presented defendant with the theme or scenario about a robbery gone bad interview strategy. detective ferreria had defendant turn over his shoes at the interview to compare them to a shoeprint found on the discarded cell phone in the alley. the afterwards, detective ferreria placed defendant in a cell with an informant in recorded and played for the jury. the informant, called mr. johnson, asked defendant -crthe police had him for robbery-murder or just murder, defendant said he did not know. detective ferreria testified that he never told defendant or anyone in his family that he was going to takquestions, explained terminology from the recorded conversation in the cell as well as certain aspects of gang culture. 5 defense evidence defendant offered no evidence in his behalf. discussion i. admission of testimony regarding gangs defendant contends the trial court abused its discretion and committed reversible federal constitutional error under the fourteenth amendment by admitting highly were irrelevant to the charges against him. b. relevant authority relevant evidence is evidence witness or hearsay declarant, having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action. (evid. code,  210.) the trial court has wide discretion in determining the relevancy of evidence. (people v. garceau (1993) 6 cal.4th 140, 177.) evidence pertaining to gangs and gang membership may be relevant to a number of issues in a criminal trial (people v. harris (1985) 175 cal.app.3d 944, 957), as well as to credibility (people v. ayala (2000) 23 cal.4th 225, 276-277). when such evidence meets the test of relevancy, it is admissible unless the probative value of the evidence clearly is outweighed by its prejudicial effect. (evid. code,  352; people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 193; people v. cardenas (1982) 31 cal.3d 897, 904-905 (cardenas).) the jury will improperly infer that the defendant has criminal propensities, acted in accordance with such propensities, and is therefore guilty of the charged offense. (williams, at p. 193.) the admission of gang evidence over an evidence code section 352 objection will not be disturbed on appeal unless the trial courts decision exceeds the bounds of reason. (people v. williams (2008) 43 cal.4th 584, 634-635; people v. funes (1994) 23 cal.app.4th 1506, 1519.) appellate courts rarely find an abuse of discretion 6 under evidence code section 352. (people v. ramos (1982) 30 cal.3d 553, 598, fn. 22, reversed on other grounds in california v. ramos (1983) 463 u.s. 992, 997.) evidence code section 1101, subdivision (a) may prohibit the admission of gang people v. lindberg (2008) 45 cal.4th 1, 22.) section affects the admissibility of evidence offered to support or attack the credibility of people v. harrison (2005) 35 cal.4th 208, 229.) c. proceedings below section 402 hearing was held. the trial court told defense counsel he could object if the prosecutor failed to lay a foundation for the recording. defense counsel also objected on confrontation clause grounds. the trial court found the audio-visual recording admissible, since the circumstances of its recording were no different than having the detective inside the cell when it occurred. the defense could fully cross-examine the detective. upon retaking the stand, detective ferreria explained that the detectives placed test his statements to us during robbery and murder and, if so, his or her identity. he then explained that the recording was done as he watched and listened. defense counsel had no objections to the transcript that was distributed to the jury, and the recording was played in its entirety. after the viewing of the dvd, the prosecutor asked detective ferreria if he row down with me?,defendant asking what was wrong with the building. the prosecutor elicited that johnson -american descent and hispanics are not 7 generally housed together. defendant was expressing his concern about being in a cell whether the detective had heard of that and how. detective ferreria responded that he ,a 13, a hispanic gang. defense counsel objected, and the trial court sustained the objection but called for a sidebar conference. defense counsel told the court that, in addition to the fact that detective ferreria was not a gang expert, he was discussing gangs, which was completely and grossly prejudicial to defendant. when asked to state the relevance of the testimony, the prosecutor replied that she wanted to reveal defendantremorse in the conversation with johnson. she anticipated the defense would try to claim defendant showed remorse when he spoke with the two detectives. the court stated it was inclined to allow the testimony only to show asserted that the jury should be informed that was the sole purpose of the testimony. making this statecourt overruled the prior objection. the prosecutor then elicited that detective ferreria had previously testified as a gang expert. he explained that the florencia 13 gang is a predominantly hispanic gang, and the 6 deuce brims gang, claimed by johnson in the recording, is a predominantly is the east coast crips. the prosecutor elicited the d after several questions unrelated to gangs, the prosecutor asked detective ferreria if he knew what a burner was. he said it was a gun, and he had heard the term when talking with gang members. after several more questions, the prosecutor asked the 8 johnson as being in the cells that day. the detective stated it meant the 18th street gang or a member of that gang. the prosecutor asked if friendly or not, and the court overruled the defense relevance objection. the court denied the defense request to approach. detective ferreria said the two gangs were currently enemies and were enemies in june 2012, when defendant was arrested. defense counsel chose not to cross-examine detective ferreria, and the people rested. upon reading the jury instructions, the trial court gave the following instruction: d purpose. you may consider may consider evidence of gang activity only for the limited purpose of deciding if [sic] de those statements in the jail. you may not consider this evidence for any other purpose. you may not conclude from this evidence that the defendant is a person of bad character or that he has a disposition to during closing argument, detective that there are politics that go on when it comes to being in custody . . . . and edge. . . . this defendant, agang member of african-american gang. all right. that is an issue. now, you heard member. you obviously convict him because of the evidence in this case and the crimes told the detectives in context and in tone. . . . [y]ou start to see his true personality. that, oh, remorsefulness, oh, this just happened, woe is me, you know, fur 9 d. no prejudicial error defendant does not argue against admission of the recording of his conversation with johnson in the jail cell, but only detective ferrerias testimony elicited by the prosecutor after the recording was played for the jury. defendant specifically objects to intains that the gang-related testimony was not relevant, it created a substantial danger of undue prejudice and misleading of the jury, and it was inadmissible bad-character evidence and other-crimes evidence under evidence code section 1101, subdivisions (a) and (b). furthermore, the testimony constituted a violation of his right to a fair trial under the prejudice. the only issue in this case was whether defendant was guilty of first or second degree murder. the prosecutor argued defendant intended to shoot abuawad so as not to leave any witnesses. the defense argued there was no evidence he planned to kill the victim, and it was a robbery gone wrong, just as defendant said. there were essentially two ways the defense could obtain the desired second degree murder verdict: by proving that defendant did not premeditate and deliberate the murder, or by an exercise of leniency on the part of the jury. (see people v. lewis (2001) 25 cal.4th 610, 656 [verdicts reached on basis of lenity, compromise, or mistake are not invalid].) in addition to arguing that there was no evidence that defendant planned to kill the victim, counsel argued that defendant was remorseful and defendant for having a conscience and feeling bad about the crime. he began argument by noting that defendant had lost his job, had small children whom he could not feed, and was in the country illegally and unable to obtain social services. as a result, and to find it was a case of second degree murder. the prosecutor clearly anticipated this strategy and, for this reason, was relying on 10 remorse is not a defense, as defendant points out, but it can send a message to the jury that elicits sympathy on the part of some of them. in thtoward his crimes is ultimately a credibility issuean issue to which gang evidence is recognized as relevant. (people v. ayala, supra, 23 cal.4th at p. 277.) we note that defendant insists that the trial court erred in finding the evidence relevant based on was relevant was the state of mind defendant had when committing the crimes. clearly, the trial court was not referring to the mens rea element of the crimes defendant really thought about the crimes he committed and his confession, as revealed by his conversation with johnson. furthermore, having investigated f13 murder casesrecitations of his qualifications to testify about gangs. defense counsel had objected not onldetective ferreria, the prosecutor asked the detective the basis of his knowledge, and he [h] ant asserts. moreover, we evidence code section 1101, subdivision (a), as defendant claims. the remark about having investigated murders involving f13 was made in the context of the detecexperience, and no specific crimes were mentioned. defendant down so that defendant would talk to him. johnson repeatedly says defendant 11 explained he was more concerned about his problems as a three-you-that johnson was -crimes evidence or bad-character evidence in violation of evidence code section 1101, subdivision (a). disposition to commit the instant crime, and the from gang relationships at that point. never suggested the robbery was a gang operation. argument was to reiterate the circumstance that johnson was not the type of person one because of the edefendantcallousness and self-absorption. contrary to what he told the officers, defendant was more confamily. furthermore, the trial court twice instructed the jury that the sole purpose for the in any event, we conclude defendant was not unduly prejudiced by the testimony to which he objects. 12 merely because it strongly implicates a defendant and casts him or her in a bad light . . . . instead, undue prejudice a party as an individual, while having only slight probative value with regard to the people v. robinson (2005) 37 cal.4th 592, 632, fn. omitted.) defendant did not dispute that he shot abuawad. he admitted his crimes in two loaded gun to confront abuawad, and his leaving him for dead while taking with him incriminating evidence suwillingness to commit violent acts. the two points defendant most disputes were tangential to the bulk of the people v. luparello (1986) 187 cal.app.3d 410, 426-427 (luparello) [finding a lack of prejudice luparello, considering the evidence connecting [defendant] to a violent street gang although hardly desirable from point of view did not have the impact it might otherwise have had.ibid.) the cases defendant relies upon are distinguishable. in cardenas, supra, 31 cal.3d 897, the issue was whether the appellant committed the crime, and the testimony id. at p. 901.) the identification testimony contained many discrepancies, and the appellant had an alibi. (id. at pp. 902903.) the prosecutor attacked the credibility of defense witnesses by eliciting testimony that the appellant and they were all members of the el monte flores gang. (id. at p. 903.) the cardenas court held that the trial court abused its discretion by allowing the introduction of the id. at p. 904.) the court found that the evidence was cumulative and of minimal probative value in that it was offered only to establish the friends and fellow boys club members. (ibid.) on the other hand, there was a substantial danger of undue prejudice in the form of the jury inferring the appellant had a criminal disposition because the gang committed crimes and he was a member. (id. at p. 905.) 13 in the instant case, unlike in cardenas, the evidence of which defendant complains was not cumulative to any other evidence. furthermore, defendant admitted to his crimes, and the only issue was whether the murder was of the first or second degree. as we have stated, there was no substantial danger of undue prejudice from detective that involved f13 by way of establishing his credentials as a gang expert. the reference to the meaning of the ck tattoo was not prejudicial, since it was established that defendant had used violence to achieve an end. the testimony did not insinuate the robbery and murder were a gang operation. people v. maestas (1993) 20 cal.app.4th 1482, relied upon by defendant, could erroneous admission of gang evidence was prejudicial because the evidence of guilt was w-violence-fear-(ididentifications pointed to the defendants. (id. at pp. 1498, 1499.) the alibi defense was id. at p. 1499.) there was gang-(id. at p. 1500.) maestas in luparellothe f-offi-troop gang. (luparello, supra, 187 cal.app.3d at pp. 423426.) according to the luparello to inform the jury by innuendo not only that f-troop was a street gang whose members were suspected of committing homicides and other violent attacks on persons, but also that the gang was likely connected to the case in such a way that its members had id. at p. 426.) the evidence provided in the instant case bears no comparison to the evidence luparello, to which the officer merely 14 ng other crimes and his opinion on the meaning of indicated he was disposed to violence. as noted previously, the luparello court held that the prejudicial because the evidence of the acts of violence. (luparello, supra, 187 cal.app.3d at p. 426.) the luparello court also limiting instruction in the instant case, was one of the circumstances showing that it was not reasonably probable the jury would have reached a more favorable verdict in the absence of the misconduct. (id. at p. 427.) g, we necessarily conclude defendant suffered no violation of his right to due process and a fair trial under the fourteenth amendment. due process is violated only if there are no permissible inferences the jury may draw from the evidence. (people v. albarran (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 214, 229.) here, the admission of gang evidence was relevant to the principal issue in this case and was not unduly trial counsel was not ineffective for failing to object on every possible legal ground defendant raises on appeal. (see strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 697 [a examining the prejudice suffered by the defendant as a result of the alleged ].) 15 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. boren, p.j. we concur: ashmann-gerst, j. hoffstadt, j. 