filed 10/24/14 p. v. macias ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. albert gabriel macias, defendant and appellant. b254681 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba415233) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. drew e. edwards, judge. affirmed. jared g. coleman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson, supervising deputy attorney general, idan ivri, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 summary albert gabriel macias appeals from a judgment entered after the trial court found him guilty of one count of assault with a deadly weapon (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(1)).1 appellant contends the trial court abused its discretion by failing to treat the conviction as a misdemeanor. we affirm. fact and proceedings below i. prosecution evidence appellant was a 54-year-old transient who lived near el sereno park. angel diaz and guissepe lopez were volunteer workers at the el sereno recreational center. diaz testified that on august 10, 2013, he was sitting on the roots of a tree waiting to start work with lopez who was sitting to his side. according to diaz, appellant approached diaz and lopez repeatedly statnation and stepped toward lopez.2 diaz testified that although he later told the police that appellant had a knife, at trial diaz stated that lopez told diaz that appellant pulled a knife on him but diaz did not see a knife. diaz stated that he was not focused on awas unsure why a. lopez told appellant to leave three times and appellant then left. diaz and lopez went into the gym at the recreation center headed to the office. appellant followed them, saying they were snitches, and diaz responded that he was not a snitch and almost got into a fight with appellant. diaz state[a lopez testified that on august 10, 2013, he was standing talking to lopez who was sitting on a tree branch. lopez did not see appellant approach and did not notice him until he heard appellant saying 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 according to diaz, lopez remained sitting during the confrontation and appellant remained standing. 3 belt area. lopez looked down and saw a knife with a four to five inch blade. according to lopez he stood still while diaz confronted appellant and told appellant to put the knife away. appellant appeared to be intoxicated or on some type of drug. lopez tried to calm appellant down and told appellant to leave or walk away two or three times. diaz was getappellant. appellant walked awayand put the knife into his right back pocket and walked away. lopez was not injured. after the incident, diaz and lopez went into the recreational office. lopez reported the incident to janett briones, a park employee, who was in the office. lopez told briones what happened, including that appellant put a knife on him and that diaz and appellant had exchanged words. appellant then came into the officeappellant. briones asked appellant several times to leave the gym, but he refused. another employee suggested lopez file a police report, which he did later that day. lopez did not call 911, but reported the incident to police officers who were already at the park. city of los angeles police officer miguel nunez testified that he was working at el sereno park on august 10, 2013. officincident. officer nunez searched the park for evidence but did not find a knife. on august 17, 2013, officer nunez arrested appellant. appellant did not have a knife on his person at the time of his arrest. lapd detective maria arce-dominguez testified that on august 19, 2013, she was investigating the incident and called diaz to ask him what happened on august 10. diaz told detective arce-dominguez that he was at the park when appellant came up to lopez and placed a knife to his side. diaz identified a-dominguez that he saw the knife and described it as a regular pocketknife with a string tied to the end of it, and that 4 he was afraid that appellant would injure him with it as well. detective arce-dominguez also spoke to lopez, who also reported that appellant had approached him with a knife. ii. defense evidence appellant testified that he lived in an empty lot adjacent to the el sereno recreational center. he volunteered at the senior citizen center across the street and also helped local high school baseball players at the park. appellant had a history with park employee guissepe lopez. once, appellant walked into the gym and saw that lopez had his hands on a female employee. appellant time before this incident, lopez drove by aspecially affected appellant because he had been the victim of a drive-by shooting in the past. after this incident, ayou. i am going to clown you back. on august 10, 2013, abaseball field and was heading to the recreation center when he saw lopez and diaz at a tree. appellant noticed that lopez and diaz were smoking marijuana and methamphetamine from a pipe; they offered the pipe to appellant as he approached, but he declined. appellant was sober. appellant became upset that lopez was smoking because lopez volunteered as a youth referee and appellant was worried about the children. appellant began lecturing lopez about drugs. lopez became upset about the lecture. had played on him in the past. appellant approached lopez and diaz from the front and abruptly pulled out his phone. this scared lopez who asked if appellant was going to call the police. you want me to call them now? appellant then told diaz and lopez that he was just y. raiders. appellant never got behind lopez and was not carrying a knife. 5 appellant then went into the gym to get some hot water to make a cup of coffee. appellant came out of the restroom and saw lopez and diaz speaking to janett briones. lopez and diaz seemed confused and their voices were raised. appellant believed lopez and diaz were worried that appellant would report their drug use, and that they went to the office to complain about him first asked a see you in the morning, and left. he was arrested one week later. christian oliva was a recreation coordinator at el sereno park. oliva first met appellant when oliva started working at the park in december 2012. appellant lived at the park and oliva had never seen him be physically violent towards anybody. oliva characterized appellant as a nonviolent person. however, when the police attempted to arrest appellant on august 17, 2013, he was verbally unruly and refused to listen to the officers. jennifer rockwell was also an el sereno recreational center employee. she knew appellant because he had been living at the park, and she never saw him become physically violent with anybody. rockwell also characterized appellant as a nonviolent person. office. moore spoke to lopez on october 31, 2013, and november 12, 2013, about the incident with appellant. lopez told moore that he was walking to the recreation center from school and that he stopped to talk to diaz by the tree. appellant approached lopez and diaz and yelled, a knife from his iii. rebuttal evidence janett briones testified that on august 10, 2013, she was at the park watching a friend play softball. she went to her office to get a paper when she was approached by lopez and diaz. they told briones that appellant had just pulled a knife on them. appellant then entered the office as well. in the two to three years that briones had interacted with appellant prior to that day, she had never had problems with him and 6 however, when briones saw appellant on august 10, and he appeared to be under the influence of some substance. he said, iv. conviction and sentencing appellant waived his right to a jury trial. on january 17, 2014, the trial court found appellant guilty as charged. on february 24, 2014, appellant filed a motion under section 17, subdivision (b) seeking to have the trial court declare the offense a misdemeanor. the prosecution opposed the motion. on february 28, 2014, in bifurcated proceedings, appellant admitted to two of his three alleged prior convictions and the court found the third to be true after a bench trial. the trial court also denied avision (b) motion. after hearing argument, the court stated: have read and considered the opposition. i have heard oral argument. on [sic] my view this is not minor conduct on behalf of [appellant]. [appellant] did take a knife out. my recollection is the knife was held at the side of the victim in this line with felony conduct than also on february 28, 2014, the court denied probation and sentenced appellant to a total term of 21 years in state prison; specifically, the trial court sentenced appellant to the midterm of three years in prison, doubled to six years pursuant to the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (d) & (e)), and to five additional years for each of his three prior convictions under section 667, subdivision (a)(1). the court also imposed a restitution fine of $300 under section 1202.4, subdivision (b), and a parole revocation fine of $300 under section 1202.45. appellant received credit for 196 days of actual custody and 196 days of good time/work time credit for a total of 392 days. 7 appellant timely appealed. discussion on appeal, appellant contends that the trial court abused its discretion by failing to treat his assault with a deadly weapon conviction as a misdemeanor. in addition, ahis federal constitutional right to due process. we affirm. punishable, in the trial courts discretion, by imprisonment in either state prison or county jail. ( 245, subd. (a)(1); people v. park (2013) 56 cal.4th 782, 789-crime is punishable, in the discretion of the court, either by imprisonment in the state prison . . . or by fine or imprisonment in the county jail, it is a misdemeanor for all purposes . . . [] . . . [] (3) when the court grants probation to a defendant without imposition of sentence and at the time of granting probation, or on application of the defendant or probation officer thereafter, the court declares the offense to be a ( 17, subd. (b)(3).) the factors that guide the trial courts discretion in considering whether to reduce a conviction to a misdemeanor are summarized in people v. superior court (alvarez) (1997) 14 cal.4th 968, 978. there, the court held that while the applicability of the three strikes law to the defendantof the issue. (id. at p. 973.) trial courts retain discretion to determine whether a wobbler should be reduced to a misdemeanor at the time of sentencing. (id. at pp. 974-975.) the relevant defendants appreciation of and attitude toward the offense, . . . his traits of character as evidenced by his behavior and demeanor at the trial,s criminal (id. at pp. 978-979.) 8 the law gives the trial court broad discretion in determining whether to reduce a defendants conviction from a felony to a misdemeanor. offense] a wobbler, the legislature has determined that either a misdemeanor or a felony punishment may be appropriate in the discretion of the sentencing court. the legislature has also granted broad authority under the express terms of section 17(b) to make that determination. and, the legislature chose not to compromise the exercise of the courts discretion when it enacted the three strikes law. (people v. superior court (alvarez), supra, 14 cal.4th at pp. 980-981.) the burden of demonstrating an abuse of discretionthat the sentencing decision was arbitrary or irrationalis on the party challenging the sentence imposed by the court. (id. at p. 977.) in the absence of such a showing, the trial court is presumed to have acted to achieve legitimate sentencing objectives, and its discretionary determination to impose a particular sentence will not be (id. at pp. 977-978.) merely because reasonable people might disagree. authorized nor warra (id. at p. 978.) here, appellant has not met his burden in this case. appellant argues that it was short description of the crime alone,response to a specific argument from counsel about the current offense and aconduct. moreover, the courts statements indicate that it had reviewed and considered a denial was based upon consideration of additional relevant factors. nothing in the record indicates that in reaching its sentencing determination the trial court strayed beyond the factors that are appropriate or that the sentence was otherwise arbitrary or irrational. because we find the trial court did not abuse its discretion by declining to treat aault with a deadly weapon as a misdemeanor, we reject a. 9 disposition the judgment is affirmed. chaney, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. miller, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 