filed 6/8/15 p. v. lomeli ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. miguel a. lomeli, defendant and appellant. b255968 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka100072) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, bruce f. marrs, judge. affirmed. verna wefald, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, jason tran and stephanie c. santoro, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 in this appeal from multiple sex crime convictions, defendant miguel a. lomeli argues that the prosecutor use of peremptory challenges based on a prospective jurors race was unconstitutional as explained in batson v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 79, 97 (batson) and people v. wheeler (1978) 22 cal.3d 258, 276 (wheeler). he also argues that by precluding his expert from answering hypothetical questions. we find no error and affirm the judgment. facts and procedure in the spring of 2012, defendant moved in with his girlfriend and her three childrenh., b., and j. at the time defendant moved into their household, h. was six years old, and b. was eight years old. defendant sometimes babysat the children while their mother worked. h. and b. testified that defendant sexually abused them. 1. h. h. first reported the abuse to her babysitter nidia gonzalez. she told gonzalez that defendant touched her on a daily basis. gonzalez asked h. to describe how and when defendant touched her. h. responded that defendant licked her anus and vagina, put his penis in her hand, rubbed his penis on top of her vagina, and put his fingers inside her vagina and anus. after reporting the abuse to gonzalez, h. spoke to officer daniel jauregui. officer jauregui did not question her extensively and did not recall the specific questions he asked. h. told officer jauregui that defendant rubbed her and inserted his fingers in her vagina. later, h. told officer martha tate that defendant touched her and licked her private parts. h. also said that defendant touched her anus with his penis. nurse practitioner toyetta beukes examined h. and found that the condition of her genitalia neither confirmed nor denied the reported abuse. according to beukes, a person reaching the hymen, and if that occurred no signs of the abuse would appear during an examination. nurse beukes could not conclusively determine whether h. had been abused. when interviewed by child advocate susana flores, h. reported defendant touched her many times. he licked her and rubbed her with his penis. defendant removed her 3 underwear and touched her with his hand. defendant inserted his penis in her vagina. videotaped interview of h. was played for the jurors. flores testified that she was trained to ask open-ended questions to elicit a narrative. at trial, h. initially had difficulty remembering what happened. she testified defendant did something she did not like, but testified that she did not remember . she also did not remember other details. eventually, h. testified that defendant touched her vagina with his penis. h. further testified defendant rubbed her, put his tongue in her vagina, and touched her skin with his penis. defendant removed h.vagina. defendant also put his penis in her anus. h. testified defendant did not take her clothing off, but later testified inconsistently that he removed her pajama pants. h. testified that officer tate did not tell her what to say in court but did help her circle body parts on a diagram. h. later clarified that she circled the body parts where she had been touched. 2. b. b. also told her babysitter that defendant touched her. when asked by a police officer, b. first said defendant never touched her and later said defendant touched her buttocks. b. testified at trial that defendant touched her buttocks. b. saw defendant ask h. to go into the bedroom but did not see what happened in the bedroom. 3. defense defendant testified and denied any sexual contact with h. or b. defendant llegations because he confronted her when she removed food from the refrigerator. additional defense witnesses testified. dr. earl fuller, a gynecologist, testified that h.ged if defendant had inserted his finger or penis through the hymenal ring. dr. bradley mcauliff, a psychology professor, testified that the accuracy , questions that suggest information about an event. he recommended using only open-ended questions when interviewing a child who claimed to be a victim of sexual abuse. mcauliff did not interview h. or b., but watched a videotaped interview. 4 4. verdict and sentence jurors convicted defendant of two counts of sexual intercourse or sodomy with a child under 10 in violation of penal code section 288.7, subdivision (a), two counts of oral copulation or sexual penetration with a child under 10 in violation section 288.7, subdivision (b). jurors also convicted defendant of one count of a lewd act with a child in violation of penal code section 288, subdivision (a) and one count of attempted lewd act with a child. the court sentenced him to consecutive sentences totaling 50 years to life with the remaining sentences concurrent. discussion 1. jury selection defendant argues his conviction must be reversed due to the proseof jurors based on their race. we first summarize the relevant legal principles and the relevant background. we then explain why defgument lacks merit. a. legal principles our high court has thoroughly explained the relevant legal principles. a prosecutors use of peremptory challenges to excuse prospective jurors on the basis of group bias, including on grounds of race or ethnicity, violates the right of a criminal defendant to trial by a jury drawn from a representative cross-section of the community under article i, section 16 of the state constitution. [citations.] under batson, supra, 476 u.s. 79, such practice also violates the defendants right to equal protection under the fourteenth amendment. [citation.] [] strikes, the trial court follows a three-step procedure. first, the defendant must make out a prima facie case by showing that the totality of the relevant facts gives rise to an inference of discriminatory purpose. [citation.] second, once the defendant has made out a prima facie case, the burden shifts to the state to explain adequately the racial exclusion by offering permissible race-neutral justifications for the strikes. [citations.] third, [i]f a race-neutral explanation is tendered, the trial court must then decide . . . whether the opponent of the strike has proved purposeful racial discrimination.people v. dehoyos (2013) 57 cal.4th 79, 101.) 5 a prosecutor asked to explain his conduct must provide a clear and reasonably specific explanation of his legitimate reasons for exercising the challenges. [citation.] the justification need not support a challenge for cause, and even a trivial reason, if genuine and neutral, will suffice. [citation.] a prospective juror may be excused based upon facial expressions, gestures, hunches, and even for arbitrary or idiosyncratic re [citation.] -[] therefore, [a]t the third stage of the wheeler/batson inquiry, the issue comes down to whether the trial court finds the prosecutors race-neutral explanations to be credible. credibility can be measured by, amons demeanor; by how reasonable, or how improbable, the explanations are; and by whether the proffered rationale has some basis in accepted trial strategy. [citation.] in assessing credibility, the court draws upon its contemporaneous observations of the voir dire. it may also rely on the courts own experiences as a lawyer and bench officer in the community, and even the common practices of the advocate and dehoyos, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 102.) review of a trial courts denial of a wheeler/batson motion is deferential, examining only whether substantial evidence supports its conclusions. [citation.] review a s determination regarding the sufficiency of a prosecutors justifications for exewith great restraint. [citation.] we presume that a prosecutor uses peremptory challenges in a constitutional manner and give great deference to the trial courts ability to distinguish bona fide reasons from sham excuses. [citation.] so long as the trial court makes a sincere and reasoned effort to evaluate the nondiscriminatory justifications offered, its conclusions are entitled to deference on appeal. (dehoyos, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 102.) b. background defense counselwheeler excusal of juror no. 5178. defense counsel stated that this was the third male hispanic juror that the prosecutor excused (a statement the court neither confirmed nor disputed). juror no. 5178 was a security guard, who had trouble speaking english. 6 a problems spe in response to defense wheeler motion, the court stated that juror no. 5178 raised the issue that he could not speak english an nd all the nu the court found a wheeler motion. the court did not require the prosecutor to explain her reasons for excusing the juror. wheeler motion followed of a peremptory challenge to excuse juror no. 7098. counsel initially argued that the juror should not have been excused based on his gender, i.e., male. later defense counsel stated, defense counsel subsequently . . . i believe he ma during voir dire questioning, juror no. 7098 indicated that it would be a general hardship for him to be on the jury, though he acknowledged he would not lose his house or his car. juror no. 7098 worked in the film business, and his employment was contingent on finding projects. the court indicated that the fact juror no. 7098 was paid only when he worked and he was short on money was a nonracial basis for excusing him. the court did not ask the prosecutor to explain her decision to excuse juror no. 7098. defense counselwheeler motion preceded a challenge to juror no. 2544. juror no. 2544 did not read or write english. when the prosecutor asked if there was any reason any juror could not be fair and impartial, juror no. 2544 responded, a new experience for me, and i just now beginning to understand what it takes, and i find myself often pre-judging he continued-judge people based on appe [y]ou see a person, and you automatically think you know what the person is about, and you know ally the court asked the prosecutor to explain why she may choose to strike the juror. the prosecutor responded that his admission that he prejudged people could pose a problem. the court concluded that [w] 7 for excusing the juror] is race related. and pre-nts to kick him, that c. analysis in his opening brief, defendant argues that with respect to each wheeler motion, the trial court should have reached the third stage of the analysis to determine whether defense counsel showed purposeful discrimination. he argues that the failure to reach the third stage requires reversal. in his reply brief, defendant refined his argument, claiming that only the challenge to juror no. 2544 required the trial court to evaluate the genuineness of and the court failed to comply with that requirement. we now turn to that question. although, the trial court did not use the word genuine, it concluded: what is important is whether or not it is race related. and pre-judging is not by itself race related. so ut by accepting the the trial court was not required to use the word genuine in evaluating the prosecufor excusing juror no. 2544. appeal, and we find no error. (dehoyos, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 102.) finally, defendant argues that the record is difficult to review because the court reporter sometimes referred to jurors by their seat number and sometimes by their badge number. defendant further worries that a reviewing court could not conduct a comparative analysis of jurors because of the lack of consistency. as defendant implies, when a reviewing court conducts a comparative analysis it is necessary to be able to distinguish the jurors to determine whether other strikes suggest racial animus underlay a challenged strike. (people v. trinh (2014) 59 cal.4th 216, 241-242.) although consistent reference to jurors would have been better and would have facilitated subsequent review of the proceedings, defendant has not shown the employed process requires the reversal of his convictions. in this case, a comparative analysis would not assist defendant because no other prospective juror stated that he or she has a tendency to prejudge people based on their appearance and the way they speak. a comparative 8 analysis racial animus motivated the prosecutor to strike juror no. 2544. for striking the juror was not affirmatively contradicted by anything in the record (and defendant does not argue otherwise). 2. expert witness the trial court limited the testimony of the defense expert dr. mcauliff, and defendant argues the court erred. generally, an expert may render opinion testimony on the basis of facts given in a hypothetical question that asks the expert to assume their truth. [citation.] such a hypothetical question must be rooted in facts shown by the evidence, however. [citations.] [citation.] it is true that it is not necessary that the question include a statement of all the evidence in the case. the statement may assume facts within the limits of the evidence, not unfairly assembled, upon which the opinion of the expert is required, and considerable latitude must be allowed in the choice of facts as to the basis upon which to [citation.] on the other hand, the eopinion may not be baon assumptions of fact without evidentiary support [citation], or on speculative or conjectural factors . . . . [] exclusion of expert opinions that rest on guess, surmise or conjecture [citation] is an inherent corollary to the foundational predicate for admission of the expert testimony: will the testimony assist the trier of fact to evaluate (people v. moore (2011) 51 cal.4th 386, 405, italics added by people v. moore.) a. background defense counsel sought to ask hypothetical questions regarding issues of suggestibility, memory, and forensic interviewing. in an effort to secure dr. further testimony, defense counsel honor, i believe the defense is entitled to use hypothetical questions involving an expert, particularly when we have issues concerning what was going on with the babysitter. i think the defense is entitled to use hypotheticals when the babysitter makes comments or statements or told the jury that she had been talking to the child for at least two months before there was any disclosures. 9 something the jury is going to have to sort out. [] as i remember the testimony, the testimony basically was, i had been asking two months and she alwawro, or formessentially, the trial court disagreed with the factual basis for defens proposed hypothetical. b. analysis , and contradicts version. gonzalez testified that h. was dull after defendant moveapartment. although she asked h. what was wrong, it took h. months to tell her what happened. specifically, gonzalez asked h. . . rong with you, and she say anything . . . gonzalez suspected h. was being bullied at school. , as the trial court found, there was no evidence gonzalez spoke to h. about defendant for two months prior to the disclosures. further, defendant identifies no evidence that gonzalez (or anyone else) asked h. misleading questions. therefore proposed hypothetical question was not supported by any testimony in this case. the trial court properly concluded defense counsel could not pose hypothetical questions based on events unsupported by the testimony. (people v. moore, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 404.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. flier, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. rubin, j. 