filed 8/10/16 p. v. torres ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jesus torres et al., defendants and appellants. b255717 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta126979) appeals from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, eleanor j. hunter, judge. judgment affirmed as modified as to jesus torres; judgment affirmed and remanded as to miguel quintanilla. thomas k. macomber, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant jesus torres. meredith j. watts, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant miguel quintanilla. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr. and daniel c. chang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________________ 2 introduction a jury convicted miguel quintanilla and jesus torres of two counts each of attempted premeditated murder and several other crimes, and found true firearm, gang, and other special allegations. torres was 15 years old at the time of the crimes. quintanilla was 21 years old. the trial court sentenced both defendants to 80 years to and constitutional challenge to his sentence is moot under people v. franklin (2016) 63 cal.4th 261 (franklin). we remand for the trial court to determine under franklin whether quintanilla is entitled to a hearing to present evidence relevant to his future youthful offender parole hearing. factual and procedural background a. the crimes on february 10, 2013 bryan carmona and an acquaintance he knew only as -out cigar filled with marijuana) in a hallway near the entrance to an apartment building. the building was in an area claimed by the compton varrio setentas criminal street gang, also known as cv-70, near an area claimed by a rival criminal street gang, compton varrio segundos, also known as cvs. torres, who was 15 years old and a member of the cvs street gang, and who shooting at carmona and his companion, firing eight or nine shots from very close range.1 . . . 1 carmona was reluctant to make an identification of torres at trial. when the prosecutor asked if the shooter was torres, who was sitting in the courtroom, carmona , 3 ,he apartment complex, and got into a stolen red honda driven by quintanilla, who drove away. law enforcement arrived and found carmona suffering and bleeding from gunshot recovered several fired cartridge casings from the scene. a short time after the shooting, torres and quintanilla were arrested after a high-speed police chase that ended with the red honda colliding with a wall or fence. seat and torres was in the back seat. one of the deputies side . . . and then we saw a black object and fall to the ground as a red car followed by a patrol car sped by her and her husband. a firearms expert determined that the cartridge casings recovered from the apartment building where carmona was shot came from the weapon the deputies had recovered from the street that evening. carmona spent a week in the hospital, where doctors had to remove one of his kidneys. law enforcement interviewed carmona several times in the hospital, and he said torres was the shooter. b. the charges the people charged torres and quintanilla (as an aider and abettor) with two counts of attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a), 664)2 and one count of grand theft of an automobile ( 487, subd. (d)(1)). the after an evening recess in the trial, carmona identified torres the next morning. 2 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 4 people also charged quintanilla with one count of fleeing a peace officer in a vehicle driven in a willful or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property (veh. code,  2800.2). in connection with the two attempted murder counts, the people alleged that torres personally used a firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (b)) and personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury ( 12022.53, subds. (c), (d)), and that a principal personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury ( 12022.53, subd. (e)(1)). the people further alleged, in connection with the attempted murder counts and the grand theft of an automobile count, that torres and quintanilla committed the offenses for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in criminal conduct by gang members ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)). the people also alleged that quintanilla had suffered two prior serious or violent felony convictions within the meaning of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(j), 1170.12) and had served one prison term for a felony ( 667.5, subd. (b)). c. the verdicts and sentencing the jury found torres and quintanilla guilty on all charges and found true all of the special allegations. the trial court sentenced both defendants to consecutive 40 years to life terms on the two attempted murder counts, consisting of 15 years to life for attempted murder and 25 years to life on the firearm enhancement, for a total of 80 years to life on the attempted murder convictions. the court also imposed concurrent terms of two years for torres and seven years for quintanilla on the grand theft conviction, and a term of seven years for quintanilla on the felony evading police conviction. the court also imposed various fines and assessments, and awarded torres 459 days of presentencing custody credit. the clerk stated, ,i and the 5 have reflected those studies, and the court is aware that there is a difference between a years, 10 months old, approximately, when he chose to commit these crimes. and under its evaluation as to court does consider and take that into consideration, his age, and the different studies that have been involved with regard to adults versus the court then noted that the court went on to emphasize the facts of the case. the court stated that it had this case. and just to remind everybody, in this case the rival gang territory. i believe the apartment there was the hub of a rival gang. so incredibly, incredibly bold. the defendant got out of the car, he walked up to the he actually had to go through a door, and there was a hallway, and he gets himself into young man standing there, same age, do and the defendant brings out the loaded firearm, and he goes to the young man w the kid is out the gun. he points it at this young man, he gets shot in the chest [and] he got shot in the leg . . . and, but for the grace of god, that young man would have been dead. not through mr. torres not trying to kill him or execute him, because he was within feet of him. then he turns to the other young man . . . and he just started firing, and that kid was shot, i believe, multiple times and ended up losing a kidney, was in the hospital for a 6 number of days. and, again, but for the grace of god, that kid should have been dead. if it was owever, the court finds his conduct far outweighs that. he had a chance to have a supportive family to keep him out of gangs. he chose the king into rival gang territory, yelling out your gang name, pulling out the gun, point blank at another human being, shooting multiple times, and then turning to another one, shooting multiple times i think mr. torres knew exactly what he was doing, desp d. the appeal quintanilla and torres filed timely notices of appeal. quintanilla challenges his conviction (but not his sentence), arguing that the trial court abused its discretion by refusing to admit into evidence certain medical records under the business records exception to the hearsay rule that purportedly showed that quintanilla was intoxicated on the day of the shootings. quintanilla also argues that, although the trial court gave several instructions on voluntary intoxication, the court erred by failing to instruct the jury that voluntary intoxication can negate the premeditation element of attempted murder. torres challenges his sentence (but not his conviction), arguing that the trial s the functional equivalent of a sentence of life without the possibility of parole, and that, because he was 15 years old at the time of the punishment. torres also contends the trial court erred in calculating his presentence custody credits. 7 discussion a. 1. the trial court did not abuse its discretion by excluding so profoundly intoxicated debilitated and disoriented by the influence of drugs and alcohol that he did not know what was going on, and could not have formed the necessary intent to support a conviction of any of [the] im. although the trial court instructed the jurors that they acted with the requisite specific intents, objection to medical records from the hospital that treated quintanilla after he was arrested. quintanilla argues that the trial court abused its discretion because the records were admissible under the business records exception to the hearsay rule, evidence code section 1271. the court considered the admissibility of the medical records several times during the trial. when counsel for quintanilla first raised the issue, she advised the court that she was seeking to introduce the medical records as business records to show that only indication that [quintanilla] was high in the medical records come[s] from his own [that] portion of the medical ed the court returned to the issue of the medical records later in the trial. the court counsel for quintanilla stated she was not 8 as at least some records. . . . the basis of anything in hearsay is trustworthiness, ais kind of to have a urinalysis. he was given . . . an anti-overdosway of, like, a heart monitor or seeing the eyes dilated or seeing him acting in a way that would culty finding the basis of the sense of it being statements referring to the possibility that quintanilla may have been under the influence and the court sustained the objection. people v. mccurdy (have a proper foundation to not at or near the time of the act, condition, or event; (c) the custodian or other qualified witness testifies to its identity and the mode of its preparation; and (d) the sources of information and method and time of preparation were such as to indicate its [] whether a particular business record is admissible as an 9 exception to the hearsay rule . . . depends upon the trustworthiness of such evidence, a determination that must be made, case by case, from the circumstances surrounding the s.] ting the record is properly laid if in the opinion of the court, the sources of information, method, and people v. zavala (2013) 216 cal.app.4th 242, 246.) there was no testimony at trial from a custodian or other witness from the hospital regarding any of the requirements of evidence code section 1271. no one testified about whether the records were made in the ordinary course of business, whether the records were created at or near the acts, events, or conditions they described, what the documents reason to think they presumed that they were generated by the doctors, nurses, and other medical personnel which, if sufficient, can be enough to qualify records for admissibility under evidence code section 1271 without the testimony of the custodian at trial. (see evid. code,  1562 the original records would be admissible in evidence if the custodian or other qualified witness had been present and testified to the matters stated in the affidavit, and if the requirements of section 1271 have been met, the copy of the records is admissible per declaration following: (1) the affiant is the duly authorized custodian of the records or other all the records described in the subpoena duces tecum, or pursuant to subdivision (e) of deposition officer for copying at the custodian 10 code,  1561, subd. (a).) although the legislature amended evidence code section 1561 in 1996 to include a statement by custodians describing the mode of preparation of the records (cooley v. superior court (2006) 140 cal.app.4th 1039, 1044-1045), the declaration of the custodian of records here did not include such a statement. (see sanchez v. hillerich & bradsby co. (2002) 104 cal.app.4th 703, 720 [exhibits not admissible as business records under evidence code section 1271 where the declaration contained no evidence as to how the reports were prepared or upon what sources of information they were based, or any evidence that the reports were trustworthydeclaration from the custodian of records did not state, or provide any information about, the mode of preparation of the records. therefore, the medical records did not qualify for the business records exception to the hearsay rule under evidence code section 1271, and the trial court did not abuse its discretion in finding that quintanilla failed to demonstrate taggart v. super seer corp. (1995) 33 cal.app.4th 1697, 1706-1707.) second, the trial court was justifiably concerned about trustworthiness. (evid. code,  1271, subd. (d); see people v. hovarter (2008) 44 cal.4th 983, 1011 [party offering the evidence pursuant to evidence code section 1271 has the burden of establishing trustworthiness].) although diagnostic opinions contained in medical records may be admissible if they are statements of fact or condition based on direct observations by the health care provider (see people v. beeler (1995) 9 cal.4th 953, 981; people v. reyes (1974) 12 cal.3d 486, 503), it is unclear whether the notations in the medical records here were based on direct observations of, or objective tests run on, quintanilla, or whether they were based on statements by quintanilla to the doctors and nurses at the hospital. for example, the medical records quintanilla sought to introduce usdepartment with a p 11 a confirmed or suspected inhalation, these statements all appear to be notes by doctors or nurses recording statements by quintanilla. in addition, there was no indication in the records of any blood, urine, or 3 on the mental systems technique consists primarily of gathering information from the patient.4 faced with these statements in the medical records, and in the absence of any witness to explain them, the trial court acted well within its discretion in excluding the records under evidence code section 1271. (see people v. hovarter, supra trial court has broad discretion in determining whether a sufficient foundation has been laid to qualify evidence as a business record finally, any error in excluding the medical records was harmless because there is no reasonable probability that the result would have been more favorable to quintanilla had the trial court admitted the records. (see people v. dehoyos (2013) 57 cal.4th 79, 120 [evidentiary rulings are subject to harmless error review under the standard in people 3 the medical notes and toxicology report and his blood tested negative for alcohol. 4 a review of systems is a screenins verbal history and consists of an inventory of the body systems. [citation.] when conducting a review of systems, the medical provider poses to the patient a series of questions, arranged by organ system, that are s signs and symptoms and uncover dysfunction or disease. the review of systems does not represent the medical providers diagnosis, but provides information useful in making that assessment.spurlock v. astrue (s.d.w.va. 2013) 2013 wl 841474, at p. 26, fn. 11.) 12 v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836]; people v. reed (1996) 13 cal.4th 217, 231 [same]mental statusso voluntarily intoxicated earlier in the evening that he was incapable of forming the specific intent for attempted murder at the time of the crimes. (see people v. eubanks any error in excluding the statement was harmless given the limited probative value of ted, the records suggest that the medical professionals at the hospital treated quintanilla not for intoxication, which quintanilla was significant evidence counsel for quintanilla could and did use to argue voluntary intoxication. the deputy who chased and then arrested quintanilla testified that he witnesses on scene to support his defense that he was unable to form the necessary 5 5 although quintanilla correctly points out participate in shootings was entirely circumstantial quintanilla does not challenge the sufficiency of the evidence supporting his convictions. in addition, the harmlessness of any error in e there is no reasonable probability quintanilla would have been acquitted had the court admitted the medical records. (see people v. johnson (2016) 62 cal.4th 600, 653 [in evaluating claims of ineffective whether counsels representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms and whether the defendant suffered prejudice to a reasonable probability, that is, a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome 13 2. the trial court did not commit prejudicial error in instructing the jury on voluntary intoxication the trial court gave instructions on voluntary intoxication. the court instructed the jury that it could consider voluntary intoxication in determining whether quintanilla had the required mental state as an aider and abettor, whether he had the necessary specific intent to kill for attempted murder charges, and whether he had the necessary specific intent to deprive the owner of the red honda of his or her property permanently or for an extended period of time for the grand theft charge. the court also instructed that the jury could not consider voluntary intoxication for any other purpose, and that voluntary intoxication was not a defense to the charge of evading the police. quintanilla argues that the trial court erred by not instructing the jury that it could consider voluntary intoxication to negate premeditation and deliberation. as the people correctly argue, however, the court did not have a sua sponte duty to give an instruction that involuntary intoxication can negate premeditation and deliberation, and quintanilla did not ask for such an instruction. (see people v. myles ipeople v. verdugo instruction on the significance of voluntary intoxication [ ability to form the mental state necessary for murder] people v. hughes (2002) 27 ary intoxication may be considered in determining the existence of premeditation and people v. saille he elements of the crimeinstruction, he forfeited the argument. quintanilla does not argue otherwise. 14 challenging an instruction as being subject to erroneous interpretation by the jury must demonstrate a reasonable likelihood that the jury understood the instruction in the way [t]he correctness of jury instructions is to be determined from the entire charge of the court, not from a consideration of parts of an instruction or from a particular instruction.people v. bryant (2014) 60 cal.4th 335, 433.) as the people point out, the trial court instructed the the considerations for and against his choice and, knowing the consequences, decided to jury it could consider voluntary intoxication in determining whether quintanilla had the requisite mental state for aiding and abetting liability and for attempted murder. as the supreme court stated in people v. castillo adequately advised the jury to consider the evidence of intoxication on the question of premeditation, and . . . an additional instruction stating the obviousthat premeditation is a mental statewas unnecessary. moreover, the court did not breach its duty to instruct correctly once it decided to instruct on voluntary intoxication. the instructions allowed degree of the murder, as well as on the attempted murder and murder charges themselid. at p. 1018; see people v. musselwhite (1998) 17 cal.4th 1216, 1248-1249.) 15 b. torres argues that his sentence of 80 years to life is the functional equivalent of life imprisonment without parole and violates the eighth amendmfranklin, supra, 63 cal.4th 261 1. eighth amendment principles a. united states supreme court cases the eighth amendment, which applies to the states,6 ewing v. california (2003) 538 u.s. 11, 20-21.) in graham v. florida (2010) 560 u.s. 48 (graham), the united states supreme court held that sentencing a juvenile to life without prohibition of cruel and unusual punishment. (id. at p. 82; see montgomery v. louisiana (2016) ___ u.s. ___, 136 s.ct. 718, 732 eighth amendment bars life without parole for juvenile nonhomicide offendersgraham relied on are more capable of change than are adults, and their actions are igraham, at p. 68.) in miller v. alabama (2012) 567 u.s. ___, 132 s.ct. 2455, the supreme court, following graham, held that a mandatory sentence of life imprisonment without the possibility of parole for a juvenile convicted of murder also violates the eighth amendment. (miller, supra, 567 u.s. at p. ___, 132 s.ct. at pp. 2467-2468.) the supreme court explained th 6 robinson v. california (1962) 370 u.s. 660; people v. caballero (2012) 55 cal.4th 262, 265, fn. 1. 16 among them, immaturity, id. at p. 2468.) the supreme court concluded that the reasoning of graham -without-parole sentence for a juvenile . . . id. at p. 2458.) although the supreme court did not prohibit sentencing juveniles convicted of murder to life imprisonment without the possibility of parole, the supreme court held that courts sentencing juveniles in murder life without parole. (id. at pp. 2467, 2471.) in montgomery v. louisiana, supra, ___ u.s. ___, 136 s.ct. 718, the supreme court held that miller sentences were final when miller id. at p 725.) in holding that miller was a substantive rule of constitutional law that must be retroactive (id. at p. 736), the supreme court summarized and reaffirmed the principles the court had articulated in miller first, children have a lack of maturity and an underdeveloped sense of responsibility, leading to recklessness, impulsivity, and heedless risk-taking. second, children are more vulnerable to negative influences and outside pressures, including from their family and peers; they have limited control over their own environment and lack the ability to extricate themselves from horrific, crime-producing settings. and well formed less fixed and his actions less likely to be evidence of irretrievable depravity. miller recognized that the distinctive attributes of youth diminish the penological justifications for imposing life without parole on juvenile offenders. [citation.] because retribution relates to an strong with a minor as with an adult. [citations.] the deterrence rationale likewise does not suffice, since the same characteristics that render juveniles less culpable than adultstheir immaturity, 17 recklessness, and impetuositymake them less likely to consider potential punishment. [citation.] the need for incapacitation is lessened, too, because ordinary adolescent forever will be a danger [citations.] rehabilitation is not a satisfactory rationale, either. rehabilitation cannot justify the seforswears altogether the rehabilitative ideal. holding in miller that mandatory life-without-parole sentences fpos[e] too great a risk of disproportionate punishment. [citation.] miller requires that before sentencing a juvenile to life without parole, the sentencing judge take into account how children are different, and how those differences counsel against irrevocably sentencing them to a lifetime in prison. [citation.] the court recognized that a sentencer might encounter the rare juvenile offender who exhibits such irretrievable depravity that rehabilitation is impossible and life without parole is justified. but in light of heightened capacity for change, miller made clear that appropriate occasions for sentencing juveniles to this harshest possible penalty will be uncommon.montgomery v. louisiana, supra, ___ u.s. at pp. ___, 136 s.ct. at pp. 733-734.) b. california supreme court cases the california supreme court has had several opportunities to apply the principles of graham and miller to cases involving sentencing of juveniles. in people v. caballero (2012) 55 cal.4th 262 the california supreme court held that graham and miller apply to a juvenile who, although not sentenced to life without parole, was sentenced to the functional equivalent of life without parole (in that case, 110 years to life). (people v. caballero, at pp. 268-269.) juvenile offender for a nonhomicide offense to a term of years with a parole eligibility ectancy constitutes cruel and an aggregate sentence for separate crimes (in that case, three gang-related attempted 18 murders). (ibid.) the supreme court explained that the state may not deprive [juveniles] at sentencing of a meaningful opportunity to demonstrate their rehabilitation (id. at p. 268.) a sentencing court must consider elopment, and other mitigating so that it can impose a time when the juvenile offender will be able to seek parole from the parole boardid. at p. 269.) in people v. gutierrez (2014) 58 cal.4th 1354 (gutierrez), the california supreme confers discretion on a trial court to sentence a 16- or 17-year-old juvenile convicted of special circumstance murder to life without parole or to 25 years to life,without parole. (id. at p. 1360.) the supreme court again recognized grahamflat ban on life without parole sentences for juvenile offenders in nonhomocide cases . . . .id. at p. 1378; see people v. lewis n lwop sentence may not be imposed against a juvenile offender for nonhomicide offenses finally, in franklin, supra, 63 cal.4th 261, the california supreme court held that graham and miller apply to juveniles who are sentenced to the functional equivalent of not be sentenced to the functional equivalent of [life without parole] for a homicide offense without the protections outlined in miller. (franklin, at p. 276.) 2. sections 3051 and 4801 the legislature responded to graham, miller, and caballero by enacting section ed to a lengthy determinate term or an indeterminate life term to seek release on parole after serving a prescribed term of s dig., sen. bill no. 260, stats. 2013, ch. 312,  1 (2013-2014 reg. sess.); see stats. process by which growth and maturity of youthful offenders can be assessed and a 19 .) section 3051, as amended effective hearing . . . for the purpose of reviewing the [pris . . . before the person had attained 23 years of age and for which the sentence is a life term of 25 years to life shall be eligible for release on parole by the board during his or her 25th year of incarceration at a youth offender parole hearing . . . shall give great weight to the diminished culpability of juveniles as compared to adults, the hallmark features of youth, and any subsequent growth and increased maturity of the prisoner in accordance with relevant case law. the people argue that section 3051, which will allow torres to apply for parole in his 25th year of incarceration (when he will be cruel and unusual punishment claim because it provides a meaningful opportunity for in franklin, supra, 63 cal.4th 261, the california supreme court agreed with this sections 3051 and 4801[,] recently enacted by the legislature to bring juvenile sentencing in conformity with miller, graham, and caballero50 years to life was unconstitutional. (franklin, at p. 268.) the supreme court original sentence operates by capping the number of years that he or she may be imprisoned before becoming eligible for release on parole. the legislature has effected (id. at pp. 278-279.) thus, because of sections 3051 and 4801, torres, like the juvenile defendant in franklinrtunity for release during his 2 20 without parole] or its functional efranklin, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 280.) under franklin, 3. torres is entitled to presentence custody credits from the date of his arrest to the date of his sentencing (people v. rajanayagam (2012) 211 cal.app.4th 42, 48), and up to an additional 15 percent of his presentence credits under section 2933.1. (see  2933.1, 667.5, subd. (c)(12); people v. duff (2010) 50 cal.4th 787, 794; in re reeves (2005) 35 cal.4th 765, 780; people v. cardenas (2015) 239 cal.app.4th 220, 234.) torres argues, the people concede, and we agree that, in addition to the 459 actual days of presentence credit the trial court awarded, torres is entitled to 68 days of conduct credit (459 x .15 = 68.85), for a total credit of 527 days. (see people v. andrade (2015) 238 cal.app.4th 1274, 1310-1311.) c. although torres is not entitled to a remand for a franklin hearing, quintanilla is although the california supreme court in franklin held that the juvenile offender the juvenile had sufficient opportunity to put on the record the kinds of information that sections 3051 and 4801 deem relevant at a youth offender parole hearing(franklin, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 284.) therefore, the supreme court the matter to the trial court for a determination of whether [the juvenile] was afforded sufficient opportunity to make a record of information relevant to his eventual youth offender parole hearing.ibidif the trial court determines that [the juvenile] did not have sufficient opportunity, then the court may receive submissions and, if appropriate, testimony pursuant to procedures set forth in section 1204 and rule 4.437 of the california rules of court, and subject to the rules of evidence. [the juvenile] may place on the record any documents, evaluations, or testimony (subject to cross-examination) that may be relevant at his eventual youth 21 offender parole hearing, and the prosecution likewise may put on the record any evidence that dems culpability or cognitive maturity, or otherwise bears on the influence of youth-related factors. the goal of any such proceeding is to provide an opportunity for the parties to make an accurate record of the juvenile s characteristics and circumstances at the time of the offense so that the board, years later, may properly discharge its obligation to give great weight to youth-related factors ( 4801, subd. (c)) in deterfit to rejoin society despite having committed a serious crime while he was a child in the eyes of the law(id. at p. 284.) we asked the parties to submit supplemental briefs on whether this court should [torres] was afforded an adequate opportunity to make a record of information that will be relevant to the board [of parole hearings] as it fulfills its statutory obligations under people v. franklin, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 286-287.) we conclude that torres is not entitled to a similar limited remand. at the sentencing hearing, counsel for torres had the opportunity to present youth-related factors. counsel for torres argued at the sentencing hearing that the trial well as the chaplain from sylmar here, who was kind enough to come and . . . speak on . . . i would ask the court to take into consideration fashioning an appropriate sentence now, something that does not leave to the parole department the discretion after 25 years, but the court can fashion an appropriate sentence here, based on bad decisions. and i think what the court is seeking to recognize is that a 15- or 16-year-of cruel and unusual punishment to treat them like adults when their brains and their 22 common sense allows us to know that children are just that, and their brains are not fully give them the same punishment ainvolvement or whatever, we know that the older people recruit the younger people, knowing . . . or believing that they can get them to do things and can manipulate them. and even with good parents and loving parents, these kids are [susceptible] to older people influencing them and they make bad decisions. i think the codefendant in this case was in his 20s and was the driver, and . . people. they get the young kid to do something, knowing that . . . torres also all make mistakes. and i believe that all of us deserve a second chance. especially when we mthe -director of the office of restorative justice of the archdiocese of los angeles, who supervises the catholic detention ministry programs in juvenile halls and probation camps in los angeles, ventura, and santa barbara, and there is of the issue and 23 lack of judgment, and related characteristics. section 3051 at sentencingentire month preceding sentencing and there was not sufficient time for her to gather entirely support this contention. the trial court had already granted a motion by torres under section 1050 for a continuance of the sentencing hearing to allow counsel for about the juvenile.give the court more a sentencing hearing to present any additional witnesses or evidence. in any event, the issue under franklin is not whether, after the continuance, counsel for torres had enough time to prepare for the sentencing hearing given the pressures of her trial practice, or whether the trial court abused its discretion by not granting another continuance under section 1050. the issue under franklin [ ] [torres] from before quintanilla, however, is in a different situation. at the time of his sentencing in april 2014, section 3051 required the board of parole hearings to conduct youth offender parole hearings for offenders who were under the age of 18 at the time they committed their crimes. as quintanilla points out in his supplemental brief, he was 21 years old when he committed the crimes in this case. therefore, at his sentencing hearing in april 2014, section 3051 did not apply to him, and there was no reason to present any 24 evidence at his sentencing hearing about his level of maturity, characteristics of youth, and other youth-related factors. in fact, counsel for quintanilla presented no evidence at all. in october 2015, a year and a half amended section 3051, effective january 1, 2016, to apply to offenders who were under 23 at the time they committed their crimes. section 3051 now applies to quintanilla, who, as noted, was 21 at the time he committed his crimes. therefore, he is entitled to a sufficient opportunity to make a record of information relevant to his eventual youth offender parole hearing.franklin, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 284.) disposition the judgments are affirmed. the case is remanded to the trial court for a determination under franklin, supra, 63 cal.4th 261 whether quintanilla is entitled to a hearing to make a record for his youth offender parole hearing under section 3051. the trial court is also to prepare a corrected abstract of judgment as to torres to reflect the award of 527 days of presentence custody credits (459 actual days plus 68 days of conduct credit) and to send a copy of the corrected abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. segal, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. zelon, j. 