filed 9/10/15 p. v. leyva ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. ramon leyva, defendant and appellant. b255012 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba403635) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. gail ruderman feuer, judge. affirmed. lise m. breakey, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, supervising deputy attorney general, and william n. frank, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 ramon leyva (defendant) appeals the judgment of conviction for inflicting corporal injury, kidnapping, making criminal threats and violating a criminal protective order. specifically, he argues that his convictions are infirm due to evidentiary errors and prosecutorial misconduct. we disagree, and affirm. facts & procedural background in october 2012, defendant and maribel c. (maribel) were unmarried but involved in a romantic relationship; they had two young children together. on the evening of october 14, 2012, defendantincensed that maribel had accused him of sleeping with her sisterchased maribel from their apartment, pushed her to the ground, and repeatedly kicked and punched her in the head and face. defendant then dragged her 150 over a year before, defendant had choked and punched a then-pregnant maribel, and the criminal protective order arising from that prior incident was still in effect in october 2012. the people charged defendant with (1) corporal injury to the mother of pen. code,  207, subd. (a)), (3) making criminal threats (pen. code,  422, subd. (a)), and (4) disobeying a criminal protective order (pen. code,  166, subd. (a)(4)). a jury convicted defendant on all counts. the trial court sentenced defendant to eight years in state prison on the kidnapping count, three years on the criminal threats count to run concurrently, and imposed but stayed the remaining sentences for corporal protection order (180 days) pursuant to penal code section 654. defendant appeals. 3 discussion i. evidentiary errors defendant contends that the trial court erred in making three evidentiary rulings: (1) admitting three out-of-court statements made by two witnesses regarding what defendant might do in the future, for the ls states of mind; (2) admitting an out-of-court statement by a witness that she feared statements that the witness later testified were not based on her personal knowledge.1 we review evidentiary rulings for an abuse of discretion (people v. harris (2005) 37 ruling, not its reasoning (people v. chism (2014) 58 cal.4th 1266, 1295, fn. 12 (chism)). a. october 14th attack on maribel came to the attention of law -year-old sister, maritza, called 911. she called three in her second call, maritza asked police to hurry, and again reported that during that call, she also brother is fucking going to kill my sister-in-law maribel,woman.2 after the second call, police arrived and transported maribel to the hospital; defendant had fled. police interviewed maritza and her father, juan lopez (lopez). 1 -of-court statements under the confrontation clause and, more specifically, crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36. defendant has not renewed that objection on appeal. it lacks merit in any event. (davis v. washington (2006) 547 u.s. 813, 828 [911 calls in crawford].) 2 for the first time on appeal, defendant argues that an unidentified person (other than maritza) made the latter statement. defendant forfeited this argument by not objecting below. (evid. code,  353.) this statement is in any event duplicative of the the first statement fails for the reasons discussed in the text. 4 both told police that they saw defendant dragging maribel; lopez also said that he once the police left, defendant returned. maritza called 911 a third time to at trial, maritza testified that she never actually saw anything she was reporting what was happening during the calls because she was scared of the loud noises she was hearing. maritza also testified that she was never scared of defendant. lopez testified that he never spoke with police and, in fact, was somewhere else the whole time. the trial court admitted all three 911 tapes as well as the officer reports of what maritza and lopez told him. however, the court admistatements that defendant was trying to kill maribel for a limited purposenamely, those statements were admitted only to show what maritza and lopez had been thinking, not to prove what defendant intended to do. the court similarly limited the admission of on the third 911 call, that defendant was intending to hurt her. the court gave limiting instructions to the jury that reflected its evidentiary rulings. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting this evidence. in light of properly admitted as prior inconsistent statements of witnesses who were subject to cross-examination. (evid. code,  1235, 770; chism, supra, 58 cal.4th at pp. 1294-1295.)3 were alternatively admissible as spontaneous declarations. ( 1240; people v. lynch (2010) 50 cal.4th 693, 751-752.) although the trial court could arguably have admitted these prior statements in their entirety, the court was sensitive to the special danger posed by maritnamely, that such statements are necessarily 3 unless otherwise indicated, all further statutory references are to the evidence code. 5 speculative and especially prejudicial. the court consequently exercised its authority under section 352 to limit the purpose for which those particular statements were admitted. they were not admitted for their truth as hearsay (that is, not to prove that defendant actually intended to kill maribel or harm maritza); instead, they were admitted as nonhearsay evidence (that is, to prove that maritza and lopez made the statements and feared what defendant might do, which contradicted their trial testimony that defendant never harmed maribel and that maritza was not afraid of defendant). defendant contends that the admission of these statements is erroneous for two his future intentions are speculative and constitute impermissible character evidence under section 1101. ed for their truth. they were not, and the authority defendant cites is accordingly irrelevant. (see people v. green (1980) 27 cal.3d 1, 23, fn. 9, overruled on other grounds by people v. martinez (1999) 20 cal.4th 225 [noting intentions to show the personpeople v. ortiz (1995) 38 cal.app.4th 377, 389 [same]; cf.  1250 [addressing admission of statements of future intention for their truth]; people v. jablonski (2006) 37 cal.4th 774, 819 [applying  1250]; people v. hernandez (2003) 30 cal.4th 835, 872 [same].) maritza afuture intentionswhether or not trueare flatly inconsistent with their trial testimony that defendant was not harming anyone and that maritza did not fear defendant. such evidenccoronado police officers assn. v. carroll (2003) 106 cal.app.4th 1001, 1014), and at a minimum constitutes prior inconsistent statements under section 1235. 6 b. defendant further argues that the trial court erred in admitting the 911 tapes because maritza testified at trial that she was just relaying what other people told her and lacked personal knowledge. personal knowledge is a prerequisite to the admission of nonopinion testimony ( 702), but it is one decided by the jury as long as the trial court imony, the trial court found it p that hat was unfolding, of to describe how those injuries were being inflicted. ii. prosecutorial misconduct defendant next contends that the prosecutor engaged in misconduct during closing argument that violated his constitutional rights to due process. federal due process is unfairness as to render the subsequent conviction a denial people v. maciel (2013) 57 cal.4th 482, 541.) state due process is violated if the prosecutor ibid.) defendant alleges three instances of prosecutorial misconduct. belfuture intent. the midst of arguing that lopez was lying at trial when he denied making the statement. as a result, trial it could be used only as a prior inconsistent statement. the prosecutor also did not violate any limiting instruction with respect to maribelintentions because the trial court only issued limiting instructions as to such statements 7 by lopez and maritza. defendant never sought a limiting instruction as to statement from the trial court, and on appeal he does not argue why. defendant has was inconsistent with her trial testimony, where she statedin contradiction to her testimony at the preliminary hearingthat defendant never touched her and that she injured herself by walking into a wall. second, defendant asserts that the prosecutor engaged in misconduct when he argued to the jury that defenda-year-th[e witness] defendant contends that this argument implied that the prosecutor had inside information, and posits that the prosecutor was trying to evoke an emotional response against family. it is certainly misconduct for a prosecutor to imply he has evidence of which the jury is unaware (people v. fernandez (2013) 216 cal.app.4th 540, 560), but the prosecutor in this case did no such thing. prosecutors are allowed to based their arguments on reasonable inferences drawn from the evidence (people v. valencia (2008) 43 cal.4th 268, 305), and it was reasonable for the prosecutoror a juryto infer from maribel, lopez, and maritzastark recantations from their prior statements that they were individually and collectively presented and not the argument of counsel; this cured any unfair prejudice that might have arisen. lastly, defendant argues that the prosecutor misstated burden of proof n to although this statement seems problematic by itself, we are required to evaluate it in the context in which it was made, not in isolation. (people v. centeno ment regarding reasonable doubt came at the end of a recitation of the evidence against defendant. in 8 that the evidence established guilt beyond a reasonable doubt (thsearch for reasonable doubt fruitless and hence unnecessary), rather than as an entreaty to damaging rather than the least damaging meaning from th(ibid.), and we have no reason to do so here. what is more, the trial court, in response to reasonable doubt instruction was controlling, thereby dispelling any prejudice should the jury have chosen disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. _______________________, j. hoffstadt we concur: ______________________, p.j. boren ______________________, j. ashmann-gerst 