filed 8/1/16 p. v. villalobos ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jorge ernesto villalobos, defendant and appellant. b255090 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba331941) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, suzette clover, judge. affirmed. jonathan p. milberg for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr. and connie h. kan, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant jorge ernesto villalobos was convicted by a jury of first degree murder with a deadly weapon enhancement. he contends the judgment must be reversed because the evidence was insufficient to support the verdict, and the trial court made several evidentiary errors. we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. facts a. christina ingram worked at the burbank elks lodge as a part time bartender. ingram began dating villalobos, who lived with his parents in san gabriel, in the spring of 2006. their relationship was marked by frequent verbal arguments and ingram felt he was too controlling. in approximately 2007, ingram told vimove on.os , asking her to give their relationship another chance. l of 2007. in approximately late november 2007, she told villalobos that she was going to date other people. he when ingram and villalobos argued, he would yell at her. despite her desire to break up with villalobos, to calm him down and de-escalate arguments she would sometimes engage in sexual activity with him. ingram was afraid of villalobos because she knew he possessed guns, knives, and a crossbow. the victim, glen giles, was an elks lodge member. he lived on joaquin drive in burbank, approximately 1 the lodge. he was extensively remodeling his home. due in part to the ongoing construction, the interior of the residence was sometimes unsecured and accessible. ingram and giles met at the elks lodge and began to date in late january 2008. ingram did not tell giles about villalobos. 3 in late january 2008, giles and ingram met for a second date at the robin hood restaurant. after dinner, they shared a dessert and then walked to the parking lot where they hugged. after giles left, ingram saw villalobos standing by her car. ingram asked what he was doing there. he that friends had told him she was he made insulting remarks about giles, asked what ingram saw in him, and used profanity. he again asked that ingram give their relationship another chance. when she declined, he started yelling. no one is going to mess with himand fuck up any motherfucker that plays to avoid a scene in the parking lot, ingram suggested they continue talking at her residence, where she and villalobos had sexual relations. at some point in february, villalobos sent roses for ingram to the elks lodge. while on duty that night she learned villalobos was in the parking lot. giles was also at the lodge at the time. he saw villalobos look at giles as giles left for the evening. when ingram spoke to villalobos, he made the observation that giles was a lodge member. a week before the murder, villalobos and ingram had another argument. he said he knew she was still seeing giles because he had seen her with him. when ingram reiterated that she did not want to date villalobos any longer, he became angry, yelled, and asked for another chance. she again had sex with him to keep him quiet and because he refused to leave. b. events of february 25 and 26, 2008 on february 25, 2008, giles had coffee with ingram at a starbucks located in a vons store. that evening, giles attended a potluck bridal shower for the elks lodge chef, giles told ingram, in a 9:00 p.m. telephone call, that he was going to play some basketball and have a drink with friends. she spoke to him again around 10:00 p.m. giles left the lodge at or shortly before 10:00 p.m. 4 ingram also communicated with villalobos via texts and calls that evening. villalobos asked ingram to call to wake him up the next morning because he had an early training class at his work, brinks incorporated. ingram called villalobos as requested at 4:00 a.m. on february 26, 2008. she testified both that he seemed awake at the time and also she then texted villalobos at 7:00 a.m. for loving meand at 7:24 a.m. regarding a song she liked. villalobos called her at approximately 8:30 a.m. to tell her his training had been cancelled and that he was getting his car washed and running errands. c. at approximately 10:00 a.m. on february 26, 2008, retired burbank police lieutenant duane dow, who lived across the street from giles, opened his front door to go for a walk with his wife. he discovered gileswith body. dow called the police. d. the investigation (i) autopsy an autopsy showed giles died of multiple stab wounds. he had been stabbed 32 times and suffered wounds to his back, chest, face, and abdominal area. nine of the wounds were potentially fatal, and bled significantly. they ranged from a depth of three the wounds appeared to have been inflicted close in time, when giles was not moving. the location and placement of other wounds suggested giles began to move during the attack. one of the blows severed a rib. impressions on the body indicated the attacker used a serrated knife. giles also sustained significant defensive wounds to his fingers, arms and hands. ch, the deputy medical examiner, dr. yulai wang, opined that giles died within two to four hours of his last meal. 5 (ii) the crime scene amounts of b. it appeared to the investigating officer, detective mitchell ross, that giles had been attacked as he lay sleeping on a mattress on the floor in his bedroom. there was no sign of forced entry by the perpetrator. the mattress was blood-soaked. there was blood on the bedroom walls; on a dresser; on the bedroom light switch; on the floor; on a pillow and blanket; and on the ceiling. the drywall on one wall had been gouged three times; there was blood inside the gouges. the concrete floor bore a similar gouge that appeared to have been made by a sharp object. the dresser bore six gouge marks. contained $110, was on his dresser. a cellular telephone charger was plugged into the fingertips were found in the bedroom closet. the blood in the bedroom appeared to be dry. blood was also found in the great room, the dining room, and the hall. there was no sign the house had been ransacked. there were two sets of bloody footprints in the house. the larger set of bare footprints belonged to giles. he exited through a set of double doors on the north side of indicating the perpetrator wore socks. a bloody handprint was found on the sliding door through which the perpetrator appeared to have exited. streaks in the handprint suggested the attacker wore gloves. a large pool of blood was located patio, near a faucet. the faucet or a hose had been turned on, soaking the area with an inch of water mixed with blood. bloody newspapers were strewn along a walkway on the north side of the house. 6 home abutted a hillside and a one-foot high retaining wall separated the back of the house from the hillside. on the hillside, an officer found a bloody newspaper advertisement that appeared similar to those found in the bedroom, a wad of bloodstained money, and a vons grocery receipt for the coffee that giles and ingram had shared the previous day. disturbances in the dirt on the hill just behind the house appeared to be footprints. a concrete drainage channel ran the length of the hillside. it would have been relatively easy for someone to park at the nearby brace canyon park, walk up brace canyon road, go up the concrete drainage channel, and traverse an area covered with foliage down to giles backyard. (iii) footprint evidence the bloody footprints at the scene appeared to have been made by giles, whereas the murderer made the bloody sock prints. villa-shaped heel formation, narrow arch, and toe spacing as did the sock prints; his footprints also appeared to be the same size as the sock prints. a forensic footwear expert compared the bloody sock prints and found that they corresponded. he opined that villalobos could have made the sock prints. (iv) dog scent evidence og handler edward hamm transferred the scent from the bloody handprint to a gauze pad, rosie, followed the scent down the hillside, across brace canyon road, through a park, and across crest ridge drive. she went in circles before heading back along crest ridge to brace canyon, to joaquin drive, and upto hamm interpreted her behavior as indicating the murderest ridge. the murderer had followed a circular path from the car to gilethen back down the hill. rosie ignored the bloody money and receipt that the officers found on the hillside 7 the next day, hwhere villalobos worked. from a nearby street, bojangles followed the scent on the scent pad approximately 100-150 feet through a gate into a brinks lot, where armored trucks were parked. bojanglespad was present, but he did not alert to any particular truck, door, or locker, or to any persons in the area. hamm and bojangles then went to san gabriel and parked around the corner from the villalobos residence. bojangles followed the scent from the scent pad (v) after a warrant was obtained, officers stephen turner and edmundo zepeda, assisted by several undercover police units, stopped villalobos as he was driving away from his residence in his mustang at approximately 4:30 a.m. on february 27, 2008. turner searched villalobos and placed him in the marked police car. at the direction of a of the mustang and drove it to a police staging area located a block or two away. turner saw villalobosplain view in the center console cup holder and gave it to another officer for examination. turner did not search the mustang. neither turner nor anyone else searched or reentered the mustang at the staging area, or , and turner did not enter any other portion of the mustang.1 officers stayed with the mustang, ensuring it remained secure, while other officers executed the warrant at villalobosresidence. the car was then towed to the police garage where it was secured. 1 neighbors and assisted in canvassing the joaquin drive neighborhood; however, he was not at the crime scene. from 4:48 p.m. until 5:45 p.m., he assisted the dog handler search p.m. until 10:00 p. the backyard. he did not pass the area with the hose and bloody water. he never went the mustang to the staging area. 8 when arrested, villalobos had a purplish discoloration on his elbow, marks on his right hand and index finger, and a discoloration on his back. (vi) 2008, at approximately 11:00 a.m. a criminalist observed several stains in the mustang that tested presumptively positive for the presence of blood. he found such stains on the interior ; and on the front passenger seat and seat back. some were red stains, while others were dark stains that did not immediately appear to be blood. the center console also tested positive for the presence of blood and had white areas that appeared to have been buffed. the criminalist selected three of the stained areas for dna testing. dna testing revealed that 2 the inconclusive. (vii) a detective discovered three knive-ir boxes. a third knife, also a ka-bar, was in a plastic sheath in a duffle bag in the closet. also inside the closet were four handguns, four magazines, two bolt-action rifles, and two 12-gauge shotguns. a pair of in the clothes dryer. (viii) cell phone evidence between february 14 and february 24phone. the calls were made using a blocking feature that prevented giles from identifying who was calling. the brief duration of the calls indicated the caller hung up without leaving a message or was routed to voicemail. 2 the chance of the dna belonging to someone other than giles was one in 270 quadrillion. 9 on the night of february 25, 2008, a blocked call was made from villalobos at 10:34 p.m. that call was picked up by a cell site located at 10771 sherman way in sun valley, indicating villalobos was within three miles of that location at the time. at the time villalobos made the 10:34 p.m. within the area covered by the cell site closest to his house. -user-phone at 1:17 a.m. (ix) expert testimony regarding the knives ernest emerson, a manufacturer and designer of specialty combat knives, testified ka-barstates marine corps since world war ii. the sog knife is also a military knife used by ka-bar knife found out of its box, in the duffle bag, had been used. it had two small, flattened portions on the edge indicating it struck something harder than the steel of the blade, such as cement or a rock. the damage was very difficult for a non-expert to see. there were also marks or scratches on the blade, laterally and across on both sides, that could have been caused by sog knife and the ka-bar knife found in its box were in pristine condition and had not been used. the ka-bar knife that had been used had several features making it an effective offensive weapon. a backstop or rear guard assisted a user to easily pull the knife out after it had been inserted into something. the ergonomic grip was made of a grooved rubber that provided traction and was impervious to liquids. a hilt or guard protected the hand from sliding onto the knife during use. these features of the knife would help prevent injuries to the hand. -bar knife model provided the greatest degree of protection for someone using the knife, as opposed to the other two knives. the knife was effective as a combat weapon due to its thickness; its 10 7-inch blade, which was designed to penetrate vital organs no matter where the opponent was struck; and the presence of grooves along the blade, which allowed blood to flow out of a wound, hastening death. unlike a hunting knife, the ka-bar was designed so that the force of a thrust was concentrated at the point. the used ka-bar knife, like the other two, had a serrated edge. ka-bar knives were readily available at sporting goods, military surplus, and other stores. debra kowal, a toolmark expert, reviewed photographs of the knives and the autopsy report during her technical review of the conclusions of another toolmark analyst, steven dowell. based on a comparison of the measurements of the knife and the width and depth of the wounds, kowal opined that none of the three knives found in the same conclusion dowell had reached. some of the definitively be identified as the murder weapon.3 the used ka-bar knife and its sheath were tested for dna. the dna mixture on the sheath included at least four people. it was not certain th dna from at least three people was present on the knife blade, but dna was not. (x) hood. the vehicle a loud noise. 3 kowal concluded nine of the analysis had variations that could have been due to factors such as skin elasticity, movement of the victim during the attack, or positioning of the body during the autopsy, or might have indicated use of a second knife. according to the autopsy report, two of the four wounds were made by an instrumknives had a blunt edge and a sharp edge. 11 rer, an experienced automobile mechanic, heard a car in the neighborhood with a loud exhaust four or five times during the two to three weeks prior to the murder. she looked out her window approximately three times to see the car villalo she saw the car parked on joaquin drive once and observed it driving from brace canyon onto joaquin several times. saw mustang parked on joaquin drive on february 15, 2008. when she drove by later, a mathe man. (xi) villalobos villalobos worked at brinks incorporated, located at 12730 raymer street in north hollywood. villalobos worked on february 25, 2008, from 9:35 a.m. until 9:41 p.m. he had the day off on february 26, 2008 and was not scheduled for training that morning. (xii) police interviews of ingram police officers interviewed or interrogated ingram multiple times over the course of several days. she initially did not disclose that she was or had been in a relationship with villalobos, but provided that information only after police discovered her text messages to him. during subsequent interviews, certain officers called her a liar, accused her of being an accessory to the murder, told her her life was over, refused to believe her statements, and implied she should say what they wanted to hear. they called her a her head against the table and make it look like an accident. officers informed her that blood had been found in the mustang. because she was frightened and exhausted, ingram lied to the officers. among other things, she dress out for villalobos to find, and giles were in a hot tub together. she also falsely stated that villalobos was extremely violent and had stated he was going to go take care of giles. 12 2. defense evidence as relevant here, the defense presented the following evidence. villas sister-in-law, lideth, saw villalobos at his san gabriel home at approximately 7:20 a.m. on the morning of february 26, 2008. dr. david posey, a forensic pathologist retained by the defense, opined that giles died between 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on the morning of february 26. it was highly improbable giles died between 10:30 p.m. on february 25 and 2:30 a.m. on february 26. his opinimbient body temperature, the degree of rigor mortis, the fact the blood at the crime scene was still wet, as discussed more fully post, on the night of february 25 at approximately 11:30 p.m. 3. rebuttal evidence detective henry garay listened to a telephone conversation between villalobos and his mother recorded while villalobos was in jail on february 27, 2008. she stated she was awake at 11:00 p.m. and villalobos was not yet home. as discussed more fully post, o 4. procedure trial was by jury. villalobos was convicted of first degree murder. (pen. code,  187, subd. (a).)4 the jury found he it further found he personally used a deadly and dangerous weapon, a knife, in commission of the crime. ( 12022, subd. (b)(1).) the trial court sentenced villalobos to 26 years to life in prison. it ordered him to pay direct victim restitution of $8,000 and imposed a restitution fine, a suspended parole restitution fine, a court security assessment, and a criminal conviction assessment. villalobos appeals. 4 all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 13 discussion 1. sufficiency of the evidence villalobos contends the evidence was insufficient to establish he was the murderer, and therefore his conviction must be reversed. we disagree. when determining whether the evidence was sufficient to sustain a criminal we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant gu (people v. mccurdy (2014) 59 cal.4th 1063, 1104; people v. johnson (2015) 60 cal.4th 966, 988.) we presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier of fact could reasonably deduce from the evidence. (people v. medina (2009) 46 cal.4th 913, 919.) reversal is nothat upon no hypothesis whatever is there sufficient substantial eviden (people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 331; people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357.) the same standard of review applies to cases in which the prosecution relies primarily on circumstantial evidence. (people v. brown (2014) 59 cal.4th 86, 106.) we must accept logical inferences the jury might have drawn from the evidence even if we would have concluded otherwise. (people v. solomon (2010) 49 cal.4th 792, 811-812.) there was ample evidence to establish villalobos was the murderer. giles had recently begun dating ingram, who unbeknownst to giles or ex-relationship and became angry when ingram attempted to break up. he stated that he want to be made a fool of and no one is going to mess with himand he would villalobos knew who giles was: he had seen him at the elks lodge and at the robin hood restaurant. number and repeatedly phoned him, using a blocking feature. neighbors saw and heard his distinctive mustang on or near joaquin drive. cell phone records showed villalobos on the night of or preceding the 14 murder. villalobos worked in north hollywood and lived in san gabriel, and there was at that timewas stolen during the attack, and was found moving southwest at 12:45 a.m. this fact, couh, suggested the murder was completed by that time. villalobos owned a used ka-bar fighting knife that was specially designed s hand would not be injured. the knife had damage apparently resulting from contact with a hard surface like concrete. there was a gouge on the concrete floor in giles bedroom. ed it could have been the murder weapon. giles bled profusely, and the knife had blood grooves to facilitate bleeding. giles could not be excluded as a donor of dna on the knife sheath, though the evidence he was a contributor was weak. the bloody sock prints matched the same print. a bloodhound tracked scent taken from the bloody handprint to the crime appeared inconsistent with a robbery: wallet on the dresser was undisturbed and the house was not ransacked. and most tellingly, the villalobos contends that the foregoing evidence was legally insufficient.5 he argues that ingram was an admitted liar whose testimony was unbelievable. the bloody money dropped on the hillside suggested the motive for the murder was robbery. no on the night of the murder. no witness identified villalobos as the driver of the mustang , at most, that villalobos was attempting to determine whether ingram was seeing giles, not that he intended to murder giles. 5 villalobos appropriately does not challenge the sufficiency of the evidence to prove premeditation and deliberation. as our recitation of the facts makes clear, there was ample evidence of motive, manner of killing, and planning, three of the factors commonly used to establish premeditation. 15 approximately 10:30 p.m. on the night of february 25, whether giles was home because the phone records indicating gmoving at 12:45 a.m. did not necessarily show the murder had already transpired; it was possible giles was alive and driving home at that time. the time of death could not be reliably ascertained by reference to giles stomach contents, because he might have stopped for a drink with friends after leaving the elks lodge. the defense expert testified that time of death was the following morningtestified he was home in san gabriel. deputy opinion ere definitively identified as the murder weapon, and there were inconsistencies between the measurements of the used ka-the dog scent evidence was unreliable for a variety of reasons. villa not found at the crime scene, and the bloody sock prints were not definitively identified as his. ere is a strong probability giledemonstrated by the fact that officers told ingram the criminalist discovered it there. none of these arguments demonstrate the challenged evidence was physically impossible or inherently improbable. s amount to a request that this court reweigh the evidence and substs. this we cannot do. the fact the evidence might have been reconciled with a contrary finding does not warrant a reversal. (see, e.g., people v. harris (2013) 57 cal.4th 804, 849-850; people v. livingston (2012) 53 cal.4th 1145, 1170.) we resolve neither credibility issues nor evidentiary conflicts. (people v. friend (2009) 47 cal.4th 1, 41; people v. tripp (2007) 151 cal.app.4th 951, 955; people v. cortes (1999) 71 cal.app.4th 62, 81 [where merely reargues the evidence in a way more appropriate for trial than for we s determination].) s duty to acquit if it finds that circumstantial evidence is susceptible of two interpretations, one 16 of which suggests guilt and the other innocence, it is the jury, not the appellate court, which muss guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. harris, at pp. 849-850; people v. iboa (2012) 207 cal.app.4th 111, 117.) as we have discussed, , and there was no evidentiary deficit. 2. purported evidentiary errors s a. applicable legal principles and standard of review except as otherwise provided by statute, all r (evid. code,  351.) evidence is relevant if it has any tendency in reason to prove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action. (evid. code,  210; people v. williams (2008) 43 cal.4th 584, 633-634; people v. wilson (2006) 38 cal.4th 1237, 1245.) under evidence code section 352, a court has discretion to exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability its admission will create a substantial danger of undue prejudice. (people v. williams (2013) 58 cal.4th 197, 270-271.) we evidence and application of evidence code section 352 for abuse of discretion. (people v. leon (2015) 61 cal.4th 569, 597, 599; people v. masters (2016) 62 cal.4th 1019, 1056.) the erroneous admission of evidence does not require reversal except where the error or errors caused a miscarriage of justice. (people v. richardson (2008) 43 cal.4th 959, 1001; evid. code,  353, subd. (b), 354.) should be declareafter an examination of the entire cause, including the that it is reasonably probable that a result more favorable to the appealing party would have been reachpeople v. richardson, supra, at p. 1001; people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) the admission of relevant evidence will not offend due process unless the evidence is so people v. hamilton (2009) 45 cal.4th 863, 930; people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 439.) 17 b. (i) additional facts prior to trial the people moved to admit, pursuant to evidence code sections 1101, subdivision (b) and 1109, evidence that ingram had wished to end her relationship with motion, villalobos followed ingram to her workplace and other locations and incessantly telephoned her. ingram believed villalobos was responsible for two or three instances of vandalism to her car in february 2008. the vandalism included smashing her windshield, letting the air out of one of her tires, and scratching her car. the people also sought to admit evidence that villalobos had beaten and sexually assaulted a former girlfriend and vandalized her carwho worked for him in 2000. the people argued that this evidence was relevant to prove motive, intent, identity, and common plan. charged with domestic violence and his conduct toward ingram was not probative in regard to his alleged murder of giles.6 during redirect examination of james ewart, the elks lodge chef and a friend of both ingram and giles, the prosecutor elicited that ingram had been uncomfortable with her relatio---arsay objection was sustained and the answer stricken. the prosecutor then asked whether ewart had observed that ingramconference, the trial court asked whether there was evidence villalobos was responsible for the vandalism. the prosecutor stated there was evidence ingram believed villalobos 6 alleged conduct towards the other women. that ruling is not at issue here. 18 was responsible. the trial court allowed the prosecutor to ask whether ewart had observed vandalism to the car, but nothing else. ewart then recounted that approximately twsmashed while the car was parked at the elks lodge. a day or two before the murder, he observed that the valve partially flattened. the prosecutor had violated its order excluding evidence of the vandalism. when proceedings resumed, the trial court clarified that the prosecutor had not committed nd was not at issue. absent evidence villalobos was the person who vandalized the car, the evidence was irrelevant. however, the court opined that the erroneous admission of the evidence was harmless. it granted to be considered.7 consider any evidence that was stricken from the record.8 (calcrim no. 222.) (ii) discussion villalobos argues the evidence was irrelevant and was inadmissible propensity evidence that should have been excluded under evidence code section 1101, subdivision process and a fair trial in violation of his federal constitutional rights. 7 the court stated: vandalism 8 from the record you must disregard it and must not consider that testimony for any 19 was excluded; the trial court ordered it stricken. any potential harm was remedied when the trial court instructed the jury not to consider it. we presume the jury finstructions, and nothing in the record here suggests otherwise. (people v. homick (2012) 55 cal.4th 816, 866-867; people v. smith (2007) 40 cal.4th 483, 517-crucial assumption underlying our constitutional system of trial by jury is that jurors generally understand and faithfully follow instructions.nor was the evidence so inherently prejudicial that the jury would have been unable to rufo v. simpson (2001) 86 cal.app.4th 573, 599.) here, the trial court concluded the error was harmless. the challenged testimony was limited and non-inflammatory. it comprised an exceedingly brief portion of the six-week trial. villalobos has failed to establish any violation of his rights to due process and a fair trial. c. (i) additional facts guadalupe villalobos, as a witness in its case-in-chief.9 she testified that she was home on the evening of february 25, 2008, and retired to her bedroom to watch the news, which was on between 11:00 p.m. and midnight. villalobos was at work and arrived home at approximately 11:30 p.m., while she was watching the news. officer zepeda testified that he spoke to guadalupe during the search of the villalobos house on february 27, 2008. she told him she recalled villalobos coming home on february 25, but was unsure of the time; she was also unsure whether he left 9 for eamother by her first name, guadalupe. 20 after he arrivezepeda whether guadalupe guadalupe was later called as a witness for the defense. she testified that the search of her home was very difficult because seven or eight officers arrived very early in the officers asked her many -examination, the prosecutor asked whether she told zepeda that of her three sons, villalobos had the worst temper. without objection, guadalupe denied making the statement but admitted stating that her three children had different personalities. the people recalled officer zepeda. he testified that he asked guadalupe whether had occurred. guadalupe began to cry and asked if ingram had been murdered. zepeda had not told her villalobos had been arrested for murder. defense counsel did not object to this testimony. during argument, the prosecutor argued guadalupe] s where it should have been with the son the prosecutor further argued: a mother says in dead? that speaks volumes, ladies and gentlemen. that tells you a story all by itself. (ii) discussion about his temper and the possibility ingram had been murdered deprived him of due process and a fair trial. he [w]her zepeda volunteered the information, reversal is required. the people respond that statements were properly admitted because they fell within the spontaneous statement 21 exception to the hearsay rule, and in any event no prejudice is apparent because the evidence of guilt was overwhelming. (see people v. linton (2013) 56 cal.4th 1146, 1205 [to preserve a claim of prosecutorial misconduct, a defendant must make a timely and specific objection and ask the trial court to admonish the jury to disregard the improper argument]; evid. code,  353, subd. (a); people v. cage (2015) 62 cal.4th 256, 282 [failure to object to evidence forfeits the contention on appeal]; people v. lindberg (2008) 45 cal.4th 1, 48.) villalobos argues he had no opportunity to object. he contends that the trial court uncharged crimes against other women and had prohibited questions to zepeda, during his earlier testimony, regarding statements. therefore, villalobos argues, defense counsel could not have anticipated that the prosecutor would introduce the evidence. any objection would simply have highlighted the evidence before the jury. we disagree. defense counsel had ample opportunity to object and could have testimony. statements did not pertain to the uncharged misconduct at issue in the pretrial motion, on that subject were irrelevant to however, because villalobos avers defense counsel provided ineffective assistance, we address the merits of that claim.10 evidence code section 1101, subdivision (a) provides that subject to exceptions s character or a trait of his or her character (whether in the form of an opinion, evidence of reputation, or evidence of specific instances of his or her conduct) is inadmissible when offered to prove his or her conduct 10 spontaneous statement exception to the hearsay rule (evid. code,  1240) is unhelpful. villalobos does not contend the evidence was objectionable because it constituted hearsay; he argues it was improper propensity evidence and should have been excluded under evidence code section 352. 22 on a specified occasion. haracter evidence, sometimes described as evidence of a propensity or disposition to engage in a type of conduct, is generally s conduct on a specified occasion.people v. villatoro (2012) 54 cal.4th 1152, 1159; people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1114, 1147.) to the extent villalobos argues guadalu statements disclosed his prior violent acts or uncharged offenses, he is incorrect. her statement about his temper and her concern that ingram might have been murdered did not disclose that villalobos had committed any prior violent conduct or an uncharged crime. however, statement that villalobos had a bad temper amounted to improper character evidence, and the people offer no argument demonstrating a legitimate basis for its admission. the people also relied on query about character, assuming the comment implied capable of murder. this was also improper character evidence. however, villalobos has failed to establish his counsel provided ineffective assistance by failing to object. to establish ineffective assistance of counsel, a defendant e favorable determination would have resulted. if the defendant makes an insufficient showing on either component, the claim fails. (people v. johnson (2016) 62 cal.4th 600, 653; people v. homick, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 893, fn. 44.) counsel has wide discretion in choosing the means by which to provide constitutionally adequate representation. (people v. johnson, supra, at p. 653.) if the record on appeal fails to show why counsel n and failed to provide one, or unless there simply could be no satisfactory explanation, the claim must be rejected on appeal. ibid.) the record here does not demonstrate there could be no satisfactory explanation e to object. one theme of the defense case was that the investigation filled with contradictions and much of the evidence was unbelievable. conceivably, counsel might have made a deliberate tactical choice not to 23 object to the evidence or argument on the theory the evidence was unbelievable, and people v. johnson, supra, 62 cal.4th at p. 654 [counsel might have made a deliberate tactical choice not to object to the ument so counsel could use it to his advantage during argument].) here, defense counsel argued in closing that it was unbelievable a police officer villalobos had a bad temper or imply he might have killed ingram at the same time her home was being searched. moreover, the challenged testimony and argument was but a brief portion of the trial. in light of the evidence discussed ante, villalobos has failed to show there is a reasonable probability that a more favorable determination would have resulted had the evidence been excluded. d. the knives found in villaloboscloset villalobos moved prior to trial to exclude evidence of the knives found in his bedroom closet as mony. the prosecution sought a contrary ruling that the evidence was admissible. after extensive consideration of the issue, the trial court ruled the evidence was admissible because none of the knives could be excluded as the murder weapon, and the evidence was more probative than prejudicial under evidence code section 352. villalobos contends the trial courtdeprived him of due process and a fundamentally fair trial. he cites, inter alia, people v. henderson (1976) 58 cal.app.3d 349, 360 and people v. archer (2000) 82 cal.app.4th 1380, 1392-1393, for the principle that evidence a defendant possessed weapons not used in the charged crime is irrelevant and amounts to inadmissible propensity evidence. villalobos contends, in essence, that because the knives were not definitively identified as the murder weapon they should have been excluded. he points out that the knives were not unique and were readily available; there were some inconsistencies between some of tdna was not found on the blade; and the probability dna was on the knife sheath was weak. we discern no error. specific type of weapon, it is error to admit evidence that other weapons were found in 24 people v. barnwell (2007) 41 cal.4th 1038, 1056; people v. cox (2003) 30 cal.4th 916, 956, disapproved on other grounds in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22; people v. riser (1956) 47 cal.2d 566, 577, disapproved on other grounds in people v. chapman (1959) 52 cal.2d 95, 98 and people v. morse (1964) 60 cal.2d 631, 637, fn. 2, 648.)11 however, it has long been held that [w]hen the specific type of weapon used to commit a homicide is not known, it may be permissible to admit into evidence weapons session some time after the crime that could have been the weapons employed. there need be no conclusive demonstration that the weapon in s possession was the murder weapon.people v. riser, supra, at p. 577; people v. cox, supra, at p. 956.)12 for example, people v. carpenter (1999) 21 cal.4th 1016 held testimony the defendant stated he kept a gun in his van was properly admitted. although the witnesses did not establish the gun necessarily was the murder weapon, it might have been. . . . [t]his evidence did not merely show that defendant was a person who possesses guns, but showed he possessed a gun that might have been the murder weapon after the first and before the last of the killings. the evidence was thus relevant and admissible as circumstantial evidence id. at p. 1052.) people v. mills in mills, and breast had been cut. the trial court admitted evidence 11 as noted ante, the evidence showed that several guns were also found in , as a strategic decision, the defense did not object to admission of this evidence. 12 but is not the actual murder weapon, it may also be admissible. (people v. cox, supra, 30 cal.4th at pp. 956-957.) here, the people did not contend the knives were admissible for such purposes. 25 bedroom and car. (id. at p. 196.) an expert testified that many types of knives could have caused the fatal neck wound, which was not unique or distinctive, and any of the four cutting devices could have been the murder weapon. the defendant subsequently admitted he killed the victim with a swiss army knife. (id. at p. 197.) as here, the defendant argued that because none of the other four cutting devices could definitively be identified as the murder weapon, the evidence was irrelevant and prejudicial under evidence code section 352, and its admission violated his rights to due process and a fundamentally fair trial. (people v. mills, supra, at p. 196.) our supreme court disagreed, explaining: because defendant was accused of killing the victim by cutting her throat and shortly after the crime was found in possession of several cutting devices, any one of which could have been the murder weapon, the trial court acted within its discretion in finding the evidence to be relevant. [citation.] moreover, as it was made clear to the jury that a forensic analysis could not definitively identify any of the four devices as the murder weapon, the court did not abuse its discretion in finding the id. at p. 197.) the same is true here. the evidence showed any one of the three knives could have been the murder weapon. admissibility did not hinge on conclusive proof the weapons were actually used to commit the murder. (people v. riser, supra, 47 cal.2d at p. 577.) evidence villalobos possessed knives that might have been the murder weapon was relevant and admissible circumstantial evidence that he committed the crime. the people did not offer the knives to show villalobos was the sort of person who collected deadly weapons and therefore had a propensity to commit the crime. admission of the evidence the knives were found in his closetcould have been made by the knives, was therefore proper. (see also, e.g., people v. homick, supra, 55 cal.4th at pp. 876-877; people v. cox, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 956; people v. de la plane (1979) 88 cal.app.3d 223, 239.)13 13 the federal authorities cited by villalobos are distinguishable. in mckinney v. rees (9th cir. 1993) 993 f.2d 1378, the trial court admitted evidence the defendant had sometimes worn a knife on his clothing before the murder, and had once owned a knife 26 villalobos further argues that even if the knife evidence was admissible, it should have been excluded under evidence code section 352 as more prejudicial than probative. he complains that the knife itself, in addition to photographs, was shown to the jury; emerson demonstrated how the knife could be efficiently used to kill the victim,a highly inflammatory display; and during closing argument the prosecutor referred to the her not to describe the knife this way when examining emerson. none of these arguments establish prejudice within the meaning of evidence code section 352. that villalobos was in possession of fighting knives that might have been the murder weapon soon after the killing was highly probative evidence. we fail to see how the display of the knife itself, as opposed to a photograph, was inflammatory or prejudicial. emerson did not demonstrate how the knife could be used to kill another person, as villalobos suggests. emerson did briefly the point. he also briefly demonstrated the direction and motion necessary to have caused the slight damage to the used knife. but emerson never purported to demonstrate the kni-bar knife was, in fact, used to kill the victim, and the evidence showed the knife was used by the military in combat situations. while the evidence was no doubt unfavorable for the defense, in the context of evidence code section 352 is not synonymous with : it refers to evidence that poses an intolerable risk to the fairness of the that was indisputably no longer in his possession at the time of the murder. the ninth circuit concluded this evidence was irrelevant and impermissible character evidence. (id. at pp. 1382-1384.) in alcala v. woodford (9th cir. 2003) 334 f.3d 862, the court held it was error to admit evidence other owned two unused sets of by the defendant, and differed in many material respects from the knife found at the murder scene. (id. at p. 887.) here, in contrast to these cases, villalobos was found in possession of three knives shortly after the murder, any of which could have been the murder weapon. 27 proceedings people v. duff (2014) 58 cal.4th 527, 564; people v. scott (2011) 52 cal.4th 452, 491.)14 3. cumulative error villalobos contends that the cumulative effect of the purported errors deprived him of due process and a fair trial. as either rejected on the merits s claims of error or have found any assume we reach the same conclusion with respect to the cumulative effect of any purported errors. (people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1235-1236; people v. butler (2009) 46 cal.4th 847, 885.) 14 in light of our conclusion that the trial court did not err, we need not reach the hether admission of the knife evidence was prejudicial. 28 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports aldrich, acting p. j. we concur: lavin, j. hogue, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 