filed 10/21/14 p. v. thoma ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. william louis thoma, jr., defendant and appellant. b255791 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma059281) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, thomas r. white, judge. affirmed. richard b. lennon, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. 2 william louis thoma, jr. appeals from the judgment entered following his plea of no contest to driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs within 10 years of previously having been convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs (veh. code,  23550.5, subd. (a)) and his admissions he served prison terms for four prior convictions within the meaning of penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b). the trial court sentenced thoma to four years eight months in state prison. we affirm. factual and procedural background 1. facts.1 california highway patrol officer joshua wupperfeld had been a sworn peace officer for over 10 years and had extensive experience in the investigation of cases involving driving under the influence. wupperfeld was made aware of such a case at approximately 8:25 a.m. on february 2, 2013. it occurred in the area of avenue k and 90th street east in palmdale. wupperfeld ultimately acted as a drug recognition evaluator (d.r.e.) in the matter, which involved the defendant and appellant, thoma. wupperfeld first spoke with officer hider, who had initially observed thoma en hider then pulled her patrol car , she noticed he appeared after her initial contact with him, thoma abruptly sat up and began to pull away in his car. hider door and instruct him to put the [car] in park, when the vehicle came to a stop, hider noticed the odor of marijuana coming from the car and saw two marijuana cigarettes sitting on the center console. the officer then noted eyes were red, his pupils were shuffl[ed] his feet and [was] unable to walk in a straight p after thoma denied having smoked marijuana, hider performed a number of field sobriety tests thoma exhibited all the 1 the facts have been taken from the transcript of the preliminary hearing. 3 symptoms associated with the test, which indicated he was under the influence of a when hider gave thoma the rhomberg balance leg, thoma was unable to do so. after thoma failed a number of other tests, hider tested the alcohol concentration of his blood. when the result was .00 percent, hider concluded thoma had been driving under the influence of other drugs. wupperfeld then interviewed thoma. in addition ,thoma continuously nodded his head forward and back and closed his eyes as if he were about to go to sleep. the answers thoma gave were unrelated to the questions wupperfeld had asked. however, when wupperfeld asked thoma if he had any medical problems, thoma indicated he suffered from type ii diabetes. wupperfeld asked thoma if he needed any sort of treatment and thoma indicated he did not. in any event, wupperfeld gave to thoma a tube of glucose in case he was suffering from low blood sugar. although thoma self-administered one-quarter of the tube, there was no improvement in his behavior. after giving to thoma a series of additional tests, including a -and-and th-to- scars on h[h]is fingertips were blackened and burned,indicating he had smoked from a glass pipe. a blood test revealed some of the same narcotics found by officer hider , including oxycontin pills. after being questioned, thoma was eventually admitted to a hospital. although wupperfeld did not know why thoma was placed in a hospital, he was informed that thoma had suffered both head and back injuries while he had been in the army. thoma apparently had a prescription for vicodin pills. 4 the people presented, for purposes of the preliminary hearing only, -page had been convicted of, among other offenses, two counts of driving a vehicle while under the influence of alcohol. 2. procedural history. following the presentation of evidence at the preliminary hearing, on july 8, 2013 [ed] the so that a marsden2 hearing could be held, thoma stated he did not believe his counsel was properly representing . . . [he was] had told him the lancaster court, as well as other courts in which he had cases pending, were when thoma asked his current counsel, a deputy public defender, to have other allegations pending against him in other courts moved because of the investigation, counsel told him that when she looked into the the trial court, which obviously had not heard of any such investigation, responded: the court continued: case in this jurisdiction, mr. when thoma again indicated counsel had told him the court had laughed at him, the trial court inquired: thoma stated: . . i were [him] he believed the crimes alleged did not warrant the length of the sentences various trial courts were considering imposing. after the trial court indicated defense counsel was not the one who simply stated he did not feel as though he were being represented properly. 2 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118. 5 the trial court then asked defense counsel to summarize her experience and to indicate what she had done so far with regard to her representation of thoma. counsel stated she had been a public defender since 2006 and had represented adults and juveniles charged with both felonies and misdemeanors. counsel had consulted with thoma several days earlier and they had discussed the facts of the case. after she had answered all of his questions, he had requested that [she] make a motion to change venuehad informed him it was up to her whether to make such a motion. if counsel believed a motion was frivolous, she would not make it. in addition, counsel had told thoma, not that he had been laughed at, but that she had been laughed at. during an informal district attorney. although counsel was aware of the fact thoma had other cases pending elsewhere in the county, she believed that issue would be better dealt with at a later time. marsden motion, the trial court stated: [defense counsel] for a very long time. i never once ever [saw] her laugh at a client or laugh at anything a client [had] to say. she may disagree. she has certain obligations. the prosecutor, not her, and it was not the judge that may have laughed in response to the request to consolidate. so based on that, the court finds defense counsel has properly represented the defendant and will continue to do so. on july 16, 2013, an information was filed charging thoma with driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs within 10 years of previously having been convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs (veh. code,  23550.5, subd. (a)) (count 1), two counts of possession of a controlled substance (health & saf. code,  11350, subd. (a)) (counts 2 and 3), and driving when the privilege had been suspended or revoked (veh. code,  14601.1, subd. (a)) (count 4). it was further alleged as to counts 1, 2 and 3 that thoma had suffered four prior convictions for which he had served prison terms (pen. code,  667.5, subd. (b)). on july 22, 2013, thoma waived arraignment, a reading of the information and a statement of his constitutional rights and entered pleas of not guilty to counts 1 through 4. 6 at proceedings held on october 17, 2013, defen-the-record request for [a] continuancefor the record on september 18, 2013 that the court had granted request for a continuance, but the court would give no further continuances unless it was provided with a written penal code section 1050 motion.3 as counsel had filed no such , the court trailed the matter only to october 31, 2013. at a hearing held on march 24, 2014, the trial court indicated it was its [a] resolution of the case.enter a plea of no contest to count 1, driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs within 10 years of previously having been convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs, and to admit having served prison terms for four prior offenses. in exchange for his plea and admissions, the charges alleged in counts 2, 3 and 4 would be dismissed and the trial court would sentence thoma to one-third the midterm, or eight months for his conviction of count 1 and one year for each of the four admitted priors, or a total of four years eight months in prison. the term would be served consecutively to terms thoma was already serving in other matters. the prosecutor informed thoma that, by entering the plea, he was giving up his right to a jury or court trial, his right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses against him, his right to use the subpoena power of the court to present a defense and his right to remain silent. the prosecutor also made certain thoma understood the consequences of his plea. for example, the prosecutor informed thoma that, after completion of his sentence he would be placed on parole and if he violated a term of his parole he could be sent back to prison, that his plea to a felony could be used to increase or enhance a 3 any hearing in a criminal proceeding, including the trial, (1) a written notice shall be filed and served on all parties to the proceeding at least two court days before the hearing sought to be continued, together with affidavits or declarations detailing specific facts 7 sentence imposed for any future crime of which he might be convicted, that if he were not a citizen of the united states his conviction could result in deportation, exclusion from the united states or denial of naturalization and that, as a result of his plea, he could no longer possess a firearm. thoma was told that, in addition to his time in prison, he would be ordered to pay certain fines and fees and, finally, because thoma was pleading to driving while under the influence of alcohol or drugs if, in the future, the influence of alcohol or drugs and as a result someone [was] killed, [he] could be after indicating he understood the consequences of entering a plea and admitting his prior convictions and prison terms, thoma vehicle code section 23550.5[, subdivision] (a), a felony, commonly known as driving under the influence within ten years of previously having been convicted of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs or vehicular manslaughter and admitted that, within the previous 10 years, he had been convicted of four vehicle code violations for which he served prison terms within the meaning of penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b). the trial court found intelligently, explicitly and voluntarily waived his a and admissions the court then sentenced thoma to the previously agreed upon term of four years eight months in prison, imposed a $280 restitution fine (pen. code,  1202.4, subd. (b)), a suspended $280 parole revocation restitution fine (pen. code,  1202.45), a $40 court operations assessment (pen. code,  1465.8, subd. (a)(1)) and a $30 conviction assessment (gov. code,  70373). with regard to a $390 penalty assessment, thoma could choose to serve 13 days in any penal institution in lieu of the fine. in the interests of justice, the trial court then dismissed counts 2, 3, and 4. on april 23, 2014, thoma filed a timely notice of appeal from the judgment. in addition, he requested a certificate of probable cause because the trial court used his criminal history to impose sentences for his prior convictions and prison terms. 8 contentions after examination of the record, appointed appellate counsel filed an opening brief which raised no issues and requested this court to conduct an independent review of the record. by notice filed august 13, 2014, the clerk of this court advised thoma to submit within 30 days any contentions, grounds of appeal or arguments he wished this court to consider. no response has been received to date. review on appeal we have examined the entire record and are satisfied counsel has complied fully smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 278-284; people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, 443.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports aldrich, j. we concur: klein, p. j. kitching, j. 