filed 8/26/15 p. v. martinez ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jimmy m. martinez, defendant and appellant. b255184 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka100294) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, bruce f. marrs, judge. affirmed. richard a. levy, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, michael c. keller and russell a. lehman, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 introduction a jury found defendant and appellant jimmy m. martinez (defendant) guilty of murder and attempted murder and found true gun and gang allegations. the main evidence against defendant consisted of his incriminating jailhouse statements to undercover deputies. on appeal, defendant contends that his statements are insufficient to support the judgment and that their admission violated his due process rights. he also argues that the evidence is insufficient to show that the crimes were premeditated and deliberate and to support the true finding on the gang allegation. we reject all contentions and affirm the judgment. factual and procedural background i. factual background. a. june 25, 2012: the murder of guillermo reyes and attempted murder of jaime martinez.1 at approximately 10:40 p.m. on june 25, 2012, reyes was shot and killed while driving a honda on center street in baldwin park. martinez was with reyes. reyes was a north side bolen parque gang member, and martinez was either a member or an associate of the gang. one of the s kings have arrived (kha), to which defendant belonged. martinez testified at trial that he shot. but in an interview with detectives the day after reyes was shot martinez said that reyes was driving when they cheap shotted martinez grabbed a gun and shot , which was now in front of them or driving off. driver, there was a front seat passenger and a rear right seat passenger, who was the shooter. martinez 1 nothing in the record indicates that martinez and defendant are related. 3 uninjured, martinez took reyes to a hospital, where martinez threw the gun, a semiautomatic, into a planter.2 reyes died from a gunshot to his head. a .38 bullet was recovered from reye.357 magnum. side damage that might have been caused by a bullet enalso had damage suggesting that a bullet was fired at the honda. a white suv with gunshot damage was never found. no physical evidence or witnesses connected defendant to the crime. b. several months afmatter. when detectives received anonymous information about defendant, they conducted, on september 7, 2012, an undercover operation. deputy sheriffs anthony castro and navarro, posing as south siders (hispanic gangsters from southern california), were placed in a holding cell.3 one deputy wore a recording device, and there was another recording device in the cell.4 detective angus ferguson listened via a live feed in a separate room. defendant was put in the cell with the deputies, who told defendant they were in jail for murder. defendant introduced himself as danger from kha.5 2 in connection with these events, martinez pleaded no contest to weapons and stolen vehicle charges. 3 the cell was approximately 15 by 20 feet, with a toilet, two windows and a door with a window. 4 parts of the approximate three-hour recording were played for the jury. large parts of the recording were unintelligible. 5 at times, defendant would be removed from the cell and the deputies would be removed at other times. when the deputies were removed, they would report what defendant had said. 4 after being in the cell for about 32 minutes, defendant was removed for an 18-minute interview with detectives. detectives told defendant they were investigating the murder of a north side bolen gang member named memo near center and palm streets in baldwin park. although it was untrue, the detectives said that the surviving victim picked defendant out of a six pack and that they had shell casings from which they would get dna or fingerprints. they told defendant someone identified him. the detectives did not mention whether the crime occurred during the day or night and what type of gun was used. defendant maintained he had nothing to do with the crime. when detectives said they had video of the crime, defendant said it would show he back in the cell, defendant told the undercover deputies that the detectives were looking at him for a homicide. defendant dismissed the shell casings as when describing his conversation with detectives about the car he drove, defendant related that his baby mama drove a white chevy malibu but he usually [the detective] what kind of car she drove. you k. this exchange occurred: st part homes? sorry to say homes, i know you y castro]: that right there. hey, but when the mamada [the shit] happened right (pause) you 5 ? for a murder that, you know what i mean? homi huh? indicated his face was covered.6 while putting his head down, closing his eyes, and leaning his head, defendant defendant added, youngster. [] . . . [] that w defendant had been back in the holding cell after the first interview for about 40 minutes when he was removed again and told he was being charged with murder, although this was not true. his fingerprints were taken and he was put back into the cell. the detective did this 6 basically at nose level, both hands together at nose level, and drawing them out towards 6 , he talked to detectives for about 10 minutes. he asked what the date of the crime was so that he could ask his family where he was, although he said he was most likely with his baby mama. toward the end of the operation, deputy castro was alone in the cell with defendant. throughout the conversation, defendant would pause and use his hands to describe, for example, how the cars were positioned: . one. the conversation continued: . . . but the only reason why he said it was, because when it first, when the thing intelligible) dog. (unintelligible) about to take off. the side right there. there was already a car right here. (makes sound) popped the door open. stood like this. i just stood right there fool. my homie left me dog, the fool that there at t, you know? l. and he seen me fool, and i stood there fool. (makes sound) you know what i mean? like pretty much , i stood right there fool, like a g, fool. my homie calls me, the one that was (unintelligible) (makes sounds). i was like fuck this fool dog. told him i just started walking, could have fucking, easy, you know? . . . [] . . . [] eputy castro]: so then you guys just fucking got them after that? 7 ? off supposedly. he was going to drop me off. we were gonna take off. we were and s . . . [] yeah, and then he stopped because he heard me, he heard that fool, that other fool already parked over ust stood i (unintelligible). uh huh. (unintelligible) car, jumped in. t blasted them? ble) your car was in the back? yeah. . . . . this exchange occurred: no? (unintelligible) 8 boom. like this. (makes sound) m. just like. the homie was, the other one that was with me there . grab (unintelligible) i (unintelligible) [] . . . [] n me. efendant was walking at night when someone from car threw out a gang sign. defendant responded with his and they covered their faces. at one point, . defendant stopped, and defendant got out and started shooting. e this, 9 literally, both of them. homie got out of the car and was supposed to shoot, but he chickened out. defendant said it was after the shooting, defendant got into a second car. fucking with a different one. 7 from time to time, defendant denied involvement in the homicide: . deputy castro also told defendant he should start thinking about a deal, a number he would take. the deputy told defendant about a guy who went to trial and got a long sentence. defendant said he would take anything without life. c. gang evidence.8 detective jeffrey member, from prior contacts and from talking to other officers about him. based on a hypothetical modeled on the facts of this case, the detective opined that such a crime was committed for the benefit of kha. d. defense evidence. martinez told officer jose castro that he was a north side bolen parque gang member looking for rival gang members, either east side bolen parque or kha. they were in a stolen car and the gun martinez used was his. at the time reyes was shot, defendant was at michelle fernandez. 7 defendant told the deputies about another, unrelated, incident he was involved in window . . . . 8 we discuss additional gang evidence in discussion section iv. 10 ii. procedural background. on february 21, 2014, a jury found defendant guilty of count 1, the first degree murder of reyes (pen. code,  187, subd. (a))9 and count 2, the willful, deliberate and premeditated attempted murder of martinez ( 187, subd. (a), 664). as to both counts, the jury found true gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)) and personal gun use ( 12022.53, subds. (b), (c), (d)) allegations. on march 25, 2014, the trial court sentenced defendant, on count 1, to 25 years to life plus a consecutive 25 years to life for the gun use. on count 2, the court sentenced him to life with a 15-year minimum parole eligibility period ( 186.22, subd. (b)(5)) plus 25 years to life for the gun use. the court imposed but stayed sentences on the remaining gun enhancements. discussion i. sufficiency of the evidence. defendant contends: a. his jailhouse statements constituted insufficient evidence he committed the crimes, and b. there was insufficient evidence he premeditated and deliberated. we reject both contentions. a. there was sufficient evidence to support the judgment. the whole record to determine whether any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime or special circumstances beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the record must disclose substantial evidence to support the verdicti.e., evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] in applying this test, we review the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution and presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably have deduced from the evidence. [citation.] subject to justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the 9 all statutory references are to the penal code. 11 exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends. [citation.] we resolve neither credibility issues nor evidentiary conflicts; we look for substantial evidence. [citation.] s verdict. (people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357; see also jackson v. virginia (1979) 443 u.s. 307; people v. snow (2003) 30 cal.4th 43, 66.) where a defendant knows details of the crime that only the perpetrator would know, this may constitute sufficient evidence to support a conviction. (see, e.g., people v. maury (2003) 30 cal.4th 342, 401 [defendant provided details about victim (the location of the body and that the victim was strangled with a scarf) that only the killer would know], overruled on other grounds by barnett v. superior court (2010) 50 cal.4th 890, 901; people v. lewis (2009) 46 cal.4th 1255, 1291 [defendant denied raping murder victim before being accused of raping her].) here, dof this nature as to have no solid pprovided details about and with other evidence: martinez and reyes were shot at while in a car: defendant said that the victims were in a car when he shot them. martinez shot back at his assailants: defendant said that the victims returned fire. 10 faces: defendant indicated that he wore a mask. 10 martinez fired more than once, because there were three exit bullet strikes in the 12 reyes, the driver, was killed, but martinez, the passenger, survived: defendant knew that the driver was the one who was the shooting happened at 10:40 p.m.: although defendant was not told the shooting occurred at night, he knew reyes was 20 and martinez was approximately a year and a half older: defendant described the driver as younger than the passenger. defendant made statements to mislead detectives about the car he drove. he told detectives he usually drove a white chevy malibu or a silver honda accord. when repeating this to the undercover deputies, defendant you know what i mean a reasonable interpretation of this statement is suv used in the shooting. or a .357 magnum. after the shooting, defendant still running around in g rides. still fucking with a different one. .357 mag baby boy (italics added.) this statement raises a reasonable inference that defendant got rid of the .357 he used to shoot reyes and got a possible ddo not render the evidence insufficient to support the conviction. martinez, for example, indicated that this was a car-to-car shooting; but defendant said he got out of his car to shoot at the victims. martinez mention to the detectives that he issued a gang challenge; but defendant said that the victims initiated the encounter. defendant said that the victims shot once; but ballistics evidence established that martinez fired at least three shots. legitimate explanations exist for any differences in testimony. martinez, for example, may not have told detectives about his gang challenge to minimize his role in the incident. 13 unts to a request we it (people v. friend (2009) 47 cal.4th 1, 41; see also people v. cortes (1999) 71 s determination].) we resolve neither credibility issues nor evidentiary conflicts. (people v. maury, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 403; people v. mejia (2007) 155 cal.app.4th 86, 98.) that the evidence is reconcilable with a contrary finding does not warrant a reversal. (people v. livingston (2012) 53 cal.4th 1145, 1170.) b. there was sufficient evidence that the murder and attempted murder were premeditated, deliberate and willful. defendant next contends that there was insufficient evidence of premeditation and deliberation. we disagree. premeditation and deliberation requires more than a showing of intent to kill. (people v. halvorsen (2007) 42 cal.4th 379, 419; people v. concha (2010) 182 cal.app.4th 1072, 1083-1084.) an intentional killing is premeditated and deliberate if it occurred as the result of preexisting thought and reflection, rather than as the product of an unconsidered or rash impulse. (people v. burney (2009) 47 cal.4th 203, 235; people v. jurado (2006) 38 cal.4th 72, 118.) deliberation does not require any extended period of time. duration of time as much as it is the extent of the reflection. thoughts may follow each other with great rapidity and cold, calculated judgment may be arrived at quickly. . . [citatio (people v. mayfield (1997) 14 cal.4th 668, 767, overruled on other grounds by people v. scott (2015) 61 cal.4th 363, 390, fn. 2; see also people v. solomon (2010) 49 cal.4th 792, 813.) we normally consider three types of evidence when determining whether a premeditation and deliberation finding is adequately supported: planning activity; motive; and the manner of killing. (people v. gonzalez (2012) 54 cal.4th 643, 663-664; 14 people v. burney, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 235; people v. romero (2008) 44 cal.4th 386, 401; people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15, 26-27; people v. boatman (2013) 221 cal.app.4th 1253, 1266.) such a finding will be sustained where there is evidence of all three types, or extremely strong evidence of planning, or evidence of motive in conjunction with either planning or manner of killing. (romero, at p. 401; boatman, at p. 1266.) there was evidence of all three anderson factors. regardless of who initiated the encounter (either defendant or martinez by issuing a gang challenge to defendant), there was evidence of planning.11 defendant was in one car, but he left the scene in a second, defendant also had a gun. (see people v. lee (2011) 51 cal.4th 620, 636 [the des possession of a loaded and a mask, coupled with possession of a gun, shows planning activity. there was evidence of motive. reyes and martinez were north side bolen parque gang members. defendant belonged to a rival gang, kha. defendant was either looking for rivals. (see people v. sanchez editation can be established in the context of a gang shooting even though the time between the sighting of the victim and the actual shooting ; people v. rand enmity, including a preplanned, purposeful resolve to shoot anyone in a certain neighborhood wearing a certain color, evidences the most cold-blooded, most calculated, the manner of killing also showed premeditation. according to defendant, the 11 according to the victims. 15 got out of the car and shot at the victims. describe how the crime and/or his escape in a getaway car occurred. if the jury believed shows premeditation; i.e., defendant came up from behind his victims and shot at them. ii. s to undercover deputies. defendant contends that his statements were involuntary and obtained in violation of his rights under the fifth and fourteenth amendments. we disagree. a. additional background. before trial, defendant moved to exclude his jailhouse statements, on the ground they were obtained in violation of miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 (miranda). similar to his later testimony at trial, detective ferguson testified at the motion hearing that, after receiving tips defendant was responsible for the shooting, the detective set up an undercover operation in an effort stimulatedefendant was placed in a cell with two undercover deputies posing as inmates. defendant was not mirandized before the operation. defendant was removed from the cell at one point for a 20-minute interview with detectivesbelieve are in a similar situation as he. an the detectives told tattoo and that a surveillance camdefendant was placed back in the cell, but he asked to speak to detectives again. defendant was in the undercover deputies talked to defendant about going to trial, in which case based on this, defendant argued that the operation was a custodial interrogation requiring miranda rights to be given. he distinguished illinois v. perkins (1990) 496 u.s. 292, 296 (perkins)pects and undercover agents do not implicate the concerns underlying mirandathat 16 perkins, in terms of length of time and the sophisticated questioning. the trial court, however, found the statements admissible under perkins. b. although defendant argued below that his statements were inadmissible because he was not mirandized, his contention on appeal appears limited to a due process claim based on the alleged involuntariness of his statements.12 an involuntary confessionone that is not free because the defendants will was overborneis inadmissible at trial under the due process guarantees of the united states and california constitutions. (mincey v. arizona (1978) 437 u.s. 385, 398 [a confession ; people v. boyette (2002) 29 cal.4th 381, 411; people v. massie (1998) 19 cal.4th 550, 576.) by direct or implied promises, or secured by the exertion of improper influence. [citation.] although coercive police activity is a necessary predicate to establish an [citation.] the statement and the inducement must be causally linked. [citation]. [ci (people v. linton (2013) 56 cal.4th 1146, 1176; see also colorado v. connelly (1986) 479 u.s. 157, 164, fn. 2, 167.) in assessing allegedly under all the circumstances, are so coercive that they tend to produce a statement that is (people v. ray (1996) 13 cal.4th 313, 340.) whether a statement is voluntary depends on the totality of the circumstances surrounding the interrogation. (people v. boyette, supra, 29 cal.4th at p. 411.) a totality of the circumstances review requires evaluating all the circumstances surrounding the 12 because defendant did not expressly raise a due process claim below, the people contend the issue is forfeited. (see generally people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 992.) substantial rights ( 1259) are implicated, we may address the merits. (see people v. wallace (2008) 44 cal.4th 1032, 1074, fn. 7; people v. felix (2008) 160 cal.app.4th 849, 857-858.) 17 interrogation, including the element of police coercion, the length of the interrogation, its location and continuity, and defendants maturity, education, and physical and mental condition. (ibid.) that defendant gave statements to people he thought were friends but in fact were undercover deputies does not render the operation coercive. in people v. atchley (1959) 53 cal.2d 160, 168, for example, the police secretly recorded a conversation between the defendant and his insurance broker, who was a former police officer and who had agreed to question defendant. atchley the recording was obtained id. at p. 171.) the deception was not of a type reasonably likely to produce an untrue statement. (ibid.; see also people v. jenkins (2004) 122 cal.apimproper or coercive about placing defendant and marbley alone together in the holding cell and secretly tape-recording their conversation. defendant was unaware that marbley was taping their conversation; from his perpeople v. bradford (1997) 14 cal.4th 1005, 1043 attempt to establish a necessarily coercive].) although perkins was decided under miranda and did not directly address the voluntariness of statements made during an undercover operation,13 it does suggest that an undercover jailhouse operation is not per se coercive. (see perkins, supra, 496 u.s. at not officers, , people v. jefferson (2008) 158 cal.app.4th 830, 840-miranda warnings not required].) like the defendant in perkins, defendant here thought that deputies castro and navarro were fellow inmates and south side gang members. from 13 justice brennan, however, practiced on respondent raise a substantial claim that the confession was obtained in perkins, supra, 496 u.s. at p. 301 (conc. opn. of brennan, j.).) 18 the atmosphere. nor did other circumstances surrounding the undercover operation render the situation coercive. defendant was removed from the cell for one 18-minute interview with detectives and he later requested an interview with detectives. there is nothing unusual in this: suspects are often removed from holding cells for interviews. defendant makes no claim that the detectives threatened him during those interviews. he does, however, assert that the detectives lied to him. but the use of deceptive comments dstatements involuntary. (people v. farnam (2002) 28 cal.4th 107, 182.) where the deception is not of a type reasonably likely to procure an untrue statement, a finding of voluntariness is warranted. (ibid.) here, the detectives untruthfully told defendant that they had shell casings from which they could get dna or fingerprints, video surveillance of the crime, and a witness who identified defendant. they pretended to charge defendant with murder. these lies were not of the type likely to produce an unreliable statement. (see, e.g., ibid. [false representation s fingerprint was on the victims wallet did not render a confession involuntary]; people v. thompson (1990) 50 cal.3d 134, 166-167 [interrogating officers falsely told the defendant that his car had been connected to the scene of the crime and that other physical evidence linked defendant to the crime], disapproved on other grounds as stated in creutz v. superior court (1996) 49 cal.app.4th 822, 829; see people v. guerra (2006) 37 cal.4th 1067, 1096-1097 not likely to produce a false statement], overruled on other grounds by people v. rundle (2008) 43 cal.4th 76, 151.) it also appears that the detec in fact had little effect, because defendant 19 nt that defendant should think about a deal and that a guy who went to trial got a long sentence.14 this was not a threat or a promise, for example, that defendant should confess or he would get a long sentence. (compare with people v. neal (2003) 31 cal.at most, it was a permissible discussion about an advantage or other consequence that might naturally accrue from speaking truthfully about the crime. (see people v. ray, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 340.) in re elias v. (2015) 237 cal.app.4th 568 is distinguishable. there, 13-year-old elias was at school when the principal brought him to a small room to be [ly][ently]interrogated by two officers, while a third waited outside. (id. at pp. 574, 583.) the elias involuntary was premised largely on his youth, which rendered him particularly susceptible to false evidence and deceptive interrogation techniques. at 21 years of age, defendant here was young, but he was not a juvenile. and defendant did not know he was talking to undercover deputies, in contrast to elias, whose interrogator was not undercover. the totality of the circu iii. ineffective assistance of counsel. defendant contends that his trial court provided ineffective assistance by failing to object to evidence about how defendant came to be a suspect; his other crimes; and to a. standard of review. (1) prevailing professional norms, 14 motion to exclude the statements. 20 probability sufficiepeople v. scott (1997) 15 cal.4th 1188, 1211-1212; see also strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 694; people v. homick (2012) 55 cal.4th 816, 893, fn. 44.) if the defendant makes an insufficient showing on either component, the claim fails. (homick, at p. 893, fn. 44.) wthat cou people v. hinton (2006) 37 cal.4th 839, 876; see also people v. carter (2003) 30 cal.4th 1166, 1211.) b. the failure to object to evidence of anonymous phone calls. evidence explaining why defendant was selected for the undercover operation was introduced without objection. specifically, on direct examination, the prosecutor asked dant] becomes a the detective answered, came up as on the street type of thing that we might want to ta defense counsel cross-examined the detective about how defendant became a suspect: . . . and so in this particular interview that you had to [defendant] you brought him into that operation or into this interview setting as a you could call it, right? . [ ]. . . [] he was not officially a suspect. we just heard some anonymous information that he was a gang member on the street that we might want to look at. okay. so [defendant] became a subject or a person of interest or however you want to call it, or somebody that you should look at, as a result of receiving anonymous information, correct? 21 correct. hey, you ought to look at [defendant], right? we had a few of those calls. right. something like that, right? yes. information connecting [defendant] to this homicide, did you? we had no physical evidence or witnesses. no. no. okay. so it was basically you got this anonymous call and then you on redirect, the detective clarified that three anonymous calls instigated the jailhouse operation. we need not decide whether this testimony was objectionable as, for example, hearsay (evid. code,  1200) or on relevancy grounds (evid. code,  350). even it was, we easily discern a tactical reason why defense counsel did not object to it. given that no witness or physical evidence linked defendant to the crimes, his statements to the undercover deputies constituted the crux of the case. defense counsel therefore had a difficult choice: either to allow evidence about how defendant came to law enforcement or try to exclude such evidence and risk speculation about why police subjected defendant to the undercover operation. subjected defendant to a sophisticated undercover operation to get him to admit to a courtroom? . . . [] 22 a person innuendo. . . . station and said you should look at [defendant]. an anonymous phone call to the police station. and the detective her started this whole thing, why [defendant] is here, . . . [] . . . [] and as a matter of fact, the evidence that even say that that le[]d to [defendant] being a suspect. [] you know, i used the term that you kind of hear person of interest, you know. we hear that on the news, you know. well, the police are talking to somebody who is not a rson of interest. we just wanted to look at him. . . . [] so one thing you can take away from this is that you never want to be a person of interest or somebody that the police look at. because after hearing the testimony in this case, which should outrage you as citizens, you can see what can because defense counsel decided to highlight how defendant came to be the subject of the undercover operation, his decision not to object to evidence and not to request a limiting instruction was tactical. (see people v. riccardi (2012) 54 cal.4th 758, instr; people v. thomas (2012) 53 cal.4th 771, 810.) c. evidence that a defendant committed misconduct other than that currently charged is generally inadmissible to prove he or she had a propensity to commit the charged crime. (evid. code,  1101, subd. (a); people v. kelly (2007) 42 cal.4th 763, 782; people v. rogers (2009) 46 cal.4th 1136, 1165.) here, detective ferguson, without 23 objection from defense counsel, testified that he conducted the undercover operation been arrested for a very similar, not murder, but stolen car, running from the cops, pursuit with a gun, all things pretty much involved in our case assuming that this evidence was objectionable, reasons for not objecting are readily apparent. that the operation was conducted in jail by undercover deputies posing as gang members was an inescapable fact in evidence. defense counsel therefore again had a difficult decision: either allow the jury to hear why defendant was in custody or let the jury speculate about what he had done to land in jail. counsel decided that the lesser of the two evils was to admit unsanitized evidence defendant was in custody for having a stolen car and a gun, rather than let the jury speculate it was for a more serious crime. indeed, defense counsel first elicited this fact. he asked deputy castro whether l] for a g- that the failure to object to other crimes evidence was a strategic decision is further demonstrated by defense counsel use of the evidence to cast doubt on counsel argued that defendant confessed guys in there. these guys [the undercover deputies] are in there counsel therefore used other crimes to explain why defendant admitted to the shooting. (see, e.g., people v. hinton, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 877.) d. profile evidence. next, defendant contends that his trial counsel was ineffective because counsel characteristics commonly displayed by those who commit a certain crime. one court has 24 [people v. robbie (2001) 92 cal.app.4th 1075, 1084; see also people v. jackson (2013) 221 cal.app.4th 1222, 1237-1238.) such evidence is usually inadmissible to prove guilt. (robbie, at p. 1084.) defendant argues that the following testimony from detective ferguson was and have you conducted many of these operations? several. yes. sometimes people implicate themselves. would that be fair to say? yes. sometimes people maintain that they had nothing to do with it, right? involved as well? and t despite having implicated themselves in certain statements? in spite of laying out things only the shooter or a suspect would know, they i this waexplaining characteristics of people who commit a particular crime, for example, drug couriers. (see, e.g., people v. robbie, supra, 92 cal.app.4th at p. 1084.) instead, the detective was suggesting that people during undercover operations in other words, he called into question is extent, the evidence was objectionable. tveracity or guilt or innocence was irrelevant. (people v. torres (1995) 33 cal.app.4th 37, 46-47.) nonetheless, any 25 failure to object did not prejudice defendant. the comments were isolated, and the questions and answers were posed as generalities rather than specifically to defendant. iv. the gang enhancement. defendant makes two contentions concerning the gang enhancement. first there instruct the jury properly on primary activities. a. there was sufficient evi15 three or more persons, whether formal or informal, having as one of its primary activities the commission of one or more statutorily enumerated offenses, and whose members individually or collectively engage in or have engaged in a pattern of criminal gang activity. ( 186.22, subd. (f); see also people v. sengpadychith (2001) 26 cal.4th 316, 319-320, 323.) ry activities, the trier of fact may consider past offenses as well as the present, charged offenses. (sengpadychith, at p. 323.) the ssion of those crimes by the groupibid.; see also in re alexander l. (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 605, 611 [isolated criminal conduct is not enough]; people v. perez (2004) 118 cal.app.4th 151, 160 [retaliatory shootings of a few individuals over a period of less than a week plus a beating six years earlier was insufficient to establish the requisite criminal activity].) consistently and repeatedly have committed criminal activity listed people v. sengpadychith, supra, 26 cal.4th at p. 324; people v. vy, supra, 122 cal.app.4th at pp. 1224-1225 [evidence that the gang committed three predicate crimes over a short time period, including the charged crime, satisfied the primary activities prong of section 186.22, subdivision (f)] 15 we review the sufficiency of the evidence to support a true finding on an enhancement under the same standard we stated above in discussion, section i. (people v. vy (2004) 122 cal.app.4th 1209, 1224.) 26 may also provide evidence of a gangs primary activities. (sengpadychith, at p. 324; people v. gardeley (1996) 14 cal.4th 605.) spent his entire career (over 11 years) in baldwin park, and he was familiar with the gangs operating thereassociates and their affiliates, family members, in both custodial and noncustodial he described khaion from a tagging crew into the detective also testified about two kha gang members who were convicted of attempted murder with gang and gun enhancements. as to activities, the detective testified: . . . what are the primary activities of the kha gang? it could be anything from, like i said, vandalism, marking up their territory , anything from vandalism all the way up to murder. and what are some of their other primary activities when they act in the capacity of a gang? what kinds of crimes are they doing? drug sales, shootings, vehicle theft. you say shootings. are you talking about like discharging a firearm up in the air? no. shootings of rival gang members or thought to be rival gang members. murders or attempted murders? defendant argues that the detective, by using could be,suggested mere not facts. we reject this restrictive testimony. ambiguity that would render the testimony insubstantial. (see, e.g., people v. margarejo 27 (2008) 162 cal.app.4th 102, 107 [ defendant next and likens it to testimony in in re alexander l., supra, 149 cal.app.4th 605. in alexander l., the expert said he knew that the gang had committed predicate crimes, but how [the expert] had obtained the information. he did not directly testify that criminal activs] primary activities. indeed, on cross-examination, [he] testified that the vast majority of cases connected to [the gang] that he had run across (id. at pp. 611-612, fn. omitted.) this case is not like alexander l. detective honeycutt had years of experience, not just with gangs in general but with baldwin park gangs specifically. he testified at history, its territory, its membership, and tattoos and symbols associated with the gang. the detective knew defendant from prior contacts. in addition participated in the investigation of an attempted murder committed by thomas xulu, a kha memberat crime. the detective also knew about the 2010 conviction of rigoberto mejia, another kha gang member, for attempted murder. we was conclusory. b. instructional error. defendant next contends that the gang instruction (caljic no. 17.24.2), first, erroneously listed assault as a primary activity, and, second, failed otherwise to define the elements of each offense constituting a primary activity.16 16 defendant did not object to the instruction. having failed to do so, he may have forfeited the claim on appeal. because defendant argues that the instruction included an inapplicable primary activity and the exclusion of the elements of those activities rendered the instruction legally incorrect, we address the merits of the claims. 28 first, the written jury instructions listed [and] but ag a . ( 186.22, subd. (e)(1)-(25) & (e)(31)-(33).) the erroneous inclusion of assault was harmless error. the jury was orally sales, 17 assaults with a deadly weapon, drug sales, and murder are enumerated offenses. ( 186.22, subd. (e)(1), (3) & (4).) when detective honeycutt testified that a primary activityal gang members or thought to be rival gang members. the jury therefore would have understood that assaults referred to assaults with a deadly weapon. in any event, roneous reference to was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24.) second, we doubt that the trial court had a duty to instruct on the underlying elements of, for example, assault with a deadly weapon, and defendant cites no case so holding. (but see calcrim no. 1401 [bench notes: appropriate instructions defining the elements of crimes inserted in the list of alleged been established by prior convictions or sustained juvenile petitions].) in any event, offenses, there was undisputed evidence that two kha members (xulu and mejia) had been convicted of attempted murder with gun and gang use allegations found true. given 17 generally, to the extent a discrepancy exists between written and oral versions of jury instructions, the written instructions control. (people v. osband (1996) 13 cal.4th 622, 717; see people v. crittenden (1994) 9 cal.4th 83, 138.) but when reviewing a claim of jury misinstruction, we assess the instructions as a whole, viewing the challenged instruction in context with other instructions, in order to determine if there was a reasonable likelihood the jury applied the challenged instruction in an impermissible manner. (people v. jablonski (2006) 37 cal.4th 774, 831.) here, it is not only possible but likely the jury followed the oral instruction, given that the subject of the case was murder and attempted murder with gun use. 29 that those convictions, as well as the charged offenses against defendant, are offenses enumerated in section 186.22, subdivision (e), there is no reasonable probability the jury favor. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports aldrich, j. we concur: kitching, acting p. j. jones, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 