filed 3/8/16 p. v. brown ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. christopher brown, defendant and appellant. b255316 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma037315) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, lisa m. chung, judge. affirmed. peter gold, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and robert m. snider, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury convicted christopher brown of two counts of first degree murder. (pen. code  187, subd. (a).)1 the jury found true the special circumstance allegation that brown had been convicted of more than one offense of murder in the first or second degree in this proceeding ( 190.2, subd. (a)(3)). the jury also found true the allegations that brown personally used and intentionally discharged a firearm ( 12022.53, subds. (b), (c)), and personally and intentionally discharged a firearm that caused death to both victims ( 12022.53, subd. (d)). the trial court sentenced brown to two consecutive life terms without the possibility of parole plus two consecutive terms of 25 years to life for the firearm-use enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (d). the court imposed and stayed additional terms of 10 years to life and 20 years to life under section 12022.53, subdivisions (b) and (c). brown challenges his convictions on two grounds. first, he argues that the trial court erred by admitting certain statements the victims made in telephone calls before they died that he contends were inadmissible hearsay. second, he argues that the trial court erred by excluding evidence he argues would hadid not commit prejudicial error, and affirm. factual and procedural background this case concerns the murders of two women, christine bacon and her daughter crystal dawkins (dawkins). bacon abandoned dawkins six months after her birth in jamaica. graduating from high school in 2005, dawkins moved to south carolina to live with her father, maurice dawkins, and his wife, valicia dawkins. when dawkins turned 18, she 1 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 told her father she wanted to visit her mother in california. on november 17, 2006 dawkins flew to california to spend thanksgiving week with her mother. bacon shared a house in lancaster with her boyfriend christopher brown. brown claimed that he had paid for the lancaster house and for two properties in las vegas, but there were problems in their relationship. brown had hit bacon twice, once using a gun, and the couple had quarreled over the properties. brown wanted bacon to move to las vegas and live in one of the houses there. bacon refused to leave the lancaster house unless brown paid her $10,000. a. the events leading up to the murders on november 20, 2006 dawkins spent the day with dicarlo bennett, a friend from because hers was not charged. several times that day brown called dawkins looking for bacon. during one call, brown accused dawkins of lying about not knowing where her mother was and of covering for her mother. later that night bennett drove dawkins to the lancaster house where brown was waiting for bacon to return. alone in the house with brown, dawkins made telephone calls to her friend bennett and her stepmother valicia dawkins. bennett testified that dawkins was crying and fearful during their phone conversation, and she told him that her. during another phone conversation with bennett later that night, dawkins, still crying, told bennett that she wanted her mother to come home. then bennett heard a valicia dawkins testified that in her phone conversation with dawkins that night, crying. . . . just jexplain what was wrong. dawkins told her that brown was upset because bacon was not 4 home and he didawkins told valicia she did not want to give it to him. dawkins said brown twisted her arm to get the phone from her, but she resisted. eventually valicia told dawkins to give brown the phone, which she did. valicia then asked dawkins if she could leave the house. dawkins told her she wanted to leave but there was no way to get out safely , and dawkins told valicia she would call her back later. after getting the phone from dawkins, brown discovered that bacon had texted a nude picture of herself to oscar winslow, someone she had met online. brown called is home. after lancaster house, but she circled the house for a while, apparently scared to go in. brown called winslow back later that night and sounded upset. brown told winslow that bacon had been seeing several other men, exchanging sexually explicit photographs and emails with them, and transmitting venereal disease to him and at least one other person. brown also told winslow that he had paid for the house in lancaster and an apartment in hawthorne where bacon also lived. winslow eventually ended the call, but brown called back again. in that call, winslow could hear bacon in the at approximately 2:00 a.m. on november 21, 2006 a deputy sheriff responded to a call from bacon asking for help in getting brown to leave the house. bacon met the awkins told them brown had left voluntarily. after brown left the lancaster house he went to see another girlfriend, tasha morris, who lived in hawthorne. morris awoke at 5:30 a.m. to get ready for work and saw brown watching television. she noticed he had an extra cell phone and asked him about it, and brown admitted the phone belonged to bacon. he showed morris explicit photographs of bacon that he said she had sent to other men and he played a 5 voicemail message from winslow to bacon. morris testified that brown seemed upset and disturbed. that morning brown and bacon made numerous phone calls. at approximately and on about various people that he taken advantage of him by wanting to keep the house and a car he had paid for but still erryman he had given bacon 30 days to leave the house. perryman told brown that bacon planned to keep the house. in ed in florida. was getting ready to go to work but wanted simpson to call brown and tell him to leave her alone. bacon explained that she and brown had been arguing and that she wanted to daughter and wanted her out of the house. simpson then called brown as bacon had requested. brown told simpson that he and bacon had been arguing, that brown that bacon wanted to end the relationship and had asked simpson to ask brown to leave her alone. simpson also told brown that bacon said she was going to change the simpson testified. simpson urged brown not to go to the house because if he did the bacon called simpson again shortly after simpson ended her call with brown. simpson testified that bacon was still upset and crying. approximately 20 minutes into their conversation, simpson heard a noise like an alarm. she then heard bacon ended. simpson tried calling bacon again but received a busy signal. 6 after talking to simpson, bacon received a call from perryman, who testified that was . . . d that bacon turned on the speakerphone to include brown in their conversation and that brown confirmed he had called perryman that morning. perryman testified that this news upset all ended, bacon called perryman back and told her that she needed to convey something urgent to her, but perryman had to go into a meeting and told bacon she would call her back. after her meeting ended, perryman was unable to reach bacon. sometime that morning, dawkins called her stepmother valicia, who testified that valicia testified. over the next several weeks no one was able to reach dawkins or bacon, and police. on december 18, 2006 the police entered the lancaster house and found the bodies of dawkins and bacon, both of whom had suffered multiple gunshot wounds. there was no sign of forced entry into the house, theft, or a struggle, and neither woman had been sexually assaulted. the medical examiner testified that the women had likely been dead for three to four weeks. b. the forensics investigation bacon was shot four times in the master bedroom where she died. dawkins also suffered four gunshot wounds and died in a hallway leading to the master bathroom. eight bullet casings and eight bullets or bullet fragments were recovered from the crime never found the firearm used in the killings. 7 the forensics investigation revealed that the bullets used to shoot bacon and . . . smith & wesson, or another caliber called 10 mm -caliber smith & wesson cartridge, and all of the bullets and cartridges were fired from the same handgun. according to a forensics expert who testified at trial, the ballistics evidence collected by detectives supported the conclusion that the firearm used in the murders was likely a smith & wesson model 411 .40-caliber firearm. at the time of the murders, brown had a smith & wesson model 411 handgun registered in his name. on december 20, 2006, during a search of the lancaster house, detectives found a box of 20 nine-millimeter rounds clothing and a draft contract requiring bacon to leave the lancaster house. the detectives also found several other boxes of ammunition containing nine-millimeter, .357-caliber, .40-caliber, and .45-caliber rounds in a closet, concealed in a carton that once held soft drinks. in a later search detectives found live rounds of .40-caliber ammunition in a locked shed on the property. inside the ammunition container detectives also found a wallet that conta c. on november 22, 2006, the day after the last time anyone had any confirmed contact with bacon or dawkins, brown called morris and asked for a ride to the airport. cell phone records place by the morning of november 23, 2006. from late november 2006 to january 2007, records for various cell phones used by brown placed those phones in philadelphia, miami, tucson, south carolinaumbers. on december 18, 2006 detectives called one of the numbers that had recently nswered identified himself as howard williams, who said he had seen bacon and dawkins in venice on november 19 or 20, 2006. williams also claimed that he spoke with bacon on the phone on november 30, the week 8 after thanksgiving. at trial, one of the investigating detectives testified that he recognized will on december 19, 2006 detective william marsh interviewed rosemarie jackson, a woman with whom brown had fathered a child some years earlier. jackson offered to call browhe had been in atlanta since november 22. he admitted that he shared a home with bacon in lancaster and that their relationship had been troubled. brown said he had last seen bacon and dawkins on november 21, the day before thanksgiving, and that he had last spoken with bacon on november 30. before ending the call the detective asked brown for his phone number. brown told him he had a new number because he had lost his old phone. the number he provided was the same number the detective called when brown claimed he was howard or harold williams. that phone number was connected to an account opened by patrick cook, one of several aliases detectives learned brown used. on that day, however, brown was not in atlanta, as he told police, but in miami, visiting his niece simpson. he told simpson that bacon had been found dead and dawkins was missing. he said that detectives had asked him to return to california to help find dawkins and that he intended to do so, but two days later he flew to philadelphia instead. simpson learned later that dawkins was dead. on december 20, 2006 brown and detective marsh exchanged several calls. in the course of their conversations, brown admitted that he owned two guns, one of which had been stolen, and that he had ammunition stored in the shed at the lancaster house. at the end of their last call detective marsh told brown he would call him back, but brown never answered his calls and never rhim. in january 2007 brown visited morris for one night in hawthorne before traveling to arizona. morris asked brown about the division of property with bacon. she testified that brown became agitated and neither responded to her question nor informed her that 9 bacon was dead. after not hearing from brown for several days, morris called simpson, who told her that bacon and dawkins had been killed. on january 5, 2007 detective marsh spoke again with jackson. she told him she had spoken with brown the previous week and that he had told her he was going to return to los angeles by january 3 to meet with the detectives. brown never contacted the police, and detective marsh was unable to reach brown despite numerous attempts. brown was arrested in arizona for the murders of dawkins and bacon on january 18, 2007. discussion brown contends that the trial court erred by admitting into evidence testimony by valicia dawkins, bennett, simpson, and perryman that repeated statements made by bacon and dawkins before they died. brown argues that the statements were inadmissible hearsay. brown also argues the trial court erred by excluding as inadmissible hearsay evidence of certain statements he claims he made to detective marsh. hearsay i (evid. code,  1200; people v. seumanu (2015) 61 cal.4th 1293, 1307.) hearsay is inadmissible unless it qualifies under some exception to the hearsay rulepeople v. dehoyos (2013) 57 cal.4th 79, 132; see evid. code,  1200, subds. (a), (b).) an out-of-court statement not offered to prove the truth of the matter stated is not hearsay. (people v. ervine (2009) 47 cal.4th 745, 775-776.) this appeal involves a series of out-of-court statements made by bacon and dawkins during their telephone conversations on november 20 and 21, 2006, some of which are hearsay and some of which are not, as well as two exceptions to the hearsay rule, evidence code section 1240 and evidence code section 1241. evidence code describes, or 10 explains an act, condition, or event perceived by the declarant and that spontaneously while the declarant was under the stress of excitement caused by such perception. (ibid.) evidence code section 1241 makes admissible so-called contemporaneous statements that aoffered to explain, qualify, or make understandable conduct of the declarant . . . made while the declarant was engaged in such conduct(ibid.) [a]n appellate court applies the abuse of discretion standard of review to any ruling by a trial court on the admissibility of evidence. (people v. kopatz (2015) 61 cal.4th 62, 85; see people v. dean (2009) 174 cal.app.4th 186, 193 [a]s a general matter, a trial court is vested with broad discretion in ruling on the admissibility of evidences abuse of discretion standard applies to review of rulings on whether an exception to the hearsay rule applies. (people v. hovarter (2008) 44 cal.4th 983, 1007-1008; people v. zavala (2013) 216 cal.app.4th 242, 249.) an abuse of discretion arising from the admission or exclusion of hearsay requires reversal only where it is reasonably probable that a result more favorable to the appealing party would have been reached in the absence of the error. (people v. pantoja (2004) 122 cal.app.4th 1, 13, quoting people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836; see people v. page (2008) 44 cal.4th 1, 42.)2 2 brown contends that the trial hearsay statements violated his federal constitutional rights to due process and to present implicate the federal conpeople v. harris (2005) 37 cal.4th 310, 336 (harris); see people v. dehoyos, supra people v. watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at standard of chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24. (see harris, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 336.) violated his sixth amendment right of confrontation, which in any case is not implicated here because the statements he complains the trial court admitted were not testimonial. (see michigan v. bryant (2011) 562 u.s. 344, 358-359 [statement is testimonial where primary purpose was to create a record for trial]; people v. barba (2013) 215 cal.app.4th 11 a. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting statements attributed to bacon and dawkins, and even if there were error, it was harmless 1. testimony of valicia dawkins about the two telephone conversations she had with her stepdaughter on the night of november 20 and the morning of november 21, 2006. with regard to the conversation el for brown objected that the question called for hearsay, but the court overruled the objection. explained that her mother was not home, and said that brown was upset because he did not know where bacon was. ve it on state and federal constitutional and attempted to get it from her by twisting her arm. valicia testified that after she told dawkins to give brown the phone, dawkins told her brown was trying to unlock the phone to see whom bacon had called and to try to find her. valicia then asked dawkins lly, bacon returned to the house and the conversation ended. 712, 725--of-court substitute 12 valicia then provided a summary of her conversation with dawkins on the objection.3 valicia said dawkins told her testimony to which counsel for brown (may have) objected as non-hearsay, spontaneous statements, or contemporaneous statements. some because it was not hearsay. for example, her testimony describing nonassertive, statements by dawkins. (see people v. rogers (2009) 46 cal.4th 1136, 1162 [statements nonverbal, nonassertive, emotional behaviorpeople v. jurado (2006) 38 cal.4th 72, 128-129 (jurado) emotional displays [are] nonassertive conduct, and thus not within the hearsay ruledawkins during their conversation as nervous, unhappy, and crying are not hearsay. (see jurado, supra, at pp. 128-tatement urging dawkins to give brown the cell phone is not hearsay because it was a request that was not made for the truth of any fact. (see jurado, supra, at p. 117 [a request, order, or directive does not assert the truth of any fact, [and] it cannot be offered to prove the truth of the matter statedpeople v. garcia (2008) 168 cal.app.4th 261, 289 equests and words of 3 section appeal. (people v. crittenden (1994) 9 cal.4th 83, 127; see boeken v. philip morris inc. (2005) 127 code section 353].) in this case, where multiple witnesses testified about the contents of multiple telephone conversations, and counsel for the defendant made multiple objections on multiple grounds, counsel did not create a clear record of the statements to which he objected and the grounds for those objections. nor has brown on appeal clearly identified the testimony that he argues the trial court improperly allowed. instead, he merely summarizes the telephone conversations bacon and dawkins had on november 20-21, 2006 and argues that the trial court should not have admitted any of the testimony concerning those conversations. nevertheless, we have reviewed the entirety of the testimony of valicia and the other witnesses to determine, as best we can, the questions to which counsel for brown objected. 13 direction generally do not constitute hearsaypeople v. reyes (1976) 62 cal.app.3d 53, 67 s words of direction or authorization do not constitute hearsay since they are not offered to prove the truth of any matter asserted by such words a statement may be admitted, though hearsay, if it describes an act witnessed by the declarant and [w]as made spontaneously while the declarant was under the stress of excitement caused by witnessing the event. (people v. gutierrez (2009) 45 cal.4th 789, 809 (gutierrez); see evid. code,  1240.) to render [statements] admissible [under the spontaneous declaration exception] it is required that (1) there must be some occurrence startling enough to produce this nervous excitement and render the utterance spontaneous and unreflecting; (2) the utterance must have been before there has been time to contrive and misrepresent, i.e., while the nervous excitement may be supposed still to dominate and the reflective powers to be yet in abeyance; and (3) the utterance must relate to the circumstance of the occurrence preceding it.gutierrez, supra, at pp. 809-810; see people v. bryant (2014) 60 cal.4th 335, 416.) spontaneous statements are deemed sufficiently trustworthy to be admitted into evidence because in the stress of nervous excitement the reflective faculties may be stilled and the utterance may become the unreflecting and sincere expression of ones (gutierrez, suprathe crucial element in determining whether an out-of-court statement is admissible as a spontaneous declaration is the mental state of the speaker.id. at p. 811.) thus, he nature of the utterancehow long it was made after the startling incident and whether the speaker blurted it out, [f]or examplemay be important, but solely as an indicator of the mental state of the declarant. (ibid.) whether an out-of-court statement meets the statutory requirements for admission as a spontaneous statement is generally a question of fact for the trial court, the determination of which ins discretion. [citation.] we will s determination of facts when they are supported by substantial 14 evidence and review for abuse of discretion its decision to admit evidence under the spontaneous statement exception.people v. merriman (2014) 60 cal.4th 1, 65.) brown argues that the statements valicia attributed to dawkins do not qualify as spontaneous statements because the attempt to take the phone from dawkins was not d her subsequent statements were not sufficiently related to that dawkinspeople v. clark (2011) 52 cal.4th 856, 926.) a short time before dawkins spoke to valicia, brownan older man whom the teenager dawkins had just recently methad lying to him and covering for her mother, made belittling and disrespectful comments to shortly after they occurred, and dawkinscourt did not abuse its discretion by admitting the statements dawkins made to valicia on the night of november 20. tellingly, brown concedes that the taking of the phone from dawkins was sufficiently startbut he argues it was not sufficiently startling to qualify them under the spontaneous statements exception. the touchstone of a hearsay exception, however, is the trustworthiness of the testimony. (see gutierrez, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 810.) an out-of-court statement submitted for its truth becomes trustworthy when that statement was made spontaneously precisely because it is made without reflection. (see people v. merriman, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 66 ermitting the admission of an out-of-court statement satisfying all of the requirements of evidence code section 1240 is based upon the long-held recognition that a statement uttered while under the stress of excitement interferes with the process of reflection and fabrication, and therefore is considered a true s observations and impressionspeople v. farmer (1989) 47 cal.3d 888, 903 [evidence code section 1240 was intended to admit out-of-court 15 stathese statements under evidence code section 1240. the events of the previous evening may have subsided. (see gutierrez, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 811statements dawkins made to valicia on the morning of november 21 may not have been while the declarant was under the stress of excitement caused by such perception. (evid. code,  1240.) night before and that brown had left the house were hearsay not subject to an exception, however, any error in their admission was harmless because these facts came into evidence without objection through the testimony of deputies involved in the case. (see people v. jenkins (2000) 22 cal.4th 900, 1016 [any error in admitting cumulative hearsay evidence was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt]; people v. houston (2005) 130 cal.app.4th 279, 296 he admission of cumulative evidence, particularly evidence that is tangentially relevs guilt, has been found to be harmless error.) for example, one of the deputies testified that he met with bacon in the early morning hours of november 21, 2006 at the lancaster station where bacon asked for help removing brown from the house. upon arriving at the house, however, dawkins told the deputy that brown had already left. because this testimony conveyed the same information as the statements brown contends were inadmissible through testimony. (see people v. bryant, supra, 60 cal.4th at pp. 414-415 [any error in at conveyed the same informationpeople v. riccardi (2012) 54 cal.4th 758, 804 substantially mitigated by other admissible evidence 16 2. testimony of dicarlo bennett s hearsay objections, and following arguments of counsel, the trial phone conversations on the night of november 20. the court specifically found such fearful. he also contends the court should not have admitted bphone went dead during their conversation. and that the phone went dead, was probably not hearsay. in any eventconversations with bennett were contemporaneous with her calls to her stepmother (see people v. clark, supra, 52 cal.4made while under the stress of those events. (see people v. ledesma (2006) 39 cal.4th 641, 709 [determination that victims statement about a robbery occurred while under the stress of that event was supported by testimony that he seemed nervous and scared].) moreover, her statements to bennett related to those 3. testimony of simone simpson brown also argues that the trial court erred by admitting testimony by simpson describing the two phone conversations she had with bacon the morning of november 21, 2006. counsel for brown, however, did not object to the admission of improper) 17 admitted without objection included statements by bacon to simpson that she and brown were having problems, that she was going to change the alarm code on the house, and that brown hawhile she was on the phone with bacon, she heard an alarm go off and bacon screaming for dawkins just before the line went dead. brown has forfeited his right to contest the admission of these statements on appeal by failing to object at trial. (see evid. code,  353, subd. (a); people v. stevens (2015) 62 cal.4th 325, 334 [defendant forfeited argument evidence was inadmissible hearsay by failing to object at trial]; people v. tafoya (2007) 42 cal.4th 147, 166 [defendant forfeited federal confrontation clause argument by failing to raise it at trial].) moreover, even if counsel for brown had objected, any error in the admission of these statements was harmless because the substance of virtually all of the testimony brown argues contained inadmissible hearsay came into evidence without objection or pursuant to a hearsay exception through other witnesses or other lines of questioning. (see people v. riccardi, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 804.) and preserved on appeal include statements that bacon told simpson that she and brown were not getting along, that they had argued, and that she wanted out of the relationship. bacon asked simpson to call brown and ask him to leave her alone. many of these statements came into evidence without objection later during and brown told her their relationship was troubled and that brown told her he had taken hone from dawkins. simpson also testified without objection that she told brown that bacon had asked her to tell him to stay away from bacon. thus, any error harmless. (see riccardi, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 804.) 18 4. testimony of carolyn perryman finally, brown argues that the trial court erred by admitting certain testimony by morning of november 21, 2006, both of which occurred after the alarm had sounded at 4 perryman told bacon that brown had called her that morning and perryman summarized their conversation. in counsel for brown. addressed someone else during their phone conversation and that what she said to that person had to do with brown. what she heard between bacon and brown were admissible under the hearsay exceptions statements made by bacon under the stress of having brown enter her home the morning after she had gone to the police for help ejecting him and had asked simpson to tell circumstances causing that stress and were admissible under evidence code section 1240. bacon and brown were also admissible as contemporaneous statements under evidence code section 1241 or non-to each other were arguably not hearsay because it appears the people were trying to establish that brown was in the house and that bacon was speaking to him, not for the 4 it is unclear whether brown contests the admission of these statements as observations. (see jurado, supra, 38 cal.4th at pp. 128-129.) 19 truth of whatever statements they made to each other. (see simons, cal. evidence manual (2016 ed.)  2:47, pp. 135-136 [distinguishing between contemporaneous statements and verbal acts, which are not hearsay].) in any event, the statements were admissible under section 1241. (see id. at p. 136 [citing people v. marchialette (1975) 45 cal.app.3d 974, 980, which held that statements of defendant and victim heard over the phone by the witness were admissible].) finally, any error from the admission of these statements was harmless because perryman later testified that, in the same phone call, bacon put brown on the speakerphone and all three participated in the conversation. counsel for brown did not object to this testimony, which indicated that brown was in the house with bacon and that bacon was speaking to him.5 have to talk later because perryman needed to go to a meeting. the people offered this statements were not hearsay. they were verbal conduct consisting of a proposal to perform an act and a response to that proposal offered, not for their truth, but to demonstrate why perryman did not continue speaking with bacon at that time. (see people v cowan neither inherently true nor false and thus is not hearsay].) b. any error in the exclusion of the statement brown allegedly made to detective marsh was harmless numerous times on december 20, 2006 without success and that brown told jackson he would meet with police on january 3, 2007 but never did, counsel for brown sought to 5 counsel for brown similarly did not object at trial bacon told her that her relationship with brown was over, thus forfeiting the argument. in any event, the fact that the relationship was troubled was already in evidence without objection. 20 elicit testimony from detective marsh about a conversation marsh had with brown in which brown allegedly told him his attorney had advised him not to speak with the police about what he knew. brown claims that he met with the attorney who gave him this advice on january 11, 2007. the people objected to the introduction of this testimony, arguing it was self-serving hearsay. counsel for brown argued that state of mind regarding his failure to contact detective marsh. the court sustained the -vance. brown contends that his statement to detective marsh is not hearsay because he sought to introduce it not for its truth but to show his state of mind. he further argues that even if it is hearsay, it was admissible under evidence code section 1250 as a -existing state of mind. the people concede that the as untrustworthy under section 1252 of the evidence code.6 the people also contend unsuccessfully attempted to contact brown numerous times on december 20, 2006 because brown conceded that he did not speak with an attorney until january 11, 2007. even if the trial court erred by excluding this statement, any error was harmless. the probative value of the statement brown claimed he made to detective marsh was contadid not speak to an attorney until three weeks later, on january 11. during that time, brown told both jackson and simpson that he would speak to police, but he never did, and he never offered any other evidence to explain his failure to do so. evidence that he 6 evidence code section 1252 provides that statements qualifying as exceptions to 21 did not speak to police after january 11 on the advice of counsel did not explain his silence until that date. there is no reasonable probability that, had the trial court admitted the statement, the result would have been any different. (see harris, supra, 37 t most, the additional evidence the jury would have heard was of marginal value disposition the judgment is affirmed. segal, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. zelon, j. 