filed 2/10/17 p. v. mendez ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. edgar noe mendez, defendant and appellant. b255338 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba378654) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, katherine mader, judge. affirmed. lynda a. romero, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and noah p. hill, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction edgar noe mendez confessed to police detectives that, under orders from his gang, he and a stabbed to death another member of the gang, fernando ramos. on trial , mendez testified he did not kill ramos. he also stated he falsely confessed to the crime because the police threatened him with almost-certain death, by placing him in the general population instead of in protective custody, if he did not confess. according to mendez, because he -his gang had given its authorization for its members and members of other gangs to kill him. the police officers denied they made such a threat. the jury convicted mendez of first degree murder (pen. code  187, subd. (a)) and found true the related criminal street gang allegation (id.,  186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)). mendez argues the trial court violated his sixth and fourteenth amendment rights to a fair trial by precluding his false confession expert from testifying. he also argues the trial court violated his fourteenth amendment right to a fair trial by allowing the prosecutor to make certain statements in her rebuttal argument, although mendez did not object to those statements at the time. specifically, the prosecutor argued the jury should not consider argument concerning false confessions because the attorney was not an expert and there was no expert testimony on the issue. because the trial court did not abuse its discretion in excluding the testimony on false confessions, and because prosecutorial misconduct argument is both forfeited and meritless, we affirm. 3 factual and procedural background a. fernando ramos is murdered on december 1, 2004 fernando ramos, a member of the playboys gang, was stabbed to death in a park. he was stabbed seven times in the chest and once in the back. although the stabbing occurred shortly after 4:00 p.m. , the police found no witnesses. the police did not do any forensic testing. b. the playboys gang -lights mendez mendez joined the playboys gang in 2000. in 2006 mendez - the -lighted, it although it was undisputed the playboys green-lighted mendez, mendez and the people disagreed about why. mendez testified he was green-lighted after a rival gang member shot him in the head and he gave the police information about the shooting.1 according to jonathan perez, a former friend of mendez who testified for the people, the gang green-lighted mendez before he was shot in the head because he had [fernando ramos] 1 even though no member of the playboys gang had been 4 c. mendez first became s murder when perez contacted the police in 2010. perez and his mother, rosa laura reynoso, told the police mendez had admitted to them he had killed ramos. although mendez confessed to them shortly murder, they did not go to the police at the time (before the gang green-lighted mendez) for fear that doing so would have resulted in gang retaliation. explaining why he did not go to the police in 2004, when perez said mendez admitted by a code. snitches get stitches2 the police arrested mendez on november 30, 2010. detectives julio benavides and jose calzadillas interviewed mendez, and mendez confessed. in the recorded confession, mendez said he killed ramos under orders from the gang because ramos ratted out) another gang member. d. the false confessions mendez was tried twice at the first trial, mendez did not testify. was that mendez 2 been convicted of an unrelated attempted murder that perez and reynoso were convinced mendez had actually committed. this may have caused the rift between mendez, on the one hand, and perez and reynoso, on the other. 5 was no evidence to support that theory. because there was no evidence involving a false confession, the court in the first trial did not confession expert to testify. at the second trial (before a different judge) mendez testified. he stated lighter gang member whom even the members of [his] own gang wanted to kill,murder [he] would tell them, abo mendez testified, then detective benavides asked me if i knew what was going to happen to me in jail. . . . he said that if i . . . them what happened that day, [detective benavides] was going to make sure that i was going to be in g mendez testified detective benavides repeated the threat two more times, and f i kept on playing . . . games, they were going to make sure that i was put in the mainline so that i could get killed just the same way that [ramos] got killed. mendez said the detective subsequently stated f i kept on making them waste their time, then they would have no choice [but] to put me in the mainline.explaining on redirect examination why he falsely confessed, mendez or fear that the detectives would put me in general population 3 the detectives denied threatening to put mendez in the general prison population. detective benavides denied making 3 ut speaking to the da [to] see if [he] could get a manslaughter deal 6 any threats to mendez. detective calzadillas said it was to put mendez in the general prison population, and he denied even knowing at the time of the interview that mendez was a green lighter. he said the only things that occurred before the recorded confession were that he and detective benavides they] were ,detective benavides read mendez his miranda rights, and mendez waived those rights. mendez again sought to introduce the testimony of a false confession expert. the trial court asked counsel for mendez, [w]counsel for mendez stated the expert confessions that would assist the jurors in determining whether or not this case is a case ofnot this case, but determining whether or notabout this case at counsel for mendez be a general expert. i would not pose any hypothetical, but he would discuss certain areas of interrogation, interrogation techniques, whether or not there was any contamination in terms of feeding mr. mendestatedcounsel for mendez feeding a potential suspect information, if itwhat the court stated its concern about the proposed expert testimony: ld want to know what [the false confession a credibility issue . . . whether or not the jury believes your client that there was a lot of conversation that was 7 the testimony, and gave the parties an opportunity to brief the issue. the people filed a testimony and mendez filed a brief in opposition to the motion. [sought] to introduce expert testimony regarding the phenomenon of false confessions, the types of police interrogation techniques that create the risk that a suspect will confess falsely, the kinds of individuals who may be vulnerable to such techniques, the failure of police training manuals or other relevant materials to alert police officers to the dangers of such confessions, and the difficulties experienced by both lay people and criminal justice professionals in determining whether or not a particular statement is accumendez propose[d] to testify not that the confession was false . . . but [about] general principles of psychology and at the hearing , tthere anything more that the defense would like to offer in terms of the specific offer of proof as to what [the expert] would say in 4 counsel for mendez responded, he will testify as to general areas regarding confessions, false confessions, the research. 4 although counsel for mendez stated before trial he believed he had produced all discovery to which the people were entitled, he never produced a report from the false confession expert, and none appears in the record. 8 determine whether or not the confession is true or false. . . . it is an aid . . . to assist the jury because common sense tells us that counsel for mendez he general principles of psychology in interrogation to lead to false and unreliable confessions is the court determined that the false confession experttestimony would not assist the jury detthe have any other factors which we see often in these types of cases where the police are taking advantage of someone of a young age, somebody with a mental disability, somebody with a lack of education, somebody with low education. [there is] no wearing down of the defendant, no physical abuse alleged. . . . [it] dt appear that [mendez] was being denied bathroom breaks. . . . instead, e defendant claims that certain threats and coercive tactics were used. . . . [the jury is] going to have to figure out who is lying about what was said, if e. counsel for mendez discusses false confessions in closing argument, and the prosecutor responds in rebuttal at closing argument, counsel argued to the jurors that they had to determine whose testimony was believable. in the e prosecutor said the job was to decide whom to believe. the prosecutor, referring to mendez, askeds 9 absolutely not one piece of corroboration that his statement was counsel for mendez countered of their interview with mendez was not believable: f it was so easy, then all the detectives would have to do in every single case counsel for mendez the officers or jonathan perez [and rosa laura] reynoso . . . or confession, that false confession, under coercion, under threats of being placed in the mainpens to counsel for mendez also argued, ommon sense tells us, no one would . . . confess to a murder they did not happens. why? research tells us why. but it happenstrial court sustained objections to subsequent references by counsel for mendez he area of false confession nd tried to explain to you the phenomena of false confessions. in her rebuttal argument, the prosecutor statedlaw is on your side, you argue the law. when the facts are on your side, you argue the facts. when neither is on your side, you throw law enforcement under the bus. you allege that there has been a conspiracy among four people. you try and muddy up the victim in this case, and you start talking about false confessions is a defense attorney an expert in . . . eard no expertise in that regard. and his vouching for that is not 10 counsel for mendez did not object to either statement. the prosecutor concludeddefense attorney argued, you would have to believe that two seasoned homicide detectives decided to coerce this defendant into making a statement about a case that was not high profile, that was a gang member, another gang member, [and that] f. the jury convicts mendez of murder the jury found mendez guilty of first degree murder and found true the allegation he committed the crime for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang. mendez moved for a new trial, arguing the court denied him a fair trial by excluding his false confession expert. three months later, new trial motion, arguing for the first time in the trial court denied the new trial motions, explaining, believe as strongly today as i did at the time that i made the decision that it was not an appropriate case for a false confession expert. . . . [t]he jury had an opportunity to evaluate credibility, defendant was threatened . . . . aconfession expert could have had any opinion that would have any relevance as to whether or not the defendant was threatened befor the court sentenced mendez to a prison term of 25 years to life. mendez filed a timely notice of appeal. 11 discussion a. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in precluding confession expert fourteenth amendment rights to a fair trial and to present his defense when the trial court precluded the testimony of his false although he never says specifically what the expert would have said that would have assisted the jury, counsel for mendez argued in the trial court, and his appellate counsel reiterates on appeal, the proposed testimony would have covered and unrel mendez argues would have illuminated the defense and had significant probative was useful and and was the fourteenth amendment of the united states constitution guarantees a criminal defendant the due process right to present witnesses in support of a defense, but that right people v. mickel (2016) 2 cal.5th 181, 218.) the rules of evidence are reasonable restrictions on those rights and thus generally ibid.) similarly, the right to effective assistance of counsel encompasses entitlement to defense expertsen they people v. stuckey (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 898, 918.) this right, however, is also subject to the reasonable restrictions in the evidence code. (see ibid.) 12 except as otherwise provided by statute, all relevant evidence is admissible.(evid. code,  351; see people v. cottone (2013) 57 cal.4th 269, 283.) evidence . . . having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination of (evid. code,  210; see people v. jones (2013) 57 test of relevance is whether the to establish material facts].) ase of expert testimony, it is not enough that it is relevant to an issue in the case. it must also satisfy the criteria of evidence code section 801, which sufficiently beyond common experience that the opinion of an people v. sotelo-urena (2016) 4 cal.app.5th 732, 753; see people v. sibrian (2016) 3 cal.app.5th 127, 133 opinion is not admissible . . . it consists of inferences and conclusions which can be drawn as easily and intelligently by the trier of fact ; accord, people v. fiore (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 1362, 1383].) we an expert is relevant and sufficiently beyond common experience for abuse of discretion. (sotelo-urena, at p. 745; see people v. smith (2003) 30 cal.4th 581, 627.) as the trial court correctly determined, the jury had to make a credibility determination. if the jury believed mendeztestimony that he was threatened with almost-certain death if he did not confess, common sense would dictate that he might falsely confess, and the proffered expert testimony was inadmissible under evidence code section 801. it does not take an expert to explain or understand that someone threatened with death if he or she does not confess to a crime may confess to that 13 crime, even if he or she did not commit it. if the jury believed the testimony of the detectives that there was no such threat or even a discussion about the case before mendez confessed, then general testimony about the psychology of coercion and contamination leading to false confessions would not be relevant, and the proffered expert testimony was inadmissible under evidence code section 210. (see people v. ramos (2004) 121 cal.app.4th 1194, 1207 ecause the jury could understand and evaluate all the evidence presented at [the] trial without the assistance of an expert on police interrogation, we find no abuse of discretion in testimony]; people v. son (2000) 79 cal.app.4th 224, 241 testimonial admission that his confession . . . was false and made only because [the detective] assertedly promised that [he] would serve no more than one year in custodya matter easily understood by a layperson without expertise [citation]expert evidence bearing on other potential reasons for false c either way, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in excluding the testimony . (see people v. smith, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 628 [court did not abuse its discretion in excluding the offered [the witness] as s credibility in generally not the subject of expert testimony, or at least a court could so conclude in a mendez relies on people v. mcdonald (1984) 37 cal.3d 351, overruled in part by people v. mendoza (2000) 23 cal.4th 896, 914, which concerned a subject analogous to false confessionsthe untrustworthiness of eyewitness identification. mendez 14 quotes the following passage from mcdonald: eyewitness identification of the defendant is a key element of the evidence giving it independent reliability . . . , it will ordinarily be error to exclude [expert eyewitness] mcdonald is misleading. mendez has excised with ellipses the qualifying language on which his case turns. the supreme court held it is ny on eyewitness identification only when testimony on specific psychological factors shown by the record that could have affected the accuracy of the identification but are not likely to be (mcdonald, at p. 351.) specific psychological factors shown by the record that could have affected the legitimacy of the confession but that were not likely to be fully known to or understood by the juryibid.) mendez does not even argue there are. reliance on united states v. hall (7th cir. 1996) 93 f.3d 1337 is similarly misplaced. the court in hall reversed ion because the district court erred in precluding testimony by a false confession expert. (id. at p. 1342.) the court stated: entire theory of defense boiled down to a simple proposition: due to a personality disorder that makes him susceptible to suggestion and path to a crime that he did not really commit, in order to gain approval from the law enforcement officers who were interrogating him.id. at p. 1341.) the court explained, it was precisely because juries are unlikely to know that social scientists and psychologists have identified a personality disorder that will cause individuals to 15 make false confessions that the testimony would have assisted the jury in making its decision.id. at p. 1345.) here, if the jury were to believe the detectives threatened him with almost-certain death if he did not confess, common sense (and not expert testimony) would have led the jury to discount or ignore his confession. common sense, not expert testimony, would have assisted the jury in answering what mendez calls in his reply brief crane v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 683: mendez also quotes crane for the indisputable proposition crane, supra, 476 u.s. at p. 688.) crane, however, involved a very different situation. in that caentirely on the circumstances of his interrogation by police. support [his] defense, [the defendant] sought to paint a picture of a young, uneducated boy who was kept against his will in a small, windowless room for a protracted period of time until he confessed to every unsolved crime in the countyid. at p. 691) testimony from two police officers about the size and other physical characteristics of the interrogation room, the length of the interview, and various other details about the taking of the confessionid. at p. 686.) the district court, however, prevented the defendant from introducing individuals who weid. at pp. 686, 691.) in contrast, the trial court here allowed mendez to introduce evidence regarding the manner in which the police obtained his confessionboth his testimony about the alleged threat and the police ony denying it. and, as the trial court 16 noted, m indicia of false confessions that are often at issue in false confession cases. b. mendez forfeited his argument the prosecutor committed misconduct, and, in any event, there was no misconduct mendez argues making personal attacks on defense counsel and by arguing there was a failure to present an expert witness after the court precluded the defense from doing so[,] which v mendez contends it for the prosecutor to imply that defense counsel [had] fabricated evidence or to otherwise malign defense has much latitude when making a people v. seumanu (2015) 61 cal.4th 1293, 1330.) must permit the prosecutor to fairly respond to arguments by defense counsel(people v. bryden (1998) 63 cal.app.4th 159, 184 otherwise prejudicial prosecutorial argument, when made within proper limits in rebuttal to arguments of defense counsel, do[es] people v. reyes (2016) 246 cal.app.4th 62, 74, quoting people v. mcdaniel (1976) 16 cal.3d 156, 177.) nevertheless, [u]nder the federal constitution, a prosecutor commits misconduct when his or her infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the con (people v. clark (2016) 63 cal.4th 522, 576.) mendez forfeited his contention of prosecutorial misconduct by not objecting in the trial court. failing to object to 17 misconduct based on those remarks. (people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 1021; see people v. peoples (2016) 62 cal.4th 718, 797 [prosecutorial misconduct argument wato the alleged misconduct and request the jury be admonished to ; people v. morales (2001) 25 cal.4th 34, 44 [forfeited argument of prosecutorial misconduct and appeal is foreclosed on that basismendez admits his attorney did not object during rebuttal argument, and he makes no argument regarding why his prosecutorial misconduct argument is not forfeited. nor does mendez argue that an admonition would not have cured any harm . (see clark, suprapreserve a claim of prosethe defense must make a timely objection at trial and request an admonition; otherwise, the point is reviewable only if an admonition would not have cured the harm c].)5 rebuttal argument was not misconduct. had the prosecutor to present an expert witness on false confessions in her initial s may have been 5 mendez also does not argue his trial counsel rendered rebuttal argument. (see people v. centeno (2014) 60 cal.4th 659, 674 alleged prosecutorial misconduct can argue on appeal that 18 rebuttal and in response to counsel for mendez improper argument that cited d to statistics and articles on false confessions that were not in the record. it was entirely appropriate for the prosecutor to remind the jury that counsel for mendez was not an expert and that there had been no expert testimony on that issue in the trial. (see people v. reyes, supra, 246 cal.app.4th at p. 74; see also people v. tully, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 1016 argument was permissible rebuttal in the context of arguments defense counsel made during closing argument].)6 finally, mendez argues that, misconduct is not sufficient to require reversal on its own, reversal is required when the errors . . . are viewed discretion by confession expert, by allowing proper rebuttal argument to which mendez did not object, or by that belatedly raised the prosecutorial misconduct claim, there is no error to cumulate. (see, e.g., people v. melendez (2016) 6 mendez argues in his repshould have granted the motion for new trial due to the proseacknowledge the applicable standard of reviewabuse of discretion denying his motion for a new trial was an abuse of discretion. (see people v. lightsey (2012) 54 cal.4th 668, 729 that a reviewing court will not disturb the ruling absent a manifest and unmist as explained, it was not. 19 211 people v. fernandez (2013) 216 cal.app.4th 540, 568 [same]; people v. watkins (2012) 55 cal.4th 999, 1036 [same].) disposition the judgment is affirmed. segal, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. keeny, j.* *judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 