filed 3/16/16 p. v. hernandez ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. israel hernandez, defendant and appellant. b255400 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta123386) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, arthur m. lew, judge. reversed in part, remanded, and otherwise affirmed as modified. benjamin owens, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and ryan m. smith, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 introduction a jury found defendant and appellant israel hernandez guilty of two counts of carjacking and found true gun and gang allegations. he raises numerous contentions on appeal, including that the jury was improperly instructed it could not consider evidence of his voluntary intoxication on his ability to form a specific intent to commit the carjackings to benefit his gang. because we agree with this contention and conclude that the instructional error was prejudicial, we reverse the true finding on the gang allegation and remand for further proceedings. except for a restitution order, which we strike, we therwise affirm the judgment as modified. factual and procedural background i. factual background. a. the carjackings. on may 29, 2012, billy greene was driving his fedex delivery truck near long beach boulevard. defendant hernandez, wearing a black jacket with a hood and carrying a black gun, got into the passenger side. hernandez said something, but greene although hernandez has a tattoo on his face, greene did not see it. greene got out of his truck, which sped away, and he got into a passerby to follow the fedex truck. erik anguiano was driving his mustang when the fedex truck tried to make a u-turn in front of him. , damaging it. a tahoe driven by selestino diaz then ran into the fedex truck. hernandez, who was wearing a cap , got out of the fedex truck. pushed diaz and drove away tahoe. hernandez made a motion that made diaz think hernandez had a weapon. at the intersection of abbott and otis, the tahoe hit a tree. hernandez fled on foot. maria beltran lived on otis. she heard a crash and saw a the guy ran to the property next door when deputy sheriffs arrived at otis, they saw a male hispanic, who was sweating profusely and had 3 something in his waistband, jump over a small wall. the deputies found a black gun in that area, where beltran lived. mercedes estrada was also at her nearby home when she the police arrested defendant, who was wearing only a black pittsburgh pirates hat was recovered from the scene. surveillance footage of the carjacking showed hernandez tossing a bag to the ground. the bag contained, among other things, numerous gift cards and california benefits identification card. greene, diaz, and anguiano identified hernandez at a field show up. hernandez was transported to the hospital. deputy thomas spinks stayed with nvulting (sic) his body, kind of he was talking to the people through the hallway. he would blurt out a local street gang, lynwood varrio paragons, at least five times. when deputy spinks asked what hernandez was called, hernandez rep the deputy believed that hernandez was under the influence of methamphetamine. still, dagitation, he spoke respectfully, clearly, and concisely to the deputy. amphetamines, methamphetamines, an alcohol test indicated 210 milligrams per deciliter of alcohol in his system. b. gang evidence. detective grant roth investigated african american gangs in the city of lynwood, although he also investigated hispanic gangs. one such hispanic gang was the lynwood varrio paragons, whose turf is el segundo to the south, santa fe to the west, the 105 freeway to the north, and long beach boulevard to the east. the gang has 80 to 90 members, and its rivals include rude boys, in whose territory the carjacking occurred. hernandez is a member of the paragons, and his moniker is stopper, but he 4 gives fat boy to police. gangs in general thrive by creating an atmosphere of fear and intimidation in a community. [the paragons] have been known to commit and have been and sales, assaults, assault and batteries, shootings, stabbings, robberies, [extortion], carjackings, based on a hypothetical modeled on the facts of the case, detective roth opined that carjacking a fedex truck and a tahoe benefitted the lynwood varrio paragons. p]articular to the gang lynwood varrio paragons, carjacking a fedex truck, a shipment truck, a package truck, something like that, carjacking it and stealing it provides an opportunity for the gang and its members to essentially sell the potential merchandise and intimidation within the community that this gang is bold; it will commit an act of violence such as a carjacking in an area not controlled by that gang in broad daylight. [] expected to, one, either put in work, which is committing violent types of crime within the community; or, two, make a profit for the gang. in this type of crime, that individual accomplishes both of those expectations. [] he shows his willingness to commit a violent crime, carjacking, [in] broad daylight. he has very distinct tattoos on his person which identify him as a gang member. and the people that live in the city of lynwood or someone who lives in the city of lynwood could make the assumption that that p c. the defense case. dr. mitchell eisen, an expert, testified about the process of eyewitness identification. 5 ii. procedural background. on may 16, 2013, a jury found hernandez guilty of count 1, carjacking greene (pen. code,  215, subd. (a))1 and of count 2, carjacking diaz. the jury found true gang allegations ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)) as to both counts and a gun allegation ( 12022.53, subd. (b)) as to count 1. on february 21, 2014, the trial court sentenced defendant, on count 1, to five years plus a consecutive 10 years for the gang enhancement plus 10 years for the gun enhancement. on count 2, the court sentenced him to a concurrent term of 15 years. at a restitution hearing on april 4, 2014, the parties stipulated to restitution in the amount of $3,000 to anguiano. discussion i. due process rights. hernandez contends that comments the trial court made during voir dire about reasonable doubt violated his sixth and fourteenth amendment rights. we disagree. a. additional background. after a panel of prospective jurors was called, the trial court instructed them on, burden of proof beyond a reasonable doubt. i will define that burden now and in my closing instructions. [] a reasonable doubt is defined as follows: it is not a mere possible doubt because everything relating to human affairs is open to some possible or imaginary doubt. it is that state of the case which, after the entire comparison and consideration of all of the evidence, leaves the minds of the jurors in that condition that 1 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 6 voir dire proceeded. 99 men go in, and they just take over a village. they start fires, they everything. and all 99 men have the same clothes on, are about the same stature, everything, but what we do know is there was 99 of them. [] the police follow these 99 men back to the village, and when they to their village, and when they get to their village, they do a head count, and there is 100 people, all dressed the same, all fit the description of have. [] prospective juror number 14, what happens to those hundred men that are arrested? [] prospective juror number 14: they get tried. okay. and how would you based on that evidence, how would you vote? prospective juror number 14: : prospective juror number 13? prospective juror number 13: i would have to see all of the evidence. say that they were guilty just because they were with the police. right. and the theory behind this hypothetical is you know that there were 99 suspects, but you arrested 100 people. so any one of those individual people, there is reasonable doubt as to his guilt. so in a case like that, a jury would be expected to find all 100 people not guilty. [] does that make sense to everybody? would anybody have a problem doing that? of them and then we know we got 99 percent of them, or would you [] that to instruct the jury as to was doing. i think the court has the court: 7 the court: i know that. and you were illustrating what you believe to be a reasonable doubt to the jury, oing that. if there is one person amongst 100 people that you know did not commit those 99 crimes, that would be reasonable doubt. [] would anybody have a problem when there is 99 percent of the other guys are going to be let go? does anybody think that the law should be different, the court: all right. let me just clear something up, ladies and gentlemen. the law do people committed a crime and you go into the camp and there is necessarily reasonable doubt. trying to get across to counsel. communicating. [] in that factual i were you. the court is going to instruct you on what reasonable doubt is. okay? and you have a duty to truction as to what reasonable doubt is. [] based on the facts, it is that i have given to you, of there were 99 suspects, 100 people dressed exactly alike, fitting the exact same description are all arrested. would that raise a reasonable doubt in your mind as to each of those suspects? [] prospective juror number 13? prospective juror number 13: well, yes, because there is 100 of them, and we actually the one guilty. . [] does anybody disagree with prospective juror number 13? okay. fair enough. fair enough. [] under that hypothetical, would you rather convict all 100 of them? juror number i guess i would just have a tough time letting the 99 go. 8 and let me tell you the court: your time is passed up. thereafter, when a new panel of prospective jurors was called to the courtroom, the trial court instructed them on reasonable doubt, under caljic no. 2.90. the impaneled jury was instructed on reasonable doubt before it retired for deliberations. b. the jury was properly instructed on reasonable doubt. due process requires the government to prove beyond a reasonable doubt every element of a charged offense. (victor v. nebraska (1994) 511 u.s. 1, 5.) although the constitution does not require any particular form of words be used in advising a jury of that burden of proof (ibid.), reasonable doubt (people v. katzenberger (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 1260, 1268). in katzenberger, the prosecutor showed to the jury six of eight puzzle pieces immediately and easily recognizable as the statue of liberty. (id. at p. 1264.) the prosecutor argued that the jury could know beyond a reasonable doubt that the puzzle was a picture of the statue of liberty, even though two pieces were missing. (id. at pp. 1264-1265.) this (id. at p. 1268.) to the extent an improper quantitative measure was assigned to reasonable doubt here, it was defense counsel, not the trial court, who made it. after counsel gave the hypothetical, the court immediately admonished counsel not to when counsel continued with her hypothetical, the court again [t]he law essarily reasonable doubt. . . . [] in that these comments could not, as hernandez suggests, be reasonably understood to instruct the jury that society tolerates the conviction of one innocent person as long as 99 guilty people are convicted or otherwise to read in context, 9 the court was clearly saying that udoubt was improper. but even if ambiguity or is beyond a reasonable doubt that any error did not contribute to the verdict, under the standard in chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24. (see people v. katzenberger, supra, 178 cal.app.4th at pp. 1268-1269 [applying chapman in misstating reasonable doubt standard].) voir dire, prior to the introduction of evidence or the giving of formal instructions, are far people v. medina (1995) 11 cal.4th 694, 744-reasonable doubt caljic no. 2.90].) the court here properly instructed prospective jurors, twice, on reasonable doubt under caljic no. 2.90 and instructed the jury after the close of evidence under calcrim no. 220. (see people v. aranda (2012) 55 cal.4th 342, 353 [a court satisfies its statutory obligation to instruct on reasonable doubt by giving caljic no. 2.90 or calcrim no. 220].) ii. the prosecutor did not commit misconduct. hernandez next contends that the prosecutor committed misconduct by shifting the burden of proof to the defense. no prosecutorial misconduct occurred. bit about when [defense counsel] decides to put on a defense, which they did through mr. t the the trial court overruled the ] and myself [] we could take a 10 piece of paper and give it to somebody, and the court says now you have to come to that the prosecutor shifted the burden was again overruled. it is improper for the prosecutor to misstate the law generally, and in particular, to attempt to lower or to shift the burden of proof. (people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 829; people v. williams (2009) 170 cal.app.4th 587, 635.) however, [a] distinction clearly exists between the permissible comment that a defendant has not produced any evidence, and on the other hand an improper statement that a defendant has a duty or burden to produce evidence, or a duty or burden to prove his i (people v. bradford (1997) 15 cal.4th 1229, 1340.) the distinction applies. the prosecutor was not suggesting that defendant had any burden of proof. instead, the prosecutor was commenting on the state of the evidence; namely, that the defense did not call any witness other than dr. eisen to contradict prosecution witnesses who identified hernandez as the carjacker. (see, e.g., people v. weaver explanation how someone other than the defendant could have murdered the victim was a permissible comment on the state of the evidence].) this is clear from the context. when, for example, the prosecutor noted that the defense called no witness who lived near where hernanargument that estrada, who saw a man in her backyard and said that defendant was comments therefore did not amount to misconduct. 11 iii. trial counsel did not provide ineffective assistance by failing to object to the hernandez contends his trial counsel provided ineffective assistance because she failed to object to the prosecu the fedex trucks a carjacking of a random car. what do we know about fedex trucks? what do they have perhaps or physical items that are valuable, they also have what personal identifying information. social security stuff, you the trial court have? mail has your identifying information on it, right? what do we find in the prosecutor was misstating the evidence, which objection was overruled. the prosecutor then pointed out that hernandez had, amonfolks, this is also evidence of other crimes that gang members would commit. [] . . . [] the to establish that his counsel was ineffective for failing to object to this argument, must show that (1) counsels representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms, and (2) counsels deficient performance was prejudicial, i.e., there is a reasonable prs failings, the result would have been more favorable to the defendant. (people v. scott (1997) 15 cal.4th 1188, 1211-1212; see also strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 694.) hernandez thus argues that his counsel should have objected to the ons 12 of the jury. (see generally people v. shazier (2014) 60 cal.4th 109, 146 [prosecutors the victims shoes and imagine their thoughts and feelings as crimes were committed people v. fields (1983) 35 cal.3d 329, 361-prejudicial].) this is not what the prosecutor here did. the prosecutor did not invite jurors to the benefits the gang, because the gang uses those items and information. this was a fair comment on the evidence and the reasonable inferences or deductions that could be drawn from it. (see, e.g., people v. collins (2010) 49 cal.4th 175, 213.) because the to it on that ground. iv. instructional error on voluntary intoxication was prejudicial. s. defense counsel, however, failed either to request a similar instruction that voluntary intoxication could or to object to the voluntary intoxication instruction as given. this, we conclude, led to prejudicial error. the jury was instructed on voluntary intoxication under calcrim no. 3426: limited way. you may consider that evidence only in deciding whether the defendant acted with the intent to deprive the other person of possession of the vehicle either temporarily or permanently. [] a person is voluntarily intoxicated if he or she becomes 13 intoxicated by willingly using any intoxicating drug, drink, or other substance knowing that it could produce an intoxicating effect, or willingly assuming the risk of that effect. [] in connection with the charge of carjacking, the people have the burden of proving beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant acted with the intent to deprive the other person of possession of the vehicle either temporarily or permanently. if the people have not met this burden, you must find the defendant not guilty of carjacking. [] you may not consider evidence of voluntary intoxication for any other purpose (italics added; see also  215, subd. (a).) calcrim no. 3426 was therefore limited to the substantive offense, carjacking. specific intent, however, was also an element of the gang allegation on which the people had the burden of proof. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1); people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 59, 64-65.) it was error not to extend the instruction to the gang allegation. whether viewed under the beyond a reasonable doubt test in chapman v. california, supra, 386 u.s. 18, or the reasonable probability test in people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836,2 the error was voluntary intoxication as to the substantive carjacking offense. (see generally people v. pearson (2012) 53 cal.4th 306, 325 & fn. 9; people v. bolden (2002) 29 cal.4th 515, 559; people v. mendoza (1998) 18 cal.4th 1114, 1134-1135.) we recognize the seeming illogic in concluding that the jury could have found that hernandez, despite his supposed intoxication, had the specific intent to deprive greene and diaz of their vehicles, but also because of his intoxication lacked the specific intent to benefit his gang. (cf. pearson, at p. 325; people v. cain (1995) 10 cal.4th 1, 45, disapproved on another ground by people v. moon (2005) 37 cal.4th 1, 17.) still, we must consider the impact on the 2 to the extent this issue implicates the effectiveness of the assistance trial counsel provided, we discern no tactical reason to limit the voluntary intoxication instruction to the substantive offense. (strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. 668; people v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d 171, 217-218.) the failure to provide effective assistance of counsel is prejudicial if it is reasonably probable the outcome would have been more favorable to defendant. (in re crew (2011) 52 cal.4th 126, 150.) 14 allegation. specifically, this was not a case in which the evidence to support the gang allegations, although sufficient, was overwhelming. (see generally people v. albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at pp. 59-60 [stating the sufficiency of evidence standard of review].) although there was evidence hernandez had gang tattoos and wore gang-related clothing support the gang allegation. (see, e.g., in re daniel c. (2011) 195 cal.app.4th 1350, unity where nothing in the record, other than that minor and his companions all wore clothing with their gang color, indicated they identified with the gang].) what elevates this case is (cf. people v. ochoa (2009) 179 cal.app.4th 650, 662 [insufficient evidence to support the true findings on a gang allegation, because wear gang clothing, or engage in gang graffiti while committing the instant offenses. there was no evidence of bragging or graffiti to take credit for the crimes. there was no testimony that the vis tattoos. there was no evidence the crimes were committed in moreno valley 13 gang territory or the territory of any of its notwithstanding that h statements were made after the carjackings were completed and while in the hospital to passersby unconnected to the crime, those statements could be reasonably interpreted as bragging about what he had just done, i.e., the carjackings. (see people v. rios (2013) 222 cal.app.4th 542, 567-568 [specific intent is rarely susceptible to direct proof and usually must be inferred from the facts and circumstances surrounding the offense].) were thus crucial to the gang allegations. the context in which those statements were made was also important. they were made perhaps hours after the carjackings were completed and while hernandez was strapped to a hospital gurney and suffering possibly drug-related convulsions caused by the methamphetamine, 15 amphetamine, alcohol, and cannabinoids in his system. the voluntary intoxication instruction, however, precluded the jury from determining whether hernandezstatements about the paragons resulted from intoxication or showed an intent to commit the crime to benefit the gang. in other words, the instruction precluded the jury from properly considering the essential evidence (i.e., the statements in the hospital) on which true findings on the gang allegations could be based. we therefore conclude that the instructional error was prejudicial and reversal is required. v. the restitution order must be stricken. hernandez to pay $3,000 in restitution to anguiano, who was not a named victim in counts 1 and 2 but whose car was struck by the fedex truck hernandez was driving. hernandez now contends that the restitution order must be reversed, because anguiano was not a restitution statute applies. we agree. s restitution order for abuse of discretion. (people v. giordano (2007) 42 cal.4th 644, 663.) [a]n order resting on a demonstrable legal error constitutes such an (people v. hume (2011) 196 cal.app.4th 990, 995.)  28, subd. (b)(13)(a); see also  1202.4, subd. (a)(1) it is the intent of the legislature that a victim of crime who incurs an economic loss as a result of the commission of a crime shall receive restitution directly from a defendant convicted of that crime]; people v. walker (2014) 231 cal.app.4th 1270, 1273-1274.) accordingly, in every case in which a victim has  1202.4, subd. (f); see also people v. runyan (2012) 54 cal.4th 849, 856.) the question is whether anguiano, who was not named in the charging document and was not carjackedestitution under section 1202.4? section 1202.4, subdivision (f), does not clearly define actual 16 victim.3 a person who was the object of a crime. (see, e.g., people v. crow (1993) 6 cal.4th 952, 957; people v. saint-amans (2005) 131 cal.app.4th 1076, 1086.) saint-amans, at p. 1086.) offense or the felonious taking of a motor vehicle in the possession of another, from his or her person or immediate presence, or from the person or immediate presence of a passenger of the motor vehicle, against his or her will and with the intent to either permanently or temporarily deprive the person in possession of the motor vehicle of his or her possession, accomplished by  215, subd. (a); see also people v. lopez (2003) 31 cal.4th 1051, 1055.) greene (the fedex truck driver), diaz (the driver), and possibly fedex (see generally people v. runyan, supra, 54 cal.4th at pp. 856-857 [defining phrase is used in  1202.4, subd. (k)(2), and other restitution statutes]; people v. martinez (2005) 36 cal.4th 384, 393; people v. slattery (2008) 167 cal.app.4th 1091, 1095-1096). undoubtedly damaged by hernandez, anguiano and the accident hernandez caused were not the objects of the carjacking. (compare people v. walker, supra, 231 cal.app.4th at pp. 1275-1276 [conduct encompassed by the crime of dui causing injury supported restitution order to victims hit by the defendant but not named in the charging document].) hernandez could have been charged with crimes relating to anguiano, for example, reckless driving (veh. code,  23103, subd. (a)), but he was not. we therefore conclude that the restitution order must be stricken. 3 hed from people and entities provides that surviving family, and entities that are direct victims of a crime. ( 1202.4, subd. (k)(1).) argument he is. 17 disposition the judgment is reversed in part, remanded, and otherwise affirmed as modified. the true findings on the gang allegations under penal code section 186.22, subdivision those allegations only. the judgment is modified by striking the $3,000 in restitution awarded to erik anguiano. as modified, the judgment is otherwise affirmed. the clerk of the superior court is directed to prepare an amended abstract of judgment reflecting this modification and to forward the amended abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published in the official reports aldrich, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. lavin, j. 