filed 8/4/15 p. v. ascenio ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. frank ascencio, defendant and appellant. b255779 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka103325) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mike camacho, jr., judge. affirmed. edward h. schulman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and idan ivri, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________ 2 appellant frank ascencio appeals from the judgment entered following his pleas of no contest to count 1 possession of a controlled substance (methamphetamine), and count 2 possession of a firearm by a felon, and following his convictions by jury on count 3 lewd or lascivious act upon a child under 14 years old, count 4 possession of child pornography, count 5 child molesting, and count 6 invasion of privacy, following the denial of his penal code section 1538.5 suppression motion. (health & saf. code,  11377, subd. (a); pen. code,  29800, subd. (a)(1), 288, subd. (a), 311.11, subd. (a), 647.6, subd. (a)(1), 647, subd. (j)(3)(a).)1 the court sentenced appellant to prison on the above counts for a total of seven years four months. factual summary a detailed recitation of the facts pertaining to the present offenses is unnecessary to resolve this appeal. it is sufficient to note the record reflects on or between january 1, 2012 and october 31, 2012, appellant committed child molesting of c. doe (count 5); on or between january 1, 2013 and october 1, 2013, appellant committed invasion of privacy (count 6); and on or between march 1, 2013 and april 30, 2013, appellant committed a lewd or lascivious act upon a child under 14 years old, i.e., jessica doe (count 3). moreover, on or about october 1, 2013, appellant possessed methamphetamine, possessed a firearm while he was a felon, and possessed child pornography (counts 1, 2 & 4, respectively). on october 1, 2013, deputies searched a garage at 1710 delhaven in west covina. appellant lived in the garage. deputies recovered two computer thumb drives from the garage. after reviewing the two thumb drives, deputies obtained a search warrant, searched the garage pursuant to the warrant, and obtained additional thumb drives leading to evidence introduced at trial. 1 the information alleged counts 1 through 6. some counts were renumbered for purposes of jury trial, but the court sentenced on counts 1 through 6. we refer to the counts as counts 1 through 6. 3 issue appellant claims the trial court erroneously denied his penal code section 1538.5 suppression motion. discussion the trial court properly denied 1. pertinent facts. on october 25, 2012, in another case (superior court case no. ka099846), appellant, inter alia, pled no contest to possession of methamphetamine (health & saf. code, 11377, subd. (a)) and possession of a smoking device (health & saf. code,  11364.1, subd. (a)(1)) with the understanding he would receive proposition 36 probation. the court, honoring the bargain, placed appellant on formal probation for one ng reflects a condition of probation was, time of the day or night by any law enforcement officer . . . with or without a warrant or probable 2 in the present case (superior court case no. ka103325), appellant filed a pretrial penal code section 1538.5 motion seeking suppression, inter alia, of the fruits of the search of two thumb drives seized from his room, i.e., a residential garage, pursuant to a probation search. the written motion argued the search exceeded the scope of a justified by the search condition in case no. ka099846. 2 appellant notes the minute order for the october 25, 2012 proceeding in case no. ka099846 reflects the condition was, in pertinent part, seizures of your person and property at any time during the day or night by any peace officer . . . with or without a warrant, probable cause, or reasonable cause(italics added.) difference inconsequential. 4 at the march 5, 2014 hearing on the suppression motion, the court took judicial the into the suppression hearing evidence. on october 1, 2013, the delhaven address. and other deputies were conducting surveillance there and intending to conduct a probation violation compliance search on vehicle and deputies detained him perhaps a mile from the residence. told appellant that deputies were going to conduct a probation compliance search of his residence. in compliance with his probation terms and living [t]hings wh compliance search of his residence, appellant told were in the garage and appellant had been staying there. deputies took appellant back to his residence so a probation compliance search could be conducted, and asked if appellant had anything illegal in the garage. appellant replied he had methamphetamine and a handgun or revolver inside his computer desk drawer. found a loaded .22-caliber revolver and a container inside of which was a white crystalline substance resembling methamphetamine. he also recovered two thumb drives that were next to the computer. (the two thumb drives are identified various ways in the record. we refer to them hereafter as the two thumb drives.) did not review the two thumb drives; another detective did. ability to look at the two thumb drives at the scene. appellant was a member of 5 the court asked if there was any reason deputies chose to confiscate the two thumb drives as part of a probation compliance search, and replied, was involved [in] and arrests in which had been involved, it had been experience thumb drives might contain evidence of criminal activity.3 after argument during the suppression motion, the court concluded as follows. law enforcement confiscated the two thumb drives because, in the experience of law enforcement, the two thumb drives could contain information of further illegal conduct separate from the previously discovered contraband. based on the probation condition, appellant to some extent agreed to surrender his fourth amendment rights; therefore, he could no longer contest the search and seizure of the two thumb drives. the court denied the suppression motion. 2. analysis. appellant claims the trial court erroneously denied his suppression motion. he argues the warrantless seizure of [the two thumb drives] from his home pursuant to a -site, exceeded its constitutional scope in light of the offenses for which he had been placed on 3 at the hearing on the suppression motion, the parties stipulated the preliminary hearing transcript could be incorporated into the suppression hearing evidence. in that contes observes, he . at the preliminary hearing, testified, in pertinent part, to the and two thumb drives were seized, and morales told morgan that morales looked at the thumb drives for gang-related evidence but saw photographs of young girls. in light of our conclusion below that any warrantless search of the two thumb drives was justified need not decide whether, as respondent suggests, the testimony. suppression hearing, the testimony does not affect our analysis. 6 d items had potential evidentiary value either in enforcing compliance with his probationary status or in uncovering current criminal wrongdoing. accordingly, that seizure and search were at poisono in people v. bravo (1987) 43 cal.3d 600, one of the probation conditions of the defendant submit his person and property to search or seizure at any time of the day or night by any law enforcement officer with or without a id. at p. 602.) police suspected the defendant was engaged in narcotics activity (id. at pp. 602-603, 611) and searched his home based on the probation condition (id. at p. 603). on appeal, the defendant claimed the search violated the fourth amendment because it was not based ibid.cause suspicionin re randy g. (2001) 26 cal.4th 556, 567.) bravo search condition must . . . be interpreted on the basis of what a reasonable person would understand from the language of the condition itself (bravo, supra, 43 cal.3d at p. 607, italics added.) bravo statedsearch condition authorized the instant searchibid., italics added.) bravo then the condition is worded almost identically to the condition at issue in people v. mason [1971] 5 cal.3d 759. as in this case, the defendant in mason agreed as a condition of his probation to submit his person, place of residence, vehicle, to search and seizure at any time of the day or night, with or without a search warrant, . . .mason a probationer who has been granted the privilege of probation on condition that he submit at any time to a warrantless search may have no reasonable expectation of traditional fourth amendment protection.bravo, supra, 43 cal.3d at p. 607, italics added.) bravo we read the consent in mason as a complete waiver of that searches conducted in an unreasonable manner. [citation.] we see no reason to 7 interpret the condition imposed on this appellant more narrowly.bravo, supra, 43 cal.3d at p. 607, italics added.) a trial court can insert into a search condition language expressly requiring reasonable cause, but absent such language a reasonable-cause requirement will not be implied. (id. at p. 607, fn. 6.) bravo were we s waiver of fourth amendment rights were either impermissible or limited to searches conducted only upon a reasonable-suspicion standard, the opportunity to choose probation might well be denied to many felons by judges whose willingness to offer the defendant probation in lieu of prison is predicated upon knowledge that the defendant will be subject to search at any time for a proper probation or law enforcement purpose. we see no basis for denying a defendant the right to waive his fourth amendment rights in order to accept the benefits of probation. the reasonable-suspicion standard . . . has no application to searches conducted pursuant to a consensual probation order.bravo, supra, 43 cal.3d at p. 609.) bravo we find no reason to conclude that a defendant who in order to obtain probation specifically agreed to submit to search with or without a warrant at any time has waived only the right to demand a warrant. rather, . . . the defendant has .(bravo, supra, 43 cal.3d at p. 610, italics added.) bravo onsent in agreeing to the search condition of his probation is consistent with the dual purpose of [citation]. as we recognized in mason: search by law enforcement officers at any time, [the probationer] will be less inclined to have narcotics or dangerous drugs in his possession. the purpose of an unexpected, unprovoked search of defendant is to ascertain whether he is complying with the terms of probation; to determine not only whether he disobeys the law, but also whether he obeys the law. information obtained under such circumstances would afford a valuable measure of the effectiveness of the 8 supervision given the defendant and his amenability to rehabilitation(bravo, supra, 43 cal.3d at p. 610, italics added.) bravo observed, to condition warrantless probation searches upon reasonable cause would make the probation order superfluous and vitiate its purpose.bravo, supra, 43 cal.3d at p. 610.) bravo we do not suggest that searches of probationers may be conducted for reasons unrelated to the rehabilitative and reformative purposes of probation or other legitimate law enforcement purposes. a waiver of fourth amendment rights as a condition of probation does not permit searches undertaken for harassment or searches for arbitrary or capricious reasons. we hold only that a search condition of probation that permits a search without a warrant also permits a search without reasonable cause, as the former includes the latter. bravo, supra, 43 cal.3d at pp. 610-611, italics added.) in bravo, police suspected the defendant of criminal activity even though the quantum of suspicion might not have risen to the level of reasonable cause. (bravo, supra, 43 cal.3d at pp. 603, 611.) in people v. medina (2007) 158 cal.app.4th 1571 (medina), police, who had no suspicion of criminal activity (id. at p. 1574) conducted a [b]ibid.) medina, relying on the consent/waiver rationale of bravo (medina, at pp. 1576-1577) uant to a probation search medina, at p. 1580.) appellant concedes bravo that a search condition of probation that also permits a search of the home without reasonable cause (italics added.) however, appellant, distinguishing between searches and seizures, maintains bravo did not address[] the subject of whether an otherwise lawful exercise of police authority to search a prob person and effects without warrant or probable cause pursuant to a probationary search condition can lawfully escalate into the seizureof any property in plain view absent a 9 reasonable suspicion the seized items had potential evidentiary value in enforcing compliance with probationary status or uncovering current criminal wrongdoing. we believe a corollary of conclusion that a search pursuant to a search condition need not be supported by reasonable cause is the proposition that a seizure pursuant to such a condition need not be supported by reasonable cause. however, even if that proposition is not implicit, reasoning, as shown below, compels the conclusion a seizure based on a probation search and seizure condition need not be supported by reasonable cause. the probation condition at issue in bravo, like the probation condition in this case, search condition can be viewed as referring to both search and seizure, a probation condition authorizing search and seizure can also be viewed as containing reasoning of bravo applies to such a probation seizure condition. under the fourth amendment, a sthere is some meaningful s possessory interests in that property. (people v. bennett (1998) 17 cal.4th 373, 385.) like condition(using that phrase narrowly hereafter as distinct from seizure authorization), the e person would understand from the language of the condition itself. a probationer who has been granted the privilege of probation on condition the probationer submit at any time to a fourth amendment rights, save only his right to object to harassment or seizures conducted in an unreasonable manner. s waiver of fourth amendment rights was either impermissible or limited to seizures conducted only upon a reasonable-suspicion standard, judges might deny defendants the opportunity to choose probation. the reasonable-suspicion standard has no application to seizures conducted pursuant to a 10 consensual probation order. there is no reason to conclude a defendant who, to obtain probation, specifically agrees to submit to seizure with or without a warrant at any time has waived only the right to demand a warrant. rather, the defendant has voluntarily waived whatever claim of a right to freedom from meaningful interference with the property that the defendant might otherwise have had. this interpretation of the seizure condition is consistent with the dual purpose of such a provision. moreover, information obtained under such circumstances would afford a valuable measure of the effectiveness of the supervision given the defendant and his amenability to rehabilitation. to condition warrantless probation seizures upon reasonable cause would make the probation order superfluous and vitiate its purpose. the trial court in case no. ka099846 did not insert, into the probation condition, language requiring reasonable cause; we cannot imply such language. appellant concedes the garage was his residence and the two thumb drives were inside it. there is no dispute the two thumb drives and the deputies lawfully entered the garage pursuant to the search condition, and the two thumb drives were seized in reliance upon the seizure condition. appellant cites no case holding reasonable suspicion is a condition precedent to a seizure of the property of a probationer pursuant to a seizure condition. the probation condition contained no language limiting its application, e.g., only to guns or narcotics. there is no evidence the seizure and/or subsequent search of the two thumb drives was conducted (1) for harassment or for arbitrary or capricious reasons, (2) in an unreasonable manner, or (3) for reasons unrelated to the rehabilitative and reformative purposes of probation or other legitimate law enforcement purposes. we conclude a seizure condition of probation that permits a seizure without a warrant also permits a seizure without reasonable cause, as the former includes the latter. (cf. bravo, supra, 43 cal.3d at pp. 602, 606-611; medina, supra, 158 cal.app.4th at pp. 1575-1577.) the two thumb drives were seized pursuant to the seizure condition, and said seizure without reasonable suspicion was lawful based solely on the seizure condition. the alleged subsequent warrantless examination, i.e., search, of the two 11 thumb drives without reasonable suspicion was lawful under the search condition.4 the none of the cases cited by appellant, or his arguments, compel a contrary conclusion. this includes united states v. knights (2001) 534 u.s. 112 [151 l.ed.2d 497] (knights). knights concluded a warrantless search based on a search condition and reasonable suspicion was reasonable within the meaning of the fourth amendment, but knights did not hold the fourth amendment required reasonable suspicion. (medina, supra, 158 cal.app.4th at p. 1578.) moreover, knights [a probation] . . . search condition constituted consent in the [schneckloth v. bustamonte (1973) 412 u.s. 218 [36 l.ed.2d 854] sense of a complete waiver of his fourth amendment medina, supra, 158 cal.app.4th at p. 1578.) however, in bravo, our supreme court has concluded, s consent is considered a complete s fourth amendment rights, save only his right to object to harassment or searches conducted in an unreasonable manner. [citation.] (bravo, supra, 43 cal.3d at p. 607.) (medina, at p. 1576.) even if holding pertained to search conditionsusing that phrase narrowly), probation 4 seizure and/or subsequent search of the two thumb drives required reasonable suspicion. accordingly, we need the later seizure and/or subsequent search of the two thumb drives. nor need we reach the issues of whether there was (1) substantial evidence any warrantless examination or search of the two thumb drives was off-site or (2) substantial evidence concerning the facts and circumstances of any such off-site search. finally, even if the trial court had unaffected. 12 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports kitching, acting p. j. we concur: aldrich, j. egerton, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 