filed 9/3/15 p. v. aguilera ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. laurencio aguilera, defendant and appellant. b256163 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va132656) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. patrick t. meyers, judge. affirmed. g. martin velez, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and yun k. lee, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________ 2 on march 25, 2014, a jury convicted defendant laurencio aguilera of possessing a controlled substance. (health & saf. code,  11377, subd. (a).) on april 22, 2014, in a bifurcated proceeding, the trial court found two strike priors pursuant to penal code section 667, subdivision (d)1 and section 1170.12, subdivision (b) to be true. the trial court sentenced the defendant to four years in state prison by imposing the middle term of two years doubled by a strike prior. aguilera contends the judgment should be reversed because the prosecutor committed misconduct during her opening statement. we affirm. facts on november 12, 2013, deputy carlos lopez of the los angeles county epartment conducted a routine vehicle traffic stop for failing to signal when turning. the vehicle pulled over in a commercial district near a medical building. deputy lopez was joined by deputy robledo who came to the scene in a separate patrol vehicle. side while deputy robledo approached from the passenger side. at that point, deputy lopez observed aguilera standing adjacent to the stopped vehicle about 25 feet away. aguiion, appeared nervous, and started to walk away. as he did so, aguilera tossed an object onto the sidewalk. deputy lopez described the object as a bindle. deputy lopez recovered the bindle. he found within a plastic baggie containing a crystal-like substance. the substance was 0.07 grams of crystalline solid containing methamphetamine. 1 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 3 discussion i. claim of prosecutorial misconduct the prosecutor gave a short opening statement. she informed the jury as follows: going to be brief and to the point. the evidence in this case will show that this defendant knowingly possessed a usable amount of after reciting the witnesses she intended to call and their expected testimony, the prosecutor concluded: responsibility for his actions. however, at the end of the trial, at the close to be asking you all to follow the law and deliver the only verdict that makes sense in this case. guitalics added.) defense counsel lodged an objection to the highlighted comment. at side bar, defense counsel claimed thcut[] against the grain of the people[his] right aguilera kind of plea negotiaarguing the comment was prosecutorial misconduct, defense counsel asked for a mistrial. mistrial motion. the trial court gave a curative admonition to the jury as follows: of the jury. all right. the -- as simple, and then there was some remarks about the defendant taking 4 responsibility for his actions. all of that was argument. it was not part of the opening statement. the jury is admonished to disregard it in its entirety. and, furthermore, the court is striking it from the record in this case except to the extent necessary to retain it for whatever purposes that aguilera contends the prosecutors comment is misconduct for the following reasons: (1) it referenced inadmissible evidence that aguilera was unwilling to plead guilty, (2) it and (3) it shifted the burden of proof and analyze each claim in turn. ii. relevant law claims of prosecutorial misconduct are reviewed under both federal and state standards. (people v. fernandez (2013) 216 cal.app.4th 540, 564.) conduct by a prosecutor, including making of improper remarks, can so infect the trial with unfairness as to deprive the defendant due process of law under the federal constitution. (people v. farnam (2002) 28 cal.4th 107, 167.) prosecutorial conduct which does not render the lves use of deceptive or reprehensible methods [in an] attempt to persuade either the court or the jury.people v. espinoza (1992) 3 cal.4th 806, 820.) viewed from a reasonable juror in the context of the entire statement. (people v. woods (2006) 146 cal.app.4th 106, 111 (woods).) misconduct by the prosecutor does not depend on a showing of bad faith. instead, the focus is on the injury to the defendant. (people v. bolton (1979) 23 cal.3d 208, 213-214.) a. claim of inadmissible evidence regarding plea bargaining means of bringing patently inadmissible evidence to the jury, i.e., that [aguilera] was not 5 aguilera cites evidence code section 1153,2 and section 1192.43 as support for his position that evidence of plea negotiation is inadmissible at trial. the purpose behind these statutes s offer to plead guilty is to promote the public interest by encouraging the settlement of criminal cases without the necessity of a trial. (people v. leonard (2007) 40 cal.4th 1370, 1404.) the central concept here is this: a prosecutor cannot use in trial a statement made by the defendant during plea negotiations. nothing of the sort occurred here. the comment at issue does not directly or indirectly infer aguilera admitted a willingness to plead guilty. on the contrary, the statement infers the opposite - that aguilera wants his is guilty, however, viewed from a reasonable juror perspective, it is a stretch to say the comment violated evidence code section 1153 or section 1192.4. not to plead guilty, it is difficult to see how this injured him. the negative connotation is not that aguilera did not engage in plea negotiations. rather, it is in the opinion of the prosecutor that aguilera is unwilling to take responsibility when he is guilty. b. claim prosecutor vouched for strength of and for a prosecutor may not express a personal opinion or belief in the guilt of the accused when there is substantial danger that the jury will view the comment as based on 2 evidence of a plea of guilty, later withdrawn, or of an offer to plead guilty to the crime charged or to any other crime, made by the defendant in a criminal action is inadmissible in any action or in any proceeding of any nature, including proceedings before age 3 if the defendants plea of guilty pursuant to section 1192.1 or 1192.2 is not accepted by the prosecuting attorney and approved by the court, the plea shall be deemed withdrawn and the defendant may then enter such plea or pleas as would otherwise have been available. the plea so withdrawn may not be received in evidence in any criminal, civil, or special action or proceeding of any nature, including proceedings before agencies, commissions, boards, and tribunals. 6 information other than evidence adduced at trial. (people v. lopez (2008) 42 cal.4th 960, 971.) the danger to be avoided is the impression the opinion is based on outside sources not introduced in the trial as evidence. on the other hand, not all such comments are improper. the comment is to be evaluated in the context in which it was made to determine whether there was a substantial risk that the jury would consider the remarks to be based on outside sources. (id. at p. 971.) pnot pose any risk, let alone a substantial one, that the jury would consider the comment to be based on outside sources. on the contrary, the prosecutor explained the case was brief and to the point. she indicated aguilera knowingly possessed methamphetamine. the prosecutor then briefly discussed the expected testimony of witnesses. nothing in what the prosecutor stated could be viewed as based on outside sources beyond the evidence presented in the trial. it is settled that [a] prosecutor is prohibited from vouching for the credibility of witnesses or otherwise bolstering the veracity of their testimony by referring to evidence outside the record. [citations.] nor is a prosecutor permitted to place the prestige of [his or her] office behind a witness by offering the impression that [he or she] has taken steps to assure a truthfulness at trial. [citation.] however, so long as a assurances regarding the apparent honesty or reliability of prosecution witnesses are as improper vouching. [citations (people v. frye (1998) 18 cal.4th 894, 971.) while it is true a prosecutor may not generally vouch for the credibility of witnesses based on evidence outside of the trial or upon the prestige of the office, the brief comment by the prosecutor, from the perspective of the reasonable juror, cannot possibly be interpreted as vouching for any of the prosecution witnesses. the take responsibility. 7 c. claim the prosecutor shifted the burden of proof and improperly s right to remain silent proof to [aguilera], placing the onus on [aguilera] to prove his innocence, either through aguilera cites woods, supra, 146 cal.app.4th 106, as support for his contention. however, woods is clearly distinguishable. there, the prosecutor in closing argument obligationid. at p. 113.) the woods cthe jury would understand . . . [the] statement to mean anything other than that appellant carried a burden of proof or id. at p. 114.) here, tinferentially imply that the defendant had an obligation to present evidence. aguilera also argues griffin error. (griffin v. california (1965) 380 u.s. 609 (griffin).) griffin forbids argument that focuses the jurys attention directly on an accuseds failure to testify and urges the jury to view that failure as evidence of guilt. (id. at pp. 609-615.) griffin errors are usually raised at closing argument when the evidentiary portion of the trial has closed, not at opening statement before the introduction of any evidence. the prosecutor did not violate griffin. rather, as stated before, the prosecutor provided her opinion of guilt based on the evidence she intended to present. d. prejudice and the reasons. first, it directed at the prosecutor in front of the jury. lastly, the trial court augmented the admonishment4 likely causing the jurors to misuse the comment. 4 striking it from the record in this case except to the extent necessary to retain for 8 we agree with the trial court that the comment was objectionable not because it was misconduct but because it was argumentative. as the respondent noted in her brief, evidence, but also to prepare the jurors to follow the evidence and more readily discern its materiality, force, and meaning. people v. dennis (1998) 17 cal.4th 468, 518.) statements in the form of an argument are appropriate only at the stage of closing arguments when all of the evidence has been adduced. as such, the trial court ruled correctly in sustaining the objection and admonishing the jury to disregard the argumentative statement. jury without informing the jury on the focus of the admonition. the manner in which the trial court admonished the jury did not draw undue attention on the comment. second, the purpose of the admonition was to cure prejudice, if any, to the defendant, not to punish the prosecutor. lastly, the excerpt aguilera highlights was not meant for the jury. charge to the jury was clear - to disregard the comment entirely. jurors are presumed to follow a courts admonitions and instructions. (romano v. oklahoma (1994) 512 u.s. 1, 13.) in the instant case, no contrary evidence exists that aguilera asserts he was prejudiced under both the federal and state standards. (see chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 (chapman) [federal constitutional error reversible unless harmless beyond a reasonable doubt]; people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 [error in the application of state law are reversible if it is reasonably probable the result would have been different absent the error].) assuming the prosecutor committed misconduct, aguilera was not prejudiced under either standard. first, the brief comment made by the prosecutor did not render the trial so fundamentally unfair as to trigger the chapman standard. second, the comment was not so flagrant and damaging as to cause jurors to wholly abandon their independent duty. this was not a case evoking high emotions. nothing in the record suggests the jurors abandoned their duty to independently weigh and assess the evidence and the 9 credibility of witnesses. beyond admonishing the jury to disregard the comment, the trial court properly instructed the jury that statements of counsel are not evidence. under these circumstances, aguilera cannot show absent the error it is reasonably probable he would have received a more favorable result. disposition the judgment is affirmed. ohta, j.* we concur: flier, acting p.j. grimes, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 