filed 6/30/15 p. v. contreras ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. andrew j. contreras, defendant and appellant. b256400 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka103067) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mike camacho, judge. affirmed. david w. scopp, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, jason tran and herbert s. tetef, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________________ 2 andrew j. contreras appeals from his convictions for being a felon in possession of a firearm and ammunition. contreras contends the trial court erred in admitting testimony that the arresting officer read on a motel register that contreras had rented the room where the gun was found and that a motel clerk directed police to that room. contreras argues this testimony was inadmissible hearsay and it violated his confrontation clause rights. contreras also contends the trial court erred in imposing a five-year enhancement to his sentence. we find no error, and affirm. factual and procedural background 1. police find a beretta in the toilet tank on september 4, 2013 around 1:30 in the afternoon, west covina police officer abel hernandez went to the wayside inn, a motel of dubious repute. he and his partner knocked on the door of room 1251 and defendant andrew contreras opened the door. a woman named adriana rodriguez was in the room with contreras. the officers apparently asked contreras and rodriguez to have a seat outside the room. shortly after 2:00 p.m. west covina police department detective eric melnyk arrived at the wayside. melnyk found a black samsung flip phone in the room. later, at the station, contreras told detectives the phone was his. melnyk scrolled through text messages on the phone and found texts that suggested to him contreras might have a gun somewhere. melnyk and hernandez searched the room, and melnyk found a .25 caliber beretta semi-automatic pistol in a plastic bag in the toilet tank. the gun was loaded with eight rounds, one in the chamber and seven in the magazine. when melnyk examined the gun, he discovered there was something wrong with the extractor. according to melnyk, the live round in the chamber would have fired but the gun then would have jammed. melnyk arrested contreras. a authorities found no dna or fingerprints on the gun. 1 a housekeeper at the motel testified at trial that the number outside room 125 3 2. the charges the people charged contreras with violations of penal code2 sections 29800, subdivision (a)(1) (felon in possession of a firearm) and 30305(a)(1)(unlawful possession of ammunition). the people alleged that contreras had committed the crimes for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(a). the people also alleged that contreras had a prior conviction for criminal threats, a and four prison priors ( 667.5, subd. (b)). the people alleged a five-year prior under section 667, subdivision (a)(1) as well. 3. and stipulation to the legality of the search of room 125 jury trial began in january 2014. the court bifurcated the trial on c prior felony conviction; thus the jurors would not learn the nature of the conviction. made a motion to exclude evidence that contreras was on parole at the time, was wearing an ankle bracelet as a parolee, and was found at the motel because of the bracelet: the way they got to where my client was in the motel room is he was wearing an ankle bracelet. he was being monitored. they saw him that he counslong as we can form some sort of stipulation with regard to the fact that the officers 2 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 4 to perhaps who secumanager, someone who could testify from documents that on a certain day in question someone, perhaps mr. contreras or someone he was with, actually rented that room to help establish some type o the prosecutor answered, yes, i have testimony of one of the officers who went there. he went to the office to locate the room where mr. contreras was staying because his parole agent had contacted detective melnyk and said based on the gps mr. contreras was at the wayside motel. so i would introduce testimony that inquiry, based on that inquiry he went to room 125 where he contacted mr. contreras and i also have text messages on his cell phone asking a female to meet him at the wayside motel that day and he gives the room number of 125. to introduce tquestion . . . . subsequent actions if he goes to the office, inquires of the clerk if there is a room rented to an andrew contreras and based on information received from that clerk went to room obviously hearsay. i had the manager under subpoena. . . . i am still working on the maid. . . . whether or not my client rented the room. ther (emphasis added.) than happy to stipulate to everything else th (emphasis added.) the 5 this case, west covina police, had legal authority to search room no. 125 on the date in -- that they were legally to sanitize the parole search issue and to keep that away from (emphasis added.) the court then asked if there were any other issues and said to the prosecutor, that your officer who came on scene received from some type of attendant at the motel the prosecutor answ-to-door knock of each motel room to find mr. the court stated, i would tend to agree. essentially overrule an objection for hearsay grounds because even if the information was not true that mr. contreras had anything to do with room 125, it would still explain the reason the officer went to that particular room in order to contact the occupants, the officer went to that particular room as opposed to any other room within the complex, but not for any other reason. i think we can resolve that issue, it would be nonhearsay evidence. 4. the trial s my client rented a room, which was called the wayside motel. . . . so my client rents what he did, in fact, rent that room. there 6 is no question about that. (emphasis added.) but the question is, did he know whether or not this gun that [the prosecutor] has alluded to was in the toilet tank.discussing the burden of proof and other issues, defense coudoubt that my client knew and therefore had constructive possession of the .25-caliber weapon, which was inside a toilet tank hidden in a location that is famous for crime and west covina police officers lawfully responded to the wayside motel on september 4, 2013, and conducted lawful searches of the defendant, his property, and room officer hernandez testified at trial that he went to the wayside motel that afternoon. this exchange followed: q: when you got to the wayside motel, did you go and speak to someone in the front office? q: when you spoke to that person in the front office, did you inquire as to whether there were any rooms registered to an andrew contreras? q: and without telling me what the clerk said, did the clerk respond to you? a: she did. q: and based on the information that you received from the clerk, did you go to a specific room? q: what room was that? a: 125. q: did the clerk direct you to that room? a: she pointed out where it was. the court: overruled. she pointed in the direction of the room that he . . . 7 the witness: yes, your honor. defense counsel did not ask for a limiting instruction on this testimony -- for example, -- nor did the court give one. hernandez then testified that he and his partner knocked on the door of room 125 and contreras came to the door. on cross-examination, defense counsel asked hernandez these questions: q: . . . [y]ou go and you talk to the clerk and you ask specifically for a name; right? a: correct. q: and the name is? a: andrew contreras. q: okay. and the clerk then points to a room; is that correct? a: correct. q: that would be room 125? a: yes, sir. hernandez also testified on cross-examination that he did not ask the motel clerk for a copy of any registration form that contreras had signed. hernandez said, hernandez conceded on cross-hidden the gun in room 125 before contreras even got there. copy of the registactually . . . court overruled the obj8 upon your review, did you determine whether mr. contreras rented that room in relation to the day the weapon i said detective melnyk testified at trial both as a percipient witness and as the west melnyk said contreras had joined the gang when he was 13 or 14 years old. ng phone, melnyk testified about a number of exchanges of text messages on september 3 and 4 between contreras and a younger gang member named javier vega, whose moniker was bad boy. according to melnyk, the text messages suggested that contreras was having some difficulty with members of the rival el monte flores gang. contreras a [w]here you at. at the wayside inn. there. in closing, registered to. . . . defense counsel told the jury contreras vega ever even arrived at the wayside motel or that he had a gun. counsel argued that officers did not bother to get a copy of the motel guest register or to determine how long contreras had been in the room. counsel said contreras could have been in the room a mo-- even though the gun did not have to be in working order for the crime to be committed3 -- that the gun had a jammed 3 see calcrim 2511. 9 member to bring him a -around weapons would you have a weapon that fellow gang member was in a serious situation. the t; therefore, that gun did not belong to my client. my client never register -- even though he did not get a copy -- ic] checked 4 5. the verdict and sentencing the jury convicted contreras on both counts and found the gang allegation true. contreras waived jury on his priors trial and the court conducted a bench trial on the priors. the court sentenced contreras to 12 years in the state prison, calculated as the upper term of three years on the felon in possession of a gun count, doubled because of the strike prior, plus one one-year prison prior under section 667.5, subdivision (b), plus a five-year prior under section 667, subdivision (a)(1). the court imposed and stayed the upper term of four years on the gang enhancement and struck the remaining three one-year prison priors. ontentions the motel register for that room was inadmissible hearsay. contreras argues the trial court violated his confrontation clause rights by admitting that testimony and his trial attorney was constitutionally ineffective for failing to object to the testimony. contreras also contends the trial court incorrectly imposed the five-year enhancement under section 667, subdivision (a). 4 10 discussion 1. room 125, and we will not second-guess that apparently sound strategic decision the trial court stated it was admitting offmotel clerk directed him to room 125 when he asked about contreras not for its truth the court overruled el did not request -- nor did the court give -- a limiting instruction. hernandez also testified that the motel clerk had shown him a copy of the registration and it indicated contreras had rented the room. defense counsel objected solely on the ground tleading, and the court overruled the objection. contreras has shown no error. first, through his attorney contreras stipulated that police legally searched him and room 125. implicit in this stipulation is an acknowledgment that contreras had something to do with room 125. contreras proposed and entered into this stipulation so the jury would not find out that he was on parole, that he had search conditions as a parolee, that his ankle bracelet notified his parole officer he was at the wayside, and that his parole officer then called west covina police to go to the motel and look for contreras. second, defense counsel himself told the jurors in his opening statement that fact rented that room. on cross-examination, defense counsel himself elicited testimony from hernandez that the motel clerk pointed to room 125 when he asked for contreras. a marginal place frequented by unsavory characters who rented rooms on an hourly basis, that anyone could have put the gun in the toilet tank at any time, and that there was no evidence contreras even knew it was there. counsel elicited testimony that, even though the gun and ammunition were tested for fingerprints and dna, none were 11 found. counsel essentially criticized hernandez for not checking the register to see who had rented room 125 before contreras. defense counsel elicited -- without objection -- hearsay testimony by detective melnyk that contreras had told him he had been at the counsel subpoenaed and presented as a witness the motel maid, who testified that she had not cleaned room 125 before the police came to the wayside that day and that she routinely did not look into toilet tanks when she cleaned rooms.5 this strategic decision by defense counsel appears sound. had he not entered into the stipulation and had he not conceded that contreras had rented room 125, the prosecution could have presented evidence that contreras was on parole and that his anklet alerted authorities that he was at the motel -- a place he was not supposed to be. officer hernandez simply could have testified that he knocked on the door of room 125 -- without explaining how he got there -- and that contreras opened the door. this is not a case in which the gun was found in a room registered to contreras but contreras was not there, and the only evidence linking contreras to the room was the hearsay statement -- or gesture -- of the clerk and the motel register. contreras was in the room when police arrived. moreover, ttestimony that contreras admitted the phone police found in room 125 was his and that 5 on the second day of trial, a witness named ramesh godhasara appeared in court with defense counsel, apparently in response to a defense subpoena. godhasara seemed to be some sort of manager at the motel. godhasara told the court he did not speak much english and his native language was gujaradi. defense counsel told the court his statement to the prosecutor. counsel said the motel had changed hands in august 2013, he had not been able to get any information from the new owner, and godhasara . . . t tanks in the rooms unless 12 contreras had texted vega that he was at the wayside motel.6 in short, any claim by had nothing to do with room 125 would have cost him credibility with the jury. require reversal of a conviction must show (1) that inadequate, and (2) that there is a reasonable probability that the result would have been strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687; people v. marquez (1992) 1 cal.4th 553, 574-575.) contreras has shown neither here. presume that counsel rendered adequate assistance and exercised reasonable professional judgment in making significant trial decisions. people v. prieto (2003) 30 cal.4th 226, 261 (prieto); people v. holt (1997) 15 cal.4th 619, 703. cf. cullen v. pinholster (2011) __u.s.__, 131 s.ct. 1388, the challenged action [] might be conside entertain[s] the range of possible reasons . . . counsel may have had for proceeding as they did ) in sum, under any applicable standard, any error in admitting evidence that contreras had rented room 125 was not prejudicial. (compare people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818 with chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18.) 2. because neither the motel register nor tement to police that contreras was in room 125 was testimonial as noted, defense counsel did not object on hearsay or confrontation clause had rented room 125. counsel did 6 as noted, the prosecutor told the court during the pretrial motion hearing that in a text message to a woman contreras gave the room number 125 at the wayside. it may be that melnyk did not testify to this particular text because defense counsel already had room. 13 that room, but -- both before and after that objection -- with room 125. as discussed, there appear to be sound strategic decisions. in any event, any objection to this evidence based on the confrontation clause would have been meritless. counsel therefore was not constitutionally ineffective for failing to make those objections. implausible arguments or ob(prieto, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 261; see also people v. ochoa (1998) 19 cal.4th 353, 435.) tcrawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36, 56 (crawford) . motels keep records of guests for billing purposes and other business reasons, not to relevant evidence in a criminal trial, or even that such future use may be foreseeable, people v. taulton (2005) 129 cal.app.4th 1218, 1224.) statement or gesture that contreras was in room 125 . at that juncture, police were not investigating contreras for possession of a gun or ammunition. (cf. people v. blacksher (2011) 52 cal.4th 769, 812 (blacksher) police interrogation interrogations solely directed at establishing the facts of a past crime, in order to identify (or provide evidence to convict) the perpetrator instead, they were looking for a parolee who appeared to be somewhere -- as his lawyer put it -- when the primary purpose of police questioning is to aid police in meeting an ongoing emergency that may pose a threat to public safety, statements in response to those crawford. (michigan v. bryant (2011) 562 u.s. __, 131 s.ct. 1143; blacksher, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 816 [primary purpose of out-of-people v. romero (2008) 44 cal.4th 386.) here, officer hernandez was searching for a parolee at large. 14 indication to officers that contreras was in room 125 was not testimonial and therefore n clause rights. 3. the trial court correctly imposed the five-year enhancement as noted, the jury found the gang allegation true and the trial court found -- at the conclusion of the priors trial -- that contreras had a prior strike conviction. accordingly, the court imposed a five-section 667, subdivision (a). -year prior borders on the unintelligible. contreras seems to argue that, because his prior strike conviction for -a law. contreras is mistaken. the trial court found contreras had suffered a conviction in case no. ka095221 for criminal threats in violation of section 422. that conviction is a strike. ( 1192.7, subd. (c)(38).) the jury found the gang allegation true in this case. that finding makes on 29800, subdivision (a)(1) a serious felony under the three strikes law. ( 1192.7, subd. (c)(28).) if the current crime is a serious felony and the prior strike is a serious felony, the court must impose the enhancement under section 667, subdivision (a) in addition to any three strikes consequences. (people v. turner (1998) 67 cal.app.4th 1258, 1269.) contreras takes out of context language in people v. briceno (2004) 34 cal.4th 451 (briceno). the question there was whether section 1192.7, subdivision definition of a a felony violation of section participation in a criminal street gang under section 186.22, subdivision (a), or whether it also applied to any felony offense committed for the benefit of a gang under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1). the court held the latter construction to be the correct one. 15 a jury convicted briceno of several robberies and found a gang allegation true. briceno had prior convictions for unlawful firearm possession, also with a true gang allegation. -- with the gang allegation -- was a serious felony under section 1192.7, subdivision (c)(28). the court 1192.7, subdivision (c), . . . comes into play only if the defendant reoffends, at which time any prior felony that is gang related is deemed a serious felony. thus, any felony that is gang related is not treated as a serious felony in the briceno, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 465.) so in briceno -- unlike in this case -- the prior strike was a strike only because of the gang allegation. here, criminal threats is a strike whether or not committed for a people v. bautista (2005) 125 cal.app.4th 646, the essential holding of briceno is that a court cannot use a gang enhancement to impose both a five-year enhancement under section 667, subdivision (a) and a five-year enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(b): that would be bootstrapping.briceno, supra, 34 cal.4th at p. 465.) the trial court here was careful to avoid any bootstrapping. the court imposed the upper term of four years under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(a) -- which applies to gang crimes that are neither violent nor serious -- not the five years under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(b). and, even though it could have imposed both the five-year prior under section 667, subdivision (a) and the four-year enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(a) (people v. martinez (2005) 132 cal.app.4th 531, 537), the court stayed the four-year punishment for the gang enhancement. contreras has shown no sentencing error. 16 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. egerton, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. aldrich, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 