filed 7/24/15 p. v. sowell ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. michael okeefe sowell et al., defendants and appellants. b256340 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sa084462) appeal from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, mark e. windham, judge. affirmed. russell s. babcock, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant michael okeefe sowell. john l. staley, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant derrick allen palmer. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, zee rodriguez and david zarmi, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 defendants derrick allen palmer and michael okeefe sowell were convicted of one count of first degree residential burglary and one count of grand theft. identity was not an issue at trial. almer and sowell removed a television from the home of brian happy. jurors must have rejected on the sidewalk as well as defendants argument that they were operating under a mistake of fact.1 on appeal, sowell argues the record lacks substantial evidence to support his convictions, and the prosecutor committed misconduct by referring collectively to palmer and sowell during her rebuttal argument. merit, and we affirm his convictions. a brief pursuant to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 (wende) identifying no issue and requesting that this court review the record and determine whether any arguable issue exists on appeal. we find no arguable issue on appeal and affirm palm facts and procedure the victim, brian happy, testified that on june 19, 2013, he left his home about 11:30 a.m., locked the front door, and set his alarm system. that afternoon about 1:00 p.m., he received a telephone call from someone at the company monitoring his alarm, informing him that his home had been burglarized. shortly afterwards, happy returned home and discovered that his large plasma television, which had been in his living room, was missing. the television cost $2,713. happy testified that he had not placed any trash cans or property out on the sidewalk. he further testified that he did not give sowell or palmer permission to take his television. happy estimated the plasma television weighed between 50 and 100 pounds. when happy returned home, he noticed that his front door was damaged, suggesting a forced entry. the front door had paint removed, and the marks appeared to have been made by a prying tool. additionally, wood was separated from the door. the door looked as if someone had forcefully kicked it. 1 jurors were instructed on mistake of fact. 3 the director of operations at the alarm company, jeffrey butler, testified that ggered on june 19, 2013; happy was called; and the police were dispatched. john and kelly greenway lived across the street from happy.2 on june 19, 2013, as they were eating lunch in their dining room, they noticed suspicious activity at john saw palmer speed and then abruptly stop his pickup truck. then john saw palmer and sowell walking with a large television and observed them place the television i sowell helped palmer place the ld not see john alarm and called 911, a recording of which was played for jurors. in h]e just saw guys running out with a big screen t.v. and jump into a white kelly observed two men get out of a truck and walk up driveway. after about a minute, she saw the two men walking down driveway carrying a television. s truck, the two men sped off. kelly heard happys alarm. police were dispatched and were able to recover truck shor. when they were stopped by police, palmer was driving and sowell was a passenger. palmer testified in his defense. he testified that he and sowell collect scraps for a living and take them to a recycling center. on june 19, 2013, the two were in his pickup truck when palmer noticed a television on the sidewalk. palmer told sowell they would pick up the television. palmer testified the television was heavy, and he could not carry it alone. the two put the television in the back of his truck. palmer denied entering palmer admitted that he had been convicted of two crimes involving 2 because they share a surname we refer to john and kelly by their first names. we intend no disrespect. 4 moral turpitude. when cross-exited the vehicle only to help palmer put the television in the truck. she said that, on june 19, 2013, sowell had recycled items weighing 30 pounds at active recycling. iving around looking for scrap and saw the television on the sidewalk. sowell and palmer were out recycling. sowell exited the vehicle because palmer said tele if sowell believed the television had been abandoned, he did not have the specific intent for grand theft.3 during rebuttal, the prosecutor [w]hen you go back into the backroom and you think about to believe to come up with some reasonable doubt, i submit not reasonable. there the court overruled sowon to the prosecuh sowt palmer and sowell were convicted of one count of first degree residential burglary and one count of grand theft. defendants were acquitted of possession of burglars tools. in a separate court trial, the court found palmer suffered three prior serious or violent felonies and two prior felonies for which he did not remain free from prison custody for a five-year period. ion to dismiss the strike allegations. 3 television on the street and palmer and sowell picked it up truck but there was a dispute whether sowell committed a crime. 5 the court sentenced palmer under the three strikes law.4 he was sentenced to 35 years to life in state prison (consisting of 25 years to life for the burglary, which was his third strike, and two 5-year terms pursuant to penal code section 667, subdivision (a)(1). the court struck two penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b) priors. the court sentence for the grand theft. the court sentenced sowell to the low term of two years for the burglary and stayed his sentence for the grand theft. these appeals followed. discussion appeal in which he raises no challenges. 1. sowell a. sufficiency of the evidence burglary requires entry into a building with the intent to commit a felony or theft. (people v. lujano (2014) 229 cal.app.4th 175, 184.) grand theft requires taking property valued over $400 from the owner without the consent of the owner and with the specific intent to deprive the owner of the property. (people v. whitmer (2014) 230 cal.app.4th 906, 922.) sowell argues there was insufficient evidence that he entered an inhabited dwelling or knew the television had been stolen. in evaluating a challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence record to determine whether any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime or special circumstances beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the record must disclose substantial evidence to support the verdicti.e., evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] in applying this test, we review the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution and presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably have deduced from 4 first degree burglary is a serious felony. (pen. code,  1192.7, subd. (c)(18).) 6 the evidence. [citation.] suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends. [citation.] we resolve neither credibility issues nor evidentiary conflicts; we look for substantial evidence. [citation.] hypothesis whatever is there sufficient substantial evidence to sus (people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357.) applying the appropriate standard of review, there was overwhelming evidence sowell entered htestified that when he left his home his television was in his living room. when he returned after being notified that his home was burglarized, the television was missing. eyewitnesses saw driveway. palmer testified that the television was heavy and palmer could not have carried it by himself and happy testified it could have weighed as much as 100 pounds. alarm had been triggered. this evidence strongly supported the inference that both palmer and house and removed his television from the living room. b. alleged prosecutorial misconduct sowell argued that during rebuttal argument, the prosecutor improperly attributed he argues this constitutes prosecutorial misconduct and requires the reversal of his convictions. s conduct violates the fourteenth amendment to the federal constitution when it infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due process. conduct by a prosecutor that does not render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair is prosecutorial misconduct under state law only if it involves the use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade either the trial court or (people v. morales (2001) 25 cal.4th 34, 44.) furthermore . . . , when the claim focuses upon comments made by the prosecutor before the jury, the question is 7 whether there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury construed or applied any of the complained-of remarks in an objectionable fashion.ibid.) at closing argument a party is entitled both to discuss the evidence and to comment on reasonable inferences that may be drawn therefrom.ibid.) assuming the issue is properly preserved, sowell demonstrates no error and no prejudice. first, the prosecutor did not misstate tthat sowell believed the television had been abandoned, which was consistent with that he found the television on the sidewalk. that was the only real dispute at trial. palmer and sowell claimed that l. if anything, it assisted house. in short, the prosecutor did not mislead the jury when she referred story, and her argument did not constitute misconduct. in any event even assuming misconduct, sowell cannot identify any prejudice. he did not testify, and evidence that he recycled other items earlier that morning did not undermine ha was in his living room when he left his home. nor did the fact sowell recycled items earlier that day undermine the greenwaystestimony that both palmer and sowell were carrying the that the television had been abandoned. even assuming the prosecutor committed misconduct, the error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt.5 5 that he carried the television by himself was inherently incredible. but palmer did not say that. he testified that the first time he saw the television, sowell was not there. when palmer went back to retrieve the television, sowell accompanied him. sowell also argues that his counsel provided ineffective assistance for failing to request an admonition based on the proseconsidered the argument on the merits, we need not evaluate his claim of ineffective assistance. 8 2. palmer wende, supra, 25 cal.3d 436, raising no issue. palmer has been notified of his right to file a supplemental brief in this court and has not done so. having reviewed the entire record, we are satisfied that counsel has fully complied with his responsibilities and no arguable issue exists. (people v. kelly (2006) 40 cal.4th 106, 123-124; wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at p. 441; see smith v. robbins (2000) 528 u.s. 259, 279-284.) disposition the judgments are affirmed. flier, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. grimes, j. 