filed 9/16/15 p. v. rucker ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. darrell rucker, defendant and appellant. b256279 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na070942) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, jesse i. rodriguez, judge. affirmed. alex coolman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey, mary sanchez, and zee rodriguez, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ 2 darrell rucker, sr. was convicted of voluntary manslaughter for killing malcolm youngblood. in a previous appeal, this court determined that there had been insufficient evidence to suadjudication that qualified as a strike prior. (people v. rucker (may 21, 2013, b237359) [nonpub. opn.].) rucker appeals from his subsequent resentencing. we affirm the judgment. factual and procedural background darrell rucker, sr. shot and killed his nephew malcolm youngblood on july 10, 2006. he was tried and convicted of murder, but that conviction was reversed on appeal. (people v. rucker (dec. 15, 2009, b203503) [nonpub. opn.] (rucker i).) at retrial, the prosecution presented evidence that rucker shot youngblood multiple times without provocation after youngblood complained about a malfunctioning car that rucker had sold him. (people v. rucker (may 21, 2013, b237359) [nonpub. opn.] (rucker ii), at p. 2.) rucker claimed that he acted in self-defense and to defend his son: youngblood had threatened him and a mechanic friend days before the shooting, and on the morning of the shooting youngblood threatened him again, leading to a moment when rucker believed youngblood was holding or was reaching for a weapon to shoot rucker and . (ibid.) the jury was instructed on first degree murder, second degree murder, manslaughter (heat of passion and imperfect self-defense), and justifiable homicide in self-defense or defense of another. (id. at pp. 2-3.) rucker was convicted of voluntary manslaughter (pen. code,1  192, subd. (a)), and the jury found true the allegation that he personally used a firearm in the commission of the offense within the meaning of section 12022.5. he was sentenced to a term of 32 years in state prison: the upper term of 11 years for the voluntary manslaughter, doubled under the three strikesaw ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)), plus the consecutive upper term of 10 years for the firearm enhancement. he appealed his 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 conviction and sentence on multiple grounds, and this court determined that that the a prior juvenile adjudication within the meaning of the three strikesaw. (rucker ii, supra, at pp. 12-14.) we reversed the finding on the strike prior and remanded the matter to the trial court. (id. at p. 14.) in further trial court proceedings regarding the prior juvenile adjudication, the prosecutor advised the court that she had determined that the offense in question did not legally constitute a strike. accordingly, the court resentenced rucker on the manslaughter offense and the gun use enhancement. at the resentencing hearing, the prosecutor argued for upper term sentences argued that the killing was not a murder but a manslaughter, and that he advocated for midterm sentences on both the voluntary manslaughter conviction and the enhancement. the court imposed upper term sentences of 11 years on the voluntary manslaughter conviction and 10 years on the enhancement, for an aggregate term of 21 years in state prison. the court made a detailed statement of the reasons for its this case the victim was a 18-year-his home. he had just woken up, not armed, pleading after the first shot for his life, memory, the defendant went on to shoot him four more times, perhaps one of them in the back. the crime involved great violence, disclosing a high degree of cruelty, viciousness, and callousness. the victim was not armed, was vulnerable, and the court does not find an iotaif i could find something even smaller, i would. ] the crime was committed in front of his own son, teenage son. and i want to repeat what i said before, that young man, his son, was a very young boy, very innocent, what i call having a virgin mind. a 19-year- 4 old boy. and from what i initially heard through the interviews that we played to the jurors, that young man had a good sound mind and good morals, at least just moments before the time of this incident. [] in terms of cruelty, viciousness, and callousness, the defendant tells his son, either and then, later on, invite his own son to lunch or dinner, as if he had just gone to the market for some meat shopping or for some sight[-] [t]he court believes that plan[ning], sophistication and professionalism [were] demonstrated by the position of trust. the court is fully aware that the court only has to state one item in aggravation. the court has listed probably four or five, if not more. the court can rucker appeals his sentence. discussion i. sixth amendment in apprendi v. new jersey (2000) 530 u.s. 466, 490, the united states supreme than the fact of a prior conviction, any fact that increases the penalty for a crime beyond the prescribed statutory maximum must be submitted to a jury, and rucker argues that the trial court violated his right to a jury trial under the sixth amendment to the united states constitution when it - s argument is foreclosed by decisional and statutory law. the supreme court has held that because under california sentencing law the upper term was the statutory maximum, the trial court could consider any facts in the exercise of its sentencing discretion without violating the sixth amendment. (people v. sandoval 5 (2007) 41 cal.4th 825, 842-852; see also people v. jones (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 853, 867 (jones).) while the trial court was required to exercise its discretion in selecting between the low, middle, and upper sentences, no additional factual finding was necessary in order for the court to impose a lower or upper term. ( 1170, subd. (b); see also sandoval, at pp. 843-845.) ii. exercise of sentencing discretion rucker argues that the trial court abused its discretion when it imposed the upper terms on the offense and enhancement. exercised in a manner that is not arbitrary and capricious, that is consistent with the letter and spirit of the law, sandoval, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 847.) a court abuses its discretion if it fails to exercise its discretion or relies upon irrelevant or improper circumstances. (id. at pp. 847-disturbed on appeal unless it is so irrational or arbitrary that no reasonable person could agree with the ruling. (people v. carmony (2004) 33 cal.4th 367, 377; jones, supra, 178 cal.app.4th at p. 860; see also sandoval, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 847.) the appellant bears the burden of showing the sentence was irrational or arbitrary, and the appellate court will not substitute its judgment for that of the trial court. (jones, supra, 178 cal.app.4th at p. 861.) here, the trial court selected the upper terms because there were multiple aggravating circumstances and no factors in mitigation. rucker argues that the court abused its discretion in selecting the upper termthe shooting as demonstrating planning, sophistication, and professionalism were by the evidence presented at trial that rucker killed youngblood in the heat of passion. the trial court was entitled to consider at resentencing evidence of a factor in aggravation even if the jury did not find it to be true beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. towne (2008) 44 cal.4th 63, 83-89;  1170, subd. (b) [in determining the appropriate term of 6 imprisonment, the court may consider, inter alia, the record, probation reports, statements in aggravation and mitigation, and evidence presented at the sentencing hearing].) evidence was presented at trial that, shortly prior to shooting youngblood, rucker unloaded his gun, instructed his son to put on gloves and to handle the gun, then reloaded the gun; that he spoke more with youngblood, never raising his voice; and that he went into his bedroom, waited several minutes, then emerged and shot youngblood. accordingly, the court could reasonably conclude that the manner in which rucker killed youngblood demonstrated planning, sophistication, or professionalism. iii. ineffective assistance of trial counsel rucker finally contends, via supplemental opening brief, that his trial counsel was ineffective for failing to present argument on mitigating factors. specifically, rucker asserts that counsel should have argued to the court that the crime was committed because of an unusual circumstance, such as great provocation, that is unlikely to recur (cal. rules of court, rule 4.423(a)(3))insignificant (cal. rules of court, rule 4.423(b)(1)); and that rucker had been gainfully employed as a property manager and a licensed small-business owner prior to the offense. s representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness; and (2) that there is a reasonable prs unprofessional errors, a determination more favorable to defendant would have resulted. [citations.] if the defendant makes an insufficient showing on either one of these components, the ineffepeople v. holt (1997) 15 cal.4th 619, 703.) a reasonable probability is a probability sufficient to undermine confidence in the outcome. (people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 333.) we first note that with respect to the first factor of mitigation, an unusual circumstance, such as great provocation, that is unlikely to recur (cal. rules of court, 7 rule 4.423(a)(3)), the transcript from the sentencing hearing shows that defense counsel did raise this issue at sentencing. defense counsel pointed out that rucker was convicted of manslaughter rather than murder and argued instead, counsel reminded the court, the jury convicted rucker of manslaughter, which showed expressly refer to provocation as a mitigating factor, cohe was asking the court, which was clearly conversant with the evidence and details of the case, to consider mental state as a factor in his favor at sentencing. even were that not the case, rucker has failed to demonstrate a reasonable probability that an outcome more favorable him would have been reached if his counsel had presented a more detailed argument about provocation or had argued that his prior criminal history and his employment history were factors in mitigation. comments at the resentencing hearing demonstrate that the court was fully aware of the facts of the case and was familiar with the evidence presented at trial. immediately before resentencing rucker, strike prior, a juvenile adjudication for robbery, and they had agreed that the offense did not constitute a strike based on the law in effect at the time of the offense because it did not involve a weapon. defense counsel, moreover, reminded the court that the jury had rather than a murder and argued that this should guide the court at sentencing. the trial court, however, was resolute in its conclusion that there were no mitigating factors. the court described the crime in detail, relating how rucker shot his young nephew once, not fatally, and then and shot him four more timesall in front of the court found the crime to be greatly violent; to disclose a high degree of cruelty, viciousness, and callousness; to reflect planning, sophistication, and professionalism; to involve taking advantage of a position of trust; and to have been 8 committed against a vulnerable victim; and it crimemaking his son complicit in the killing and inviting him out to a meal that day as if nothing had happenedas a reason that he believed that there was truly no mitigating circumstance relating to rucker. the court commented that although it had listed multiple aggravating factors, it could list even more if that were necessary. in light of the assessment that the crime involved an extensive array of aggravating factors, it is not reasonably possible that rucker would have received a more favorable sentence if counsel had argued the remoteness or relative insignificance of other criminal history, mentioned his employment history, or presented a more detailed argument about provocation. (people v. holt, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 703.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. zelon, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. segal, j. 