filed 12/22/15 p. v. craig ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. kelli dawn craig, defendant and appellant. b256794 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga086289) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, darrell s. mavis, judge. affirmed. athena shudde, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, stephanie c. brenan and brendan sullivan, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________ 2 appellant kelli dawn craig appeals from the judgment entered following her convictions by jury on count 3 perjury, and count 5 forgery committed by altering, corrupting, or falsifying a legal document. (pen. code,  118, subd. (a), 470, subd. (c).) the court sentenced appellant to prison for two years. we affirm. factual summary 1. viewed in accordance with the usual rules on appeal (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established that prior to april 14, 2010, sherry behrle lived in a house in tujunga. on april 14, 2010, behrle died. on april 21, 2010, henderson testified as follows. on april 22, 2010, henderson and his wife went . appellant was there and appellant if appellant knew anything about to appellant. henderson later determined that on april 29, 2010, appellant had filed a estate (hereafter, petition). attached to on february 8, 2010, by behrle as testator, and by karen lundquist and thomas norman as witnesses. on february 4, 2011, the probate court issued an (order).1 (capitalization omitted.) the order () stated, inter alia, [t]he court finds the purported signature of sherry behrle on the purported 2/8/10 will filed with the petition for probate filed by [appellant] is a forgery and therefore the petition is denied for lack of due execution of the will. the order was admitted into evidence without objection. 1 he supplied the probate court with information, including results from a document examiner, to help the probate court make its decision. 3 lundquist testified as follows. lundquist had been friends with behrle and norman, and had known presented the will to lundquist. at the time, lundquist did not recall seeing signature on the will. lundquist felt uncomfortable with the will and told appellant not to send it in, but appellant said the document was an amendment. lundquist and norman signed the will as witnesses. lundquist erroneously dated her signature as february 8, 2010. the will indicated would go to appellant. signature. lundquist testified not genuine. in may and june 2010, lundquist signed declarations (for probate proceedings) indicating the will was proper. lundquist fabricated in a declaration that on february sic) 2010, behrle asked lundquist and norman to witness the will. norman testified as follows. norman had known behrle, appellant, and lundquist. appellant gave norman a document and told him to sign it. he signed it norman believed the document allowed appellant to continue living in the rear unit . norman erroneously dated his signature as february 8, 2010, because appellant told him to write that date. norman knew he was doing wrong by backdating the document. norman later learned he had signed a will that gave everything behrle owned to appellant. norman also signed the declaration falsely stated that asked norman and lundquist if they would be willing to witness will. norman signed another declaration indicating behrle signed the will in his presence. at norman the signature page of the will, a proof-of-subscribing-witness document, and a declaration, and he signed because she told him to do so. 4 william leaver, a los angeles police department forensic document examiner, testified he examined exemplars and the will to determine if appellant, lundquist, or , and the results were inconclusive. leaver also testified behrle might not have signed the will. los angeles police sergeant robert grant investigated the present case and interviewed appellant. appellant told grant the following. appellant had known behrle a long time and had been her caregiver during the latter part of life. on april 28, 2010, appellant, lundquist, and norman created a will that was submitted to the probate court. norman actually created the will, and lundquist and norman were going signed initials on the witness page. at some point when appellant, lundquist, and norman were completing the will, they realized lundquist and norman had signed the wrong date, i.e., april 28, 2010, on the witness page. a new witness page was signed with the date february 8, 2010. grant had appellant identify where she had signed or initialed the will. appellant circled and initialed where she had signed. she did the same thing on the second page (the witness page) of the will. the interview was tape-recorded but the recording was lost. aling, was admitted into evidence. 2. defense evidence. in defense, appellant, a bookkeeper, denied committing the charged offenses and testified as follows. a will. norman said he saw behrle sign the will and norman and lundquist signed as witnesses. on april 27, 2010, norman gave appellant a copy of the will. on april 29, 2010, appellant filed the probate action. appellant, acting as her own attorney, gave to norman and lundquist documents appellant had typed. knowledge, the will was genuine. appellant did not know during probate proceedings the will might have been a forgery. 5 according to appellant, when grant arrested her, he said her former husband was an children to child protective services if she did not cooperate. before grant interviewed appellant, she asked for counsel. grant replied he would have an officer pick up former husband and her children while grant and appellant waited for counsel and handwriting exemplars. appellant was afraid and proceeded with the interview. at trial, appellant denied telling grant she forged the will or gave it to lundquist and norman to sign, and denied preparing any portion of the will or signing it. appellant circled items on the will because she was afraid grant would arrest her former husband and take her children. lundquist, norman, and grant lied during their testimony and only appellant told the truth. kurt kuhn, a forensic science consultant, examined the will and opined it suggested appellant did not sign purported signature. issues appellant claims (1) the trial court erred by admitting into evidence the order finding (2) insufficient evidence supports her convictions. discussion 1. the probate order was admissible. a. pertinent facts. an amended information alleged that, on april 29, 2010, appellant committed , corrupting, and falsifying a record of, inter alia, a will (count 5). during may 16, 2014 pretrial discussions, appellant indicated she did not want the entire probate file introduced planning to use the order that was entered which supposedly said the will was forged. prosecutor how many documents from the probate case the prosecutor intended to introduce at trial because the present case was not a proba 6 the prosecutor indicated she did not intend to introduce the entire probate file. the parties agreed to review the exhibits the prosecutor intended to introduce. at trial in the present case, the people introduced the order into evidence without objection. the jury acquitted appellant on count 1 but convicted her on counts 3 and 5. b. analysis. purported signature of sherry behrle on her irrelevant and excludable under evidence code section 352. appellant essentially argues the trial court should not have received the order to the extent it recited (1) the probate finding that the purported signature of behrle on the will was a forgery, and (2) the resulting ruling denying the petition for lack of due execution of the will (hereafter, the challenged evidence). jected to the introduction into evidence of the order or the challenged evidence. she therefore waived the admissibility issues of whether the order and challenged evidence were relevant or excludable under evidence code section 352. (cf. people v. benson (1990) 52 cal.3d 754, 786-787, fn. 7; evid. code,  353.) lacks merit. as to relevance, evidence code section 210, states, in pertinent part, evidence . . . having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of discretion standard of review to any ruling by a trial court concerning relevance. (people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 717-718 (waidla).) the probate court was tasked with the official responsibility of determining, inter purported signature as testator was forged and whether the will was duly executed. the order stated it evidence the probate court conducted a trial on the issues. probate court order was entitled to be presumptively considered as a valid order, entered 7 upon the court making all the 2 following that trial, the the petition for lack of due execution of the will. at issue at trial in the present case was whether appellant fsignature on the will in violation of penal code section 470, subdivision (a) (count 1), perjured herself in violation of penal code section 118, subdivision (a) in the petition (count 3), and/or committed forgery prohibited by penal code section 470, subdivision and ruling (the challenged evidence), if true, were signature on the will was a forgery and the will was not duly executed. the challenged evidence, if true, had a tendency in reason to prove elements of each of counts 1, 3, and 5. there is no dispute the challenged evidence was not inadmissible hearsay.3 evidence is generally admitted for all purposes unless a limiting instruction is requested (people v. vinson (1969) 268 cal.app.2d 672, 675) and appellant did not request one. even if appellant had posed a relevance objection, the trial court would not have abused its discretion by admitting into evidence the challenged evidence as relevant. 2 even if a formal probate trial did not occur, there was evidence that, during a probate proceeding, the probate court received information, including documentary information (see fn. 1, ante) on the issues. 3 appellant did not pose a hearsay (or any other) objection to the order. nor does appellant expressly assert here that the order was hearsay. we note appellant asserts in sicrendered [the order] potentially admissible. (assertion is a concession that, in light of the official records hearsay exception (if not also because of the business records hearsay exception (section 1271)) the order was not inadmissible hearsay. 8 appellant, citing kilroy v. state of california (2004) 119 cal.app.4th 140 (kilroy), argues judicial notice prohibit a court from taking judicial notice of the truth of the facts or findings of fact asserted in orders unless the order . . . establishes a fact for purposes of substitute for evidentiary proof and a judicially noticed fact cannot be controverted. (people v. rubio were not judicially noticed but were admitted into evidence to permit litigation of the issues of whether ed signature was forged, whether the will was duly executed, and whether appellant committed the crimes alleged in counts 1, 3, and 5. principles of law of the case, res judicata, and collateral estoppel are inapplicable. kilroy is misplaced. as mentioned, appellant conceded that, in light of the official records hearsay exception (if not also because of the business records hearsay exception), the challenged evidence was not inadmissible hearsay (see fn. 3, ante). nonetheless, appellant also cites kilroy even if appellant were raising a hearsay issue, kilroy, as mentioned, involved an issue of judicial notice, not admissibility of evidence. moreover, the challenged evidence was admissible under the evidence code section 1280 official records hearsay exception as against any hearsay objection. may exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial review for abuse of discretion any claim a trial court erred in its rulings on an evidence code section 352 issue. (waidla, supra, 22 cal.4th at pp. 717, 724.) 9 the challenged evidence was purported signature was forged and whether the will was duly executed. admission of the order and challenged evidence did not require undue consumption of time. the challesignature or that appellant caused the will not to be duly executed. the challenged evidence was no more inflammatory than (1) testimony that bsignature was not genuine, (2) effective statement to grant that appellant, lundquist, and norman created the will, and (3) o the signatures of lundquist and norman. if appellant had requested a limiting instruction, the trial court in the present case could have told the jury to consider the challenged evidence with the rest of the evidence and that the jury was free to accept or reject any evidence in whole or in part. even if appellant had sought exclusion of the challenged evidence under evidence code section 352, the trial court would not have abused its discretion by failing to exclude the evidence under that section. noappellant argues the trial court should have excluded the order under evidence code was based on a lesser standard of proof and withdrew the issue of forgery from the jury. we disagree. the finding was merely evidence; no issue preclusion occurred. in sum, we conclude the trial court did not err, constitutionally or otherwise, by admitting into evidence the order and challenged evidence. even if the trial court erred by receiving the challenged evidence, it does not follow we must reverse the judgment. lundquist testified on the will was not genuine. appellant herself effectively admitted to grant that she, lundquist, and norman created the will. appellant told grant she signed tures of lundquist and norman. 10 the trial court never instructed the jury that, based on the challenged evidence, the forged and the will was not duly executed. the challenged evidence was, itself, evidence he will was forged but was not, itself, evidence appellant forged the signature. if the jury had viewed the challenged evidence as conclusively establishing purported signature, the jury would not have acquitted appellant on count 1. moreover, the jury acquitted appellant on count 1 but that merely meant the jury was not convinced beyond a reasonable doubt appellant forged behrleacquittal did not necessarily mean (1) the jury was not persuaded to a lesser standard of proof that appellant forged the signature, (2) the jury believed appellant did not forge the signature, or (3) the jury was not convinced beyond a reasonable doubt appellant signed purported . no prejudicial evidentiary error occurred. (cf. people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) finally, acounsel to the extent her claims of error are not preserved for appellate review. we the order, the record does not reflect said counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, and we cannot say there simply could have been no satisfactory explanation. (cf. people v. mendoza tello (1997) 15 cal.4th 264, 266-268.) indeed, for the reasons previously discussed, reasonably competent counsel could have concluded relevance and evidence code section 352 objections to the order would have been without merit. appellant has failed to demonstrate she received ineffective assistance of counsel. (see people v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d 171, 216-217.) 11 2. sufficient e appellant claims insufficient evidence supports her convictions. she argues lundquist and norman were accomplices,4 therefore, their testimony alone did not constitute sufficient evidence nvictions, and appellant argues there was no evidence, independent of said testimony, that tended to connect appellant on cannot be had upon the testimony of an accomplice unless it be corroborated by such other evidence as shall tend to connect the defendant with the commission of the offense; to corroborate the testimony of an accomplice, the prosecution must previdence is sufficient if it tends to implicate the defendant and thus relates to some act or (people v. avila (2006) 38 cal.4th 491, 562-563.) moreover, only a portion . . . of the accompls testimony need be corroborated and it is not necessary that the corroborative evidence . . . establish every element of the offense charged.[citations.]] it is only required that the evidence tends to connect the defendant with the commission of the crime in such a way as may reasonably satisfy the jury that the [accomplice] is telling the truth.people v. miranda (1987) 44 cal.3d 57, 100.) 4 the court instructed the jury that if the crimes of forgery and perjury by declaration were committed, lundquist and norman were accomplices to those crimes. 12 the factual summary sets forth pertinent facts from the testimony of lundquist and norman. appellant does not expressly argue that that testimony, even if that is, there is no dispute the testimony of lundquist and norman constituted sufficient evidence , independent of that testimony, there was slight corroborative evidence tending to connect appellant with the crimes charged. appellant herself effectively admitted to grant that she, lundquist, and norman statements to grant constituted the requisite slight corroborating evidence. the fact appellant was acquitted on count 1 does not compel a contrary conclusion. that merely meant the evidence did not convince the jury beyond a reasonable doubt that appellant forit did not mean the f evidence of another offense is otherwise admissible, the fact that the defendant was acquitted does not render the evidence inadmi.people v. vaughn (1969) 71 cal.2d 406, 420; accord, in re dunham (1976) 16 cal.3d 63, 67.) 13 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports jones, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. aldrich, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 