filed 1/12/16 p. v. wills ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. lawrence christopher wills, defendant and appellant. b256339 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba420699) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, henry j. hall and frederick n. wapner, judges. affirmed. janet j. gray, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and robert m. snider, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________ 2 introduction lawrence christopher wills appeals from a judgment entered after a jury verdict finding him guilty of one count of robbery in violation of penal code section 211, and one count of resisting a police officer in violation of section 148, subdivision (a)(1).1 wills challenges the denial of his motion for self-representation under faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806. wills also argues the trial court erred by failing to order an evaluation of his competence to stand trial after determining he was not competent to represent himself. finally, wills argues he was denied effective assistance of counsel because his attorney failed to move to suppress evidence of the identification of wills in a six-pack photographic lineup. we affirm. factual and procedural background a. the crime on january 22, 2014, at approximately 12:30 p.m., michelle nah was riding on the metro blue line near washington boulevard, los angeles, and texting her friend. wills and three girls entered the train. shortly after passing the san pedro station, one of the girls, without warning, punched nah in the face, breaking her nose and causing her to bleed profusely. nah ducked down to protect her face and was struck in the back of the head. the assailant tried to take it. wills stood a few own, someone tried to take now 1 all statutory references are to the penal code. 3 ly ran off of the train. cameras maintained by the transit authority system captured the altercation, which lasted about 30 seconds. after the attack, nah and other passengers on the train got off at the next stop and contacted the police. nah spoke with the sdeputies who responded and provided them with her apple user name and password so they could use the find-my-iphone application to track the stolen phone. nah also gave a description of the clothes wills was wearing. less than two hours later, deputy delwin lampkin, one of the deputies with whom nah spoke, received a notification from the find-my-iphone application that the application took deputy lampkin and other law enforcement officers to a fast-food restaurant on south central avenue, los angeles. just before entering the restaurant, deputy lampkin used the find-my-iphone application to cause the stolen phone to emit a sonar-like pinging sound, which he heard coming s location. deputy lampkin left the restaurant to determine if any of the other deputies on the scene had already spoken to wills. wills followed deputy lampkin outside. when deputy lampkin asked wills whether he had a phone, wills initially stated it was in his backpack, then said it was in his pocket. deputy lampkin took the phone from wills and returned it to nah. nah identified the phone as hers because it had a picture of nah with her boyfriend as the background wallpaper. deputy lampkin showed nah a single photograph of wills as a possible suspect. the deputies arrested wills and placed him in a patrol car. wills smelled of alcohol and had a bottle of liquor. he did not appear intoxicated. he was not slurring his words and did not appear unsteady. after the deputies repeatedly asked wills to place his feet in the patrol car, wills became loud and disruptive. he refused to place his feet inside the car. after he eventually relented and complied with the deputieon the window and cage of the patrol car. when the deputies opened the door to prevent 4 wills from injuring himself, wills said he was not going to go to jail. wills attempted to escape from the car headfirst by pushing off the closed door on the opposite side of the car with his feet. after 15 to 20 minutes of wills instructions, deputy lampkin sprayed him with pepper spray. wills then complied. the deputies also confiscated the backpack wills had with him in the fast-food restaurant. inside the backpack was a hat. the video recording that the male assailant had a backpack and a hat, and was wearing clothes like the clothes nah had described and that wills was wearing when he was arrested. a few days later, detective amber veatch, who had been assigned to investigate the case, showed nah a six-pack photographic lineup including the same photograph of wills that nah had already seen. within seconds, nah identified wills as one of her assailants. wills testified at trial that the day nah was robbed hafter drinking almost half a gallon of vodka. ot too . . . detail-ly, and later admitted that he had no memory of the day at all. he said that he was not the man pictured in the video recording of the attack, and that he did not know the other people on the video recording. he testified at first that he did not remember being on the blue line train the day of the attack, and then, on cross-examination, admitted that he had been on the blue line that day. he recanted various statements he had previously made to law enforcement, including that he had been trying to break up the fight on the train, and stated he had not told law enforcement the truth when he described the details of the robbery and had made it all up because he had no memory of that day. he denied owning the backpack and the hat he had with him at the fast-food restaurant, and although he did not remember where or when he found it. b. s marsden and faretta motions on march 20, 2014 wills moved pursuant to people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 for appointment of new counsel because he was experiencing 5 che was dissatisfied with the offer, and he had a mental health condition for which he wanted treatment. the court denied the motion. on april 10, 2014 wills again asked for new court-appointed counsel. the trial court denied current counsel. on april 16, 2014, the day trial was scheduled to begin, wills made a motion to represent himself, and asked the court to continue the trial because he was not ready to proceed. wills also indicated that his first choice was for the court to appoint a different attorney to represent him, but that he preferred to represent himself rather than proceed with his current court-appointed attorney. the court again stated that frustration over not receiving a satisfactory plea offer was not a sufficient reason to appoint a new attorney. the court found that waiver of his right to counsel was not knowing, intelligent, and voluntary. the court also noted that wills wore a yellow jumpsuit, which suggested to the court that wills had some emotional issues, -plea probation report. the court denied the motion on two grounds: (1) granting wwould delay the case because wills was not ready to proceed, and waiver of his right to counsel was not voluntary. on april 18, 2014, after trial had commenced, wills made another motion for self-representation, this time asking for a continuance of three weeks to familiarize himself with the case. the court again denied the motion, stating that the quality of his representation [by wills trial had already started, and that the delay would waste the resources of the jurors and disrupt the life of the civilian witness. c. verdict and sentencing the jury convicted wills on both counts. the court sentenced wills to the upper term of six years on the robbery conviction, and a concurrent term of six months in county jail on the resisting arrest conviction. wills timely appealed. 6 discussion a. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying motion to represent himself the trial court denied two motions by wills to represent himself, one on april 16, 2014, the day trial was scheduled to begin, and one on april 18, 2014, during the trial. wills challenges only the first order. 1. the right of self-representation under the sixth amendment of the united states constitution, a criminal faretta v. california, supra, 422 u.s. at p. 836.) the right to self-representation is independent of the guarantees of the sixth and fourteenth astate or federal court must be afforded the right to the assistance of counsel before he can id. right of self-representation indiana v. edwards (2008) 554 u.s. 164, 171; see people v. butler (2009) 47 cal.4th 814, 825.) while a timely, unequivocal faretta -motion for self-representation does not. (people v. lawrence (2009) 46 cal.4th 186, 191-192; see people v. bradford (1997) 15 cal.4th 1229, 1365 [if a motion for self-representation -representation no longer is a matter of right but is subject to the trial courunconditional right of self-representation, a defendant must assert that right within a reasonable time prior to trial. . . . if the motion is untimely . . . the defendant has the burdepeople v. horton (1995) 11 cal.4th 1068, 1110.) -representation if the defendant knowingly and intelligently makes an unequivocal and timely request after having been ap (people v. valdez (2004) 32 cal.4th 73, 97-98.) faretta 7 people v. lewis and oliver (2006) 39 cal.4th 970, 1002.) in determining whether a motion for self-representation is untimelmotion and the scheduled trial date, but also such factors as whether trial counsel is ready to proceed to trial, the number of witnesses and the reluctance or availability of crucial trial witnesses, the complexity of the case, any ongoing pretrial proceedings, and whether the defendant had earlier opportunities to assert his right of self-people v. lynch (2010) 50 cal.4th 693, 726, overruled on another ground in people v. mckinnon (2011) 52 cal.4th 610, 636-643.) the trial court need not explicitly consider all of the factors, as long as the record contains sufficient evidence to support implicit consideration of the factors. (people v. scott (2001) 91 cal.app.4th 1197, 1206.) the court may also consider whether the defendant will need a continuance. (see people v. windham (1977) 19 cal.3d 121, 128, fn. 5 (windham).) should grant such a motion on the day set for trial. [the california] supreme court has faretta [citation.] now is disfavor (people v. powell (2011) 194 cal.app.4th 1268, 1277.) 2. the motion for self-representation was untimely the trial court considered the appropriate factors and determined, under the totality of the -representation was untimely. wills argues that, y selection, there was only one civilian witness involved, the trial was fairly brief and uncomplicated and there was no indication of how much of a continuastilla defendant should not be permitted to wait until the day preceding trial before he moves to represent himself and requests a continuance in order to prepare for trial without some showing of reasonable cause for the lateness of the requestwindham, supra, 19 cal.3d at p. 128, fn. 5.) wills made no showing of reasonable cause for the lateness of his 8 request. he made his motion for self-representation on april 16, 2014, the day the court had scheduled the case for trial. he was not prepared to go to trial and sought a continuance of unspecified length. his attorney, on the other hand, was prepared to go to trial, and wills had multiple pretrial opportunities to assert his right to represent himself, including the february 21 arraignment, the march 20 pretrial conference, and the april 10 pretrial conference. (see people v. lynch, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 726.) because willsfor self-representation was untimely, the court had discretion to grant or deny it. (see windham, supra, 19 cal.3d at p. 128, fn. 5.) 3. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in finding that the windham factors weighed agamotion for self-representation in ruling on an untimely motion for self-representation, a trial court must exercise its discretion in light of the factors identified in windham. (see people v. valdez (2004) 32 cal.4th 73, 103.) oclivity to substitute counsel, the reasons for the request, the length and stage of the proceedings, and the disruption or delay which might (windham, supra, 19 cal.3d at p. 128; accord, people v. lynch, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 722, fn. 10.) the trial court conducted the inquiry required by windham and based its denial of on a balancing of the windham factors. the court found that willsfrustration over the fact that he could not get an offer he wanted from the prosecution did not reflect any failing or fault on the part of counsel for wills. in fact, at the marsden hearing six days earlier, the court had stated that counsel for wills was noting that counsel had ,at the hearing on the motion for self-representation, the court recognized earlier attempts to substitute counsel, saying, marsden motion a couple of time(see scott, supra, 91 cal.app.4th at p. 1205 [affirming the denial of a motion for self-made the faretta motion 9 out of frustration at having his marsden motion denied, rather than from a genuine desire ) the court also asked wills the reasons for his request, and wills explained that he wanted a different attorney but the court had denied his motions for new appointed counsel. wills later told the court, o represent myself, i the court noted, when the court asked wills if he was ready for trial, wills said he was not. under these circumstances the court did not abuse its discretion in considering the windham factors and denying 2 finally, wills argues that the trial court erred by denying his motion to represent himself because the court suggested wills had but that is not what happened. the trial court to represent himself not because the court determined that he was not competent to represent himself, but because the request was untimely and the windham factors weighed against granting the motion, and because the request was not voluntary. the court and his pre-plea probation report suggested that he had emotional issues, but those emotional f.3 in any event, even if the court had relied on perceived emotional issues in determining that motion to represent himself was still not an abuse of discretion. (see people v. dent 2 motion for self-representation was involuntary because it was an alternative to an unsuccessful marsden motion. because mely motion for self-motion for self-representation was not voluntary. 3 similarly, in the context of his motions for new appointed counsel to negotiate a deal involving probation and mental-health treatment instead of incarceration, wills allusions to deny his motion for self-representation. there is no evidence in the record, -described mental health issues. 10 (2003) 30 cal.4th 213, 218 he trial court denied the request [for self-representation] for an improper reason, if the record as request was nonetheless properly denied on other grounds, we would uphold the trial s ruling.) b. the trial court did not have a sua sponte duty to conduct a competency examination after the trial court denied motion for self-representation wills argues that the court should have conducted a competency evaluation under section 1368 because the court suggested the fact wills was wearing a yellow jumpsuit indicated he had emotional issues.4 according to wills, the only evidence of incompetence was that he appeared both federal due process and state law require a trial judge to suspend trial proceedings and conduct a competency hearing whenever the court is presented with substantial evidence of incompetence, that is, evidence that raises a reasonable or bona fide s competence to stand trial.(people v. sattiewhite (2014) 59 cal.4th 446, 464.) s decision whether or not to hold a competence hearing is entitled to deference, because the court has the opportunity to observe the defendant during trial.people v. rogers (2006) 39 cal.4th 826, 847.) the failure to declare a doubt and conduct a hearing when there is substantial evidence of incompetence, however, requires reversal of the judgment of conviction.ibid.) here, there was no evidence to raise a reasonable or bona fide doubt concerning competence to stand trial. even if wills had emotional issues, there was no 4 section 1368 provides: or to judgment, . . . a doubt arises in the mind of the judge as to the mental competence of the defendant, he or she shall state that doubt in the record and inquire of the attorney for the defendant whether, in the opinion of the attorney, the defendant is mentally competent. . . . if counsel informs the court that he or she believes the defendant is 11 indication that he could not participate meaningfully in the proceedings. (see people v. mai (2013) 57 cal.4th 986, 1033-1034 did not constitute substantial evidence of incompetencet the emotional instability . . . ]; rogers, supra, 39 cal.4th at pp. 847-848 [evidence that the defendant was suffered some type of dissociative disorder . . . which evidence of incompetence].)5 moreover, nothing in pre-probation report mentioned emotional issues that would suggest the need for a competency examination. in fact, in the pre-claim of significant physical/mental/emotional healwh (people v. hung thanh mai, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 1036.) c. s argument that he received ineffective assistance of counsel fails because the evidence of guilt was overwhelming when nah retrieved her phone from deputy lampkin she was shown an image of wills as a suspect. the same image was used in the six-pack photographic lineup created to identify the robber. was impermissibly suggestive, and that his failure to move to suppress the identification evidence constituted ineffective assistance of counsel. 5 wills whcompetence to represent himself. counsel responded competency does not require the commencement of competency proceedings. (people v. price (1991) 1 cal.4th 324, 396-397; see  1368.) 12 to establish ineffective assistance of counsel, a defendant must show that (1) s representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing profs deficient performance was prejudicial, i.e., there is a reasonable prs failings, the result would have been more favorable to the defendant. (people v. johnson (2015) 60 cal.4th 966, 979-980; see strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 694 [104 s.ct. 2052, 80 l.ed.2d 674].) the burden of sustaining a charge of inadequate or ineffective representation is upon the defendant. the proof . . . must be a demonstrable reality and not a speculative matter. (people v. mesa (2006) 144 cal.app.4th 1000, 1007, quoting people v. karis (1988) 46 cal.3d 612, 656.) if a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel can be determined on the ground of lack of prejudice, a court s performance was deficientin re crew (2011) 52 cal.4th 126, 150; accord, people v. mbaabu (2013) 213 cal.app.4th 1139, 1149; see strickland, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 697 [[i]f it is easier to dispose of an ineffectiveness claim on the ground of lack of sufficient prejudice, which we expect will often be so, th].) on the the question is whether there is a reasonable probability that, absent (strickland, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 695; see people v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d 171, 218.) the evidence against wills was overwhelming, with the only potentially controverting evidence equivocal testimony. s pocket hours after it was taken from nah. there was a video recording of the crime, which showed a man wearing the same clothes wills was wearing when he was arrested,6 with a backpack and hat matching the backpack and hat wills had in his possession when he was arrested. was that he had no memory of the 6 and dark shirt, are hardly so unique among the population in downtown los angeles, that the video, however, showed a man with a two-toned grey sweatshirt, with sleeves darker than the body of the sweatshirt, and wills was arrested wearing a two-toned grey sweatshirt with black sleeves. 13 day, he somewhere, and he did not recognize anyone in the video or the backpack and hat that were with him when he was arrested. thus, even if the court had excluded the pro case against wills was so strong that there is no reasonable probability that the result would have been different. disposition the judgment is affirmed. segal, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. zelon, j. 