filed 8/31/15 p. v. flores ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. manuel flores, defendant and appellant. b256104 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta126733) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, laura r. walton, judge. affirmed. maureen l. fox, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant deputy attorney general, scott a. taryle, supervising deputy attorney general, and kimberley j. baker-guillemet, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant and appellant manuel flores appeals from his convictions for carjacking and possession of a firearm by a felon. he contends the convictions must be reversed because the trial court abused its discretion in permitting expert testimony regarding racist views of his gang and its offensive acts against african-american males, and erred in permitting unduly prejudicial evidence of other bad acts. he also raises claims of prosecutorial misconduct, and ineffective assistance of counsel. we affirm. procedural background flores was charged by information with one count each of carjacking (pen. code,  215, subd. (a);1 count 1) and possession of a firearm by a felon ( 29800, subd. (a)(1); count 2). as to count 1 it was alleged that flores personally used a firearm within the meaning of sections 186.22, subdivision (b)(4) and 12022.53, subdivision (b). as to both counts it was alleged that flores committed the crimes for the benefit of, at the direction of, and in association with a criminal street gang pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(c). the information also alleged that flores had two prior convictions pursuant to section 667.5, subdivision (b). flores pleaded not guilty and denied all allegations. after trial, a jury found flores guilty as to both counts, but found the gang and firearm allegations not true.2 flores waived his right to trial and admitted the previously denied allegations as to his prior convictions. the court sentenced flores to a total sentence of 11 years in state prison, ordered him to pay various fees and fines, and awarded presentence credits. this timely appeal followed. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 although the jury found true the allegation that a principal used a firearm in the commission of the offense within the meaning of section 12022.53, subd. (b), the court struck the allegation because, as a matter of law, it could not be found true in the absence of a true finding on the gang allegation. 3 factual background the prosecu at 2:30 a.m. on january 22, 2013, jojuan white, a male who is apparently african-american, was sitting in a white lexus parked in the driveway of his home in compton listening to the radio. he was approached by two male hispanics. one of the men, who wore a dark colored hooded sweatshirt, tapped on the window with a black object that white thought may have been a gun, and ordered white to get out of the car and down on the ground. white did nostood behind the first and wore dark clothing, including a jacket, and something on his obscured by the man with the gun, and white was unable to see his face. after whitewho was afraiddrove off with the other man in the passenger seat. white called 911 and reported a carjacking. neither man claimed membership in a gang nor made any gang references during the incident. on patrol in lynwood at 3:00 a.m. on january 22, 2013, when he received a call about a nearby carjacking of a white lexus being driven by two hispanic men. shortly thereafter, banuelos saw a car matching that description driving on imperial highway. banuelos pulled saw two hispanic men. banuelos called for backup and followed the lexus, which turned into a parking lot. the lexus drove over a traffic island, through the lot (from which there was no exit), and sped up and drove into a fence in which it became lodged. two men (one of wand ran. banuelos heard a gunshot and took cover, believing the men were shooting at him. helicopter and backup units arrived to establish a containment area. the helicopter unit reported that a heat source had been located in the bushes. lasd deputy john davoren, a member of the swat team k-9 unit, and his police dog were at the scene. 4 davoren called for the person hiding to surrender or be bitten by the dog. flores emerged from the bushes and was arrested. he wore a black shirt and jeans. a black jacket was later recovered from the area in which flores had hidden. -9 unit searched the area north of a nearby freeway, where a dog alerted to the side of a ford expedition parked in a driveway. as the deputies approached they noticed movement under a blanket in the cargo space in the back of the vehicle. believing this was one of the carjacking suspects, the deputies ordered the person to come out; no one did. lasd deputy john mcdonald found an the officers took cover. later, they opened the hatchback where they found the body of a deceased male hispanic under a blanket. the man, later identified as ernesto ortega, the second carjacking suspect, had a semi-automatic handgun and a gunshot wound to the -inflicted shot to the head. lasd deputy clinton kelly brought white to a field show-up. as he arrived at the scene where flores (by then handcuffed) was being detained by several officers, facial features, height or tattoos. other officers at the show-up only heard white identify white testified that he had identified flores as one of the two suspects at the field show-up because of his clothing and the fact that he he never identified flores as the man with the gun. a dark beanie was later recovered from the passenger side of the stolen lexus. banuelos was called to the scene of the show-up and identified flores as one of two men he saw emerge from the crashed lexus. he later identified ortega as the other suspect who had run from the car with flores. lasd detective leslie rodriguez interviewed white on the day of the crime. white told rodriguez he had been parked in the driveway of his home, smoking a 5 cigarette. he saw two hispanic males walk past his house. about five minutes later, the men returned and approached the car. one man, wearing a black or dark hooded tapped the window and ordered white out of the car. the second suspect, later identified ortega wielded the gun. clearly, but did see that he had a slim face. he had been unable to see the man behind the gunman. white told rodriguez he became afraid for his life when he saw the gun, a black, semiautomatic pistol. after he got out of the car, white was ordered to lie face down on walked around and got in on photographic six-pack containing a photo of ortega. white did not identify ortega but did identify another person, unrelated to this case. white was not shown a six-pack containing a photo of flores. tattoos on the hand of the person who tapped on the window. no prints matching flores were obtained from the stolen lexus. according to rodriguez, white was reluctant to testify at both the preliminary experience, witnesses in gang-related crimes have often been fearful and reluctant to cooperate with law enforcement. white never said he thought the carjacking was gang-related or that flores was a gang member. after flores was detained, rodriguez noticed a gunshot wound on his leg. an rmine the determined the bullet would have entered through the thigh and come out through the calf as flores crouched or sat with his legs bent. the gun would have been held at a very low 6 there might be a second gun. several officers and a k-9 unit searched the area where flores was found; no second gun was found. flores told rodriguez that he had fallen asleep in the bushes. gang expert. sumner knew flores as a member of the compton varrio setenta (cv-70) gang, which he described as one of the two most racist gangs in the city. one of several -gang, one of cv-vidence that cv-70 was courting anyone from kak. nevertheless, he opined that the present crime may have been a means by which ortega could prove his worth to the cv-sumner acknowledged that committing suicide once caught is inconsistent with a goal of becoming a gang member. after the preliminary hearing, rodriguez intercepted a call flores made to his hearing or implicated him in the crime, and discussed his own role in the carjacking. he told his brother that he and ortega had been at the home of a mutual friend (endo) on the evening of january 22. flores was tired and told the friend and ortega that he wanted to go home. after -flores agreed and the two men unsuccessfully searched for a car to steal. as they were ret . . . although flores had been 7 at trial, sumner explained these and other statements made by flores and his -has meaning both in and out of the gang context. when flores told ortega he was gonna to show him how to get active,gangbang, how to be a gangster-related. [] there . . . already knew [ortega] was gonna to do some shit. he had already told [them], but you know, i told you, too,ortega planned to go out and commit a crime. based on his knowledge of flores, the -of cv-case, the crime was committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang. defense case flores testified in his own defense. he has been a member of the cv-70 gang since age 13. kak is a tagging crew affiliated with the cv-70s rival gang, tortilla by the cv- on the evening of the crime, flores smoking marijuana. ortegaing a lot and giving 8 nonsensical answers to questions.3 but ortega gave him a hard time, wanting him to stay. at some point, ortega asked get a g-ridehe did not. eventually, after ortega pressured him, flores agreed to go with him to steal a car. the two men walked around for a while, but could not find a car to steal. flores decided to go home e. if he was [nigga], why . . . would i leave you hanging?4 by this time, flores thought the idea of stealing a ordered him out at gunpoint, as flores stood about four feet away. flores felt there was flores felt he had no choice but to go along with ortega and got in the passenger side of the car and they drove away. flores had not known ortega had a gun until he saw him pull it out. flores never had the gun in his possession. the carjacking took about 30 to 45 seconds. at some point, ortega tried unsuccessfully to drive the car through a fence into which the car became stuck. flores exited from the drpassenger door would not open. ortega got out on the same side and they ran in a different directions to hide. flores testified that ortega had begun using increasing amounts of drugs before the crime. on at least one prior occasout on meth and [had] gone out and [tried] to cause trouble, [and] commit[ted] some 3 amphetamine and methamphetamine in his blood stream. 4 9 had only heard law enforcement use that term in relation to gang activity. flores had intended to help ortega steal a car, but never intended to participate in a carjacking and did not believe ortega would do something so crazy. by the time white was approached, flores had abandoned the intent to steal a car. flores recalled speaking with rodriguez, but not telling her that he had fallen asleep in the bushes. flores has five prior convictions for carrying a firearm. mber of cv-70, a associated with the tortilla flats gang, cv-case in which cv-70 had recruited someone from kak. he also testified that in the may have various meanings, including participating in gang-related offenses or criminal activity. in the opinion of martin flores, the crime here was a spontaneous act committed by two people from differengangs or crews, and -related. discussion 1. trial courtgang at trial, the prosecution asked its gang expert to explain the meaning of four ----that p---k iru bloods and crips are each african-american gangs and rivals of cv-- 10 -nigga killer. they are one of the most racist gangs within the city; one of the two. - . . . [i]n 2005 and 2006, they made a major offensive against a piru gang and they were shooting at any black male they could catch on the street. section] 352, the facts of this case. explanation as to what the n- a. no forfeiture that cv-claim of error. (evid. code,  353, subd. (a); people v. coffman and marlow (2004) 34 cal.4th 1, 63.) this contention lacks merit. meaning of the n-k tattoo was vague as to the as being among the most racist gangs in the city. in a follow-up question, the prosecutor the cv-70 gang, which had a history of targeting a particular black gang and random t relevant to the case at bar. a claim of the erroneous admission of evidence is preserved for appeal if the timely objection to admission of the evidence alerted the trial court to the nature of the evidence and the basis on which exclusion was sought and afforded the opposing party an opportunity to establish its admissibility. (people v. holt (1997) 15 cal.4th 619, 666667.) it is clear from its -11 cv-70 gang and his explanation of the bases for that opinion. no forfeiture occurred. b. no violation of evidence code section 352 arbitrary shootings of black males by his gang was not relevant because no interracial violence was involved here. thus it was unnecessary for sumner to elaborate or do anything other than explain the meaning of the n-was a rival of certain black gangs. the a-american man at gunpoint in rival force to be feared by rival african-american gangs, as well as bolster the individual evidence of a racist attitude is a potentially inflammatory topic, but may nonetheless be admissible if it has probative value. (people v. quartermain (1997) 16 cal.4th 600, 629 (quartermain); see dawson v. delaware (1992) 503 u.s. 159, 165 [112 s.ct. 1093, 117 l.ed.2d 309] [evidence of racial intolerance is admissible if relevant to issue being ing of african-american males. people v. gonzalez ause it may have a highly inflammatory impact on the jury trial courts people v. williams incentive for criminal behavior, its probative value generally exceeds its prejudicial (gonzalez, 12 at p. 1550.) on appeal, we review for abuse of discretion a trial court's ruling on whether evidence is relevant, not unduly prejudicial, and thus admissible. (williams, at p. 197.) gang membership, and to provide context as to the nature of that gang affiliation. the means to recruit ortega into the cv-70 fold. (cf. people v. mckinnon (2011) 52 cal.4th 610, 655 [in attempting to establish defendants motive for simply walking up to victim and shooting him, prosecution was entitled to give context to defendants statement that, just before killing victim, sumner therefore [] -70 gang. it is beyond question that in contemporary society, evidence that a person subscribes to racist beliefs will expose him or her to opprobrium. where evidence of such racist beliefs has little probative value, it may be unduly prejudicial. (cf. people v. williams, supra, [b]ecause a motive is ordinarily the incentive for criminal behavior, its probative value generally exceeds its prejudicial effect, and (people v. mckinnon, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 655.) ing was motivated by racism. first, the record contains no evidence that the prosecution relied on the theory of regarding the racism of the cv-70 gang after it was made, and did not argue in either his opening statement or in closing argument -13 related.5 our review of the cold record has disclosed no evidence of racial animus as the motivating factor. the record does not indicate that the carjacking took place in an area claimed by an african-american gang (only that it was committed outside of cv-territory). nor does the record expressly reflect that the victim was african-american or a member of an african-american gang. however, the contention brief that white is african-american has not been challenged by flores. also, neither that flores personally harbored racial animus against africanamericans beyond his membership in cv-70. although floretheir friend endo, none of whom (presumably) is african-american. nothing in the record suggests that when flores and ortega went looking for a car to steal, they did so motivated by racial animus. indeed, had flores and ortega accomplished their shared owner. although racism remains endemic in our society, the average juror likely knows that not all people who have racist attitudes act on them in criminal ways. (see people v. lindberg (2008) 45 cal.4th 1, 46 [analogizing evidence concerning white supremacy to evidence those beliefs motivated his actions here. further, evidence of the racist beliefs of members of the cv-70 gang, though prejudicial, is not inadmissible. there is no question that evidence of racism is potentially inflammatory. however, it may be relevant and admissible if it has probative value. (see, e.g., quartermain, supra, 16 cal.4th at p. 629.) the fact that the evidence cast flores in a bad light does not alone render it inadmissible. (people v. lindberg, 5 during opening statement, the prosecutor quoted from the call flores made to his brother, indicating that the jury would hear testimony regarding the gang-related crime, . . . 14 supra, case, all prosecution evidence showing a defendant committed the charged crime would ve or (evid. code, value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will . . . create (evid. code,  352.) under evidence code section 352, prejudicial is not the same as damaging. (people v. karis (1988) 46 cal.3d 612, 638; people v. callahan (1999) 74 cal.app.4th people v. rogers (2006) 39 cal.4th 826, 863; people v. lopez (2013) 56 cal.4th 1028, 1059 [unduly prejudicial evidence is that which uniquely tends to evoke an emotional bias against the defendant as an individual and has very little effect on the which evidence code section 352 is concerned is people v. walker (2006) 139 cal.app.4th 782, 806.) in other words, evidence should be excluded as unduly prejudicial when it is of such nature as to inflame the emotions of the jury, motivating them to use the information, not to logically evaluate a point upon which it is relevant, but to reward or punish one sialthough there is no evidence the carjacking was motivated by racist beliefs against an african-american victim, the court could reasonably conclude that the nature of the le likely to cast flores in a bad light, nevertheless bears relevance to the theory that he was putting in work on the ga 15 people v. ortiz (1979) 95 cal.app.3d 926 (ortiz) is misplaced. in ortiz, the court held that the trial court committed prejudicial error in allowing the prosecutor to elicit and comment upon testimony describing in detail animal sacrifices made by the defendant in connection with his membership in a religious cult. in reversing the deortiz court found the evidence regarding case. (id. at pp. 933posed a s (id. at p. 934.) here, unlike ortiz, evidence of the racism of tenets and the relation of those beliefs to the meaning of tattoos on the hand of one of its members. the disputed evidence did not unduly prejudice flores and his concern that it evoked significant emotional bias that led to guilt by association is unfounded. the evidence of racist beliefs did not have an inflammatory impact on the jury, which acquitted him of the gang allegation. on this record, we concl-70 carjacking was as a means of recruiting ortega. the probative value of this evidence was not substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission would confuse the -the court made clear that acted within its discretion to admit this single relevant statement under evidence code section 352.6 6 because we conclude that testimony was not inadmissible under evidence code section 352, we also conclude that the admission of this testimony did not deprive flores of due process and a fair trial under the federal constitution. 16 c. any error was harmless in the interest of complete review, we note that even if we were to assume evidentiary error, any error would be harmless, whether assessed under the federal constitutional (chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 [87 s.ct. 824, 17 l.ed.2d 705] [reversal is required under the federal constitution unless the error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt]), or state (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 (watson) [state law error requires reversal only if it is reasonably probable that the error had an effect on the verdict]) standard of review. the evidence that flores was guilty of carjacking is overwhelming. (people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 439.) flores admitted that he and ortega went out looking for a car to steal, that he ortega ordered white out of his car at gunpoint, and that he voluntarily got into the car and drove off with ortega. regardless of why he committed the crime, flores is undoubtedly guilty. accordingly, even if the trial court erred disputed testimony, that error was harmless. (watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836.) 2. that flores had a. relevant proceedings meant by saying that gang members bolster their reputation by committing crimes, the . . . place you up on a pedestal. s by his gang moniker, sumner said, on foundational grounds and requested a sidebar at which the following exchange took place:7 7 flores counsel apparently did n 17 the presence of the jurors. not to mention anything about any other activities that couldhowever, as soon as he said it, i was like talked to him about that. t have any discovery on any arrests [] . . . [] . . . i completely agree. i will justhow do you want me to handle it as far as not mentioning it? go to your next question, not going to go into any other cases or crime ori can admonish him in front of the jurors. some attorneys like me to do that. some think it brings more attention to the issue than what i admonish him. maybe if you could write down a note for him or something and re not going to go into anything about any other crimes. does that seem to make sense? ]: no. [] . . . [] yeah, about any other crimes. 18 b. forfeiture nonresponsive, irrelevant and prejudicial. (see evid. code,  1101, subd. (a) [evidence (whether in the form of an opinion, evidence of reputation, or specific instances of his conduct) is inadmissible to prove his nt. if defense counsel declined a not complain about the absence of such an instruction or admonition on appeal. (people v. thomas (2012) 53 cal.4th 771, 810 (thomas).) sumner in front of the jury not to mention prior bad acts. defense counsel explicitly rejected that offer as unnecessary, agreeing with the court that such an admonition could what sumner would be discretely admonished not to testify about other crimes. thomas, supra, 53 cal.4th 771, is instructive. in thomas, the defendant complained that testimonial evidence should have been admitted with a limiting instruction because counsel believed it would only serve to highlight the matter. (id. at p. that would have addressed the risk of prejudice about which flores now complains. flores has forfeited his right to complain on appeal about the admission of the evidence. (ibid.) 19 c. no ineffective assistance of counsel such an admonition could r to provide the admonition. to prevail on an ineffective assistance of counsel claim, flores must show both prejudiced him. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687 [104 s.ct. 2052, 80 l.ed.2d 674] (stricklandfails under the first -people v. kelly counsel made a tactical decision not to have the court admonish the jury because she did instead, she chose to have sumner discreetly admonished, thus assuring he would not -guess those tactical decisions is iyarborough v. gentry (2003) 540 u.s. 1, 8 [124 s.ct. 1, 157 l.ed.2d 1]of counsel claim fails under the first prong, so we need not analyze whether he can show prejudice. 3. the claim of prosecutorial misconduct was forfeited and flores did not suffer ineffective assistance of counsel during closing argument, the prosecutor argued to the jury that: in order to prove a defendant guilty of a crime, i have to prove elements to you. every crime has certain elements, and i have to prove each element to you beyond a reasonable 20 doubt. [] . . . [] t need to eliminate all imaginary doubt. what reasonable doubt means is if you have a doubt, it has to be reasonable using your common sense, and it has to be based on something that you heard. it cannot be just something made up. we are not trying to come up with some science fiction scenario where this could have possibly happened. flores maintains that by telling the that reasonable doubt could be based on the absence of requisite proof by the prosecution. thus, flores has forfeited the claim. in order to preserve any claim of prosecutorial misconduct, there must be a timely objection and request for admonition. [o]therwise, the point is reviewable only if an admonition would not have cured the harm caused by the misconduct.people v. dykes (2009) 46 cal.4th 731, 786; people v. gutierrez (2002) 28 cal.4th 1083, 1146.) flores claims his failure to object is excused because any ver, even if showing that an admonition would not have avoided any possible prejudice. (people v. price (1991) 1 cal.4th 324, 461462.) . prosecutor distorted the concept of reasonable doubt by effectively telling the jury there affirmative evidence demonstrating reasonable doubt.simply told jurors their decision had to be based on evidence adduced at trial, and they were not free to conjure reasonable doubt from on an imagined possibility. further, the acknowledgement that prove elements to [the jury]. every crime 21 has certain elements, and i have to prove each element to [the jury] beyond a reasonable doubt. we also reject the assertion that flordid not mischaracterize its burden of proof, so no objection was necessary or in order. further, because the record does claim rests on facts outside of the record, and may not be raised here. (see people v. seaton (2001) 26 cal.4th 598, 643 [where record did not reveal why trial counsel failed to object to certain testimony, claim rested on facts outside the appellate record, and could only be raised on habeas corpus].) in any event, flores has not shown his , or that he was prejudiced by any deficient performance on the part of counsel. (strickland, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 687.) the court gave the appropriate instructions regarding the presumption of innocence and the evidence to the contrary, we presume that the jury followed those instructions. (people v. valdez (2011) 201 cal.app.4th 1429, 1437.) 22 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. johnson, j. we concur: chaney, acting p. j. moor, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 