filed 11/15/16 p. v. green ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jason green, defendant and respondent. b256776 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba396890) the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. lynette pennington, defendant and respondent. b259139 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba396890) appeals from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, george g. lomeli, judge. affirmed as modified. matthew alger, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant jason green. 2 derek k. kowata, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant lynette pennington. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, mary sanchez, susan sullivan pithey and zee rodriguez, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______________________________ jason green and lynette pennington appeal from the judgments entered after a jury convicted them of conspiracy to murder garry dean, their codefendant, and found true a special criminal street gang enhancement allegation. pennington was also found guilty, along with dean, of the second degree murder of alton batiste.1 green and pennington both contend the prosecutor engaged in prejudicial misconduct when he dismissed the case after receiving an adverse pretrial ruling and refiled it in people v. dean (apr. 25, 2016 (as mod. may 16, 2016), b253077) [nonpub.] at pp. 16-20.) green further contends the trial court committed prejudicial error by admitting evidence of uncharged murders, by denying his motions to sever his trial from that of his codefendants and by improperly imposing a five-year prior serious felony sentence enhancement. pennington also challenges the and contends the evidence was insufficient to convict her of conspiracy to murder dean. we affirm 1 pennington, green and dean were charged in the same y one errors committed by the court and prosecutor during closing argument that do not affect the appeals of pennington and green. (people v. dean (apr. 25, 2016) (as mod. may 16, 2016), b253077) [nonpub.].) 3 both judgments but modify gr sentence to correct the statutory basis for his prior serious felony sentence enhancement and the sentences of both defendants to correct the statutory fines imposed.2 factual and procedural background3 1. overview of the murders of alton batiste, travon powers and dawan banks the complicated facts presented at trial, as well as the evidentiary rulings and arguments of counsel at the center of appeals, arise from three, perhaps related, murders. a. alton batiste. at approximately 1:30 a.m. on september 23, 2002 a van crashed into the divider on the santa monica freeway in west los angeles. dean, a member of the center park bloods, was one of the individuals in the van. pennington, also a member of the center park bloods, was the driver of the van, which was registered to robert burke, her incarcerated boyfriend. batiste, severely injured by knife wounds, was in the van when it crashed. he died nine days later. b. travon powers. several hours before the van crash batiste had been in a car with powers, a member of centinela park family, also a bloods-affiliated criminal street gang. september 22, 2002 in center park, the neighborhood claimed by the center park bloods. the car, which belonged 2 after briefing was completed in this appeal, appellate counsel filed directly with this court a petition for a writ of habeas corpus asserting a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel. that petition will be separately addressed by the court. 3 with one exception, the evidence presented to green and jury was the same as that presented to . (see fn. 5, below.) we repeat our summary of the evidence from here, modestly revised, to focus on the arguments made by green and pennington. 4 girlfriend, tessy kennedy, had crashed into a low fence nearby; blood stains were found on its front seats. according to kennedy, powers and batiste had left an inglewood motel together in her car around 10:20 that evening to look for drugs. c. dawan banksbefore he was scheduled to testify at a preliminary hearing to identify three members of the neighborhood pirus, another bloods-affiliated gang, as the individuals who had shot at powers and banks, also a centinela park family member, in february 2002. banks was killed; and, although powers escaped, his finger was shot off. because he intended to testify against three bloods gang members and that batiste, who had been with powers, had likely been killed by dean and pennington because he had been a witness to an alternate possibility defense counsel was that batiste had been stabbed in kcar and was simply being transported to the hospital in the van in which dean was riding when it crashed. in connection with that theory, counsel questioned the source of the blood found on t 2. the murder of alton batiste in the early morning of september 23, 2002 a witness seated in a car overlooking the santa monica freeway in west los angeles saw a van travel across the freeway lanes, hit the freeway divider and come to a stop. an african-american man wearing a light-colored shirt got out of the van, followed by another african-american man wearing a red shirt. the witness later identified dean as the man in the red shirt. dean and the second man pulled an individual out of the van and carried him across the lanes to the shoulder of the freeway. the first two men returned to the van, pulled out what could have been a small person or a duffel bag and carried it to the side of the freeway. the two uninjured men wandered around, looking confused. the man in 5 the light-colored shirt walked halfway up the embankment above the shoulder of the freeway and then returned to the van. the witness called the police emergency hotline. by the time emergency personnel arrived, the two men had disappeared. the witness directed them to the injured man on the side of the freeway, who was later identified as batiste. batiste was lying on his back in a pool of blood. he was moving, although incoherent, and was transported to ucla medical center. california highway patrol officer arthur dye inspected the van. according to dye, the rear passenger door of the van was inoperable. the front interior of the van was covered in blood; no glass in the van or any blood or hair on the windows. blood was smeared on the dashboard in front of the passenger seat, and a red jersey soaked in blood lay in front of the passenger seat. the passenger seat was bent forward toward the steering wheel, and both the steering wheel and the key in the ignition were bent checkbook and california identification card. dye also found a key from an inglewood motel in the fast lane of the freeway next to the van. dye ordered the van towed from the freeway. after chp officers had arrived, the witness saw dean using a pay phone near the intersection of national boulevard and westwood boulevard and pointed him out. dean wore a red jersey, dark pants and red converse sneakers. small drops of red bandana wrapped around his right hand. dean told the officers he had been in the van collision and was using the pay phone to call for help.4 although he initially told the officers he had been in the rear passenger seat, he later said he was in the 4 all tapes of emergency calls concerning the incident were lost. the initial dispatch reported three to four black men had emerged from the van, not including batiste, who was carried from the van. 6 front seat.5 he provided his name, address and telephone number when dean complained about pain in his hand and said he felt ill and dizzy, one of the officers called an ambulance. the officers left after receiving a radio call about another traffic collision. officer dye went to ucla medical center after leaving the accident scene and learned batiste had suffered several puncture wounds.6 the other officers returned to the pay phone but could not locate dean. the case was assigned to los angeles police detective joel price for investigation. 3. later in the morning on september 23, 2002 pennington sought medical treatment at a gardena hospital, complaining of pain in her left shoulder and a laceration above her left eye. she reported she had been punched in the face by a man and had lost consciousness. after treating and discharging her, the hospital reported the assault to the police. pennington told the police she detective price spoke with pennington two days later after learning she had reported the van stolen. according to price, pennington was vague about the details but claimed she had been carjacked between 12:30 and 1:00 a.m. she said she had been 5 that dean had identified the driver of the van as his girlfriend, 6 batiste suffered three stab wounds to his forehead that were forceful enough to penetrate his skull. batiste also suffered stab wounds to the right front of his torso that penetrated his chest wall, diaphragm and liver and cuts to his right external jugular vein, trachea and esophagus. he had fractures of the eye socket and nose from blunt force trauma, scrape marks on his left shoulder and forearm that looked like road rash and abrasions on his knuckles. he died on october 2, 2002. 7 punched in the head, lost consciousness and was concerned she had been sexually assaulted. she did not explain why she waited to obtain treatment or to report the van as stolen. on september 26, 2002 pennington called the yard where the van had been towed to ask if she could retrieve her belongings. she said her boyfriend, burke, owned the van and asked when it would be released to her. at the time, no one at lapd had told pennington the van had been impounded. on october 1, 2002 detective price accompanied an lapd criminalist to the towing yard to search the burke van. price fully operable and saw drops of blood inside the doorframe. the criminalist found 27 stains that tested presumptively positive for blood and collected the bloodstained red shirt, the purse, some keys on a chain, a sneaker with red stripes, two cameras, a phone and a phone battery. dna profiling on various stains recovered from the van were linked to batiste, pennington and dean.7 a stain from the upholstery of the front passenger seat matched contributors. a swab from the steering wheel was primarily attributed to batiste, but pennington could not be excluded. a stain on the middle bench but pennington could not be excluded. a stain from the carpet dna. the drops in the interior doorjamb of the rear passenger door, as well as stains on the exterior of the door, were never tested. 7 he could not be excluded as a contributor to a sample drawn from the red shirt. as the criminalist testified, the source of the dna was not necessarily blood; it could have been saliva, sweat or any other dna cell source. 8 in january 2003 detective price, who had unsuccessfully searched for the batiste murder weapon in october 2002, returned to the freeway embankment with a caltrans crew that cut the vegetation to facilitate the search. a seven-inch kitchen knife was found near the location described by the witness to the collision. forensic tests did not recover any trace of fingerprints or blood from the knife. 4. the possible powers connection early in the investigation detective price learned the inglewood police department (ipd) wanted to question batiste, who remained in a coma, about the powers murder, which had occurred an hour or so before the van collision. kennedy told to an inglewood motel that night to party with batiste and his girlfriend. a few days earlier an ipd officer had relocated powers to a downtown los angeles hotel and warned him not to return to inglewood before the hearing. when powers and kennedy arrived at the motel, there was no party. powers and batiste then left kennedy, powers, -had a reputation as a snitch-rolling crips gang member, powers, --affiliated gangs because he told the police another bloods gang member was -rock. big j-rock was later convicted of murder for the shooting. kennedy also testified powers had told her told price that batiste had received several phone calls from that person. 5. the wiretap evidence ipd detectives jointly obtained an order authorizing wiretaps on telephone numbers linked to the deaths of batiste and powers. 9 the number dean had given the officer the night of the crash.8 a los angeles county jail number was added when detectives realized pennington was receiving numerous calls from someone -had been incarcerated following his negotiated plea to a charge of assault with a firearm for shooting at tyrone ravenel, another inglewood gang member. on december 3, 2002 green called pennington, price believed that the moniker shady blood, which the gang expert testified would indicate someone in the gang is dirty, dishonest or a snitch, referred to dean and that the other gang members were conferring about killing dean.) pennington told green she had spoken with ckay the previous evening and he had . . pennington not to talk on the phone and agreed that lives were at he would have to trust ckay. after that call pennington called other gang members to set up a meeting. a wiretapped conversation on december 5, 2002 between dean and pennington revealed that dean also believed his fellow pennington where she had heard this 8 dean told detective price the number belonged to his girlfriend. the same number was listed in a phone book found in october 8, 2002 price interviewed pennington again about the carjacking and showed her a photographic lineup containing a picture of dean. pennington denied knowing anyone in the lineup. 10 know what was happening, dean to find out. pennington immediately called several other gang he was being targeted because someone else was talking too much. the next day she spoke with green and told him the same thing. in a december 19, 2002 call pennington told green she would be visiting him the next day at the county jail. green told had hers as well. after listening to the call, detective price asked county jail deputies to seize any writings between green and his visitor.9 sit with green and approached him after she left. green attempted to put several small pieces of paper in his mouth but failed when the deputies grabbed his hand. the deputies retrieved several pieces of paper, which price reconstructed. the first note, business is: to find out exactly where that nigga is at. . . he business is: ckay, bo-shadynow! . . . as far as any pillow talkin shady did, that . the third pareason! i assume because (he fucked up from the very start!) side gave instructions on contacting a bloods prison gang shot his ass down here immediately . . . later that day green was recorded telling another girlfriend that the assault 9 visitor conversations were monitored, and jail rules prohibited the exchange of information in writing during visits. 11 he also expressed concern he was in custody when he should be preparing for his future with a lawyer such meanwhile, after dean was jailed for a probation violation, detective price met with him twice to warn him his life was in danger and to seek his cooperation. dean denied being involved in, or knowing anything about, the freeway collision or the murders of powers and batiste. he also denied he had been the person questioned at the phone booth the night of the accident even after he was told he had been identified by the chp officers. 6. the initial filing and dismissal of charges an information filed on march 1, 2010 in the west district (airport branch) of the los angeles county superior court charged dean and pennington with one count of first degree murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a))10 and pennington and green with one count of conspiracy to murder dean ( 182, subd. (a)(1), 187, subd. (a)). as to both the murder and conspiracy charges, the information alleged the crimes had been committed to benefit a criminal street gang. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(4).) while the case was pending in the west district, several pretrial motions were heard by judge james dabney, who had deemed trial to have commenced on april 23, 2012. on april 25, present evidence related to the murder of powers and the shooting (attempted murder) of ravenel. to establish that batiste had been green wanted dean dead because he feared dean would implicate him in the murder of powers, the prosecutor proposed introducing the following evidence: (1) two men were seen running from the 10 statutory references are to this code unless otherwise stated. 12 wearing a red shirt. photographs developed from the camera found in the crashed van showed green wearing a bright red jersey and throwing gang signs in center park. (2) a bryco nine-millimeter handgun with an intact serial number was found in fter powers was killed. the gun was loaded with rounds manufactured by the fiocchi and federal companies. two murder. when green and pennington were detained leaving an apartment a few weeks after the murders of powers and batiste, the police found a gun box in the apartment with the same serial number as the gun found in the car, as well as a partially filled tray of nine-millimeter ammunition that included fiocchi and federal rounds. (3) the casings found at the scenes of the powers car. (4) powers was killed because he twice had provided information to the police, once when he told investigators there was more than one j-rock, a comment that led to the other j-testify at the preliminary hearings of the three neighborhood pirus charged with shooting him and killing banks. (5) powers and batiste had left the inglewood motel together the night of their murders. all defendants opposed admission of the evidence proposed by the people, arguing there was no evidence the gun linked to green had, in fact, been used to kill powers11 or that any of the defendants had been present at the powers shooting. defense counsel argued the people were simply seeking to bolster the weak batiste case with inflammatory and prejudicial evidence from the uncharged murders. (see evid. code,  352.) judge dabney agreed and ordered the people not to mention the gun evidence or the ravenel shooting. he indicated he was still 11 maged and yielded no usable identifying marks. 13 undecided about allowing evidence powers had been murdered only hours before the van collision but instructed the prosecutor to assume that evidence would not be admissible. after consulting with his supervisors, the prosecutor elected . . [and] of our intention to file and to have the defendants arraigned 12 7. refiling of the case in the central district instead of refiling the case in the west district, the prosecutor refiled it that same afternoon in the central district under a new case number.13 green promptly moved to transfer the case to the west district, arguing the prosecutor had engaged in improper forum shopping after receiving an adverse evidentiary speedy trial and applicable dismissal statutes.14 12 rejected a defense request the case be refiled under the same under section 1387. . . . 13 the new information added an allegation pennington had personally used a deadly or dangerous weapon in the commission of the offense, but the allegation was dismissed at trial. 14 counsel for all three defendants vigorously participated in the hearings addressing the defense motions related to prosecutorial misconduct and the evidence related to the powers and banks murders. accordingly, none of these pretrial issues was waived for purposes of this appeal. 14 the motion was heard on june 20, 2012 by judge george lomeli. asked the basis for the dismissal, the prosecutor asserted the people had moved to dismiss pursuant to section 1382, rather than section 1385, because they were unable to proceed at that rt, the prosecutor, who acknowledged it had been his case, stated he could not identify any missing evidence or witnesses that might have justified dismissal under section 1382 without reviewing his is court that it was done or not done because the rulings were going rulings, there were going to be many . . . facts that were not going to be presented to the jury that went to the guilt of the that as a tactical . . . strategy, if you will, because rulings were going against you . . . . . rule without prejudice. and if counsel can provide a more accurate recordunable to proceed because rulings were going anever seen anything like that. . . . but hearing what you have to an opportunity to further brief that part of it . . . back to the west district, judge lomeli ruled the case had been properly filed in the central district because certain of the conversations relevant to the conspiracy had occurred at the county jail15 and previous rulings 15 los angeles superior court, local rules, rule 2.3(a)(3) requires the filing of a criminal complaint in the judicial district where the offense was alleged to have occurred and, within that district, at the courthouse serving the area where the offense allegedly occurred. however, when more than one offense is alleged to have been committed and the offenses were committed 15 - he repeated, however, he was not ready to rule on whether the prosecution had used the dismissal to gain a tactical advantage. following several continuances, dean moved to dismiss the case based on prosecutorial misconduct and forum shopping. in opposition the prosecutor argued the people had originally dismissed the case to perform additional dna testing and to transcribe additional conversations. the motion was heard by judge michael abzug. when asked why the case had been dismissed, the prosecutor acknowledged the case was dismissed in part for reevaluation after the adverse evidentiary ruling. judge abzug concluded that, absent some showing of concrete prejudice, the prosecutor had acted within his discretion to dismiss and refile. moreover, the possibility of a ruling more favorable to the people was speculative at this juncture. in denying the motion judge abzug found the dismissal had been motivated by the 8. pretrial and trial proceedings a. the case was assigned to judge lomeli for trial. after extensive argument over the admissibility of evidence relating to the powers murder, judge lomeli ruled the evidence that powers had been killed because of his intention to testify against three bloods gang members, that he was in the company of batiste when he was killed and that batiste may have been killed because he was a witness to the powers murder was admissible against all three defendants. further, any evidence dean had provided to the police about the murder of powers was admissible against each defendant. judge lomeli concluded this evidence was the conspiracy to kill dean and would provide jurors with some in different districts, the rule permits the complaint to be filed in any district where one of the offenses was allegedly committed. 16 evidence relating to the firearm and ammunition linked to green there was no definitive proof that weapon had been used to kill powers and none of the defendants had been charged with his murder. from those of his codefendants and to sever trial of the conspiracy charge from the murder charge. b. e at trial the people first presented evidence of the crash of detectives then testified about their efforts to protect powers before the preliminary hearing for the neighborhood piru gang kennedy testified she and powers had met with batiste and his wife at the inglewood motel and acknowledged she had made certain statements, which she characterized as having been based on gang history. ipd officer kerry tripp testified as an expert witness about inglewood gangs. according to tripp, inglewood was generally a bloods-dominated city. the center park bloods or cpb, to which dean, pennington and green all belonged, was a small gang allied with other bloods gangs, including the neighborhood pirus, the inglewood family and its spin-off, the centinela park family. tripp also testified that a gang member who cooperates with police and provides information about other gang members (a -to-had been put out on powers before his death. based on a hypothetical that included facts mirroring the evidence about stabbed, tripp opined the killing of batiste had benefitted the cpb gang. 17 in addition to the forensic testing of items and material from the van, the clothing batiste had worn the night of the collision and the blood-soaked shirt found inside the van were e profile itself was very rare.16 another partial profile of an unknown male was found on the inside back collar of the bloody red shirt that also bore tested on the red shirt. william chisum, a retired criminalist and blood-pattern expert, reviewed evidence taken from the van and concluded batiste had been sitting in the front when he was stabbed by a person sitting behind him. chisum opined batiste was not stabbed until he was seated in the van and, because his blood was found on the steering wheel, the collision probably resulted from a struggle after batiste was attacked. chisum believed the damage to the seats, which were pushed forward to the left, was caused by someone pushing forwarthe middle seat was most likely made when he was leaning into the van while standing outside. 9. the defense case none of the defendants testified. marc taylor, a forensic scientist called by dean, reviewed the reports and photographs in the case and concluded it was not possible to determine whether the stabbing of batiste had occurred in the van or the cause of the collision. the impact of hitting the freeway divider could have ailed the front seat when a rear passenger was thrown into it by the collision. taylor also explained no dna mixture had been found, despite the fact such 16 unrelated individuals would be expected to share this profile; only one in one sextillion individuals in the african-american population would have it. 18 mixtures are usually present when a person cut his own hand while stabbing another person. 10. the verdicts and sentencing dean and pennington were each convicted of second degree murder. the jury found the criminal street gang enhancement allegation true but was unable to agree on the deadly weapon allegation against dean, which the court dismissed in the interest of justice.17 green and pennington were each convicted of conspiracy to commit murder, again with true findings on the criminal street gang enhancement allegation. during trial the people had amended the information to allegeand green admittedhe had previously suffered a prior serious felony conviction within the meaning of the three strikes law ( 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d), 667 subds. (b)-(i)). the information also alleged the same offense was a prior serious or violent felony conviction within the meaning of section 667, subdivisions (b)-(i). the trial court sentenced green to an aggregate indeterminate term of 35 years to life, calculated as 15 years to life for conspiracy to commit murder, doubled pursuant to the three strikes law, plus five years for the enhancement . pennington was sentenced to consecutive terms of 15 years to life on each count for an aggregate indeterminate sentence of 30 years to life in state prison. both pennington and green were ordered to pay a $40 court operations assessment and a $30 criminal conviction assessment on each count. pennington was ordered to pay a $300 restitution fine, and the court imposed and stayed a $300 parole revocation 17 dean was charged with, and admitted, he had suffered a prior serious felony conviction and was sentenced to an aggregate term of 35 years to life in state prison: 15 years to life on count 1, doubled pursuant to the three strikes law ( 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d), 667, subds. (b)-(i)), plus five years for the serious prior felony conviction ( 667, subd. (a)(1)). 19 fine. green was ordered to pay a $300 restitution fine, with an imposed and stayed $300 parole revocation fine.18 discussion 1. the trial court did not err in denying the defense motions to dismiss the case or transfer to the west district shopping pennington and gree the case in the central district, rather than the west district, constituted either outrageous government conduct or prosecutorial misconduct in violation of their federal due process rights and state law. we address these contentions jointly. a. governing law outrageous government conduct arises from the due process clause of the people v. guillen (2014) 227 cal.app.4th 934, 1002, citing rochin v. california (1952) 342 u.s. 165 [72 s.ct. 205, 96 l.ed. 183].) under the standard first enunciated in rochincomport with traditional ideas of fai(breithaupt v. abram (1957) 352 u.s. 432, 435 [77 s.ct. 408, 18 the attorney general concedes the minute orders entered following sentencing of green and pennington, as well as the abstracts of judgment, erroneously identify the amount of the restitution fine ( 1202.4) and (stayed) parole revocation fine ( 1202.45) as $280 each instead of $300, the minimum fine applicable when they committed the offenses. (see people v. martinez (2014) 226 cal.app.4th 1169, 1189-1190.) accordingly, we modify the written judgments to reflect restitution and stayed parole revocation fines of $300 for each appellant. upon issuance of the remittitur the superior court is directed to correct the abstracts of judgment to reflect these modifications and to forward a copy of the corrected abstracts to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. 20 1 l.ed.2d 448]; see u.s. v. smith (9th cir. 1991) 924 f.2d 889, must be so grossly shocking and so outrageous as to violate the constitutional right to a fair trial, it may constitute outrageous people v. uribe (2011) 199 cal.app.4th 836, 841.) violates the fourteenth amendment to the federal constitution when it infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due process. conduct by a prosecutor that does not render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair is prosecutorial misconduct under state law only if it involves the use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade people v. seumanu (2015) 61 cal.4th 1293, 1331-1332.) it is reasonably probable that a result more favorable to the (people v. wallace (2008) 44 cal.4th 1032, 1070-1071; accord, people v. lloyd (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 49, 60-61.) bad faith on misconduct under state law. (people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 821; accord, lloyd, at p. 61.) as the supreme court has a misnomer to the extent that it suggests a prosecutor must act with a culpable state of mind. a more apt description of the transgressiopeople v. centeno (2014) 60 cal.4th 659, 666-667; accord, lloyd, at p. 61.) we review a of discretion. (people v. alvarez (1996) 14 cal.4th 155, 213.)19 19 there is disagreement among the cases as to the standard of review applicable to allegations of outrageous governmental 21 b. the prconstitute misconduct sufficient to warrant dismissal or a new trial green and pennington contend the prosecutor engaged in misconduct when he was allowed to dismiss the case pursuant to section 1385 and, instead of refiling it in the west district where it most likely would have been reassigned to judge dabney, filed it in the central district, resulting in assignment to a new judge. according to green and pennington, this gamesmanship, even if otherwise permitted by the local rules, was improperly motivated by the desire to obtain a better in limine ruling on the scope of evidence the people could present at trial and thus constituted misconduct within the meaning of the principles discussed. unquestionably, forum shopping by a prosecutor is viewed with disfavor, and several provisions of the penal code were adopted to curtail its use. one of the primary purposes of section 1387, for instance, which limits the number of times a prosecutor may dismiss and refile a criminal complaint, is the prevention of forum shopping by prosecutors. (see, e.g., burris v. superior court (2005) 34 . . curtails prosecutorial harassment by placing limits on the number of times charges may be refiled . . . [and] also reduces the possibility that prosecutors might use the power to dismiss and people v. traylor (2009) 46 the persistent refiling of charges the evidence does not support in hopes of finding a sympathetic conduct. (compare people v. uribe, supra, 199 cal.app.4th at pp. 855-856 [independent review]; people v. guillen, supra, 227 cal.app.4th at pp. 1006-1007 [following uribe] with people v. velasco-palacios (2015) 235 cal.app.4th 439, 445-446 [abuse of discretion].) we need not address that question in light of our 22 more directly, when a defendant has successfully moved under section 1538.5 to suppress evidence obtained as the result of an unlawful search or seizure, any subsequent motion made after a dismissal pursuant to section 1385 must be heard by the same judge who originally granted the motion if that judge is available. (see people v. rodriguez (2016) 1 cal.5th 676, 679 judge may be found unavailable for purposes of section 1538.5(p) only if the trial court, acting in good faith and taking reasonable people v. superior court (jimenez) (2002) 28 cal.4th 798, 807 [ . . to the prosecutor to make a judge unavailable to rehear the suppression motion simply by filing a peremptory challenge under code of civil procedure section 170.6 would permit this prohibited pennington and green correctly assert a trial court should generally refrain from reconsidering and overruling an order of another court. as this court explained in people v. riva (2003) 112 cal.app.4th 981 (rivapolicy . . . , trial judges should decline to reverse or modify other doing somere disagreement with the result of the order is not a persuasive reason for reversing it. factors to consider include whether the first judge specifically agreed to reconsider her ruling at a later date, whether the party seeking reconsideration of the order has sought relief by way of appeal or writ petition, whether there has been a change in circumstances since the previous order was made and whether the previous order is reasonably supportable under applicable statutory or case law regardless of id. at pp. 992-993, fns. omitted; see people v. quarterman (2012) 202 cal.app.4th 1280, 1293 [quoting riva]; 23 see also people v. williams (2006) 40 cal.4th 287, 300 [citing riva and the general rule]; in re alberto (2002) 102 cal.app.4th 421, 424-425, 427 [new judge was without authority to increase even if correct as a matter of law, to nullify a duly made, erroneous ruling of another superior court judge places the second judge in the role of a one-judge appellate .) in riva the defendant successfully moved to exclude certain statements he had made to the police on the ground they had been ended in a mistrial, he renewed the motion before a different judge, who denied the motion. (riva, supra, 112 cal.app.4th at p. 988.) we concluded the statements were admissible and the judge at the second trial was not bound by the ruling of the first judge. we analogized proceedings after a mistrial to a new trial following reversal on appeal, a situation the supreme court has econsideration of pretrial riva, at p. 991-992, quoting people v. mattson (1990) 50 cal.3d 826, 849 [allowing relitigation of admissibility of a confession at second trial following reversal of judgment on appeal].) also, like in interlocutory rulings subject to revision even after the riva, at p. 992; see mattson, at pp. 849- relitigation, a stipulation by the parties, or an order by the court that prior rulings made in the prior trial will be binding at the new trial, objections must be made to the admission of evidence (evid. code,  353), and the court must consider the admissibility of that evidence at the time it is offered. [citations.] in limine rulings trial after a mistrial should be treated differently in this respect from a new trial after a reveriva, at p. 992.) 24 the circumstances presented heredismissal of an action pursuant to section 1385 and refiling of the chargesclosely resemble the proceedings after a mistrial at issue in riva. as judge lomeli observed, the dismissal of the case by judge dabney vacated all preceding orders; there were no orders to which the general rule of comity continued to apply. thus, green and pennington do not dispute judge lomeli had the authority to rule on. (cf. people v. saez (2015) 237 pretrial  995] ruling, the people could have either appealed it or filed a new accusatory pleading that would have required a new preliminary hearing, but they did nwriting on a blank slate, sthose made originally by judge dabney, but his rulings during trial evolved with the testimony of witnesses, reinforcing the similarity of the in limine rulings in this case to those of concern in riva. to be sure, in riva we were not confronted with an allegation of forum shopping by the prosecutor,20 as we are here. while we view the refiling the case in the central district with skepticism, both judge lomeli and 20 justice johnson, writing for this court in riva, distinguished the decision in schlick v. superior court (1992) 4 cal.4th 310 on schlick amounted to blatant forum shopping, a factor not present in the case before riva, supra, 112 cal.app.4th at p. 990.) in schlick the supreme court construed an earlier version of section 1538.5 to bar the people from relitigating a motion to suppress when an adverse result had led to the dismissal of the complaint under section 1385. the decision in schlick was based on the text of former section 1538.5, subdivision (d), which the legislature amended after schlick to narrow the circumstances under which a dismissal bars relitigation of such a motion. (see generally people v. rodriguez, supra, 1 cal.4th at pp. 688-690 [discussing amendments to  1538.5; soil v. superior court (1997) 55 cal.app.4th 872, 876-880 [same].) 25 judge abzug declined to find he had refiled it there for an improper purpose. likewise, we have found no case suggesting, in compliance with state law and local rules constitutes misconduct, even if the purpose of the refiling was to avoid an adverse ruling. if the essence of prosecutorial misconduct is prosecutorial error (see people v. centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th at pp. 666-667), we cannot brand a permissible refiling as misconduct sufficiently outrageous to warrant retrial. similarly, of outrageous governmental conduct warranting dismissal. 2. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in allowing evidence of the powers and banks murders the legitimacy of evidence to be allowed at trial forms the basis for several of the arguments raised by green and pennington on appeal. while judge dabney tentatively ruled the evidence related to the murders of powers and banks was unduly prejudicial and only tangentially related judge lomeli permitted the people to introduce evidence that powers was with batiste the night both were killed; that powers had been killed in retaliation for his planned testimony against the neighborhood piru gang members who murdered banks; that batiste had possibly been killed because he ; and that green and pennington conspired to kill dean because they believed he had provided information about either or both of these murders.21 21 under evidence code section 352 but, after further argument, expanded his ruling to allow the people to show that powers was murdered shortly before he was scheduled to testify against the neighborhood pirus who had shot him and killed banks. 26 like judge dabney, judge lomeli excluded the ballistics evidence proffered by the prosecutor.22 green and pennington argue that the trial court abused its discretion under evidence code sections 1101 and 352 by admitting this evidence officers and to his girlfriend about the death of banks constituted inadmissible hearsay. a. evidence of the powers and banks murders was not precluded by evidence code sections 1101 and 352 character evidence, sometimes described as evidence of propensity or disposition to engage in a specific conduct, is generally s conduct on a specified occasion. (evid. code,  1101, subd. (a).) evidence that a person committed a crime, civil wrong, or other act may be admitted, s predisposition to commit such an act, but rather to prove some other material fact, such as that intent or identity. (id.,  1101, subd23 (people v. leon (2015) 61 cal.4th 569, 597; accord, people v. harris (2013) 22 during pretrial proceedings the prosecutor sought permission to introduce evidence the gun used by green to shoot ravenel possession were also thereby attempting court excluded the evidence because the bullets recovered from his potential liability for other crimes was speculative. 23 evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b), provides: a person committed a crime, civil wrong, or other act when relevant to prove some fact (such as motive, opportunity, intent, preparation, plan, knowledge, identity, [or] absence of mistake or accident . . .) other than his or her disposition to commit such an 27 57 the conduct admitted under evidence code section 1101[, subdivision ](b) need not have been prosecuted as a crime, nor is a conviction required. [citation.] . . . specifically, the uncharged act must be relevant to prove a fact at issue (evid. code,  210), and its admission must not be unduly prejudicial, confusing, or time consuming (evid. code,  352).leon, at pp. 597-we revs decision whether to admit evidence, including evidence of the commission of other (leon, at p. 597; accord, harris, at p. 841.) green and pennington argue that evidence of the powers and banks murders should have been excluded as uncharged acts made inadmissible by evidence code section 1101, subdivision (a). however, as the attorney general points out, the trial court admitted this evidence not for its probative value as to green and , but as highly probative evidence of their motive and intent. (see, e.g., people v. riccardi (2012) 54 cal.4th logically, naturally, and by reasonable inference to establish material facts such as identity, intent, or motive is generally admissible. [citation.] although motive is normally not an element of any crime that the intent more reasonable.; people v. mckinnon (2011) 52 cal.4th 610, 655 ecause a motive is ordinarily the incentive for criminal behavior, its probative value generally exceeds its prejudicial effect, and wide latitude is permitted in admitting evi]; people v. zambrano (2007) 41 cal.4th 1082, offenses is cross-admissible to prove motive [citations] and in .)24 24 people v. alcala (1984) 36 cal.3d 604 is misplaced. there, the trial court allowed the people to introduce evidence the defendant had on three previous occasions abducted 28 powers was crucial to understanding the motive to kill batiste: equally within the realm of discretion accorded a trial court, we cannot same broad discretion.25 in addition to providing a plausible motive for the murder of batiste, this evidence was highly relevant to the criminal street gang enhancement allegation against green, pennington and dean, who were members of the same bloods gang. evidence of and sexually abused young girls. the supreme court reversed under evidence code section 1101 because the prior crimes did not meet the strict requirements for similarity necessary for the admission of evidence of a consistent modus operandi to prove identity and were thus unduly prejudicial. (alcala, at pp. 631-632.) prior crimes may have increased his incentive to eliminate his victim as a witness, the cpast criminal acts to be introduced at trial whenever the defendant was accused of premeditated murder during a -criminal would place him under an evidentiary disability not shared by id. at p. 635.) here, evidence of the banks and powers murders was admitted to show that batiste had been killed as part of a bloods vendetta against powers and did not purport to attribute responsibility for the banks and powers murders to green or pennington. 25 relevance of evidence and in assessing whether concerns of undue prejudice, confusion, or consumption of time substantially outweigh the probative value of particular evidence. [citation.] the exercise of discretion is not grounds for reversal unless the court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage of justice. (people v. clark (2016) 63 cal.4th 522, 572.) 29 the chain of murders was critical to proving the pattern of gang retribution-bloods because they believed he had pointed the police to big j-rock; banks had been killed when the neighborhood pirus attempted to murder powers; powers was lured back to inglewood and killed when he was in the company of batiste, who was in turn killed because he likely witnesdean was then targeted by green and pennington because they feared he would implicate them in the murder of batiste or powers. (see people v. armstrong (2016) 1 cal.5th 432, 457 [to avoid prosecution for murder provided motive for shooting ; admissibility of other crimes depended not on application of evid. code,  1101, subd. (b), ive[d] from the fact and sequence of their ]; people v. cage (2015) 62 cal.4th 256, 274 here other crimes or bad conduct evidence is admitted to show motive, an intermediate fact which may be probative of such ultimate issues as intent [citation], identity [citation], or commission of the [citation], the other crimes or conduct evidence may be dissimilar to the charged offenses provided there is a direct relationship or nexus between it and the current alleged ].) green contends that, even if the evidence was not specifically relevant to his own character (as contemplated by evidence code section 1101), the evidence amounted to character assassination of bloods-affiliated gangs and improperly tainted all three defendants with the broad brush of inflammatory gang evidence only remotely connected to the center park bloods. (see people v. leon, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 599 [even if evidence of uncharged crimes is relevant under evid. code,  1101, subd. (b), before admitting the evidence, trial court must also find it has substantial probative value that is not largely outweighed by its potential for undue prejudice under evid. code,  352].) green argues this evidence was particularly prejudicial to him because 30 he leader within the gang. it is precisely because of that testimony, however, seen in light of s murder and his acknowledgement he faced potentially far greater criminal liability if he did not succeed in silencing dean, that made the testimony about powers exceptionally probative.26 as a shot caller green stood in the position to direct the murder of his fellow gang member dean; and his attempt to communicate with members of other bloods-affiliated gangs to accomplish that murder demonstrated his ability to coordinate with those gangs for the commission of a crime. section 352 is designed to avoid is not the prejudice or damage to a defense that naturally flows from relevant, highly probative evidence. ] evidence which tends to prove guilt is prejudicial s case. the stronger the evidence, evidence code section 352 applies to evidence which uniquely tends to evoke an emotional bias against the defendant as an (people v. karis (1988) 46 cal.3d 612, 638; accord, people v. merriman (2014) 60 cal.4th 1, 60.) here, the prejudice to green resulted from the persuasiveness of the evidence, not from the possibility it could be misconstrued or evoke an irrational emotional bias against green. the trial court also acted within its discretion when it rejected s killing would improperly inflame the jury against green and should be excluded under evidence code section 352. this evidence was necessary to establish where batiste had been killed; without that 26 necessary to establish the green light on powers, there was no suggestion any of the defendants in this case killed banks. 31 information the jury would have had an incomplete view of his the evidence did not link green to the van (other than the generic testimony a third unidentified man was seen leaving the van and dna sample from the red shirt from which green could not be excluded as a contributor) and he , green was plainly motivated by those events to target dean based on his fear dean was talking to the police, whether the intent was to protect pennington or himself. in sum, although the trial court could have exercised its discretion in a different manner, we cannot conclude it abused its discretion by allowing evidence of the banks and powers murders. b. to police, even if erroneous, was harmless error than by a witness while testifying at the hearing and that is (evid. code,  1200, subd. (a).) hearsay is not admissible unless it qualifies under some exception to the hearsay rule. (evid. code.,  1200, subd. (b).) green and pennington contend the trial court erred in admitting hearsay statements made by powers to the ipd to ipd detective burton testified he interviewed powers after he and banks had been shot. over defense objections burton testified powers said he and banks had been sitting on a porch when three men approached. powers yelled at banks to run as the men began shooting at them. powers showed burton his bandaged hand and told him his finger had been shot off. in a subsequent interview powers identified the three men who had shot at him and banks and told burton they were members of the neighborhood piru gang. evidence of an out-of-court statement is . . . admissible if offered for a nonhearsay purposethat is, for something other than the truth of the matter assertedand the nonhearsay 32 purpose is relevant to an issue in dispute. [citations.] for example, an out-of-court statement is admissible if offered solely to give context to other admissible hearsay statements. (people v. davis (2005) 36 cal.4th 510, 535-536; see people v. smith (2009) 179 f a fact in controversy is whether certain words were spoken or written and not whether the words were true, evidence that these words were spoken or written is admissible as nonhearsay evidence].) a determination of relevance and undue prejudice lies within the discretion of the trial court, and a reviewing court reviews that determination for abuse of discretion. (people v. livingston (2012) 53 cal.4th 1145, 1162; accord, people v. jones (2013) 57 cal.4th 899, 956.) the attorney general contends statements were properly admitted for the nonhearsay purpose of showing powers had cooperated with police and would have been considered a snitch for doing so and to provide context for against the neighborhood pirus when he was murdered. according to the attorney general, whether the neighborhood pirus were the shooters and whether the shooting occurred as described by powers was irrelevant. is valid to a point, but the identification of the shooters as members of a bloods-affiliated gangto detective burtonwas at most, the statements constituted hearsay admissible to provide context, as the attorney general suggests, for the fact that powers was killed after he had been green-lighted for cooperating with the police. even were we to assume the trial court erred in admitting the evidence, however, any error was harmless under the watson standard. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836; see people v. seumanu, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 1308 [watson standard applies to the erroneous admission of hearsay evidence].) detective burton testified that powers was scheduled to testify at 33 a preliminary hearing against the neighborhood pirus he had ive to kill him. nothing that would cause additional prejudice to green or pennington. accordinglyresult more favorable to the appealing party would have been reached in the absence of the error. (watson, at p. 836.) c. green and pennington have forfeited their objections to statements attributed to powers about the j-rock incident green and pennington also assert the trial court erred in admitting statements powers purportedly made to his girlfriend kennedy. the testimony cited, however, most of which was elicited by -examination without objection from powers and green, detectives about the -that she attributed to rumors she had heard about powers. (see people v. steele (2002) 27 cal.4th 1230, 1248 [a party may not ask relevant all cross-examination (or redirect examination) responding to the same point by successfully people v. parrish (2007) 152 cal.app.4th 263, 274-276 [otherwise inadmissible testimonial statement of unavailable witness properly admitted under evid. code,  356 to put witnesafter defense elicited .) moreover, a statements was sustained by the court but, otherwise, the issue has been promptly to the statements. (see people v. williams (2008) 43 evidence will not be reviewed on appeal in the absence of a specific and timely objection in the trial court on the ground sought to be 34 verdict or finding shall not be set aside, nor shall the judgment or decision based thereon be reversed, by reason of the erroneous admission of evidence unless: [] . . . [t]here appears of record an objection to or a motion to exclude or to strike the evidence that was timely made and so stated as to make clear the specific 3. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in s to sever his trial joint trials are favored because they promote efficiency and avoid the potential for inconsistent verdicts. (see people v. bryant, smith and wheeler (2014) 60 cal.4th 335, 378-379; people v. letner and tobin (2010) 50 cal.4th 99, 150.) statutory requirements are met, joinder is error only if prejudice people v. scott (2011) 52 cal.4th 452, 469, 354.) section 954 permits joinder when two or more different offenses are charged in the same pleading if the offenses are people v. armstrong, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 455 , even though they do not relate to the same transaction or event, if there is a common element of substantial importance in their commission, for the joinder prevents repetition of evidence and saves time and expense to the state as well as to the defendasimilarly, [w]hen two or more defendants are jointly charged with any public offense, whether felony or misdemeanor, they must be tried ( 1098.) the court must assess the likelihood that a jury not otherwise convinced beyond a reasonable s guilt of one or more of the charged offenses might pes other criminal activity to tip the balance and convict him. [citation.] we review s decision to deny a severance motion for abuse of discretion. [citation.] to establish an abuse of discretion, the clear showing of prejudice. (people v. 35 armstrong, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 456.) [w]e consider the record before the trial court when it made its ruling. (ibid.; accord, people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 411, 464.) s joinder ruling was proper at the time it was made, a reviewing court may reverse a judgment only on a showing that joinder amounting to a denial of due (people v. avila (2006) 38 cal.4th 491, 575; accord, people v. letner and tobin, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 150.) a. joinder of the murder and conspiracy charges under section 954 was proper and did not unduly prejudice green joinder of the charges heremurder and conspiracy to commit murderwas proper under section 954 for two reasons: the murder of batiste provided the motive for the subsequent conspiracy to murder dean; and, as assaultive offenses, the two charges fell within the same class of crimes. (see, e.g., people v. jackson (2016) 1 cal.5th 269, 298-299 [rape and murder are offenses of the same class of crimes,because both are assaultive crimes against the person]; people v. zambrano, supra, 41 cal.4th at pp. 1129-1130 [murder and attempted murder are both assaultive crimes against made joinable by  954; crucial where the mere fact that the defendant committed a prior offense gives rise to an inference that he had a motive to commit a ; people v. valdez (2004) 32 cal.4th 73, 119 [murder and the murder charge].) when charges are properly joined under section 954, the trial court retains discretion to try them separately, but burden is on the party seeking severance to clearly establish that there is a substantial danger of prejudice requiring that the people v. armstrong, supra, 36 1 cal.5th at p. 455.) the framework for analyzing prejudice in this context is well established: cross-admissibility is the crucial factor affecting prejudice. [citation.] if evidence of one crime would be admissible in a separate trial of the other crime, prejudice is usually dispelled. if we determine that evidence underlying properly joined charges would not be cross-admiwhether the benefits of joinder were sufficiently substaspill-overother-crimes evidence on the jury in its consideration s guilt of each set of offenses. [citation.] three factors are most relevant to this assessment: (1) whether some of the charges are particularly likely to inflame the jury against the defendant; (2) whether a weak case has been joined with a strong case or another weak case so that the totality of the evidence may alter the outcome as to some or all of the charges; or (3) whether one of the charges (but not another) is a capital offensepeople v. jackson, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 299; see armstrong, at p. 456 -factor alone is normally sufficient to dispel any suggestion of er properly .) the trial court concluded the evidence relevant to the two crimes was cross-admissible with one exception: statement to the police the driver of the van had been his posed a potential violation of to confront and cross-examine witnesses as articulated in crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36, 68 [124 s.ct. 1354, 158 l.ed.2d 177], as well as the aranda/bruton rule.27 the court resolved that potential 27 the aranda/bruton rule refers to people v. aranda (1965) 63 cal.2d 518 and bruton v. united states (1968) 391 u.s. 123 [88 s.ct. 1620, 20 l.ed.2d 476]. both cases, which predate the s decision in crawford, recognize that a defendant is deprived of his or her sixth amendment right to 37 violation by seating two separate juries, one to decide the charges against green and pennington and the other to decide the charge against dean. (see people v. jackson (1996) 13 cal.4th 1164, bruton and aranda may be solved by the use of separate juries for codefendants, with each jury to be excused at appropriate times to avoid exposure to people v. cummings (1993) 4 cal.4th the necessity for complete severance. the procedure facilitates of defendants and offers an alternative to severance when .) as discussed, the trial court did not err in ruling the remaining evidence of the banks and powers murders was admissible against green. accordingly, any potential prejudice to green was sufficiently dispelled, and severance of the murder and conspiracy charges argument the evidence of those other crimes was unduly inflammatory compared to the conspiracy charge. as the supreme animating concern underlying this factor is not merely whether evidence from one offense is repulsive, because repulsion alone does not necessarily engender undue prejudice. whether strong evidence of a lesser but inflammatory crime might be used to bolster a weak prosecution case on another crime. (people v. simon (2016) 1 cal.5th 98, 124; see people v. sandoval (1992) 4 cal.4th 155, 173 [defendant failed to show requisite prejudice confront witnesses when a facially incriminating statement of a nontestifying codefendant is introduced at their joint trial, even if the jury is instructed to consider the statement only against the declarant. in this situation the court must either grant separate trials, exclude the statement or excise all references to the nondeclarant defendant. (aranda, at pp. 530-531; people v. mitcham (1992) 1 cal.4th 1027, 1045.) 38 from joinder of othinflammatory effect of defendans gang membership as to the [other] case was neutralized by the fact that the victims were also gang b. any error in the joinder of the three defendants under section 1098 was harmless premised on many of the same principles as section 954, section 1098 requires a court to examine whether joinder of defendants (rather than charges) is appropriate in a particular case. umust order a joint trial as may (people v. alvarez, supra, 14 cal.4th at p. 190; accord, people v. mackey (2015) 233 cal.app.4th 32, 99.) in arguing the court erred in denying his motion to sever his trial from that of dean and pennington, green relies primarily on people v. ortiz (1978) 22 cal.3d 38 (ortiz), in which the supreme court interpreted tried with others who are charged with different crimes than those of which he is accused unless he is included in at least one count of the accusatory pleading with all other defendants with (ortiz, at p. 43, fn. omitted.) ortiz and an accomplice were accused of robbing a mini-mart and were jointly charged with two other codefendants, whoaccomplice, were charged with robbing a drug dealer a few hours earlier. reversing the motion to sever under section 1098, the court emphasized the dangers of allowing a jury to hear evidence concerning a crime with which the defendant had no connection and found there was a reasonable probability he would have obtained a more favorable result at trial. (ortiz, at pp. 47-48; see people v. burney (2009) 47 discretion, reversal is required only if it is reasonably probable the defendant would have obtained a more favorable result at a .) 39 several courts have recognized exceptions to the ortiz rule. in people v. hernandez (1983) 143 cal.app.3d 936 (hernandez) the court concluded a joint trial was appropriate for three defendants charged with different counts arising from the gang rape of a single victim: court [in ortiz] did not intend, in establishing a rule requiring separate trials of defendants not jointly charged, to include within the purview of that rule defendants charged with crimes arising out of a single set of circumstances. the evil sought to be avoided by ortiz was the prejudicial impact of irrelevant evidence. in a joint trial of unrelated offenses, the jury would hear evidence concerning the conduct of [the] defendant's associates, which evidence would not have been admissible in a separate trial. [citation.] here, of course, evidence concerning the conduct of all of tjoint or separate trial. furthermore, a requirement of separate trials could subject the victim and all witnesses to the ordeal of two complete trials, with no attendant benefit to [one of the codefendants]. we therefore conclude that the ortiz holding does not extend to defendants charged with a crime or series of crimes (hernandez, at pp. 940-941, fn. omitted.) this holding was extended in people v. wickliffe (1986) 183 cal.app.3d 37, in which the court approved the joint trial of a defendant charged with driving under the influence and a codefendant charged with battery and assault where all of the crimes occurred during a joint operation of repossessing a vehicle. (id. at pp. 40-41.) green is correct this case does not fall squarely within the single transaction exception to the ortiz rule described in hernandez and wickliffe. like the courts in those cases, however, we question whether the supreme court would adhere to the rigid line apparently described in ortiz under the circumstances presented here. the defendants were members of the same gang, the two offenses were directly related to each other, and each offense 40 was allegedly committed for the benefit of the gang. the criminal street gang allegation provided the basis for much of the motive evidence admitted at trial. moreover, green was not entitled to a trial separate from that of pennington under section 1098 because they were both charged with conspiracy to murder dean, and section 954. nor can green identify any prejudice associated with the decision denying him a separate trial from dean: by seating two juries, the trial court effectively eliminated any prejudice associated with trying dean and green together. under these circumstances section 1098 motion to sever. even if we were to conclude it was error to deny motion to sever under section 1098, however, any error was harmless under the analysis presented in ortiz. as ortiz instructs, is not so fundamental that (ortiz, supra, 22 cal.3d at p. 46.) the factors to be applied in determining separate trial would have been significantly less prejudicial to defendant than the joint trial, and whether there was clear (ibid.) (ibid.; accord, people v. coffman and marlow (2004) 34 cal.4th 1, 41; people v. mackey, supra, 233 cal.app.4th at p. 100.) the evidence contained in the recorded telephone calls and handwritten notes green showed to pennington during her visit to the jail left no doubt as to his guilt on the conspiracy charge. c. violated even if, as we conclude, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying severance pretrial, we must also determine whether events after s ruling demonstrate that joinder 41 actuagross unfairness amounting to a denial of s constitutional right to fair trial or due process of law. (people v. simon, supra, 1 cal.5th at p. 129.) in determining whether joinder resulted in gross unfairness, we have observed that a judgment will be reversed on this ground only if it is reasonably probable that the jury was influenced by the joinder in its verdict of guilt.id. at pp. 129-130.) as discussed, the er dean was overwhelming. consequently, there was no violation of his due process right to a fair trial. 4. substantial evidence supported convictions etermine whether any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime or special circumstances beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the record must disclose substantial evidence to support the verdicti.e., evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] in applying this test, we review the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution and presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the jury could reasonably testimony [that] is subject to justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends. [citation.] we resolve neither credibility issues nor evidentiary conflicts; we look for subsubstantial evidence to people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357; accord, people v. sandoval 42 (2015) 62 cal.4th 394, 423; people v. manibusan (2013) 58 cal.4th 40, 87.) the standard of review is the same in cases in which the people rely mainly on circumstantial evidence to prove one or more elements of their case. (people v. clark (2016) 63 cal.4th 522, 625; people v. tully (2012) 54 cal.4th 952, 1006-1007.) finds that circumstantial evidence is susceptible of two interpretations, one of which suggests guilt and the other innocence [citations], it is the jury, not the appellate court[,] which people v. story (2009) 45 the circumstancereasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding does not warrant people v. zamudio, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 358; accord, clark, at p. 626.) a. the murder conviction pennington, who was convicted as the driver of the van of second degree murder on an aiding and abetting theory, contends there was insufficient evidence for the jury to l batiste. he or she, acting with (1) knowledge of the unlawful purpose of the perpetrator; and (2) the intent or purpose of committing, encouraging, or facilitating the commission of the offense, (3) by act or advice aids, promotes, encourages or instigates, (people v. beeman (1984) 35 cal.3d 547, 561; accord, people v. mccoy (2001) 25 cal.4th 1111, 1116-1118.) n is based on a combinatis acts and the aider and s own acts and own mental state. [citation.] [citation.] establishirequires proof in three distinct areas: s actus 43 reusa crime committed by the direct perpetrator, (b) the s mens reaknowledge of the direct s unlawful intent and an intent to assist in achieving those unlawful endss actus reusconduct by the aider and abettor that in fact assists the achievement of the crime. (people v. valdez (2012) 55 cal.4th 82, 146.) ds mental state is rarely available and may be shown with circumstantial evidence. (beeman, at pp. 558-559.) mere presence at the crime scene is, by itself, not aiding and abetting, but it can be one factor among others that support conviction as an aider and abettor. among the factors which may be considered in determining aiding and abetting are: presence at the crime scene, companionship, and conduct before and after the offense. (people v. sedillo (2015) 235 cal.app.4th 1037, 1065; see in re juan g. (2003) 112 cal.app.4th 1, 5.) the jury heard undisputed, albeit circumstantial, evidence pennington was in the van when it crashed and direct evidence she was an active member, with dean, of the center park bloods. the jury also heard that batiste was more than likely with powers when powers was killed (because he had talked to the police) and was then stabbed to death himself within hours, again, more than likely, in the van. rather than attempt to obtain help for batiste, pennington, like dean and the unknown third man in the van, disappeared. she lied to the police about the source of her injuries and claimed she had been carjacked. soon after, she attempted to retrieve her purse and identification card from the impound facility. she then conspired with green to kill dean because he appeared to be talking to police about the incident. the wiretap evidence showed pennington held an important position in a gang strongly allied to other blood-affiliated gangs and confirmed her willingness to betray someone who considered her a friend for the benefit of the gang. the jury thus had ample 44 evidencecircumstantial and directfrom which to infer b. the conspiracy to commit murder conviction conspiracy requires two or more persons agreeing to commit a crime, along with the commission of an overt act, by at least one of these parties, in furtherance of the conspiracy. [citations.] a conspiracy requires (1) the intent to agree, and (2) the intent to commit the underlying substantive offense.the punishable act, or the very crux, of a criminal conspiracy is the evil or corrupt agreement. [citation.] [] if the agreement between the conspirators is the crux of criminal conspiracy, then the existence and nature of the relationship among the conspirators is undoubtedly relevant to whether such agreement was formed, particularly since such agreement must often be proved circumstantially. the existence of a conspiracy may be inferred from the conduct, relationship, interests, and activities of the alleged conspirators before and during the alleged conspiracy.people v. homick (2012) 55 cal.4th 816, 870.) conspiratorial comments and never entered into an agreement with green to kill dean. the evidence, however, is plainly susceptible to the interpretation that the agreement to kill dean visit when green gave her instructions on how the murder should be accomplished, and that pennington was an active participant in the planning. on december 3, 2002 green called pennington, o about him. pennington replied she had spoken with ckay the previous evening who agreed dean was a problem and said, . . . you recognizing the implication of that conversation, green told pennington not to talk on the phone and blood, thi 45 trust ckay. after that call pennington summoned a meeting of gang members to discuss how dean would be handled. the plan reflected by this conversation was apparently discovered by dean, who called pennington and told her he had heard his fellow gang who was , when pennington claimed she did not know what was happening, immediately called several other gang members, telling the first, ned he knew he was being targeted because someone else was talking too much. the next day she spoke with green and told him the same thing. based on this evidence the jury could reasonably find the initial agreement to kill dean began at this time, and pennington went to the jail on december 20, 2002 to receive instructions on implementing the must be killed immediately and a contact (robby tobby, a bloods prison gang shot caller), who would be able to implement the plan. pennington additionally contends the alleged conspiracy never progressed beyond planning because no overt acts were taken to accomplish its purpose (the murder of dean). an overt the crime and in manifestation of an intent or design, looking toward the (people v. zamora (1976) 18 cal.3d 538, 549, fn. 8, quoting chavez v. united states (9th cir. 1960) 275 f.2d 813, 817.) e the crime or even an attempt to commit ths ultimate object. nor is it required that such a step or act, in and of itself, b (people v. von villas (1992) 11 cal.app.4th 175, 244.) nternal discussions and arrangements between coconspirators can easily constitute overt (id. at p. 244 [alleged overt 46 for information regarding the vments to phone conversations laying out the manner in which the ; accord, people v. sconce (1991) 228 cal.app.3d 693, 699 [alleged overt acts consisted of s pointing out the intended victim to a coconspirator, s solicitation of anos victim]; see van villas, at p. 245 f the conspirators partake, among themselves, in arrangements, discussions, and preparation in regard to and for the criminal act, then they have ventured beyond a mere criminal intention and forgone the opportunity afforded them by the overt act requirement: to reconsider, terminate the agreement, and thereby avoid punishment for the conspiracy].) as discussed in these casesdiscussions with green and other gang members amply supported her conviction for conspiracy. 5. the five-year sentence enhancement for serious felony conviction was properly imposed the amended information filed september 10, 2013 alleged green had previously been convicted of a serious or violent felony pursuant to penal code sections 1170.12, subdivisions (a) through (d), and 667, subdivisions (b) through (i)the three strikes lawand identified greens april 2004 conviction for aggravated assault, los angeles superior court case no. ya053259 (assault with a firearm for the shooting of tyrone ravenel).28 a separate . . had suffered a prior conviction of a serious or violent felony, again 28 the original information filed july 11, 2012 did not allege that green had previously been convicted of a serious or violent felony. 47 citing case no. ya053259. at greepeople introduced evidence green had suffered two prior convictions, the april 2004 conviction for the ravenel assault and an october 2008 conviction for possession of a controlled substance under health and safety code section 11350, subdivision (a) (los angeles superior court case no. ya071118). green, who at that time had obtained permission to represent himself, did not appear to be aware the possession charge had not been alleged in the amended information and admitted both prior convictions. after an extended discussion during which the court referred to case no. ya053259 no. -the court sentenced green to 15 bled . . . for the aforementioned strike conviction in case no. ya053259, plus an additional five years under 667(b) for his aforereferenced prior, and the court referenced section 667, subdivision (b), however, does not provide for a sentence enhancement. the sentence enhancement for a prior serious felony conviction in addition to the provisions of the three strikes lawthe further allegation contained in the amended informationis found in section 667, subdivision (a)(1). compounding what appears to have been a misstatement by the trial court (most likely precipitated by the incorrect citation in the amended information), the minute order from hearing mischaracterizes the enhancement as a five-year sentence under section 667.5, subdivision (b), a mistake repeated in the abstract of judgment. section 667.5, subdivision (b), authorizes only a one-year sentence enhancement for a prior prison terman allegation not contained in the amended informationand may not be imposed when a sentence enhancement under section 667, subdivision (a)(1), is imposed for the same offense. (see people v. jones (1993) 5 cal.4th 1142, 1149-1150.) green contends the sentence enhancement listed in the minute order and abstract of judgment was unauthorized and 48 must be stricken. the people contend the error should be addressed through remand to the superior court but note the same nunc pro tunc by the trial court to specify the correct basis for the five-year prior serious felony conviction enhancementsection 667, subdivision (a)(1). we have the inherent authority to correct an unauthorized sentence ( 1260; people v. scott (1994) 9 cal.4th 331, 354; see also people v. mitchell (2001) 26 cal.4th 181, 185 [appellate court may order correction of clerical error at any time]). remand is unnecessary here to correct what was merely an inadvertent miscitation by the trial court, which plainly intended to impose the sentence enhancement alleged in the amended information for a prior serious felony conviction. accordingly, the judgment in modified to reflect imposition of a five-year sentence enhancement pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1), for the prior serious felony conviction alleged in the amended information. 49 disposition the judgment against green is modified to provide that the five-year sentence enhancement was imposed under section 667, subdivision (a)(1), instead of subdivision 667.5, subdivision (b). the judgment is further modified to reflect the imposition of restitution fines of $200 and parole revocation fines (stayed) of $200 on each defendant. as modified, the judgments are affirmed. the superior court is directed to prepare corrected abstracts of judgment and to forward them to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. perluss, p. j. we concur: zelon, j. segal, j. 