filed 9/30/15 p. v. alfaro ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. julio obaldo alfaro, defendant and appellant. b256607 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba384998) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of the county of los angeles, monica bachner, judge. affirmed in part, modified, and remanded. theresa osterman stevenson, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters senior assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey, supervising deputy attorney general, mary sanchez, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction defendant and appellant julio obaldo alfaro (defendant) was convicted of attempted murder (pen. code,  664 and 187, subd. (a)1) and assault with a semiautomatic firearm ( 245, subd. (b)). on appeal, defendant contends that the trial court abused its discretion in denying his numerous marsden2 motions; the trial court erred by instructing the jury with calcrim no. 3472; an error in the calculation of his presentence credits should be corrected; and the abstract of judgment should be amended to reflect that he was convicted by jury instead of by plea. we remand the matter for the trial court to modify the judgment and amend the abstract of judgment to reflect that defendant is entitled to receive a total of 1,259 days of custody credit, and to amend the abstract of judgment to reflect that defendant was convicted by a jury. we otherwise affirm the judgment. background a. factual background 1. prosecution evidence 73-year-old juan jose rodriguez (juan jose)3 testified that he was standing outside of his apartment building with a friend, jose elias rodriguez (jose elias).4 defendant approached juan jose as he was unlocking the gate to his apartment building. juan jose knew defendant, but never had any disputes with him prior to that date. defendant ed 1 all statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 2 people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118. 3 jua. 4 in his briefs, defendant refers to jose elias as juan elias. 3 fendant that he never talks about defendant. juan jose pwhile also looking at defendant. juan jose felt a bullet strike him in the left side of his stomach. juan jose did not remember anything thereafter through the time he was released from the hospital. juan jose did not see defendant holding a gun. juan jose denied hitting, physically attacking, or choking defendant prior to the shooting. jose elias testified that he saw defendant approach juan jose but he did not know what they said to each other, and did not seeany conversation or physical contact between the two. jose elias saw defendant move his hand toward his waist, pull out a weapon, and fire the weapon at juan jose. defendant was about one-half to one foot away from juan jose when he fired the weapon. jose elias said the weapon was a black or gray colored semiautomatic handgun. when defendant fired the weapon, it ejected a shell casing that landed near jose elias. after shooting juan jose, defendant placed the weapon in his waistband and left the area. jose elias had known juan jose for fifteen jose elias had never had any problems with defendant prior to the shooting, and he had never seen juan jose and defendant engage in any argument prior to that day. the police arrested defendant later that afternoon, approximately one or two blocks from the shooting. defendant was searched and the police found a semiautomatic the police located a shell casing at the scene of the shooting. 4 2. evidence defendant testified that he lived in the same apartment building in which juan jose lived. a short time before the shooting incident, defendant had a stroke and half of defendant d difficulty remembering things. on the day of the shooting, he had a gun with him because he was thinking of killing himself. more than a year prior to the incident, defendant found the gun in a trash can. he kept it in incident was the first time that he carried the gun. on the day of the incident, defendant testified that he saw juan jose entering the building and told him that he wanted to speak to him. juan jose did not respond and continued to enter the building. defendant testified that him, pushed him against a hand rail, and juan jose defendant said that he defendant admitted that he shot at juan jose, but did not know why he fired the gun. defendant testified that he was according to defendant, he was unable to push juan jose away from him because defendant was paralyzed on the left side of his body. defendant said he did not know why he left the scene after the shooting; he was not thinking straight. not angry with him. defendant does not recall speaking with police officers after the incident, or of advising them that don juan choked him. 3. rebuttal evidence the parties stipulated a police officer would testify that defendant told him on the day of the shooting that: [defendant] heard his friend call victim [juan jose] and 5 overheard [that] they were going to meet up. [defendant] saw this as an opportunity to confront the victim about talking bad about him, spreading rumors. [defendant] said he attempted to confront the victim. when the victim told [defendant] that he was going to beat him up and called him a son of a bitch, the victim pushed [defendant] with both hands, knocking him back on to the railing of the stairs of [the apartment building]. the victim stumbled back and then [defendant] lost control of his thoughts, pulled out the pistol he had in his left rear waistband and fired one shot at the victim. he was asked about the handgun he used and [defendant] stated he found it six to seven years ago in the echo park area in a trash can. he retrieved it and hid it on the property belonging to his father at [the apartment building]. today, [defendant] retrieved the handgun because he had suicidal thoughts. [defendant] stated he had a stroke approximately nine days ago and was admitted to usc medical center. he was released on thursday, may 26th. he is emotionally distraught over him not being able to use the left side of his body and can no longer work, and stated he feels useless. he has had an ongoing dispute with the victim over t b. procedural background following trial, the jury found defendant guilty of attempted murder in violation of sections 664 and 187, subdivision (a) (count 1) and assault with a semiautomatic firearm in violation of section 245, subdivision (b) (count 2). as to count 1, the jury found not true an allegation that the attempted murder was committed willfully, deliberately, and with premeditation, and found true enhancement allegations of personal use of a firearm as defined by section 12022.53, subdivisions (b)-(d) and an enhancement allegation of great bodily injury as defined by section 12022.7, subdivision (c). as to count 2, the jury found true an enhancement allegation of the great bodily injury as defined by section 12022.7, subdivision (c) and an enhancement allegation of the personal use of a firearm as defined by sections 12022.5, 1192.7, subdivision (c) and 667.5, subdivision (c). 6 the trial court sentenced defendant to state prison for a term of 30 years to life, consisting of a term of five years on count 1 plus 25 years to life pursuant to section 12022.53, subdivision (d). the trial court imposed and stayed sentence on count 2 pursuant to section 654. the trial court awarded defendant custody credit, and ordered him to pay various fees, fines and penalties. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion a. marsden motions defendant contends that the trial court abused its discretion in denying his numerous motions made pursuant to people v. marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d 118. we disagree. 1. standard of review s decision to deny a marsden motion under the deferential abuse of discretion standard. (people v. taylor denial is not an abuse of discrunless the defendant has shown that a failure to replace counsel would subs right to assistance of counsel. (people v. smith [(2003)] 30 cal.4th [581,] 604.) (people v. taylor, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. 599; people v. panah (2005) 35 cal.4th 395, 431.) 2. applicable law a defendant who believes that his appointed counsel is providing ineffective assistance may seek to have that counsel relieved and substitute counsel appointed what is commonly called a marsden motion. (people v. smith, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 604.) to prevail, tsubstantial showingthat denial of his marsden motion is likely to result in constitutionally inadequate representation.(people v. streeter (2012) 54 cal.4th 205, 230.) our supreme court stated, a defendant must make a sufficient showing that denial of substitution would 7 substantially impair his constitutional right to the assistance of counsel (people v. smith (1985) 38 cal.3d 945, 956 [216 cal.rptr. 98, 702 p.2d 180]), whether because of his s incompetence or lack of diligence (in re banks (1971) 4 cal.3d 337, 342 [93 cal.rptr. 591, 482 p.2d 215]; people v. crandell (1988) 46 cal.3d 833, 854 [251 cal.rptr. 227, 760 p.2d 423]), or because of an irreconcilable conflict (people v. stankewitz (1982) 32 cal.3d 80, 93-94 [184 cal.rptr. 611, 648 p.2d 578, 23 a.l.r.4th 476]; brown v. craven (9th cir. 1970) 424 f.2d 1166, 1170). we require such proof because a defendants right to appointed counsel does not include the right to demand appointment of more than one counsel, and because the matter is generally within the discretion of the trial court. (people v. marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d at p. 123.) (people v. ortiz (1990) 51 cal.3d 975, 980, fn.1.) a trial court does not err in denying a marsden complaints of his counsels inadequacy amounting to tactical decisions. (people v. dickey (2005) 35 cal.4th 884, 922.) when a defendant chooses to be represented by professand can make all but a few fundamental decisions for the defendantpeople v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 729.) 3. relevant proceedings a) december 14, 2012, hearing on december 14, 2012, defendant initially requested that he be permitted to represent himself, 5 but upon the trial court having admonished him on the disadvantages of self-representation, defendant requested that the trial court appoint a different attorney instead of his current counsel, deputy public defender ms. gia bosley. defendant stated that he would like another attorney because the truth at the preliminary hearing and ms. bosley should have obtained his vision and 5 on several occasions, defendant asked the trial court to permit him to represent himself. 8 hearing records; ; [defendant] tried to tell her the man was saying no because you bang, and they told [defendant] about what [defendant] did, [defendant] wanted to talk [to ms. bosley more about my testimony] and [defendant] ms. bosley responded by stating that twere not . . . estimony or evidence . . . from what i understand . . and [defendant and the victim have] know[n] each other issue of an i.d. . . ; defendant had given her the names of some witnesses, her investigator had spoken to them; she had discussed with defendant his options regarding testifying, but told him that they did not have to make a decision about that at the time; she had appointed several experts regarding whether defendant was subsequent ; she discussed with defendant whether a handwritten statement he made shortly after the shooting was accurate and whether it was his writing; and she met times had several conversations with him when they were in court.6 marsden motion, finding that ms. bosley had been adequately representing defendant, and the ultimate decision about what records to subpoena and what witnesses to call were for the attorney to make. 6 ms. bosley said th there is no evidence of why defendant refused to speak to her. 9 b) january 28, 2013, hearing on january 28, 2013, the trial court stated that defendant had written a letter to the court alleging that he had a conflict of interest with ms. bosley, and the trial court confirmed that defendant was making another marsden motion. at the confidential marsden it appears it is not actually a marsden c) april 9, 2014, hearing on april 9, 2014, defendant made another marsden motion, stating that he would like another attorney because he was not given the police report until two years after he had been detained; ms. ; all the court dates, ; ; and ms. bosley had not let him select the jurors during the competency proceedings. defendant conceded that at the time of the april 9, 2014, hearing, he had seen the police report. typically the practice of attorneys not to give all the papers to the defendant because of a tating that her investigator ; she him so; on three occasions ; she n both english and spanish so 10 that he could study them; statements were not true and he did not want those statements to come into evidence, she explained to him that the prosecution subpoenaed the witnesses and it was for the jury to determine the credibility of the witnesses; her investigator has never met with defendant, documented what other people have said about the ; she the preliminary hearing transcript during the trial, but it would not assist defendant in preparing for his testimony; and selecting the jurors during the competency proceedings was a decision for her to make, and defendant wanted jurors who were unavailable. the trial court told defendant that ms. bosley was well prepared for trial, the , and ms. bosley was prepared to continue to give defendant documents even though he previously lost the documents ms. bosley had given him. marsden motion finding that ms. bosley was adequately representing defendant. d) april 22, 2014, hearing at the april 22, 2014, hearing, defendant made another marsden motion, stating that he wanted to replace ms. bosley with another attorney because: ; he wanted a ; ms. because she told him that the investigator had family that was close to the witnesses with whom he sent the investigator to speak ; and testimony at the preliminary hearing, but ms do it; and ms. 11 of whom she was aware, not just the witnesses to the actual shooting; she reviewed the medical records of defendant and the victim; she had met with defendant on numerous occasions, including meeting with him to discuss the results of her investigations, discuss his possibly testifying, and on at least two occasions to give him discovery; she had given defendant copies of the jury ; she had advised defendant that in order to have the jury instructed on those defenses, defendant would have to testify; the only document that defendant had signed was a stipulation for a commissioner ; [defendant] feels that the information [the] witnesses gave to ; regarding the one-issue; was held to answer, his case was assigned to a different department; she had gone over ; and she had explained to defendant that the police report and the preliminary hearing report would not be considered by the jury with it being up to the jury as to what witness to believe. the trial court explained to defendant that the change in courtrooms was the way marsden motion, 12 4. analysis marsden motions was an abuse of discretionsubstantial showingthat the trial marsden motions were likely to result in constitutionally inadequate representation. (people v. streeter, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 230.) defendant contends that the attorney-client relationship between him and ms. bosley [ed] and there existed an irreconcilable conflbosley filed declarations resulting in competency hearings; on one occasion tdepartment told ms. bosley that defendant refused to speak with her to prepare the case; defendant had told ms. bosley that he wanted to represent himself; and defendant was unable to communicate sufficiently with ms. bosley. there is no indication in the record that ms. bosley or relationship with her was the reason tdepartment told ms. bosley that defendant refused to speak with her or that defendant was unable to speak to ms. bosley sufficiently. dcomplaints do not constitute a substantial showing that they would likely result in constitutionally inadequate representation. lack of trust in or inability to get along with counsel is not a sufficient basis to grant a motion pursuant to people v. marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d 118. (people v. berryman (1993) 6 cal.4th 1048, 1070, overruled on another point in people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 823, fn. 1.) defendant contends that because ms. bosley had difficulty to him that selecting jurors for his competency proceedings was her decision and that she was not creating a case against him when she advised him what the witnesses told her investigator, an irreconcilable conflict exited between him and ms. bosley such that ineffective representation was likely to result. , neither defendant nor ms. bosley stated during the marsden hearings that ms. bosley attempted to explain these matters to defendant, successfully or otherwise. in addition, an difficulty in explaining an issue to the client does not, without more, constitute an irreconcilable conflict, nor does it mean that ineffective representation is likely to result. 13 defendant argues that the trial court erred in denying his marsden motions because ms. bosley did not subpoena the vision and hearing records of the percipient witness, jose elias. there were two marsden hearings at which defendant said that he asked ms. bosley to scrutinize an adverse witnessthe first marsden hearing held on december 12, 2012, juan jose, and the last marsden hearing held on april 22, 2014 presumably concerning jose elias. that is, there was only one marsden hearing at which he said that he asked his counsel to scrutinize jose elias. defendant contends that ms. bsubpoena the vision and hearing records of jose elias is more than a tactical decision. defendant reasons that because he was relying upon a defense of self-of the facts prior immediately prior to the shooting differed from jose to perceive the events were relevant. according to defendant, ms. bosley therefore ose records. defendant argues that ms. bvision and hearing records were not relevant because conflict that ineffective representation wa dhis counsel, ms. bosley, should have subpoenaed the vision and hearing records of jose elias is a disagreement over tactical decisions and that does not constitute error by the trial court in denying the marsden motions. (people v. dickey, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 922.) in addition, defendant did not state that he asked ms. boslevision and hearing records. he merely told the trial court that he asked ms. bosley to moreover, there is no evidence that ms. bosleconcerns elias was unable to accurately perceive the events that transpired during the shooting incident. concerns, and such a misunderstanding does not amount 14 defendant also did not establish that had ms. bosley obtained the vision and hearing records of jose elias that they would have established that he was unable to accurately perceive the incident events, beyond his purportedly having only one eye. at the marsden hearings if there is a credibility question between a defendant and his counsel. (people v. jones (2003) 29 cal.4th 1229, 1245.) the trial court essentially found that accurate than defeif a s claimed lack of trust in, or inability to get along with, an appointed attorney were sufficient to compel appointment of substitute counsel, defendants effectively would have a veto power over any appointment, and by a process of elimination could obtain appointment of their preferred attorneys, which is certainly not the law. (id at. p. 1246; people v. welch, supra, 20 cal.4th at p. a defendant does not have the right to present a defense of his own choosing, but merely the right to an adequate and competent defensethe trial court did not abuse its discretion in marsden motions. b. calcrim no. 3472 defendant claims that the trial court erred in instructing the jury with calcrim no. 3472 because the instruction had no application to the facts and it misstated the law. we disagree. 1. applicable law a trial court must instruct the jury . . . on all general principles of law . . . that are necessary for the jurys understanding of the case.[citation.](people v. burney (2009) 47 cal.4th 203, 246.) we assume that the jurors are intelligent persons and capable of understanding the jury instructions. (people v. johnson (2009) 180 cal.app.4th 702, 707.) nstructions should be interpreted, if possible, so as to support 15 the judgment rather than defeat it if they are reasonably susceptible to such interpretation.[citation.] (ibid.) equested instruction only if it is supported by substantial evidence, that is, evidence sufficient to deserve jury consideration. [citations.]people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 39; people v. ramirez (2015) 233 cal.app.4th 940, 948-949.) the trial courtto ensure that the instructions provide a complete and accurate statement of the law.people v. ramirez, supra, 233 cal.app.4th at p. 949.) 2. background facts during discussions regarding jury instructions, the prosecutor requested that the jury be instructed with calcrim no. 3472.7 supported, because the victim testified to the defendant coming up to him, and in my view or at least there is evidence from which the jury could find that he provoked whatever response, if any, that the victim had. so the jury needs to know that if they find those facts to be true, that self-defense would not apply. for example, if they were to stipulated to or stipulated that it was told, potentially this instruction would apply. because they might believe that the victim put his hands on the defendant first. but they might also believe that that only happened after the defendant confronted him. because that is essentially what it says in his statements. and i think under those facts, this instruction would apply. [] . . . [] [juan jose] -defense at all under [juan josetestimony alone. however, i do think . . . the following scenario is something the jury could believe happened, which based on putting the various handgun went to confront the victim, started basically talking trash to him, again armed 7 calcrim no. 3472 provi-defense if he or she provokes a fight or quarrel with the intent to create an excuse to use 16 with a handgun. then based on what he said, the victim shoves him and then the defendant shoots him. and i think under that state of facts, which i think is supported by the evidence as one potential version of what happened here, under that state of facts, this the prosecutor stated that the victim testified that defendant also told the police that he was situation when an individual purposefully provokes a response from a victim to attack the individual, and the evidence does not reflect that this occurred. argued that none of the evidence established that defendant contrived a situation to claim self defense. that the defendant gave to the officer, as well as in conjunction with the testimony of the victim. the trial court instructed the jury pursuant to calcrim no. 3472. 3. analysis a) substantial evidence defendant contends that there was not substantial evidence to support calcrim no. 3472 because there no evidence that defendant provoked a use of force by juan jose. substantial evidence supports instructing the jury with calcrim no. 3472. calcrim no. 3472, provoke without qualification. the word provoke in a jury instruction has its usual, common meaning. (people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1217-1218.) provocsomething that provokes, arouses, or stimulates-s collegiate dict. (11th ed. 2004) p. 1002); provoto arouse to a feeling or action[;] . . . to incite to anger (ibid.). words, without violence or a threat of violence, may be sufficient provocation to reduce murder to manslaughter. (see people v. valentine (1946) 28 cal.2d 121, 140-143 [words alone sufficient]; people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 583-584 17 provocative conduct . . . may be physical or verbal, but the conduct must be sufficiently provocative that it would cause an ordinary person of average disposition to act rashly or without due deliberation and reflection].) the parties stipulated a police officer would testify defendant told him he heard juan jose and jose elias defendant said he considered it an defendant also told the police officer defendant jose. juan jose testified that immediately before defendant shot him, defendant the jury reasonably could conclude that defendant provoked a use of force by juan jose. b) legally erroneous defendant contends that under the facts of this case calcrim no. 3472 does not accurately state the law. defendant relies on people v. ramirez, supra, 233 cal.app.4th calcrim no. 3472 states a correct rule of law in appropriate circumstances,people v. ramirez, supra, 233 cal.app.4th the fact case . (ibid.) calcrim no. 3472 and calcrim no. 347conclude that in contriving to use force, even to provoke only a fistfight, defendants entirely forfeited any right to self-defense (people v. ramirez, supra, 233 cal.app.4th person who contrives to start a fistfight or provoke a nondeadly quarrel forfeit[] . . . his right to live.[citation.] instead, he may defend himself even when the defendant set in motion the chain of events that led the victim to attack the defendant.[citation.](id. at p. 943.) in other words, the fact 18 that defendant intends to provoke a fistfight does not mean the other person is entitled to use deadly force or a deadly weapon in response to the provocation. defendant reasons that in this case calcrim no. 3472 does not accurately state the law because the jury could believe based on the evidence that defendant at most intended to provoke a fistfight and the instruction erroneously directed the jury to conclude that defendant had no right of self-defense against an attack by juan jose even if defecontrived to only use non-deadly force. we need not decide whether calcrim no. 3472 accurately states the law under the facts of this case as any error in the instruction was harmless. the jury, including incorrect . . . instructions that do not amount to federal constitutional people v.] watson a more favorpeople v. beltran (2013) 56 cal.4th 935, 955.) defendant told a police officer on the day of the shooting that he attempted to confront juan jose. he also told the officer that juan jose him and he then shot juan jose. although defendant testified that juan jose advise the officer on the day of the shooting that juan jose choked him. it is not reasonably probable that the jury would have credited self-serving testimony that he shot juan jose in self-defense, even had the jury not been instructed with calcrim no. 3472. similarly, any error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24.) c. presentence custody credits defendant contends, and the attorney general agrees, that the judgment must be modified, and the abstract of judgment must be amended, to reflect that defendant is entitled to receive 1259 in total presentence credits instead of 1244 in presentence credits. we agree. 19 the trial court awarded defendant a total of 1,244 days of custody credit consisting of 1082 days of actual custody credit and 162 days of conduct credit. defendant however was in custody for 1,095 days. because pursuant to section 2933.1 defendant is subject to a 15 percent conduct credit limitation, defendant should have received 164 days of conduct credit. thus, the judgment should be modified, and the abstract of judgment must be amended, to reflect that defendant is entitled to receive a total of 1,259 days of custody credit consisting of 1,095 days of actual custody credit and 164 days of conduct credit. d. amending the abstract of judgment to reflect that defendant was convicted by a jury defendant contends, and the attorney general agrees, that the abstract of judgment must be amended to reflect that defendant was convicted by a jury instead of by plea. we agree. the abstract of judgment must be amended accordingly. 20 disposition the matter is remanded for the trial court to modify the judgment and amend the abstract of judgment to reflect that defendant is entitled to receive a total of 1,259 days of custody credit consisting of 1,095 days of actual custody credit and 164 days of conduct credit, and to amend the abstract of judgment to reflect that defendant was convicted by a jury. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. mosk, acting p. j. we concur: kriegler, j. baker, j. 