filed 10/6/15 p. v. mitchell ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. james r. mitchell, defendant and appellant. b256986 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa076743) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, david walgren, judge. affirmed. rachel lederman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and stephanie a. miyoshi, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant and appellant james r. mitchell was convicted following a jury trial of two counts of first degree robbery (pen. code,  211),1 two counts of kidnapping ( 207, subd. (a)), and two counts of carjacking ( 215, subd. (a)). appellant contends that the evidence was insufficient to sustain his kidnapping and carjacking convictions. we affirm. factual and procedural background prosecution evidence around noon on april 24, 2013, chae soon guziel parked her car in the driveway in front of her house to unload groceries. two garage doors with a button in her car and brought a pizza into the house. her husband, dr. lawrence guziel, had stayed at home that day due to illness.2 his green mercury mariner was parked inside the garage at the time. mrs. guziel called to him from the kitchen to notify him of her arrival. she then walked back to the car to get the rest of the groceries and saw appellant holding a white gun and standing inside or nearly inside the garage. mrs. guziel thought appellant shot her with a taser gun.3 appellant approached her and told her not to shout or he would kill her. he bound her hands, legs, and mouth with tape, binding her wrist so tightly that it broke. after 20 or 30 minutes, dr. guziel went to the garage to check on his wife. he saw that she was gagged and that appellant was pointing a gun at her. appellant told dr. guziel to lie down in the hallway adjacent to the laundry room, 1 further unspecified statutory references are to the penal code. 2 mrs. guziel was 74 years old at the time of trial, and dr. guziel was 75. 3 she subsequently noticed a bruise in the area where she thought she had been shot. 3 and dr. guziel complied. appellant gagged him. appellant moved mrs. guziel into the laundry room. dr. guziel was able to speak despite the gag, so he asked what appellant wanted. appellant said that he withdrawal at a bank. dr. guziel told appellant to get the debit card from his wallet in the master bedroom. appellant dragged the guziels through the kitchen down a long hallway and into the master bedroom, where he placed them on the bed.4 the guziels remained on their bed for approximately three hours, while appellant roamed through the house, pulling down the shades, opening drawers, and searching the closet in the master bedroom. at some point during the three hours, appellant stated that he wanted to use mariner to drive to the bank, , and then return. dr. guziel wallet and car keys were on a desk in the master bedroom, about five feet from the bed. dr. guziel did not remember giving the car keys to appellant or appellant taking the keys from him. appellant did not ask dr. guziel for the car keys. mrs. guziel never saw appellant take any keys or have keys in his hand. before leaving, appellant warned dr. guziel that he was going to return to while appellant was away, , marie, arrived at the house with her one-year-old son. and found her parents with 4 the distance from the garage to the foot of the bed was 101 feet. 4 well as duct tape around their heads and necks. after marie removed the gag from dr. guz marie called 911 on speaker phone while she tried to free her parents. when police officers arrived, they told marie to leave the house, and they freed her parents. other officers went to a nearby bank of america, where they . appellant got out of the car, placed a tablecloth over his head and walked to the atm. the officers arrested him. defense evidence the defense submitted an exhibit and rested on the state of the evidence. procedural background appellant was charged with two counts of first degree residential robbery ( 211), two counts of kidnapping ( 207, subd. (a)), and two counts of carjacking ( 215, subd. (a)). the information further alleged that appellant personally inflicted great bodily injury on a person 70 years or older. ( 12022.7, subd. (c).) the information alleged as to all counts that appellant personally used a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivision (b). it was further alleged that appellant served three prior prison terms ( 667.5, subd. (b)) and suffered two prior strikes ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)), a prior serious or violent felony pursuant to section 1170, subdivision (h)(3), and a prior conviction pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1). the jury found appellant guilty of all six counts and found the allegations to be true. the trial court found the prior conviction allegations to be true. the court 5 sentenced appellant to 40 years to life on count 1, 45 years to life on count 2, and consecutive terms of 40 years to life on the remaining counts, for a total of 245 years to life. appellant filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion appellant contends the evidence is insufficient to support his convictions for carjacking and kidnapping. we conclude that his convictions are supported by substantial evidence. on appeal, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value from which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the unless it describes facts or events that are physically impossible or inherently improbable, the testimony of a single witness is sufficient to support a conviction. people v. elliott (2012) 53 cal.4th 535, 585.) i. carjacking convictions possession of another, from his or her person or immediate presence, or from the person or immediate presence of a passenger of the motor vehicle, against his or her will and with the intent to either permanently or temporarily deprive the person in 6 possession of the motor vehicle of his or her possession, accomplished by means of 215, subd. (a).) appellant contends that the evidence was insufficient to establish two elements of the offense: first, that he took the car from the victipresence, and, second, that he formed the intent to take the car before or during his use of force or fear. we find the evidence sufficient to establish both elements. or (people v. johnson (2015) 60 cal.4th 966, 989 (johnson).) something is within a reach, inspection, observation or control, that he could, if not overcome by though it is located in another room of the house, or in another building on [the] purposes of carjacking if it is sufficiently within his control so that he could retain possession of it iibid.) requisite intent to deprive the possessor of possession must exist before or people v. gomez (2011) 192 cal.app.4th 609, 618 (gomez), disapproved in part on other grounds by people v. elizalde (2015) 61 cal.4th 523, 538.) we rely on johnson to conclude that the immediate presence element is satisfied here. in johnson, the defendant crashed his van after being chased by a sheriff. he home. the victim was in her kitchen, and her purse and car keys were on a counter in the kitchen. 7 kitchen by a breezeway. the defendant killed her, robbed her of jewelry and money, and took her car. the defendant in johnson challenged his carjacking conviction on the same two grounds relied upon by appellant here. first, the defendant claimed the before he killed her. the california supreme court rejected this argument, stating miles from where he had crashed his van, what he needed most was another (johnson, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 989.) the defendant also argued that he did not separated from the kitchen where she was killed by a breezeway. the court hat the car keys were within s immediate reach at the time defendant arrived at her door, and defendant took the keys from where she had been. all of this evidence supports a jury finding that the victim could have retained possession of her keys and car had defendant not prevented her from doing so by force or fearin this case, deadly id. at p. 990.) the car from th although the guziels were 101 feet away from their cars in the garage when appellant obtained the car key, the key to the car was in the master bedroom where appellant had dragged the guziels. specifically, the key was on a desk in the bedroom, about five feet from the bed where appellant placed the guziels. therefore, similar to johnson, the car key and he would have retained possession of it had appellant not prevented him from reaching it by use of force 8 here, by binding and gagging him. (johnson, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 990; see people v. hayes stolen property was in an office 107 feet away from ; people v. hoard (2002) 103 cal.app.4th 599, 609 [elements of carjacking established even though the victim was not present in the parking lot when the defendant drove her car away because the defendant forced her to relinquish her car keys].) appellant relies on people v. coleman (2007) 146 cal.app.4th 1363 (coleman), in that case, the victim worked in the storefront of a glass shop. the defendant walked in, pointed a gun at her, and demanded the keys to a truck which was owned by her employer and parked in front of the glass shop. the court concluded that carjacking proximity to the [truck], the keys she relinquished were not her own, and there was no evidence that she had ever been or would be a driver of or passenger in the id. at p. 1373.) the where neither the possessor nor the passenger is inside or adjacent to the vehicle. ibid.) nonetheless, the court concluded that the purpose of the carjacking statute ved by applying it under these circumstances, where id. at p. 1365.) coleman did not rely solely on the immediate presence element of carjacking to unlike in coleman, the car belonged to the victim, dr. guziel. he was prevented 9 from retaining possession of his car key by appelimmediate presence requirement thus was satisfied. the requirement that the intent to deprive the victim of possession exist before or during the use of force or fear is easily satisfied here. (gomez, supra, 192 cal.app.4th at p. 618.) the guziels were bound and gagged for approximately three hours of force. at some point while they were bound and gagged, appellant said that he . appellant took the car while they remained bound and gagged. the evidence thus the time of his use of force or fear against the guziels. ii. kidnapping convictions any other means of instilling fear, steals or takes, or holds, detains, or arrests any person in this state, and carries the person into another country, state, or county, or 207, subd. (a).) appellant contends that the jury verdict on the kidnapping counts was not supported by substantial evidence of asportation. blish a kidnapping under section 207, subdivision (a), the (3) the movement of the person was for a subs[citation.] in determining whether the third element, asportation, has been moved, but also such factors as whether that movement increased the risk of harm 10 above that which existed prior to the asportation, decreased the likelihood of people v. arias (2011) 193 cal.app.4th 1428, 1434-1435.) the california supreme court has explained that we have resisted setting a specific number of feet as the required minimum distance [for simple kidnapping], and have further requsubstantial in (people v. dominguez (2006) 39 cal.4th 1141, 1155.) in properly consider not only the actual distance the victim is moved, but also such factors as whether that movement increased the risk of harm above that which existed prior to the asportation, decreased the likelihood of detection, and increased both the danger inhereattackerpeople v. martinez onvict of simple kidnapping without finding an increase in harm, or any other contextual factors. instead, . . . ibid.) be considered in the context of the totality of its in the presence of other factors, while in others a longer distance, in the absence of other circumstances, may be founpeople v. corcoran (2006) 143 cal.app.4th 272, 279.) the kidnapping convictions are supported by substantial evidence. appellant bound and gagged the guziels in the garage and dragged them 11 approximately 101 feet to the master bedroom.5 the jury reasonably could find that moving the guziels 101 feet from the garage to the master bedroom was a distance that was substantial in character, and that this movement increased the risk of harm to the guziels and decreased the likelihood of detection. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports willhite, acting p. j. we concur: manella, j. collins, j. 5 the prosecutor submitted into evidence photographs and a floor plan of the house, and dr. guziel indicated on the floor plan the path by which appellant dragged the guziels through the house. 