filed 8/12/15 people v. gutierrez ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. ricardo ramos gutierrez, defendant and appellant. b256582 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka104231) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mike camacho, judge. affirmed. cindy brines, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle, and rene judkiewicz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______________________________ 2 appellant ricardo ramos gutierrez appeals from a judgment entered after a jury convicted him on one count of child abuse. (pen. code,  273a, subd. (a).)1 the jury found true the allegation that appellant personally inflicted great bodily injury upon the victim. ( 12022.7, subd. (a).) appellant was sentenced to 15 years in prison. in this appeal, appellant contends the trial court erred in refusing to instruct the jury on self-defense. finding no error, we affirm. factual and procedural summary in january 2014, appellant got into an argument with his wife, mireya miranda. the argument escalated and ms. miranda struck appellant in the face, drawing blood. -year-old ricardo (richie), ran into the room and began yelling at appellant, telling him to leave. richie responded by pushing while struggling, appellant and richie fell onto the bed and continued fighting. the fight ended richie had blood dripping from his ear and subsequently required three staples to his head. appellant had a black eye and a cut on his eyebrow. police arrived at the home and interviewed richie and ms. miranda in separate rooms. ms. miranda appeared scared and told police that appellant had stabbed her in the past. she denied hitting appellant and stated appellant had made a fist and tried to strike her. she reported that appellant used a glass object to hit richie. richie told police that when he began fighting with appellant, appellant grabbed a glass bottle from the nightstand and hit him on the head with it. richie did not indicate that he hit his head on the bed. appellant was arrested and taken to the hospital. during the car ride, appellant denied hitting richie with the bottle. the police did not immediately take the glass bottle into evidence, but returned five hours later to collect it. appellant was charged with (1) assault with a deadly weapon against richie ( 245, subd. (a)(1)), (2) child abuse against richie ( 273a, subd. (a)), and (3) assault by 1 subsequent statutory references are to the penal code. 3 means likely to produce great bodily injury against ms. miranda ( 245, subd. (a)(4)). as to counts 1 and 2, it was alleged that appellant personally inflicted great bodily injury within the meaning of section 12022.7, subdivision (a), and that he personally used a deadly and dangerous weapon within the meaning of section 12022, subdivision (b)(1). as to all three counts, it was alleged that appellant had been convicted of a serious or violent felony. at trial, the prosecution tried the case on the theory that appellant hit richie on the head with the glass bottle, causing his head injuries. however, both ms. miranda and richie changed their account of events. richie testified that he initially told police he not want to get into trouble for hitting his father. ms. miranda testified that she did not see how richie was injured. she denied telling police that she saw appellant hit richie with the bottle. appellant testified that richie initiated the fight and that he did not strike richie with the bottle, defense counsel requested a self-defense instruction. he argued that, although with him in self-the court in its closing argument, the prosecutor reiterated that as to richie were based on the theory that he had hit richie with a glass bottle. it also explained that the assault with a deadly weapon and child abuse charges were alternative charges; the jury could not convict appellant of both because they were based on the same act. the prosecutor then recommended that the jury convict on the child abuse charge rather than the assault charge ury. the jury found appellant guilty of child abuse and acquitted him of the remaining charges, including the assault charge as to ricky. it found the great bodily injury enhancement to be true, and found the deadly weapon enhancement not true. appellant waived conviction 4 to be true. the court sentenced appellant to a total of 15 yearsthe upper term of six years for child abuse, doubled to 12 years pursuant to sections 1170.12, subdivision (c)(1) and 667, subdivision (e)(1), plus three years for the great bodily injury enhancement pursuant to section 12022.7, subdivision (a). this timely appeal followed. discussion i appellant contends the trial court erred in refusing to instruct on self-defense because the record contained substantial evidence to support a self-defense instruction. . . . give a jury instruction on any affirmative defense for which the record contains substantial evidence [citation]evidence sufficient for a reasonable jury to find in favor of the defendant [citation]unless the defense is people v. mentch (2008) 45 cal.4th 274, 288, italics added.) struck richie on the head with the glass bottle. the defense theory of the case was that that appellant did not hit his son richie with a bottle, and that any injury richie sustained was a result of appellant at trial, appellant testified that he did not swing the bottle at richie, did not hit richie, and that any injuries richie sustained were accidental. the defense theory is clearly inconsistent with a self-defense instruction; that instruction was properly refused. (cf. people v. mccoy (1984) 150 cal.app.3d 705, 708-709 [self-defense instruction not warranted when defense theory was that shooting was accidental, rather than volitional].) appellant argues a self-defense instruction was nevertheless required because - despite denying that he hit richie with the glass bottle. appellant but appellant was not being tried on the theory that he grabbed and threw richie onto the bed. the prosecution made an express election 5 to charge appellant based on the theory that he hit richie on the head with the bottle. people v. clark (2011) 201 cal.app.4th 235 presents a similar case. in clark, the defendant and his 14-year-old son got into an argument over a broken mirror on id. at pp. 239-240.) the argument turned into a physical altercation, with the id. at p. 240.) after the ibid.) the dsaid she was going to call the police and defendant started to chase her. (ibid.) the son followed them outside to prevent the defendant from harming his mother, id. at pp. 240-241.) the defendant id. at p. 241.) when the son caught up with the defendant, the defendant and (ibid.) the defendant was charged with and convicted of child abuse and assault. (ibid.) on appeal, the defendant argued the trial court should have given a self-defense instruction. (id. at p. 246.) the defendant argued that because there were two physical altercations between defendant and the son, the jury could have determined that the defendant acted in lawful self-defense based on the events that took place outside of the home, but decided to convict defendant of child abuse based on the acts that occurred inside the home. (id. at p. the express election. (ibid.the jury the charges were based on the conduct that occurred outside of the home. in effect, the prosecutor told the jury he was not prosecuting defendant for the events that ibid.) during the closing argument in this case, the prosecutor told the jury that appellant while reviewing the elements of assault with a deadly weapon, the prosecutor identified the s bottle found in the bedroom. he then explained that the the prosecution made an express election to base 6 charge on the theory that appellant hit richie with a glass bottle. a self-defense instruction was inconsistent with defense theory that appellant never struck richie with the bottle. we need not conduct a harmless error analysis because the court made no error in denying a self-defense instruction. (people v. cromp (2007) 153 cal.app.4th 476, 478.) however, we address he suffered prejudice as a result of the denial of the instruction. appellant argues nding on the deadly weapon enhancement establishes that the child abuse conviction was based on conduct other than striking richie with a bottle. but, as we have discussed, the jury found appellant guilty of child abuse based on the prosecutio theory that appellant had struck richie with a bottle. [u]nless the sume that the jury understood and . (see people v. ibarra (2007) 156 cal.app.4th 1174, 1181). had the jury rejected would have acquitted appellant, not found him guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. epstein, p. j. we concur: willhite, j. collins, j. 