filed 9/3/15 p. v. montes ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jesse james montes, defendant and appellant. b256771 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va130397) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. raul a. sahagun, judge. affirmed, as modified. orly degani, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general and lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and ryan m. smith, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________ 2 defendant and appellant jesse james montes was convicted of one count of attempting to dissuade a witness by force or threat in violation of penal code section 136.1, subdivision (c)(1), and a gang enhancement under penal code section 186.22, subdivision (b) was found to be true.1 defendant contends there was insufficient evidence that the offense was committed by force or threat of force, or that any offense was committed for the benefit of a gang. we disagree. we do, however, procedural background the operative pleading is the second amended information. defendant was charged with one count of attempting to dissuade a witness by force or threat. a gang enhancement was alleged under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(b). this allegation, if however, the gang enhancement was also alleged under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4). that provision provides, as an alternative to the five-year enhancement under subdivision (b)(1)(b), for the defendant to be sentenced to an indeterminate term of seven years to life, when the underlying felony is dissuading a witness. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(4)(c).) finally, it was also alleged that defendant had suffered a prior serious felony conviction within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (a), which also constituted a strike within the meaning of section 1170.12, and two prior prison terms ( 667.5, subd. (b)). defendant pleaded not guilty and denied the enhancement allegations. the case proceeded to a jury trial. the jury found defendant guilty of attempting to dissuade a witness by force or threat, and found the gang enhancement allegation to be true. defendant waived jury trial on the prior conviction allegations, which had been bifurcated. the trial court found the prior serious felony and strike allegations to be true; the prosecution apparently declined to proceed on the prior prison term allegations. 1 all further section references are to the penal code. 3 defendant was sentenced as follows: an indeterminate term of 7 years to life, pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4)(c), doubled to 14 years to life (due to the strike), plus 5 years (due to the prior serious felony conviction), for a total sentence of 19 years to life in prison. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal. facts defendant is a member of the varrio norwalk gang. his friend, anthony zamora, is also a member. in march 2013, zamora had robbed a.f. by putting a knife to her throat while she was working alone in the store is located in territory claimed by the varrio norwalk gang. in april 2013, a.f. preliminary hearing. on may 25, 2013, defendant tried to convince a.f. not to testify further against zamora. a.f. girlfriend told a.f. and a.f.father saw defendant in his shop five times, but defendant left without buying anything. on the morning of may 25, a.f.if he needed anything; defendant left without answering. that afternoon, around 5:00 p.m., defendant finally got a.f. alone. it was closing time, and a.f. was in front of the shop, clearing off a round outdoor table filled with a.f. a.f. without waiting for an answer. defendant was shirtless, displaying varrio norwalk tattoos on his chest, abdomen, and back. defendant approached a.f. and stood with his face approximately five inches away from hers. a.f. backed up, but was cornered with the glass window to the shop behind her and the table to one side, leaving her with no escape. a.f. did not reply; she was frightened. defendant 4 spoke in no more than a whisper. he told a.f. needed her son at home. he said the mother was willing to pay back all the money he had taken if a.f. would decline to go to court and testify further against him. a.f. responded that it was not about the money. she told defendant that she was no longer comfortable at the store and could not be there alone. she always had to have someone with her because she was afraid of it happening again. she told defendant that she was going to continue going to court and make zamora pay for what he had done. rather than respecting a.f.ing away, defendant changed his approach. he became angry with the woman who had just admitted to him that she was in an emotionally fragile state. at this point, a.f. of the store, saw defendant standing very close to his daughter and came out front to see what was going on. a.f. gestured to her father to stay and listen. defendant turned his back to a.f.a.f. e times. he also saida.f. a.f. felt threatened and scared. she was afraid because she knew defendant was a member of varrio norwalk. after a few minutes, defendant turned and walked away. a.f. immediately reported the threat to the investigating officer for the zamora robbery.2 2 -convicted felon, who testified that, at some point during the week of may 25, 2013, he witnessed defendant take a call on his cellphone and put it on speaker. the caller, a woman, told what anthony did and see if we can correct it . . . in a way to pay any damages that he ut after his preliminary hearing was never explained. 5 discussion 1. standard of review a criminal case is whether, on the entire record, a rational trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citations.] on appeal, we must view the evidence in the light most favorable to the people and must presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence. people v. virgo (2013) 222 cal.app.4th 788, 797.) circumstantial evidence is susceptible of two interpretations, one of which suggests guilt and the other innocence [citations], it is the jury, not the appellate court which must be on of the reviewing court that the circumstances might also be reasonably reconciled with a contrary finding does not people v. figueroa (1992) 2 cal.app.4th 1584, 1587.) 2. there is sufficient evidence of an implied threat of force section 136.1 declares it to be a wobbler for any person maliciously attempt to dissuade any witness or victim from attending or giving testimony at any trial, proceeding, or inquiry authorized by law. 136.1, subd. (a)(2).) when the becomes a felony. ( 136.1, subd. (c)(1).) defendant does not dispute that he attempted to dissuade a.f. from giving further testimony against zamora, but suggests that the evidence is insufficient to show that he did so with an express or implied threat of force or violence. the contention is easily refuted. a.f.a.f. a statement pregnant with the implication that he would hurt her if he had to. in 6 determining whether there was an implied threat of force, we consider not just the plain people v. mendoza (1997) 59 cal.app.4th 1333, 1344.) moreover, we consider the circumstances in which a statement is made, not just the statement itself, to determine whether a statement constitutes an attempt to dissuade a witness by force. (ibid.) here, defendant waited to talk to a.f. alone, cornered her so she could not get away, stood very close to her with his gang tattoos exposed, and whispered, on these facts, the jury was well within its rights to conclude that defendant was making a not-very-veiled threat that, among other things, other varrio norwalk gang members would hurt a.f. if she did not comply.3 3. there is sufficient evidence defendant committed the crime to benefit varrio norwalk defendant next contests the sufficiency of the evidence supporting the gang enhancement. section 186.22, subdivisions (b)(1) and (b)(4) provide that any person who is convicted of a felony committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or 3 -examination that she exonerating. first, a.f. did not make an unequivocal statement that defendant was not threatening her; she stated only that maybe he was not there to threaten her. second, argues tshe testified on direct-statement. the jury was, of course, free to believe that the words and circumstances of fendant. 7 to establish the gang enhancement, the prosecution must establish: (1) the existence of a criminal street gang; (2) intent to promote, furth defendant does not contest the evidence of the first or third elements; he challenges only the sufficiency of the evidence that he threatened a.f. for the benefit of varrio norwalk.4 defendant argues there is no evidence that he attempted to dissuade a.f. from testifying in order to benefit varrio norwalk, rather than to simply benefit his friend zamora personally. we disagree. as discussed above, defendant exposed his gang tattoos and conveyed a threat to a.f. from which reasonably could be interpreted as defendant conveying to a.f. a threat from varrio norwalk itself. moreover, a gang expert testified that it is common for varrio norwalk members to commit crimes in their own territory because it is easier to get away with those crimes when they know the people in that area are afraid to report them. thus, if defendant had been successful in dissuading a.f. from testifying, it would have benefitted varrio norwalk by furthering community fear of the gang and making it easier for the gang to commit more offenses. defendant relies heavily on people v. ramon (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 843, a case in which a gang enhancement was reversed for insufficient evidence. there, the defendant and a fellow gang member were arrested while driving a stolen vehicle containing an unregistered firearm . (id. at pp. 846-847.) the only evidence that the crime had been committed with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any ccould be used by the gang to commit further offenses. (id. at pp. 847-849.) this was insufficient. (id. at p. 851.) ramon is distinguishable. here, the gang expert did not 4 assist zamora, a fellow gang member, in getting away with robbery. 8 speculate as to any further criminal activity that might be committed (he did not, for example, testify that if zamora were freed, he could commit further offenses for the itself was designed to benefit the gang by furthering community fear of, and reluctance to testify against, varrio norwalk members. 4. sentencing issues defendant contends, the prosecution concedes, and we agree, that a defendant sentenced to an indeterminate term under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(4) cannot also receive the five-year enhancement under section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(b). (people v. louie (2012) 203 cal.app.4th 388, 396.) in this case, when the trial court imposed the indeterminate term, it stated that the court 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(b). no such stayed term appears in the minute order of the transcript indicates the term was imposed and stayed, it should be stricken from the our review of the record has, however, revealed an error in the abstract of judgment. the abstract has a place where sentence enhancements are to be listed; it properly reflects a 5-year enhancement for the prior serious felony ( 667, subd. (a)(1)). thereafter, in section 6 of the abstract, the indeterminate term of 19 years to life is listed. but section 6 also has, preprinted after the space for the indeterminate term, the language indeterminate term of 19 years to life plus the 5-year enhancement. this is erroneous. defendant was sentenced to 19 years to life inclusive of the 5-year enhancement. the abstract should be modified to reflect a 14-years-to-life indeterminate term plus the 5-year enhancement. this results in the 19-years-to-life sentence actually imposed. 9 disposition the superior court is directed to modify the abstract of judgment to reflect, under section 6c, a sentence of 14 years to life (plus enhancements listed above) on count 1, rather than a sentence of 19 years to life (plus enhancements listed above). the stayed sentence on penal code section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(b) shall be stricken from the rubin, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. flier, j. 