filed 10/13/15 p. v. fleming ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. michael flemming, defendant and appellant. b256683 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba415525) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of the county of los angeles, leslie a. swain, judge. affirmed. heather j. manolakas, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson, supervising deputy attorney general, noah p. hill, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction defendant and appellant michael flemming (defendant) was convicted of carrying a loaded, unregistered handgun (pen. code,  25850, subd. (a)1). on appeal, defendant contends that his conviction must be reversed because the trial court erred in denying him his right to self-representation under faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806 (faretta). we hold that the trial court did not err to represent himself were equivocal. we affirm the judgment. procedural background2 following a trial, the jury found defendant guilty of carrying a loaded handgun in violation of section 25850, subdivision (a), and found true an allegation that the firearm was not registered to defendant. the trial court sentenced defendant to county jail for a term of three years. the trial court awarded defendant custody credit, and ordered him to pay various fees, fines, and penalties. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion a. relevant proceedings 1. october 28, 2013, hearing prior to trial, on october 28, 2013, the trial court held a hearing request to replace his counsel pursuant to people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 1 all statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 2 because defendanonly claim on appeal is that his conviction must be reversed because the trial court denied his requests under faretta, supra, 422 u.s. 806 to represent himself, we do not include a statement of facts regarding the count for which he was convicted. 3 (marsden motion). during the hearing, . . . defendant said there is no evidence he had a gun because the only witness who said he had one told him that the witness did not want to come to court. aybe you roll the dice and you go to trial and the witness comes and you get convicted of two counts.[3] and so, your max is then, you know, something much greater. defendant told the trial court that he wanted his counsel to attempt to obtain video surveillance from the scene of the robberies; said that the victim had lied about the alleged robberies; and said that he did not believe his counsel was helping him. the trial thinks the chances are that [your] arguments are going to work. and soand sometimes i know people in your position ask a lawyer to do things that the lawyer decides really are so, it sounds like you just feel like [defense counsel] urging you to take a deal. defendant told the trial court that he was not interested in a plea agreement because he did not commit the robberies. defendant complained that he did not like the defendantand defendant said he did not believe that his counsel was helping him. the trial court miranda[4] faretta t responded, faretta 3 in addition to defendant being charged with carrying a loaded, unregistered handgun, he was charged with two counts of second degree robbery in violation of section 211 based on events alleged to have occurred on may 3, 2013. the trial court ultimately dismissed the two robbery counts. 4 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436. 4 im and defendant] unsel agreed to provide defendant to attend a promised visit of defendant in county jail to provide him with copies of the discovery, defendant would tell his counsel that he t [defendant] down, . . . counsel saw defendant in court five days later and provided defendant with the discovery, defendant said that he wanted a new he intended to determine whether there was any surveillance video taken during the robberies, but because the alleged incident occurred on a residential street corner and defendant was not arrested believed that it was highly unlikely that any exculpatory evidence existed. when to defendant a plea deal that had been offered by the prosecution because the offer maximum exposure in the case. intended to emphasize at trial that there were inconsistencies between the preliminary hearing testimony of one of the victims and her statements in a police repoa witness who failed to appear at the preliminary hearing. defendant told the trial court that he had looked at the discovery provided to him, eswin this case because this, this, and this. and that when it really is a case that could go hear him saying he 5 the trial court explained to deffor a jury, and that his counsel was going to develop his case. the trial court denied the marsden crazy to try to do this on [his 2. february 27, 2014, hearing the trial court for a trial continuance of 30 days. defense counsel explained that the prosecution produced in discoor not [defendant] was [one of the] source[s] ty, my office has determined that we have no choice said, defendant were to be convicted, there would be an issue on appeal as to whether defendant received effective assistance of counsel. i am going to find good cause for a continuance over the faretta [people v.] marsden[, supra, 2 cal.3d 118] h the trial court held the hearing pursuant to people v. marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d 118. defendant told the trial court that he wanted defendant stated that he had previously been assigned a different attorney whom he would like to have reappointed to the case. defendant then want to exercise my faretta rights and i go to speedy trial [sic] 6 the trial court explained to defendant that his counsel was requesting a esting could result in exonerating evidence. him as my lawyer. i want [my prior counsel] [your prior counsel] [defendant]: i want to exercise my faretta right. the court: [defendant], that would be suicidal. [defendant]: how would that be suicidal? if i go to speedy trial they would have to bring forth evidence. the [defendant]: my lawyer pushed it back because she said but they would have to come forth with the evidence and i know my fingerprints i want to want defendant agreed to waive any claim on appeal that his trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance by . . . l court denied the marsden motion, 5 5 marsden proceedings did not represent defendant at trial. shortly after the february 27, 2014, hearing, he was replaced as defenby a different deputy public defender. 7 b. analysis a defendant in a criminal case possesses two constitutional rights with respect to representation that are mutually exclusive. a defendant has the right to be represented by counsel at all critical stages of a criminal prosecution. [citations.] at the same time, the united states supreme court has held that because the sixth amendment grants to the accused personally the right to present a defense, a defendant possesses the right to represent himself or herself. (people v. james (2011) 202 cal.app.4th 323, 328-329.) a tris request for self-representation if the defendant unequivocally asserts that right within a reasonable time prior to the commencement of trial, and makes his request voluntarily, knowingly, and intelligently. [citations.](people v. lynch (2010) 50 cal.4th 693, 721-722, abrogated on another ground in people v. mckinnon (2011) 52 cal.4th 610, 637.) faretta motions must be both timely and unequivocal. otherwise, defendants could plant reversible error in the record. [citations.] (people v. lewis and oliver (2006) 39 cal.4th 970, 1002.) a request made pursuant to faretta, supra, 422 u.s. 806 (faretta motion) is not equivocal merely because a defendant requests that his or her counsel be removed and, if not removed, that the defendant wants to represent himself or herself. (people v. michaels (2002) 28 cal.4th 486, 524.) the faretta motion is equivocal, however, if it is made because the defendant wanted to rid himself of appointed counsel. (people v. scott (2001) 91 cal.app.4th 1197, 1205.) our supreme court stated that a faretta motion also is equivocal, even if the defendant has said he or she seeks self-representation,made out of a temporary whim, or out of annoyance or frustration.(people v. stanley (2006) 39 cal.4th 913, 932-933.) indulge every reasonable inference against waiver of the right to counsel.(id. at p. 933.) a trial court has no discretion to deny a valid, timely faretta motion. (people v. lynch, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 726.) the erroneous denial of such a motion is reversible per se. (people v. butler (2009) 47 cal.4th 814, 824.) we review de novo whether the 8 trial court erred in denying a timely6 faretta motion. (people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 24-25.) vocal, and therefore the trial court did not err in denying them. faretta motion asserted during the october 28, 2013, hearing to replace his counsel was made out of annoyance or frustration over the trial court characterizing his complaints regarding his counsel as defendant having a mere lack of confidence in him based on his personality. immediately after the trial court said it understood that defendant was saying the ant, defendant said he wanted to represent himself. faretta motions asserted during the february 27, 2014, hearing were made out of annoyance or frustration at the immediately after the trial court initially stated that it was going to grant the request by wanted to represent himself. defendant then said that he wanted a speedy trial and if he cannot have new counsel, he wanted to represent himself. then, after the trial court benefit and defendant could not have his prior counsel in place of his present counsel, defendant again stated that he wanted to represent himself. in addition, equivocal because the record suggests that defendant made his faretta motions because he wanted to free himself of his counsel. the court in people v. scott, supra, 91 cal.app.4th 1197, of his motion for self-representation under faretta, supra, 422 u.s. 806 stating the motion was not unequivocal. [defendant] made his faretta 6 a faretta motion that is untimelythat is, not made within a reasonable time prior to trialis addressed to the sound discretion of the trial court. (people v. marshall (1996) 13 cal.4th 799, 827.) faretta motions were untimely. 9 motion immediately after the trial court denied his marsden motion, and subsequent comments suggest he made the faretta motion only because he wanted to rid himself of appointed counsel.people v. scott, supra, 91 cal.app.4th at p. 1205, fn. omitted.) here, during the october 28, 2013, hearing, defendant stated that he did not ; accused his counsel of working with the district attorney; accused his counsel of saying that defendant was guilty; and said that he does not like the way his counsel at the february 27, 2014, hearing, defendant said that, counsel] at the conclusion cou these comments, made during hearings to substitute his counsel under people v. marsden, supra, 2 cal.3d 118, were obviously aimed at impressing upon the trial court just how dissatisfied defendant was with his present counsel. (people v. skaggs (1996) 44 cal.app.4th 1, 6-7.) they suggest that defendant made his faretta motions wanted to rid himself. (people v. scott, supra, 91 cal.app.4th at p. 1205, fn. omitted.) defendant cites people v. dent (2003) 30 cal.4th 213 for the proposition that the being id. at p. 219.) we disagree. ts to represent himself as continuing to make the requests. at the for defendant to try this case on his own. thereafter, on february 27, 2014, defendant again made a faretta motion, this time immediately after 10 objection. the trial court again characterized his request as being and thereafter, at the same hearing, defendant again requested to represent himself. this case falls under the cases that hold faretta motions may properly be denied when a requests to represent himself are equivocal. the trial court did not err faretta motions. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. mosk, acting p. j. we concur: kriegler, j. kirschner, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 