filed 10/6/15 p. v. butcher ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. john humphrey butcher, defendant and appellant. b256344 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya080572) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, eric c. taylor, judge. affirmed. hodges and associates and a. clifton hodges for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, and michael c. keller and timothy m. weiner, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________ 2 appellant john humphrey butcher appeals from the judgment entered following his no contest plea to two counts of grand theft by embezzlement (pen. code,1  487, subd. (a)) and admission to various enhancement allegations based on his unlawful takings ( 186.11, subd. (a), 12022.6, subd. (a)(2), 1203.045, subd. (a), 1170, subd. (h)(3), 803, subd. (c)). among other arguments, butcher contends the trial court erred in convicting him of two counts of grand theft and in imposing consecutive sentences with associated enhancements based on his multiple convictions. butcher also claims his plea and admissions were involuntary and the result of ineffective assistance of counsel because he was not properly advised of the penal consequences of his plea. we affirm. factual background and procedural history i. the preliminary hearing butcher was employed as the controller at mri centers, inc., a small medical practice, for approximately 15 years. among other duties, butcher was responsible for ting payroll outside payroll service. carrie silvano was a certified public accountant whose firm was responsible for preparing tax returns and financial statements for mri centers. in or about september 2010, silvano met with butcher to the 2009 payroll tax returns, but told silvano that the returns would not include the total payroll amount. butcher explained that, at times, he had issued manual paychecks to the employees of mri centers rather than using the outside payroll service. although butcher withheld payroll taxes from the checks that he directly issued to employees, he did not remit those taxes to the federal or state tax authorities. showed that, between january 19, 2006 and july 9, 2010, butchebank account to pay each credit card bill issued for an american express card held in the 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 name of butcher and mri centers. while a number of charges on the american express butcher made more than $100,000 in unrelated personal charges that were showed that, between january 5, 2006 and august 31, 2010, butcher issued over $500,000 in checks lsely representing in the general ledger that a number of those checks had been issued to legitimate business vendors. according to after crediting butcher his salary and deposits, the total amount that butcher wrongfully took from mri centers between january 2006 and august 2010 was $293,217.18. ii. the information in an information filed on november 29, 2011, the los angeles county district attorney charged butcher with two counts of grand theft by embezzlement in violation of section 487, subdivision (a) (counts 1 and 3).2 count 1 alleged that the offense was committed between january 19, 2006 and july 9, 2010. count 3 alleged that the offense was committed between january 5, 2006 and august 31, 2010. as to each count, it was alleged that butcher took property whose value exceeded $100,000 under section 1203.045, subdivision (a), and exceeded $150,000 under 12022.6, former subdivision (a)(2). it also was alleged that butcher committed two or more related felonies, a material element of which was fraud or embezzlement and involving a pattern of related felony conduct within the meaning of section 186.11, subdivision (a), which required state prison custody time to be served pursuant to section 1170, subdivision (h)(3). in addition, it was alleged that the offense in each count was not discovered until september 2, 2010 because butcher fraudulently concealed the offense within the meaning of section 803, subdivision (c). 2 the information did not contain a count 2. 4 iii. the plea hearing on april 4, 2012, in the presence of his counsel, butcher entered an open plea of no contest to counts 1 and 3 and an admission of each enhancement allegation. at the plea hearing, the prosecutor advised butcher of the nature of the charges against him, egations. two of these allegations talk about the fact that your conviction under these allegations would require you to serve a prison sentence. the other three allegations are allegations that . . . increase your sentence because of the amount of money that was taken. the maximum prosecutor further statedpleading to both counts and by pleading to all of be up to the judge to decide what your indicated that he understood the nature of the charges against him and that he wanted to enter the plea. the prosecutor next advised butcher of his constitutional rights, including his right to a jury trial, his right of confrontation, and his privilege against self-incrimination, and butcher agreed to waive each of those rights. the prosecutor also advised butcher of the possible sentencing consequences of his plea, statingthis case, the judge has different options on what your sentence could be. if he sentences you to probation, then there will be terms of your probation. and if you violate your terms, you could be sent to prison for up to nine years. if you are sentence-release community supervision. and if you violate the terms of your parole or post-release community supervision, you could be sent back to county jail for 180 days for each violation. the butcher acknowledged that he had consulted with his attorney and 5 that he understood the consequences of his plea. he also acknowledged that he had not been made any promises in exchange for his plea or admissions. butcher thereafter pleaded no contest to counts 1 and 3. he also admitted each enhancement allegation set forth in the information, including the aboth counts that you just pled to that these crimes are a violation of penal code section the plea and waiver and stipulated to a factual basis for the plea based on the probation report, police reports, and preliminary hearing transcript. the trial court found that butcher had knowingly and intelligently entered into the plea and that there was a factual basis for the plea. based on the plea and admissions, the court found butcher guilty of two counts of grand theft by embezzlement as charged in counts 1 and 3. the court set the matter for a restitution and sentencing hearing, and ordered an updated probation report for butcher to be submitted prior to the hearing. iv. the post-plea proceedings following several continuances, the trial court held a restitution hearing between march and may 2013. at the hearing, silvano testified that, based on her most recent s, the total amount that butcher wrongfully took from the company between 2006 and 2010 was $477,081. according to silvano, this amount consisted of the personal charges that butcher made on the american express card and the money that was paid to butcher from mri center bank account, reduced by the net earnings reported on his w-2 forms and the money that he deposited back into during that time period. silvano also testified that, in response to her calculations, butcher prepared his own calculations of the total amount butcher testified on his own behalf at the restitution hearing. he admitted that he wrongfully took money from mri centers, but disputed the amount calculated by silvano. according to butcher, some of the charges on the american express card paid 6 for by mri centers were for gas, mileage, and other costs that butcher incurred in using his personal vehicle for company business. some of the checks that butcher issued to vacation and sick time that he accrued but never used during his employment. other checks that butcher issued to himself were reimbursement for money that he paid out of his personal bank account to company was struggling financially. because butcher wanted to purchase mri centers from the two physicians who owned it, he also saw himself as a future owner of the business and believed that it was acceptable for him to commingle personal and company funds as he deemed fit. butcher testified that, based on the available financial records, the total amount in restitution that he owed to mri centers was $136,934. at the conclusion of the restitution hearing, the trial court found that the testimony provided by silvano was credible, and that the testimony provided by butcher was unreliable, misleading, and replete with factual misrepresentations. the court ordered butcher to pay restitution to mri centers in the amount of $477,000, and continued the matter for the sentencing hearing. at the sentencing hearing on october 21, 2013, the prosecution recommended a sentence of five years and eight months in state prison. defense counsel asked the court to follow the recommendation of the probation department and order that butcher be placed on probation. the trial court indicated that it would sentence butcher to a state prison term of five years and eight months, noting in addressing the monetary fine to be imposed under section 186.11 multiple convictions, defense counsel argued that the two grand theft counts were defense counsel also asserted that 7 defense have allowed him the trial court decided to continue the sentencing hearing for further argument on this issue. at the sentencing hearing on march 18, 2014, defense counsel made a motion to defense counsel contended that butcher committed a single grand theft notwithstanding the multiple charges because the entire time period alleged in count 1 was encompassed within the time period alleged in count 3. the prosecution argued that the two counts were separate and distinct offenses as evidenced by the different methods that butcher used to embezzle money from mri centers over a period of five years. the trial court denied the motion to withdraw the plea. the court then sentenced butcher to a total term of five years and eight months in state prison, consisting of three years on count 1, a consecutive term of eight months on count 3, and an additional two years pursuant to section 186.11, subdivision (a). following the sentencing hearing, butcher obtained a certificate of probable cause and filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion i. multiple convictions and punishments for grand theft on appeal, butcher argues that the double jeopardy clauses of the federal and state constitutions and applicable california case law precluded him from suffering separate convictions for the two grand theft by embezzlement charges to which he entered a no contest plea. butcher also asserts that the trial court violated section 654 when it sentenced him to consecutive terms on the two grand theft counts and imposed an additional two-year enhancement based on his multiple convictions. a. relevant law convicted of, although not punished for, more than one crime arising out of the same act or course of conduct. any number of the offenses (people v. reed (2006) 38 cal.4th 1224, 1226-1227.) in people v. bailey (1961) 55 cal.2d 514 (bailey), however, the california supreme 8 court set forth the following rule for determining the circumstances under which a defendant who commits multiple thefts from a single victim may be convicted of more than one count of grand theft: eries of wrongful acts constitutes a single offense or multiple offenses depends upon the facts of each case, and a defendant may be properly convicted upon separate counts charging grand theft from the same person if the evidence shows that the offenses are separate and distinct and were not committed pursuant to one intention, one general impulse, and one plan. [citation.]id. at p. 519.) in people v. whitmer (2014) 59 cal.4th 733 (whitmer), court of appeal decisions consistently interpreted bailey to prohibit multiple convictions for grand theft where the defendant committed a series of thefts pursuant to a single plan or intention. (see, e.g., people v. jaska (2011) 194 cal.app.4th 971, 984 (jaska); people v. tabb (2009) 170 cal.app.4th 1142, 1148; people v. kronemyer (1987) 189 cal.app.3d 314, 364; people v. brooks (1985) 166 cal.app.3d 24, 31; people v. packard (1982) 131 cal.app.3d 622, 627; people v. gardner (1979) 90 cal.app.3d 42, 48.)3 in applying this interpretation of bailey, these pre-whitmer cases also identified [as] relevant in determining whether a defendant acted pursuant to a single intent in committing a series of thefts: whether the defendant acted pursuant to a plot or scheme [citations]; whether the defendant stole a defined sum of money or particular items of property [citation]; whether the defendant committed the thefts in a short timespan [citation] and/or in a 3 in whitmer, the california supreme court rejected this interpretation of bailey, a defendant may be convicted of multiple counts of grand theft based on separate and distinct acts of theft, even if committed pursuant to a single overarching whitmer, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 741.) however, the whitmer court also concluded that its holding could not be applied retroactively because long, uninterrupted series of court of appeal cases . . . consistently held that multiple acts of grand theft pursuant to a single scheme cannot support more than one count of grand theft.id. at p. 742.) as the attorney general concedes, because butcher committed his crimes prior to the decision in whitmer, the pre-whitmer interpretation of bailey must be applied in this case. 9 similar location [citation]; and perhaps most significantly, whether the defendant employed a single method to commit the thefts [citation].jaska, supra, at pp. 984-985, fn. omitted.) hether multiple takings are committed pursuant to one intention, one general impulse, and one plan is a question of fact for the jury based on particular circumstances of each case. [citations.] . . . the bailey doctrine applies as a matter of law only in the absence of any evidence from which the jury could have reasonably inferred that the defendant acted pursuant to more than one intention, one general impulse, or one plan. id. at pp. 983-984, fn. omitted.) even where a defendant may be properly convicted of more than one offense, section 6544 bars multiple punishment for separate offenses arising out of a single occurrence when all of the offenses were incident to one objective(people v. cowan (2010) 50 cal.4th 401, 498.) whether a course of criminal conduct is divisible and therefore gives rise to more than one act within the meaning of section 654 depends on the intent and objective of the actor. if all of the offenses were incident to one objective, the defendant may be punished for any one of such offe(people v. rodriguez (2009) 47 cal.4th 501, 507, italics omitted.) s express or implied determination that two crimes were separate, involving separate objectives, must be upheld on appeal if supported by substantial evidence. (people v. brents (2012) 53 cal.4th 599, 618.) b. butcher proper butcher contends that, under the pre-whitmer interpretation of bailey and its progeny, the trial court erred in convicting him of two counts of grand theft because the record showed that he acted pursuant to a single scheme, plan, or course of conduct in embezzling money from his former employer, mri centers. for similar reasons, butcher 4 section 654 [a]n act or omission that is punishable in different ways by different provisions of law shall be punished under the provision that provides for the longest potential term of imprisonment, but in no case shall the act or omission be punished under more t ( 654, subd. (a).) 10 claims that the consecutive terms imposed by the trial court on the two grand theft counts violated section 654, and that the sentence enhancements imposed by the trial court based on his multiple convictions for grand theft were erroneous and must be stricken. based on the record before us, we conclude that these contentions lack merit. the trial court could only convict him of a single count of grand theft under bailey is inconsistent with his plea. in addition to pleading no contest to two separate grand theft counts, butcher admitted each enhancement allegation set forth in the information, including the enhancement alleged under section 186.11. two or more related felonies, a material element of which is fraud or embezzlement, which involve a pattern of related felony conduct, and . . . the taking of . . . more than one hundred thousand ( 186.11, subd. (a).) butcher thus admitted to committing multiple counts of grand theft as part of his open plea. (see people v. wallace (2004) 33 cal.4th 738, 749 [guilty or no contest plea admits every element of the crime charged . . . and people v. french (2008) 43 cal.4th 36, 50 admission of an alleged enhancement is valid even if it does not include specific admissions of every factual element requir second, the evidence at the preliminary hearing was sufficient to support a finding that butcher acted pursuant to more than one plan or intention in embezzling money from his employer over a five-year period. as to count 1, silvano testified that, between january 19, 2006 and july 9, 2010, butcher incurred a significant number of unauthorized personal charges on an american express card, which were paid for by mri centers. as to count 3, silvano testified that, between january 5, 2006 and august 31, 2010, butcher issued a large number of checks from mri centers to himself, while falsifying the general ledger to reflect that these checks had been issued to legitimate vendors. at the restitution hearing held after the entry of his plea, butcher admitted that he had used these different methods to take money from mri centers. he also admitted that he acted with different intentions depending on the taking. according to butcher, some of the charges that he incurred on the american express card were for travel-related expenses for which 11 he believed he was entitled to reimbursement. some of the checks that butcher issued to himself were compensation for unused vacation and sick time, while others were repayment for money that he allegedly paid out of his personal bank account to cover financial obligations. other payments that butcher made to himself were not reimbursement for any particular expense, but rather because butcher saw himself as a partial owner of the business entitled to commingle personal and company funds. this case is similar to the pre-whitmer decision in jaska. the defendant in jaska was convicted of five separate counts of grand theft by embezzlement after she stole approximately $500,000 from her employer. (jaska, supra, 194 cal.app.4th at p. 973.) she argued on appeal that all but one of the grand theft counts should be reversed under bailey because they were based on a series of thefts committed against a single victim pursuant to a single plan. the court of appeal affirmed the multiple convictions for grand theft here was no evidence in this case that [the defendant] acted pursuant to a plan or sc assets. rather, the evidence suggests that [the defendant] stole various sums of money in an opportunistic manner, essentially whenever the need and/or occasion arose(id. at p. 985.) the court also noted that the defendant committed numerous fraudulent acts over a four-employed a variety of distinct methods to steal from [the employer]. she improperly withdrew money from the petty cash account, used company funds to pay her personal american express and visa credit card accounts, took unauthorized pay and reimbursement, and used [company] funds to make the monthly lease payments on [her vehicle]ibid.) as the court explained, the multiple grand theft convictions reflect the many ways in which [the defendant] abused her position of trust to embezzle money from (ibid.) like the defendant in jaska, butcher employed at least two distinct methods to embezzle large sums of money from his employer: (1) he made numerous personal charges on an american express card which were paid for in full by mri centers, and (2) he issued numerous checks from mri centers to himself while falsely representing in itimate business purposes. 12 there was no evidence that, in employing these methods, butcher acted pursuant to a single scheme or plan to steal a defined set of assets. rather, the evidence demonstrated that various acts of embezzlement occurred over a five-year period, and that he incurred unauthorized credit card charges and issued fraudulent checks to himself (jaska, supra, 194 cal.app.4th at p. 985.) under these circumstances, bailey and its progeny did not prohibit the trial court from convicting butcher of the two grand theft counts to which he pleaded no contest, nor did it preclude the court from imposing the multiple conviction enhancements expressly admitted by butcher as part of his plea. for similar reasons, the trial court did not violate section 654 in imposing separate sentences on the grand theft counts, as well as the enhancement pursuant to section 186.11. , the two grand theft counts did not arise out of a single, indivisible course of conduct within the meaning of section 654. as discussed, use of a corporate credit card to incur a variety of personal charges that were then paid for by mri centers. count 3, on the other hand, issuance of fraudulent checks to himself whenever he believed he was entitled to reimbursement for a work-related expense or otherwise had a need for cash. this is not a case where butcher made a single misrepresentation that resulted in his receipt of a series of unauthorized payments. instead, the evidence before the trial court showed that butcher engaged in separate and distinct acts over a five-year period to obtain money directly from mri centers and to ensure that the company paid for his personal credit card usage. the trial court accordingly did not err in sentencing butcher to consecutive terms on the two grand theft counts and in imposing a separate two-year enhancement based on his multiple convictions. ( 186.11, subd. (a)(1) [section 186.11 shall be . . . in addition and consecutive to the punishment prescribed for the felony offenses of which 5 5 im that his multiple convictions and sentences for grand theft violated constitutional protections against double jeopardy. as the california 13 ii. voluntariness of the plea and admissions butcher contends that his plea of no contest to the grand theft charges as well as his admission of the sentence enhancement allegations must be vacated because they were involuntary. he specifically claims that he was not advised by the trial court that he was subject to a mandatory prison term based on his plea and admissions, and insists that he would not have entered into the plea had he known of the sentencing consequences. a. relevant law when a criminal defendant enters a guilty plea, the trial court is required to ensure that the plea is knowing and voluntary. [citation.] as a prophylactic measure, the court must inform the defendant of three constitutional rights the privilege against compulsory self-incrimination, the right to trial by juryaccusers and solicit a personal waiver of each. [citations.]people v. cross (2015) advised of the direct consequences of conviction such as the permissible range of punishment provided by statute. . . .in re moser (1993) 6 cal.4th 342, 351.) a guilty or no contest plea is valid as long as the record affirmatively shows that it is voluntary and intelligent under the totality of the circumstances. (people v. mosby (2004) 33 cal.4th protects against a second prosecution for the same offense after acquittal. it protects against a second prosecution for the same offense after conviction. and it protects against multiple punishments for [citation.] the first two categories of protection afforded by the double jeopardy clause, by their express terms, are clearly not implicated [where] we are directly concerned only with multiple convictions in a unitary trial, not multiple punishments in successive unrelated criminal proceedings. likewise, with regard to the third category of double jeopardy protection multiple p [citation] the [united states] supreme court has [t]he [double jeopardy] clause protects only against the imposition of multiple criminal punishments for the same and then only when such occurs in successive proceedings people v. sloan (2007) 42 cal.4th 110, 120-121.) because butcher was convicted and sentenced on the two grand theft counts in the same criminal proceeding, neither federal nor state double jeopardy principles were implicated. 14 353, 361; people v. howard the record must affirmatively disclose that a defendant who pleaded guilty entered his plea understandingly and ].) a defendant may move to set aside a guilty or no contest plea for good cause at any time before entry of judgment. ( 1018.)6 to establish good cause to withdraw a guilty plea, the defendant must show by clear and convincing evidence that he or she was operating under mistake, ignorance, or any other factor overcoming the exercise of his or her free judgment, including inadvertence, fraud, or duress. [citations.] the defendant may not withdraw a plea because the defendant has changed his or her mind. [citations.] (people v. archer (2014) 230 cal.app.4th 693, 702.) a decision to deny a motion to rests in the sound and is final unless the defendant can show a clear abuse of that discretion. [citation.] guilty pleas resulting from a bargain should not be set aside lightly and finality of pr ibid.) b. butcher argues that his plea and admissions were involuntary because the trial butcher also asserts that he was misled about his possible sentence when the prosecutor stated that he could be sentenced to probation and the trial court advised him that it would obtain a probation report prior to the sentencing hearing. based on the totality of the record, we conclude . the record of the plea hearing reflects that, in the presence of his counsel, butcher was advised of the consequences of his plea and admissions, including the permissible 6 n application of the defendant at any time before judgment . . ., the court may, . . . for a good cause shown, permit the plea of guilty to be withdrawn and a plea of not guilty substituted. . . . this section shall be liberally construed to effect these 15 range of punishment. prior to taking the plea, the prosecutor expressly advised butcher with two counts of grand theft by embezzlementeach count, . . . five separate allegations.wo of these allegations talk about the fact that your conviction under these allegations would require other three allegations are allegations that . . . increase your sentence because of the amount of money that was taken when asked if he understood the nature of the charges and the consequences of his plea, butcher affirmed that he did. butcher thereafter entered a plea of no contest to the two grand theft counts and admitted each enhancement allegation. with respect to the section 186.11 enhancement, the prosecutor specifically counts that you just pled to that these crimes are a violation of penal code section 186.11 which requires prison custody time to be served, . . . to that allegation, do you admit or responded on this record, butcher clearly acknowledged and understood that he was subject to a state prison sentence as a consequence of his plea and admissions. butcher nevertheless contends that both the trial court and the prosecutor misled him about his possible sentence by erroneously suggesting that he might be eligible for probation. butcher claims the trial court lacked any such sentencing discretion because a state prison term was mandatory under section 1170. while it is true that section 1170, subdivision (h) provides an enhancement pursuant to section 186.11 is imposed, an executed sentence for a felony punishable pursuant to this subdivision shall be served in state prison), it also explicitly states othing in this subdivision shall be construed to prevent other dispositions authorized by law, including . . . an order granting probation pursuant to section 1203.1 (subd. (h)(4)). instead, was governed by section 1203.045, which states xcept in unusual cases where the interests of justice would best be served if the person is granted probation, probation shall not be granted to any person convicted of a crime of theft of an amount exceeding one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000). ( 1203.045, subd. (a).) although plea and admissions meant that there was a 16 statutory presumption against probation which could othe trial court was not precluded as a matter of law from considering a grant of probation. (ibid.; see also cal. rules of court, rule 4.413(b) [i]f the defendant comes under a statutory provision prohibiting probatexcept in unusual cases where the interests o . . . the court should apply the criteria in (c) to evaluate whether the statutory limitation on probation is overcome.)7 accordingly, the prosecutor did not misrepresent the permissible range of punishment in advising butcher nor did the trial court make an illusory promise of probation in stating that it would request an updated probation report for butcher prior to the sentencing hearing. because the totality of the record shows that butcher was properly advised of the consequences of his plea, he has failed to demonstrate that his plea and admissions were not knowing and voluntary. the trial court therefore did not abuse its discretion in motion to withdraw his plea. iii. ineffective assistance of counsel butcher argues that he received ineffective assistance of counsel at his plea hearing because his attorney failed to object to his multiple convictions for grand theft on double jeopardy grounds. butcher also asserts that his counsel was ineffective in failing to properly advise him of the sentencing consequences of his plea and admissions. a. relevant law a criminal defendant is guaranteed the right to the assistance of counsel by the sixth amendment to the united states constitution and article i, section 15 of the 7 at the sentencing hearing, the trial court specifically addressed whether butcher overcame the statutory limitation on probation and concluded en no unusual circumstances . . . that woul court determined that this was not a case that would support a grant of probation under section 1203.045, subdivision (a), it was required to impose a state prison term under section 1170, subdivision (h)(3). 17 (people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 417.) when challenging a conviction on grounds of ineffective assistance, the defendant must demonstrate s inadequacy. to satisfy this burden, the defendant must first show s performance was deficient, in that it fell below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms. second, the defendant must show resulting prejudice, i.e., a reasonable prs deficient performance, the outcome of the proceeding would have been different. (people v. mai (2013) 57 cal.4th 986, 1009; see also strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 694.) defendant who pled guilty demonstras incompetent performance in advising him to enter the plea by establishing that a reasonable probability exists that, but for cous incompetence, he would not have pled guilty and would have insisted, instead, on proceeding to trial. (in re resendiz (2001) 25 cal.4th 230, 253.) b. butcher has failed to show ineffective assistance of counsel butcher claims that his however, as discussed, the double jeopardy protections afforded by the federal and state constitutions did not preclude butcher from suffering multiple convictions or consecutive sentences for grand theft in the same criminal proceeding. the bailey doctrine likewise did not prohibit the trial court from finding butcher guilty of the two grand theft charges to which he pleaded no contest and thereafter imposing the sentence enhancements that butcher expressly admitted as part of his open plea. because any objection on double jeopardy or bailey grounds ineffective assistance in failing to raise such objections at the plea hearing. (see people v. anderson (2001) 25 cal.4th 543ounsel is not required to proffer futile objectionspeople v. smithey (1999) 20 cal.4th 936, 992 [counsel is not ineffective in any objection would have been futile 18 butcher also contends that he received ineffective assistance of counsel resulting in prejudice because his attorney failed to advise him that he was subject to a state prison term based on his plea and admissions. this claim is not supported by the record. as discussed, at the plea hearing, butcher was expressly advised in the presence of his counsel that his admission to certain sentence enhancement allegations would require him to serve any custody time in state prison. butcher acknowledged that he understood the nature of the charges and enhancements alleged against him as well as the consequences of his plea and admissions. butcher also acknowledged that he had a full opportunity to discuss the facts of his case, possible defenses, and consequences of his plea with his attorney, and that he did not need any additional time to consult with his attorney about the plea. rney provided him with any erroneous legal advice that caused butcher to enter into the plea or admissions. there is also no evidence in the record that butcher would have rejected a plea and elected to proceed to trial but for the deficient performance of his attorney.8 (people v. breslin (2012) 205 cal.app.4th 1409, 1421 s self-[regarding whether] with competent advice he or she would [or would not] have accepted a proffered plea bargain, is insufficient in and of itsels burden of proof as to prejudiceon this record, butcher has failed to establish that he is entitled to relief based on the ineffective assistance of counsel. 8 in support of his claim that he would not have entered into a plea if he understood the never had been charged with numerous counts of grand theft (as opposed to the two counts that were charged), he would have proceeded to trial. it does not, however, demonstrate that 186.11 and section 1203.045 enhancements, nor does it show that butcher entered into the plea based on a mistaken belief that he would be granted probation. 19 iv. applicability of the 2011 amendment to section 487 butcher asserts that a 2011 amendment to section 487, which raised the threshold amount for grand theft from $400 to $950, requires reversal of his convictions because his no contest plea to the two grand theft charges was based on the lower $400 threshold. the attorney general concedes that the increased $950 threshold for grand theft applies s that he stole more than $150,000 were adequate to sustain his convictions. in fact, butcher pleaded no contest to two counts of grand theft, felonies, and further admitted stealing more than $150,000. we agree his pleas and the admissions were sufficient to support his convictions for grand theft under the amended threshold. prior to january 1, 2011, section 487, subdivision (a) provided that a defendant was guilty of grand theft if he or she stole property worth more than $400. (stats. 2009-2010 (2010 3d ex. sess.) ch. 28,  17.) effective january 1, 2011, the legislature amended section 487, subdivision (a) to define grand theft as the taking of property worth more than $950. (stats. 2010 (2010 reg. sess.) ch. 693,  1.) in people v. wade (2012) 204 cal.app.4th 1142, 1152, the court of appeal held that the increased threshold for grand theft applied retroactively to cases that were not final as of the effective date of the amendment. because grand theft convictions were not final when the 2011 amendment took effect, the $950 threshold applies retroactively to his case. however, butcher is not entitled to relief from his no contest plea because the record shows beyond a reasonable doubt that his two convictions for grand theft by embezzlement were based on his taking of property of a value that exceeded $150,000. as part of his plea agreement, butcher expressly admitted that, as to both grand theft counts, he engaged in a pattern of felony conduct that destroyed property of a value o(a)(2). he took property of a value that exceeded the amended $950 threshold. under these 20 circumstances, any error in failing to specify in counts 1 and 3 of the information that the amount taken by butcher exceeded $950 was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. disposition the judgment is affirmed. zelon, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. segal, j. 