filed 8/24/15 p. v. hernandez ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. bernard hernandez, defendant and appellant. b256010 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka102935) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, george genesta, judge. affirmed. kimberly howland meyer, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and j. michael lehmann, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 bernard hernandez appeals the judgment following his conviction and sentence for multiple identity theft and related counts. he argues (1) his constitutional rights were violated by an illegal search of the hotel room he occupied; (2) insufficient evidence supported his conviction for second degree burglary; and (3) the trial court violated his constitutional rights to confrontation and cross-examination by excluding audio recordings of police officers during their entry into the hotel room he occupied. we reject each of these contentions and affirm. procedural history hernandez was charged with three counts of misdemeanor identity theft (pen. code,  530.5, subd. (c)(1); counts 1, 2, & 3);1 one count of felony identifying information theft ( 530.5, subd. (c)(3); count 4); one count of second degree commercial burglary ( 459; count 5); two counts of identity theft ( 530.5, subd. (a); counts 6 & 7); three counts of receiving stolen property ( 496, subd. (a); counts 8, 9, & 10); one count of possession of a  470b; count 15); one count of possession of methamphetamine (health & saf. code,  11377, subd. (a); count 16); and one count of misdemeanor possession of an opium pipe (health & saf. code, former  11364.1, subd. (a)(1); count 17). it was alleged appellant had suffered three prior serious or violent felonies ( 667, subds. (a)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)) and four prior prison terms ( 667.5, subd. (b)). during trial the court granted a prosecution motion to dismiss counts 4, 7, and 9, and a jury found hernandez not guilty of count 6, but found him guilty of the remaining nine counts. appellant admitted the prior serious and violent felony and prior prison term allegations, and the court sentenced him to eight years in prison. appellant timely appealed. statement of facts on august 21, 2013, roxanne golchini checked into a room at casa 425, a hotel in claremont, for a one-night stay. the next morning, hotel assistant manager audrey mangan hotel for a few days a month earlier, causing damage to the room, smoking in the room, 1 undesignated statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 3 causing the bathtub to overflow, and breaking items. a month later, mangan had learned that the credit card golchini used was fraudulent. around the same time, the hotel had been contacted by a local merchant reporting that golchini had used a fraudulent credit card with that merchant while she was a guest at casa 425. as a result, the general manager of the hotel had filed a formal complaint with the claremont police department. when mangan 22, 2013, she contacted the general manager and called the police to request assistance evicting golchini from the room. four claremont police officers arrived at the hotel around 8:00 a.m. on august 22, 2013, . after obtaining information from mangan, officers jeff ting, hector tamayo, and michael snyder, along with detective isaac reyes, proceeded to room 312 on the third floor to contact golchini. the officers knocked forcefully and loudly announced their presence. they received no response, so officer ting tried unsuccessfully to open the door with the key card provided by mangan. they continued to knock for one or two minutes. at some point, the curtains in front of the door were pulled back quickly, and the officers spotted a hand and face, but no one opened the door. while officers remained at the door, detective reyes went to look for the ford fiesta golchini had registered with the hotel when she checked in. as he left the parking structure, he saw the window to room 312 being opened. it appeared appellant tied a sheet to a portion of the window and threw it down the side of the building. as appellant leaned out the window, detective reyes radioed the officers outside the room and advised them to force entry because it appeared someone was about to jump out the window. as detective reyes yelled at appellant to stop, appellant looked at him and backed into the room. officer snyder smashed the glass next to the hotel room door handle, reached in, and unlocked the door. the officers entered and found appellant alone in the room. appellant did not give officers his name or tell them whose room it was. after appellant was detained, officer snyder did a protective sweep of the room looking for other individuals. he observed the bed sheet removed from the bed and tied to the window crank. the comforter make sure no one was hiding under it. when he did, several credit cards, identification 4 cards, and a checkbook fell to the floor. he also saw vario in the room officer ting noticed a methamphetamine pipe on the coffee table. on the desk he saw an open black pouch containing a small baggie of methamphetamine. he also saw credit cards on the coffee table and bed. and he found an open canvas bag on the floor containing some type of embossing machine. later, when officers searched the room pursuant to a warrant, detective reyes gave officer ting two identification cards, which check turned up different names than on the cards. detective reyes also gave officer ting a nissan key fob, which officer ting used to locate a nissan altima parked on the street outside the hotel. at the police station, appellant gave the name of paul anthony amaro and the date of birth of february 1, 1980. fingerprinting revealed his real identity, however. the hotel room, turning up male clothing and toiletries. a brown wallet was found containing three identification cards bearing had the name paul anthony amaro. nothing in the wallet bore al name. five or six cell phones were found, three of which could be turned on. a search of those yielded photographs of appellant and others, photographs of visa cards in various names, and photographs of handwritten notes. text messages were also recovered dated august 20, 2013, contaia checkbook, checks, and additional credit cards were found on the bed and on the comforter on the floor. a black zippered pouch was also found containing approximately 29 credit, debit, and gift cards, some of which were blank and some of which had account numbers. a blank visa card was found in the embossing machine. a small portable scanner, a container of red invisible ink used to make watermarks, an aluminum case containing small tools used to fabricate cards, and additional blank checks were all 5 seized. in all, officers found 55 blank and embossed credit cards; identification cards with seven or eight different names; and checks with four to five different names. a search of the nissan altima yielded piles of male clothing in the back seat. it was a hertz rental car, in his defense, appellant testified that, on august 22, 2013, a friend dropped him off at casa 425 around 3:00 a.m., where he met golchini in the parking lot. he had not had a place to stay for a few days, and golchini allowed him to shower and sleep in the room for the night. he only had his cell phone, a bag of toiletries, and two grocery bags of clothing with him. when he entered the room, he noticed there were no covers on the bed and golchini left and returned with food. after eating, appellant went to sleep. he was awakened by police officers knocking on the door. he immediately panicked because he was on probation and had not reported to his probation officer. he tied a bed sheet to the window crank and looked out the window, but it was too far to jump, so he stepped back inside. two officers entered the room with their guns drawn yelling commands at him. he did not give his name because he was on probation and did not want to go to jail. he claimed that, as he was being handcuffed, officers were searching the room. he denied any of the articles of clothing or contraband in the room belonged to him. he also denied that the cell phone containing the text messages was his and claimed he had not noticed the methamphetamine pipe on the coffee table. he explained he was booked under the name paul amaro because he was afraid he would go to jail for his probation violation if he gave his real name. so when officers asked if that was his name, he simply said yes. he , and he was willing to lie to avoid going to jail. he acknowledged having fraudulent identification cards so he could pass as paul amaro and avoid his probation violation. he believed no such person had the name paul amaro with the same birth date and address, and he believed the other identities on the 6 cards with his photograph were fictitious. he acknowledged that one of the credit cards found in the room bore the name paul amaro, but he denied knowing it existed until after his arrest. he was unaware of anyone else who used the name paul amaro but acknowledged it was not a coincidence that on two cell phones recovered from the room the name paul amaro appeared on a credit card. he did not know who made the false identification cards but admitted golchini gave them to him. appellant further admitted that, in a recorded conversation with his girlfriend while he was in jail, he said was only joking. said that whoever roxy calls, that person needed to tell her that the could be facing a more serious sentence than golchini because of his criminal history. in a recorded conversation with another woman, appellant again asked what time to with this case or whatnot because she needs to get fucking at approximately 2:30 p.m. on the same day appellant was arrested, golchini was arrested in the lobby of casa 425 for a series of thefts in claremont during the previous month. she had eight debit cards, some gift cards, and three cell phones in her purse. she told police she was driving a ford fiesta, which had been registered to room 312 when she checked in the day before. there was a receipt inside her car for another hotel for a one-night stay the previous night. 7 discussion 1. search of hotel room appellant claims his fourth amendment rights were violated by the officers warrantless entry and search of the hotel room he occupied, and that the trial court erred in denying his motion to suppress the evidence seizedinitial illegal entry and search. the trial court concluded he lacked both an actual and a legitimate expectation of privacy in the hotel room in order to object under the fourth amendment, and even if he had a reasonable expectation of privacy, the exigent circumstances, plain view, and protective sweep exceptions to the warrant requirement applied. we agree appellant lacked a legitimate expectation of privacy in the hotel room in order to object to the entry and search, so we need not address the propriety of the search itself. we limit our discussion accordingly. a. proceedings appellant filed a pretrial motion to suppress all the evidence seized from the hotel room pursuant to section 1538.52 and a supplemental motion to quash and suppress. the trial court held a lengthy hearing, during which mangan, detective reyes, golchini, officer snyder, and officer ting testified. the court also listened to audio recordings of the hearing transcript, and listened to the audio recordings of as relevant to the privacy issue, mangan testified when she checked the hotel previous stay, during which golchini had damaged the room. a month after that stay the hotel had been notified that golchini had used a fraudulent credit card. a local merchant had also notified the hotel that golchini had used a fraudulent credit card at that business. the hotel had reported the incident to the p 2 seizure without a warrant was unreasonecessary to make such a determination. ( 1538.5, subds. (a)(1)(a), (c)(1).) 8 august 22, 2013, she contacted the claremont police department, suspecting golchini may have used a fraudulent card again. she intended to have golchini ejected from the hotel as a result of the prior fraudulent transaction. golchini was the only person registered for the room but the hotel generally permitted guests to have overnight visitors without registering them. while stay, on the prior occasion when golchini had used a fraudulent credit card, the fraud had not been discovered until there was a later dispute over the charge. golchini testified she rented the room at casa 425 but had no intention of staying there. she did not initially rent the room for appellant, but when she ran into appellant later that night, she decided to let him stay there and gave him a key card to the room. she did so in exchange for appellant supplying her fraudulent credit card numbers for other purchases. she had none of her possessions in the room and she had a room at a different hotel. she did not register appellant as a guest at casa 425. she testified she would give appellant her prepaid card and he would upload money to it, use it for his expenses, and give her the money left over. she pled guilty to using a fraudulent credit card for her prior stay at casa 425 and admitted appellant had given her that card. entry into the hotel room. one officer asked appellant whose room it was, and appellant at the time, appellant also refused to give officers his name or identification. in a lengthy ruling recited on the record, the trial court denied the motions. on the set forth the applicable law and held appellant failed to carry his burden of showing either an actual or legitimate expectation of privacy in the hotel room: whose room he was in. that is uncontradicted. he was asked numerous times about his , he refused to answer the questions. 9 refused to identify himself. the court finds that he did not exhibit a subjective expectation of privacy. based on the totality of the circumstances coupled with his unequivocal denial expectation of privacy that was objectively reasonable. any reasonable person would have asserted their rights. this is my room. my you all call her roxythis he does not have standing. golchini did say and did indicate that she permitted the defendant to stay in her hotel room. now, assuming for the sake of argument that was sufficient to preliminarily indicate some standing, the court would still have to find that there is no standing even though there may be an indication and as for the following reason. ms. golchini a month before using the same credit card she used on this occasion went in, defrauded the innkeeper. shedefrauded other businesses in the area. she came back. she has no source of income other than the money tree that she found, and she testified to, and that is, whenever she ran out of money, she went back to the defendant who filled up her card, and she went out on her merry way and bought things. card, and when she rented the room, she was defrauding the innkeeper. and by defrauding court is finding that she used a fraudulent credit card to rent the room, and for that reason alone she had no expectation of privacy. casa 425 hotel for one night. she did not check in the defendant. this was a hotel, and the length of stay, as i just said, was one night. ms. golchini was simply a guest of the hotel and merely had a license to use the premise[s]. she was not a tenant. 10 particularly any privacy rights that she hadstrike that, that any overnight guest may claim flows from her. was good, they invited their son to stay with them, he would have an expectation of privacy in that room. ms. golchini was, the fact that she had defrauded them previously, within 30 days, it seems, that the assistant manager was also aware that ms. golchini had used the credit cards on her prior stay, that she had used a fake credit card to make purchases at other businesses, she was also aware the police were looking for ms. golchini, the assistant manager as the agent for the hotel had far more than just cause to terminate ms. since ms. acts that were known to ms. mangan, who is the assistant managerand an innkeeper must ms. mangan had just cause to enlist the aid of the police in evicting ms. golchini, and, in fact, it seems to be quite prudent when faced with somebody who was involved in criminal activity not to go up and confront them yourself as a civilian but to allow the police to do that. and that is, as far as anybody knew, it was ms. golchini who was in the room. the request made to the police, the court finds that any privacy rights that ms. golchini had and through her, the defendant, went away. prior to being evicted, a guest may be summarily evicted for just cause. the court has already found the evidence has proven the hotel had far more than just cause to evict ms. golchini. therefore, the innkeeper and the police had every right to go to room 11 312 and enter the room to evict ms. golchini. for these reasons as well, the court finds the was that she would go to the defendant. he would fill up her card. she would go out, spend it away. she would go back, and he would fill it up again. ms. golchini rented the room, and i do believe her when she said she rented the room initially for herself, she had no legitimate expectation of privacy in the room or an expectation of privacy that society is prepared to recognize since she was defrauding the innkeeper from the very beginning. and i do believe her when she said that shewhen [appellant] said i need a place to stay, that she said, stay at the hotel because in exchange for all the money he keeps putting on her credit card. beginning because the court finds he knew that ms. golchini was using fraudulent credit the court also noted that appellant locked the door as a precaution to maintain his the court further ruled that, assuming appellant had a reasonable expectation of privacy in the hotel room, exigent circumstances justified the warrantless entry in light of exceptions justified the search and seizure of evidence prior to obtaining a warrant. b. analysis exclude evidence under penal code section 1538.5 only if exclusion is mandated by the [citation.] the fourth amendment to the federal constitution prohibits unreasonable searches and seizures.people v. bryant (2014) 60 cal.4th 335, 365 (bryant).) although the trial court treated the fourth amendment issue as one of 12 rights under the fourth amendment, rather than on any theoretically separate, but invariably rakas v. illinois (1978) 439 u.s. 128, 139 (rakas).) the whether the challenged search and seizure violated the fourth amendment rights of a criminal defendant who seeks to exclude the evidence obtained during it. that inquiry in turn requires a determination of whether the disputed search and seizure has infringed an interest of the defendant which the fourth amendment was designed to id. at p. 140.) first, did the defendant exhibit a subjective expectation of privacy? second, is such an expectation objectively reasonable, that is, is the expectation that one society is willing to people v. camacho (2000) 23 cal.4th 824, 830-831.) both questions are ciety is not prepared to recognize as legitimate have no [people v. munoz (2008) 167 cal.app.4th 126, 131 (munoz).) as the united states supreme court has a burglar plying his trade in a summer cabin during the off season may have a thoroughly justified subjective expectation of privacy, but it is not one which the law legitimate [h]is expectation is not one that society is prepared to recognize as rakas, supra, 439 u.s. at p. 143, fn. 12; see munoz, supra, at p. 131 [quoting same].) in assessing whether an expectation of privacy is legitimate, we look to the totality of the circumstances, including interest in the thing seized or the place searched; whether he has the right to exclude others from that place; whether he has exhibited a subjective expectation that it would remain free from governmental invasion[;] whether he took normal precautions to maintain his privacy[;] and whether he was le(bryant, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 365.) the defendant bears the burden to establish a legitimate expectation of privacy in the place searched. (ibid.) factual issues for 13 id. at pp. 364-365.) home so that the fourth amendment protects him from unreasonable governmental rakas, supra, 439 u.s. at p. 142.) that includes a hotel room in which the defendant has a reasonable expectation of privacy. (stoner v. california (1964) 376 u.s. 483, 490; people v. parson (2008) 44 cal.4th 332, 345; see united states v. bautista (9th cir. 2004) 362 f.3d 584, 589.) but a defendant who obtains a hotel room by intentional fraud does not have a legitimate expectation of privacy in that room. (see people v. satz (1998) 61 cal.app.4th 322, 326 (satz).) in satz, for example, the defendant used a stolen credit card to register for a hotel room. when the hotel manager discovered the fraud the next day, she eviction. she took a police officer but the defendant did not open the door. the manager used a key to open the door and found the defendant and two others inside. the defendant said she had no money to pay for the room and gave the officer consent to search the room. (id. at p. 324.) the court of appeal found the defendant had no legitimate expectation of privacy in the room due to her fraud. although the hotel room door was closed and locked, the defendant was a trespasser with id. at p. 326; but see munoz, supra, 167 cal.app.4th at pp. 132-134 [distinguishing satz and finding defendant had a legitimate expectation of privacy in hotel room after paying for room with counterfeit bill because she was unaware the bill was counterfeit and the hotel had not taken steps to evict defendant before officers entered the hotel room].) we question the tfinding that appellant had no subjective expectation of privacy based on his refusal to reveal his identity to police and his statement that he did not know who rented the room. generally, giving information to officers that is inconsistent with a later assertion of privacy does not defeat a legitimate expectation of privacy unless the defendant affirmatively disclaims ownership or association with the place searched and 14 the items seized. (compare people v. allen (1993) 17 cal.app.4th 1214, 1222-1223 [giving officers a different home address, without more, did not preclude defendant from establishing a reasonable expectation of privacy in the home searched] with people v. stanislawski (1986) 180 cal.app.3d 748, 757 [no privacy interest after defendant disclaimed any proprietary or possessory interest in campsite searched and items seized] and people v. dasilva (1989) 207 cal.app.3d 43, 48-49 [no privacy interest after defendant disclaimed ownership of items in trunk other than guitar case].) appellant lie that he did not know who rented the room and his refusal to identify himself were far from an affirmative disclaimer of any interest in the room. in any case, even if appellant had a subjective expectation of privacy in the room, he had no legitimate expectation of privacy there. the trial court correctly reasoned that and goright to occupy the room was terminated when mangan called the police to have her evicted due to her prior fraud on the hotel and area businesses. like the defendant in satz, who had no reasonable expectation of privacy after using a fraudulent credit card and the hotel sought upon discovering golchini had again registered at the hotel, mangan called the police with the intent to evict golchini from the room. officers then went to the room to evict her, but found appellant there instead. because appellant was not registered with the hotel but was also was subject to eviction and had no reasonable expectation of privacy in the room. the trial 2. sufficiency of the evidence of burglary that the prosecution had to prove beyond a reasonable doubt appellant when he entered the hotel. appellant claims insufficient evidence supported this intent element, so his conviction for second degree burglary must be set aside as a violation of his constitutional rights. we disagree. 15 in addressing constitutional challenges to the sufficiency of evidence, the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could have found the defendant guilty beyond a the judgment the people v. ramirez (2006) 39 cal.4th 398, 463.) as relevant here, [e]mind is almost inevitably circumstantial, but circumstantial evidence is as sufficient as trial is direct or circumstantial, . . . the relevant inquiry on appeal remains whether any reasonable trier of fact could have (people v. bloom (1989) 48 cal.3d 1194, 1208.) citing his own testimony, appellant argues the evidence showed only that he entered the hotel room to take a shower and get some sleep. but he ignores the overwhelming circumstantial evidence contradicting his testimony. he was the only one found in a room full of fraudulent access cards, blank cards, and the instrumentalities to create counterfeit access cards. although golchini had rented the room, there was also evidence that golchini rented a room at another hotel that same night. three recovered cell phones contained photographs of appellant, as well photographs of visa cards in various names, and photographs of handwritten notes. in two of the cell phones the name paul amaro appeared on a credit card, the false name appellant admitted he used and had given to police at his arrest. the phones also contained text identification cards bearilicense number, and one of which had the name paul anthony amaro. further, appellant 16 was also recorded saying that whoever roxy calledcan do to her is like give her four months or less. nothing else. they need to tell her that. knew he could face a more serious sentence than golchini because of his criminal history. in another recorded conversation, he again asked what time golchini had been arrested now get all appellant also attempted to escape the room when officers arrived and gave officers a false name when he was arrested. thus, substantial evidence supported . 3. appellant claims the trial court erred in prohibiting him from impeaching the officers with recordings from the personal recording devices they were wearing when they entered the hotel room, thereby violating his rights to confrontation and due process. we disagree. during trial, the court prohibited the parties from mentioning the recordings from the officers when they entered the hotel room unless the parties obtained prior permission to do so. on cross-examination, defense counsel asked officer snyder if he had an audio recorder when he entered the hotel room, and he responded he did. the prosecutor objected on relevance grounds. the court allowed the answer to stand during a break in the cross-examination of detective reyes, appellant asked permission to introduce the recordings, arguing they demonstrated the officers searched the room before obtaining a warrant, which was inconsistent with their claims that they saw only three items in plain view. the court denied the request, finding the recordings had no probative value under evidence code section 352. the court viewed defense counargument as going to the motion to suppress that was already decided and found no probative value in impeaching the officers because appellant did not claim they planted 17 evidence or fabricated any incriminating statements by appellant. the court also noted the -examination, the prosecutor asked him if he answered that he did not say anything. the prosecutor then showed him a copy of the transcrirecordings and appellant acknowledged he had, in fact, responded no when officers asked him whether he was on parole or probation. a defendant has a constitutional right to cross-examine witnesses, but that right is subject to reasonable limits based on concerns of harassment, confusion of the issues, or relevance. (people v. pearson (2013) 56 cal.4th 393, 455; see delaware v. van arsdall (1986) 475 u.s. 673, 679.) moreoverto exclude evidence of marginal impeachment value generally does not contravene a -examination. (pearson, supra, at p. 455.) people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 9-10.) we find no abuse of discretion constitutional rights. appellant has not demonstrated how the audio recordings impeached detective res trial testimony or, if they did, how s credibility was relevant to any issues of consequence to the action. appellant did not dispute that officers found various items in the hotel room or what those items were; nor did he argue officers planted evidence, altered the items found, or falsely attributed statements to him. instead, the primary issue at trial was whether the items in the room belonged to him. if the audio s explanation of how the room was searched or how the items were seized, it would have had no impact on that issue. we agree with the trial court that appellant was simply attempting to relitigate the motion to suppress that had minimal probative value, the trial court acted well within its discretion in excluding them 18 process rights by doing so. appellant also complains the trial court improperly allowed the prosecution to impeach him with the audio recordings. obviously, he cannot claim this violated his confrontation clause rights, and he does not argue it violated his due process rights. to the extent he claims the trial court erred under state law, he forfeited this argument by not objecting at trial. (people v. chism (2014) 58 cal.4th 1266, 1293.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. flier, j. we concur: rubin, acting p. j. grimes, j. 