filed 2/25/16 p. v. gammage ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. ted w. gammage and isiah matthew shelby, defendants and appellants. b256154 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma059862) in re ted w. gammage on habeas corpus. b267058 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma059862) appeal from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, john murphy, judge. affirmed. alex coolman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant ted w. gammage. james m. crawford, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant isiah m. shelby. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, stephanie a. miyoshi and david a. voet, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendants and appellants ted w. gammage and isiah matthew shelby appeal from their convictions of one count each of second degree robbery. they argue that prosecutorial misconduct requires reversal because the prosecutor violated griffin v. california (1965) 380 u.s. 609 (griffin) by alluding during , and by employing the prestige of his office to buttress the credibility of an unreliable witness. appellants also contend the trial court abused its discretion in admitting evidence of a prior crime committed by appellant shelby to prove identity. we conclude that none if these contentions has merit, and affirm. background a jury convicted appellants gammage and shelby of one count each of second degree robbery. (pen. code,  211.)1 appellant shelby was also convicted of personally using a deadly and dangerous weapon. ( 12022, subd. (b)(1).) prosecution case appellant shelby robs the recycling center at 11:00 a.m. on april 12, 2013, armando reyes was working at a recycling center housed in a shipping container next to a gas station in lancaster. an african-later identified as appellant shelbyarrived to exchange some recyclable items for from a cash box kept inside the recycling center. appellant shelby did not leave after receiving his payment. instead, appellant shelby borrowed a phone from jerome 1 except where otherwise noted, statutory references are to the penal code. 3 washington, the next customer in line, placed a call to a phone number belonging to his brother, trevor shelby, and returned the phone to washington. while reyes was inside the container retrieving cash to pay washington, he felt someone approach from behind. he turned and saw appellant shelby, who had the contents of the cash box (about $70). appellant shelby then grabbed cell phone, which was beside the cash box, and ran off. reyes emerged from the container and announced to his customers that he had been robbed. michael franklin, a friend who had accompanied washington to the recycling center, chased after appellant shelby but was unable to catch or later identify him. washington called 911. eleven days after the robbery, washington selected a photo of appellant shelby from a photographic six-pack shown to him by the police, initialed the ay from the man i know he reyes viewed video footage obtained from security cameras at the gas station near the recycling center. that footage depicted a black man running away from the recycling center with two men in pursuit. reyes identified the man running away as the person who robbed him, and recalled having seen him at the recycling center several times before the robbery. at trial, reyes did not identify either appellant as the robber. appellant gammage acts as getaway driver arturo montesdeoca lives across the street from the recycling center. while driving to his home at about 11:00 a.m. on april 12, 2013, montesdeoca saw a manwhom he later identified as appellant gammageon a transformer box. the man wore jeans, a t-shirt and a beanie. of the man (who could easily have jumped from the transformer into 4 he slowed his car, rolled down the window and while doing so montesdeoca noticed an unfamiliar blue or green late model carlater identified as belonging to appellant gammagethat seemed out of place, parked across from his own house. montesdeoca saw the man on the transformer run to the passenger seat as appellant gammage drove off. a few hours after the robbery, montesdeoca told police the man on the transformer had been about five feet, eight inches tall, weighed 200 pounds, and had hair cut very short on the sides under his beanie. he described the car as a , but might have been an older, later honda or something l he later selected appepicture from a six-pack photo array as the person he had seen on the transformer, and agreed that the single photo of a car the police showed him depicted the car he had seen on april 12. montesdeoca identified both appellant gammage and his car at trial. montesdeoca testified that the man he saw , but agreed that appellant gammagewho is at least six feet, three inches tall and weighs 150 to 160 poundswas montesdeoca explained that he may have believed the person he saw was heavy set because of a jacket or sweater he wore, but acknowledged that the man on the transformer was wearing a t-shirt. 5 the police investigation on may 28, 2013, officers spoke (and recorded the interview) with appellant he had been arrested, and had posted bond and been released from custody. beatrice shelby, appellant grandmother, was present at the interview, parts of which were played for the jury. during the interview, appellant shelby denied any role in the crime, and claimed to have receipts and other records to document his activities on april 12, 2013. he never produced those records. appellant shelby also told the officers he had not been to . he claimed he was on the day of the robbery. appellant shelby also told a third officer that he had not been to the lancaster area recently, even though that officer had spoken with appellant shelby in antelope valley for about two hours on march 28, 2013. defense case appellant gammage presented records showing that, on the morning of april 12, 2013, he sold blood to octapharma plasma in van nuys. his appointment had been scheduled for 8:15 a.m. at 10:22 a.m., octapharma made an electronic deposit to bank account. grandmother, who lives in panorama city, received a phone call from her grandson asking her to meet him at the locked gate to her apartment complex. from the gate, beatrice shelby saw both defendants. appellant gammage was sitting in did not mention having seen her grandson or appellant gammage on april 12, 2013. 6 co-workers (all three work for the same employer), testified that both appellants were on the company basketball team. from mid-march to mid-april, the team practiced for a tournament that began on april 13, 2013. typically, practice sessions began between 2:00 and 6:00 p.m. and appellants attended most practice sessions. the co-worker testified that appellant ins by 3:30 p.m. the co-worker had no knowledge about appellant gammage testified that he lives in north hollywood, and works at the cheesecake factory facility in calabasas, monday through friday, 3:30 p.m. to 12:00 a.m. on april 11, 2013, appellant shelby spent the night at appellant appellants went to octapharma to sell blood, but appellant shelby was unable to do so. afterwards, they went to beatrice , stopped at a cigar store, went back to appellant working at about 4:30 p.m., when he clocked out for basketball practice. he clocked back in at 6:15 p.m. appellant shelby was with him. when arrested while driving in his car with appellant shelby on april 27, 2013, appellant gammage told officers he had not been in lancaster since december 2012. appellant gammage testified that the car depicted in the photograph shown to montesdeoca was his, a green 1998 toyota corolla. an eyewitness identification expert testified about various factors that can identification. appellant shelby did not testify or present any evidence. discussion appellants maintain that: (1) they received ineffective assistance of counsel when neither of their trial attorneys posed an objection to a griffin violation made 7 by the prosecutor (2) the prosecutor committed prosecutorial misconduct by using the prestige of his office to bolster credibility; (3) the trial court erred in admitting and (4) the cumulative effect of the other errors rendered his trial fundamentally unfair. 1. no prosecutorial misconduct/griffin error during rebuttal argument, the prosecutor reminded the jury that the charges against each defendant had to be decided separately; they could not the robbery and, if so, whether he used a knife during the crime. as to appellant gammage, the jury had to decide whether he aided and abetted appellant shelby, the robber. the prosecutor stated: of you here who are thinking about buying into [appellant] gamma[appellant] shelby. if, for some reason, you are buying into his alibi, i think him. because [appellant] shelby has provided absolutely nothing to say where he was at the time. so if you believe ted gammage about his alibi, you do not have to believe him about [appellant] shelby. and you can think about [appellant] shelby separately. hat i want to leave you (italics added.) nor did counsel request that the court admonish or instruct the jury that appellant shelby had a right not to testify, and that jurors could not infer evidence of guilt because he had invoked 8 object ordinarily constitutes forfeiture of this contention on appeal, appellant gammagejoined by appellant shelbyasserts that he received ineffective griffin. we find that no griffin error occurred, rendering moot the argument regarding ineffective assistance of counsel. in griffin, the united states supreme court held that comment on a defendant's failure to testify may violate his or her fifth amendment right not to be compelled to testify at trial. (griffin, supra, 380 u.s. at p. 615.) the prosecution may not copeople v. lewis (2001) 25 cal.4th 610, 670; people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1114, 1191.) nor may a prosecutor refer directly or indirectly to an absence of evidence that could only be provided by a . (people v. hughes (2002) 27 cal.4th 287, 372 (hughes).) however, so long as the instructions and argument make it clear that the defendant does not bear the burden of establishing his ilogical witnesses, does not constitute griffin error; it is merely fair comment on the state of the evidence. (ibid.; people v. brown (2003) 31 cal.4th 518, 554 [not presented evidence that he was elsewhere when the crime occurred]; people v. miller (1990) 50 cal.3d 954, 996 [prosecutor may comment on defeto produce logical witnesses]; people v. gaulden (1974) 36 cal.app.3d 942, 954 [observation that defendant produced no evidence on his own behalf is not griffin 9 error].)2 in ascertaining whether griffin error occurred, we must determine if there improper commentwhen viewed in the context of the argument as a wholeas a people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1203 (cole); people v. clair (1992) 2 cal.4th 629, 663 (clair).) here, in the comments that appellants contend constitute indirect comments , . . some of you . . . are thinking about bu . . . i think because [appellant] shelby has provided absolutely nothing to say where he was at the time. so if you believe [appellant] gammage about his alibi, you do not have were merely an appropriate reminder by the prosecutor that the case against each defendant had to be determined independently, and that the jury was free to find appellant shelby guilty whether or not it believed his co-libi. 2 for example, in hughes, supra, 27 cal.4th 287, the court rejected the contention that a prosecutorns regarding the defense theorywhere is there a single piece of evidence that . . . something snapped because [the defendant and victim] were surprised at [seeing] each other . . . ? where is there evidence of that? where is there a witness to testify to that? where is there a piece of physical evidence to suggest that?constituted a griffin violation; the comments were merely on the state of the evidence. (id. at p. 373, italics omitted.) similarly, a prosecutors statements to a jury that [no evidence] has been presented to you [by the defense] and that [a]bsolutely zero [evidence] has been presented to you by [the defendant] and his attorney did not constitute griffin error because neither remark suggested that defendant had a burden of proof which he failed to carry, and the nstructions confirmed that the people had the entire burden of establishguilt(people v. ratliff (1986) 41 cal.3d 675, 691.) 10 the prosecutor testify; his comments merely referred to an absence of evidence contradicting the prosecution witnesses. the comments also highlighted the fact that appellant gammage, who presented evidence that he donated blood the morning the crime occurred, as well as time records from his employer and the testimony of a co-worker regarding his work schedule, undertook a substantial effort to present in contrast, although appellant shelby presumably had access to and could have presented similar evidence, he chose not to do so. for example, appellant gammage testified that appellant shelby also went with him to sell blood at octapharma. apto go get some ing for appellant gammage after appellant shelby was by octapharma that he could not give blood himself. however, appellant shelby presented no evidence to show that he: (1) had been scheduled or applied to donate blood at the same time as appellant gammage, or that his application was denied; (2) used a credit/debit card to buy food or anything else (or a receipt from a cash purchase) while he waited; (3) made or received phone calls or texts while in van nuys; or (4) went to do while waiting for his friend (e.g., by presenting video footage from a surveillance camera of a nearby business). thus, unlike appellant gammage, and apart from the testimony of his friend, no evidence placed appellant shelby at or near octapharma on april 12, 2013. similarly, like appellant gammage, appellant shelby presumably had access to and could have presented timekeeping records from his employer to place him at the jobsite in calabasas the day of the crime, or could have presented testimony from a co-worker or supervisor about his work schedule. he did not do so. the jury reasonably to wonder why appellant shelby had failed to present 11 documentation and testimony similar to that presented by appellant gammage when no apparent obstacle prevented him from doing so. moreover, although one officer testified that appellant shelby had told him he could provide proof that he was in calabasas the day of the robbery, no such evidence was provided. , beatrice shelby, testified on behalf of appellant gammage at trial that she saw both appellants around the time of the robbery, when her grandson called and asked her to meet him at her gate. from this fact, appellants infer that the only thing to which the testify. not so. beatrice shelby testified that she received a call from her grandson on april 12, 2013 between 11:00 and 11:30 a.m. appellant shelby presented no phone records reflecting a call made during that time from his own phone to (or received by) failure to present presumably available documentation of his whereabouts at other points throughout that day, the jury could reasonably have understood the prosecutor to be referring to the absence of this type of evidence. finally, appellants complain only about a fleeting, isolated portion of the independent verdicts as to each defendant. ithe trial with unfairness as to make the resulting conviction a denial of due process. [citation.]people v. bennett (2009) 45 cal.4th 577, 594-595.) an isolated comment such as this does not rise to the level of prosecutorial misconduct warranting reversal. (see people v. kipp (2001) 26 cthe prosecutor highlighted significant shortcomings in the defense theory, but did not reiterate the law or jury instructions rela 12 level of a deceptive tactic or reprehensible method to obtain a conviction. (cole, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 1202 [ fundamentally unfair, nevertheless of deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to persuadethe factfinder].) moreover, we presume the jury relied regarding the law, not argument by counsel, thus any residual ambiguity was clarified by the evidence of guilt. (see people v. morales (2001) 25 cal.4th 34, 47.) prosecutors must walk a fine line in this area. they are free to comment on but a character that the jury would naturally and necessarily interpret them to be a people v. guzman (2000) 80 cal.app.4th 1282, 1289.) here, the prosecutor approached but did not cross that line. he reminded the jury that they had been given no information other than the questionable facts attested to gammage. this reminder did not necessarily lead the jury to contemplate holes in the defense case that could only be filled if appellant shelby testified. we conclude it was not reasonably likely that jurors could only have understood the as a reference (clair, supra, 2 cal.4th at p. 663.) as noted above, countervailing defense evidence could have come from other, more reliable sources, including readily he evidence. (cole, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 1203.) 13 2. prosecutorial misconduct by vouching for a wcredibility appellants contend that the prosecutor committed misconduct by of a suspect in an unrelated case, thus employing the prestige of office to bolster an otherwise weak witness. a. relevant proceedings fewer than two weeks after the robbery occurred, police showed washington a six-pack photo line-up. he circled photograph number five (depicting appellant shelby), placed his initials below the photo and wrote that the to whom washington had earlier loaned his phone. at trial, when asked if the person who asked to use his 3 during re-cross examination, trial counsel for appellant gammage raised with washington the issue of his identification of a suspect in an unrelated actiona case coincidentally being tried at the same time as this one in which washington was also a witness. that in the other case, washington had chosen photograph number five from a photo six-pack on october 21, 2013. nine days later at the preliminary hearing in the other case, when shown the same photo line-up, washington testified that he had previously selected the wrong photograph, and chose number four instead. 3 washington acknowledged having two convictions for possession of narcotics in 2006 and 2008. 14 in the instant case, on re-direct examination by the prosecutor, washington explained that in the other case, when he initially identified the person in position number five, he had written rson in that phot but, by the time of the preliminary hearing, he decided he was wrong and photo in closing argument in the present case, counsel for appellant gammage addressed credibility as an eyewitness. he pointed to discrepancies between testimony given by washington and reyes and admonished the jury to other case. he argued that washington is holding [appellant] shelby here[,] has made this mistake before. you heard him testify that [in the other case] he saw and picked . . . position no. 5. and then attorney opined and that his untrustworthiness alone creates reasonable doubt. the prosecutor responded to this assertion during his rebuttal: d on a different case, where mr. washington is a witness. you will have the six-pack from that case. basically, the issue is, in that case, mr. washington initially gravitated towards one photograph. and then, later on, he told the detective that he had some second thoughts about that. identify the person in that six-pack, not like he did in this case. this case, he circled it, initialed it, wrote it out. in that case, he just said no. 5 kind of looks like the guy. question, . . . that case is . . . being prosecuted right now. that means that he got the right guy. even though he had some second thoughts about it, he got 15 counsel for appellant gammage objected that the prosecutor was arguing b. forfeiture respondent argues appellants forfeited any due process claim premised on prosecutorial misconduct because the prosecutorargument was fair rebuttal. appellants failed specifically to object to the argument on the ground that the prosecutor and failed to seek an jury admonition regarding that misconduct. (see people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 250 [constitutional objections not raised at trial are not preserved for appeal].) objection should have been sustained. he argues the prosecutor did refer to facts prosecuted in the other case. he also insists ment was fair rebuttal is wrong: the point made by appellant counsel in closing argument was that washington had changed his mind after making an identification and that someone who vacillates on such a pivotal issue is an unreliable eyewitness. to this argument. instead, the prosecutor tried by claiming he had an unsupported claim that went beyond the record. by referring to the other ongoing prosecution, the prosecutor implied that washington had similarly ie case would not have been tried. appellant gammage also argues he had no chance to seek an admonition after his objection was overruled. acknowledging where no objection or request for admonition is made at trial, appellant shelby 16 maintains that it would have been futile for his trial counsel to object after the court overruled appellant gamm. he also argues that an additional objection would have served only to exacerbate (rather than cure) the harm by people v. edelbacher (1989) 47 cal.3d 983, 1030; united states v. grayson (1948) 166 f.2d 863, 871 (conc. opn. of frank, j.) [raising an objection to improper testimony or c. no prejudicial misconduct we assume, for purpose of discussion, that no forfeiture occurred. we in the other case exceeded the wide latitude permitted for commenting on the evidence in argument. nevertheless, on this record, we conclude that any error was not prejudicial. first, as the prosecutor correctly noted, appellant shelby from the photo six pack was far more definitive than his assertion in the other case that the person he initially thus, photo identification of appellant shelby in the present case. second, the the other case meant that imply that the prosecutor had personal or personal knowledge of facts outside the record. rather, rightly or wrongly, as the prosecutor explained, he made that argument based solely on inference from the evidence elicited by acounsel that the case was currently being prosecuted. third, . 17 fourth, as to appellant shelby, washingtshortly before the robbery . that fact has no rational explanation except that appellant shelby was the man who took the same man washington saw rob reyes. fifth, appellant of arturo montesdeoca, who identified appellant gammage as the getaway driver in a photo six pack and at trial. thus, it is difficult to see any harm that flowed to appellant gamm[getting] . in sum, under the totality of the circumstances, we find there is no reasonable probability the jury would have reached a different verdict as to either (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) 3. evidence of prior crime to show identity appellants contend that the trial court abused its discretion in admitting evidence 2010 juvenile adjudication for grand theft in order to establish identity. (evid. code,  1101 [section 1101], subd. (b).) we conclude the court acted within its discretion in admitting evidence of a prior bad act to show that washington correctly identified appellant shelby as the robber. a. background in mid-february 2010, appellant shelby asked to use acell phone. the person handed the phone to appellant shelby, who ran off with it. when the victim began chasing appellant shelby, a man who had accompanied appellant shelby began punching the victim until a neighbor threatened to call the 18 police. by this pointa juvenile adjudication, admitted a petition charging him with grand theft ( 487, subd. (a).) the prosecution sought to admit evidence of the 2010 theft to prove identity. evidence of the prior incident arguing, among other things, that it was remote and that its prejudicial impact substantially outweighed its probative value. the trial court found the evidence of the prior crimewhich occurred about three years before the crime at issue herewas neither remote nor inadmissible to show identity. the court noted it would give a limiting instruction. later, appellant gammagejoined by appellant shelbyargued that evidence of the prior act should be excluded because it: (1) was inadmissible character evidence; (2) failed to meet requirements for proving identity; and (3) was unduly prejudicial. again, the court disagreed and admitted the evidence. later, as promised, the court instructed the jury that, if it found the prosecution had proved by a preponderance of evidence that appellant shelby committed the prior offense, it could (but need not) consider that evidence as a factor for a limited purpose. specifically, in deciding whether appellant shelby the jury could consider the similarities or dissimilarities between the prior offense and the charged crimes. the jury was further instructed that it could not consider evidence of the uncharged offense for the purpose of concluding appellant shelby a prosecutor argued that identification of appellant shelby because it demonstrated so much similarity 19 that appellant shelby had essentially the exact same thing before[ing] that helming similarity between these two crimes is evidence that . . . washington was not wrong. what are the odds? if this was just a mistaken i.d., what are the odds that . . . washington would pick out the one person who has a prior identical crime? mr. washington was not mistaken. b. admission of the prior crime was not an abuse of discretion in gpropensity or disposition to engage in a specific conduct, is . . . inadmissible to 1101, subd. (a).) evidence that a person committed a crime . . . may be admitted, however, . . . to prove some other material fact, such as tid.,  1101, subd. (b).) . . .people v. leon (2015) 61 cal.4th 569, 597 (leon).) to be admissible, the uncharged act must be relevant to prove a fact at issue (evid. code,  210), and its admission must not be unduly prejudicial, confusing, or time consuming (evid. code,  352). (id. at pp. 597598.) when offered to establish the uncharged misconduct and the charged offense must share common features that are sufficiently distinctive so as to support the inference that the same id. at p. 598; people v. carter, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. 1148 [to establish identity, evidence of an uncharged crime must offense].) characteristics of the crimes must be so unusual and distinctive as to be like a signature.people v. lynch (2010) 50 cal.4th 693, 736, superseded 20 on another ground by people v. mckinnon (2011) 52 cal.4th 610, 636-643.) that however, (leon, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 598.) trial courts are vested with wide discretion in determining the relevance of evidence. (people v. cooper (1991) 53 cal.3d 771, 816ruling on the admissibility of evidence, including evidence of the commission of other crimes, for abuse of discretion. (leon, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 597.) the trial court reasonably concluded that the theft committed in 2010 shared sufficient common and distinctive features with the charged crime to tend to prove identity as the robber. in both cases appellant shelby worked with another person who enabled him to escape, and took the lead role in each crime. both crimes took place in lancaster and involved violence or the threat of violence-perpetrator, and here reyes was robbed at knifepoint. further, both crimes involved a ruse and the theft of an identical item of property. in 2010, appellant shelby asked to borrow the vi then stole it and ran away. here, shelby obtained proximity to reyes, the cash box and phone using the ruse of selling recyclables, then grabbed and ran off. considered in its totality, we cannot conclude on this record that the trial court abused its discretion by permitting the jury to consider evidence of the prior crime. while another court could reasonably have ruled otherwise, the requisite to establish identity does not depend on a showing of uniquely common features between the crimes. rather, leon, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 598.) further, the similarities between 21 the crimes is a function of the weight afforded the evidence, not its admissibility. (see people v. carter, supra, 36 cal.4th at p. ; any dissimilarities between the crimes goes to the weight of the evidence and does not preclude the prosecution from introducing the evidence].) even where evidence of the prior crime is sufficiently similar to the charged we must also consider the probative value of the evidence is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission [would] . . . create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury. [citations.] (leon, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 599.) the prejudice referred to in this context refers to evidence which tends to evoke an emotional bias against the defendant as an individual but has little effect on the issues. in applying [evidence code] section 352, prejudicial is not synonymous with people v. scott (2011) 52 cal.4th 452, 491.) when weighing the probative value versus prejudice to a defendant, the court considers acts is st(people v. zepeda (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 1183, 1211), and might lead jurors to punish a defendant for uncharged offenses even if they do not believe he is guilty of the charged offense. (people v. ewoldt (1994) 7 cal.4th 380, 405.) exercise of discretion under evidence code section 352 will not be disturbed on patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage of justice. (people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 11241125.) despite some dissimilarity between the crimes, we conclude the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the prior crime evidence. evidence of 22 who committed the robbery here. particularly so when viewed in conjunction with evidence of the call appellant shelby made to his brother from wphone just before the robberythe man who ran away, and the absence of credible alibi evidence. evidence of the other crime was no more inflammatory than testimony about the charged offense. (leon, supra, 61 cal.4th at pp. 599-regarding the 2010 crime was short and straightforward. also, any prejudicial impact was reduced because appellant shelby was found to have committed the prior crime. further, the 2010 crime had sufficient probative value because it was not remote and showed appellant shelby committed the charged crime in a sufficiently similar manner. (ibidunequivocal instruction about the limited purpose for which the uncharged crime could be considered alleviated any possibility of juror confusion. bearing code section 352 may not be disturbed on appeal absent a showing that such trary, capricious or patently absurd manner people v. rodrigues, supra, 8 cal.4th at pp. 11241125), we conclude that the trial court did not err in admitting the evidence of the 2010 crime.4 // // // 4 our conclusions that no prosecutorial misconduct occurred, and that the court did remaining arguments. 23 disposition the judgment from which appellants gammage and shelby have appealed is affirmed. the petition seeking writ of habeas corpus filed by defendant gammage is denied. not to be published in the official reports willhite, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. manella, j. 