filed 11/20/15 p. v. james ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. charles d. james, defendant and appellant. b257226 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma058249) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, lisa m. chung, judge. affirmed. john a. colucci, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., joseph p. lee and allison h. chung, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 charles d. james appeals from his conviction on several counts arising from the sexual assault of a 14-year-old proceedings. appellant argues the court committed reversible error by admitting the to an examining nurse, even though the victim testified at trial. we disagree and affirm. facts on december 13, 2012, around 6:00 a.m., jane doe left her apartment in lancaster and began walking to her high school. at one point, she noticed a man following her. she crossed the street and began to run. the man ran up behind her, jane doe struggled to get away while the man pushed her into some bushes and against a brick wall behind the bushes. he held her from behind so that she was facing the brick wall. the man asked her, and, then the man pulled down her shirt and bra and licked her left breast. the man proceeded to pull down her jeans and underwear and unbuckle his pants. as he unbuckled his pants, jane doe was able to turn her head and look at the man. he was black, had facial hair, and had braided or pulled-back hair on his head. he used his finger to feel around her anus and then forcibly inserted his penis into her anus approximately three times. at this point he stopped and said, ou and , and fled. after the man fled, jane doe ran in the opposite direction and sought help. she ran into classmates and used one of their cell phones to call her mother, who did not answer. she fainted and when she regained consciousness, she called 911, and deputy sheriffs arrived on the scene shortly thereafter. forensic nurse examiner sylvia fink examined jane doe at antelope valley hospital on the morning of the assault. lected various swab samples from the victim, including from her left breast, her buttocks, the crack of her buttocks, and her rectum. fink also took photographs, which showed abrasions in rectal area at three different locations around the anus. 3 senior criminalist kenneth takigawa conducted the dna testing on the contents of . he detected saliva on the left breast swab sample. the dna profile from the breast saliva sample was uploaded into a database and returned a match to appellant. in addition, takigawa identified semen and sperm cells on swab sample and determined that the sample contained a mixture of dna from at least two contributors. he could not conclusively include or exclude appellant as one of those contributors. underwent peer review as a matter of course. work in this case. vong did not find any errors in e included appellant as a possible contributor to the rectal sample. takigawa then forwarded the rectal sample to another criminalist, cindy carrol, for a different type of testing that could possibly remove ambiguity from the sample. carrol performed a type of dna testing specific chromosome found only in males. y-profiles are not unique to individuals, like the profiles generated in the conventional testing takigawa did. but y-profiles are unique to paternal lines. a male will have the same y-profile as other males in his paternal line. the y-profile generated rectal sample -profile. although the rectal y-paternal line, 99.95 percent of unrelated african-americans selected at random would be excluded from the sample. carrol disagreed with his inconclusive finding regarding the rectal sample. she would have included appellant as a contributor to that sample as well. once investigators identified appellant as a suspect based on the dna match, they notified the media of his identity. a phone tip from an individual purporting to be led police to arrest appellant in greenville, south carolina. investigators discovered that before travelling to south carolina, appellant had been staying in lancaster less than half a mile from the they searched the location and found a piece of luggage in the garage that contained a traffic citation issued to appellant. 4 a few weeks after the december 2012 assault, investigators showed jane doe a photographic lineup that included department of motor vehicles photograph from february 2009. she could not be sure appellant was her attacker from the photographic lineup. in a photo taken by law enforcement in south carolina on december 27, 2012ed to be fully combed out. booking photograph from california on january 5, 2013, it appeared that one portion of his hair was braided and the rest was loose. at trial, jane doe identified appellant as her attacker and expressed certainty in that identification. procedure an amended information charged appellant with kidnapping to commit sodomy (pen. code,  209, subd. (b)(1)),1 kidnapping to commit forcible acts of sexual penetration ( 209, subd. (b)(1), 289, subd. (a)), attempted sexual penetration by a foreign object of a minor over 14 years old ( 289, subd. (a)(1)(c), 664), sodomy by use of force of a victim over 14 years old ( 286, subd. (c)(2)(c)), lewd act upon a child ( 288, subd. (c)(1)), and dissuading a witness by force or threat ( 136.1, subd. (c)(1)). the amended information also contained a number of special allegations. the prosecution dismissed the count for kidnapping to commit forcible acts of sexual penetration. the jury convicted appellant of the remaining counts and found the special allegations to be true. appellant admitted one prior serious felony conviction within the meaning of section 667, subdivision (a)(1), and one prior strike within the meaning of the three strikesaw ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)). the court sentenced appellant to an aggregate term of 82 years to life in state prison. discussion appellant challenges the details of the assault as recounted by jane doe to fink. fink said it was important to learn exactly what happened to the patient so that she could determine what steps to take in the examination. 1 further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 5 according to fink, jane doe told her that the attacker and put his finger and penis in her anus. fink opined that her physical findings were consistent with the history jane doe gave her. the court appellant contends through fink were inadmissible hearsay and also represented a confrontation clause violation under the sixth amendment and the california constitution. we reject this challenge. 1. confrontation clause challenge first, this case does not present a confrontation clause violation. the sixth s confrontation clause, applicable in state prosecutions through the fourteenth amendment to the united states constitution, and californias constitutional confrontation clause guarantee a criminal defendant the right to confront, i.e., cross-s witnesses. (u.s. const., 6th amend.; cal. const., art. i,  15; chambers v. mississippi (1973) 410 u.s. 284, 295; people v. herrera (2010) 49 cal.4th 613, 620-621.) crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36, 59, footnote 9 (crawford), -examination at trial, the confrontation clause places no constraints at all on the use of his [or her] prior testimonial statements. [citation.] . . . the clause does not bar admission of a statement here, jane doe was present, testified at trial, and submitted to cross-examination. thus, the admission of her prior out-of-court statements through fink did not violate the confrontation clause. (people v. martinez (2005) 125 cal.app.4th 1035, 1050.) 2. hearsay challenge second, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the challenged evidence for its nonhearsay purpose, and even if it did, the error was not prejudicial. as a preliminary matter, we dispose of respondentappellant forfeited a challenge on state hearsay grounds because he based his objection on crawford in the 6 trial court. when defense counsel initially challenged this evidence belowwould object under crawfordthat is hearsay,ell under the hearsay exception for statements made to medical professionals.2 later when the parties again argued this issue, defense counsel contended that, under crawford, the challenged the prosecutor responded in part by arguing the evidence was admissible under the hearsay exception for statements of then existing mental or physical state under evidence code section 1250. court of the issue it is being called upon to decide. [citations.] in a criminal case, the objection will be deemed preserved if, despite inadequate phrasing, the record shows that the court understood the issue presented.people v. scott (1978) 21 cal.3d 284, 290.) we think it clear the confrontation clause and hearsay issues for the court to decide. appellant did not forfeit the hearsay argument. moving to the merits of the hearsay challenge, hearsay is evidence of an out-of-court statement offered to prove the truth of the matter stated. (evid. code,  1200, subd. (a).) some purpose other than to prove the fact stated therein (people v. bolden (1996) 44 cal.app.4th 707, 714.) an extrajudicial statement offered for nonhearsay purposes must still be relevant in that capacity to be admissible. (people v. lucero (1998) 64 cal.app.4th 1107, 1109-1110.) we reviadmissibility of evidence challenged on hearsay grounds for abuse of discretion. (people v. hovarter (2008) 44 cal.4th 983, 1007-1008.) 2 the prosecutor appeared to rely on evidence code section 1253, which outlines an exception to the hearsay rule for statements made for purposes of medical treatment. but the exception applies only when the declarant was the victim of child abuse or neglect and was under the age of 12 when making the statements. (evid. code,  1253.) jane doe was 14 at the time of her statements, and the exception therefore does not apply. 7 in this case, tements through fink for a nonhearsay purposei.e., not to prove their truth, but to explain fink conducting the examination. respondent advances that rationale on appeal and insists why fink examined jane doe in the manner that she did. appellant argues this rationale fails because the parties did not dispute the form of the examination. the jury only needed to know what tests fink conducted and the results of those tests, not the reasons why she conducted those particular tests. in other words, there was no relevance to jane out-of-court statements, if they were not admitted for their truth, but to explain (evid. code,  . . . having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the de in people v. fair (1988) 203 cal.app.3d 1303 (fair), the court held that a ries to a victim of child molestation was admissible for the limited purpose of explaining for his opinion. (id. at pp. 1311-1313, abrogated on another ground by people v. brown (1994) 8 cal.4th 746, 763.) the trial court permitted the doctor to testify that he took a history from the victim prior to his examination, and when the prosecutor asked whether that history include[d] a description by her of a vaginal touching, possibly penetration, digital or finger penetration,fair, at p. 1311.) the doctor opined that the results of his examination were consistent with vaginal touching or penetration. (id. at p. 1307.) the appellate court found no hearsay error because the -of-court statement but merely concerned the nature of the possible injuries to guide him in his id. at p. 1313.) in light of fair, we cannot find an abuse of discretion in this case. testimony provided more detail than the doctor in fair. she testified that jane doe said her attacker , as opposed to stating in more general terms that the history jane doe related included 8 mouth-to-breast contact and anal penetration. even so, fair provides an apt analogy. her physical findings were consistent with jane doewas ts. were admissible not as proof of the facts stated, but to enable fink to explain the results of her examination and her opinion. (people v. ainsworth (1988) 45 cal.3d 984, 1012.) more importantly here, assuming the court erred, the error was not prejudicial. appellant argues the purported hearsay error violated his constitutional right to due process, in which case we must judge the prejudicial effect of the error under the chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24. federal constitutional error (people v. benavides (2005) 35 cal.4th 69, 91), and we judge them under people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836, by asking whether it is reasonably probable the defendant would have obtained a more favorable result in the absence of the error. under either standard, the purported error was harmless. jane -court testimony, which we summari contained far more detail about her assault than the little related through fink. her testimony was also consistent with what came in through fink. thus, excluding the challenged testimony would have had no effect whatsoever on the evidentiary landscape. moreover, did not focus on what happened during the attack. rather, he contended that he was misidentified as the attacker and focused on alleged weaknesses in the dna evidence and how his appearance differed from the descriptions jane doe gave of her attacker. as young girl was attacked. there is not going to be any suggestion that she is lying about being attacked and lying about the manner in which she was attacked. . . . the issue in this case is whether the correct pe along the same lines, defense counsel said in closing argument: that there was no assault. we are not suggesting there was consent or anything like that. [] the issue 9 here that you have to address is regarding identity and was charles james the man who attacked jane doe on december 13, 2012. [] the primary evidence in this case is the in-court identification and the dna evidence accordingly, the admission of jane -of-court statements did not constitute prejudicial error. disposition the judgment is affirmed. flier, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. grimes, j. 