filed 10/23/15 p. v. shell ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. billie dureyea shell, defendant and appellant. b257034 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya084967) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. scott t. millington, judge. affirmed with directions. mark l. christiansen, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson, supervising deputy attorney general, and idan ivri, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 billie dureyea shell appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial in which he was convicted of one count of second degree murder in violation of penal code section 187.1 appellant contends reversal is required, based on the prosecutor misstatement of law on reasonable doubt and lesser included offense of manslaughter. we disagree. however, as the attorney general concedes, one of the five one-year enhancements imposed pursuant to section 667.5, subdivision (b) must be struck. we agree and remand to the trial court for modification of sentence. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. procedural background appellant was charged with one count of first degree murder in violation of section 187, subdivision (a). the jury found appellant not guilty of the crime of first degree murder, but convicted him of the lesser included offense of second degree murder. the jury further found true three special allegations that appellant personally used and discharged a firearm in the commission of the offense within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivisions (b), (c), and (d). following a bifurcated trial on priors, the court found that appellant had suffered two strike priors pursuant to the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)(d)), two prior convictions pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1), and had served five prior prison terms within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). appellant was sentenced to an aggregate term of 85 years to life in state prison. factual background the prosecution case on july 18, 2012, just before 3:14 in the afternoon, lynette ammons was shot 17 times in the office of the business she operated with her husband, appellant shell. at least two of the shots were determined to have been fatal. she was pronounced dead at the scene at 3:28 p.m. two employees and the 14-year-old granddaughter of the victim 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 were on the premises during the incident and positively identified appellant as the shooter. ammons2 and appellant were married on june 2, 2012. in july 2012 they were operating two businesses together, a sober living home and a cleaning service known as keep it clean, located at 1123 north la brea avenue in inglewood. in 2012 appellant was also ostensibly married to a woman named donna nelson or donna shell, whom he had married in 2009.3 in may or june 2012, appellant met nyah white. white was the assistant manager at the bank where the accounts for keep it clean and the sober living home were maintained. appellant and white started having a sexual relationship in june 2012. in june, granddaughter, denise g., started living with ammons and appellant at their apartment, and saw appellant every day. appellant and ammons argued frequently. one morning in july, ammons tried to jump off the apartment balcony during an argument with appellant, but denise and appellant pulled her to safety before she fell. on another occasion in july 2012, ammons threatened to burn clothes, shoot the tires on his car, and kill herself. on july 18, 2012, denise and ammons went to the keep it clean offices. denise was in an interior office with two employees, sisters martha and angelina lopez. another employee, sylbert pitts, was in his car parked behind the business. from inside the office, denise, martha, and angelina heard appellant and ammons arguing loudly outside near the rear exit door of the building. all three 2 references to individuals are by surname, unless other individuals involved in the case share the same surname. 3 according during an argument at her home. when police arrived, appellant refused to let them in and escaped through the window. 4 appellant and ammons moved inside toward the front of the business, as they continued their heated exchange. angelina saw appellant hit ammons in the face, causing her to fall onto a desk, and denise saw appellant push ammons onto her back on a desk. as appellant leaned over ammons, all three women saw appellant point a handgun at ammons. denise recognized the gun as one that appellant kept on his nightstand next to his bed. ammons appellant started to walk away, and ammons stood up and followed him. denise peeked around the wall and saw appellant shoot ammons. martha and angelina pulled denise back into the office and closed the door. after ammons and appellant went to the rear of the building, martha and angelina lost sight of them, but they heard gunshots from the hallway in the direction ammons and appellant had gone. denise, martha, and angelina remained in the office until the shooting stopped. when denise parked behind the business, she came out of the office. denise rushed to her grandmother and saw blood coming from her back. denise in front of keep it clean. martha called the police. two 911 calls were received on july 18, 2012. the first was a hang-up at 3:14 p.m. from a business landline at 1123 north la brea. the second call in which the caller reported the shooting at keep it clean came from a cell phone at 3:17 p.m. when inglewood police arrived at keep it clean approximately 3:15 p.m., denise, martha, and angelina unequivocally identified appellant as the shooter. ammons was found on her back in a pool of blood with multiple nine-millimeter cartridge casings and bullet fragments on the ground near her body. the los angeles county coroner investigator at the scene noted multiple gunshot wounds to chest, back, and arms. one bullet projectile was lodged just underneath skin on her back, which suggested that ammons had been shot in the chest while lying down 5 on her back. bullet holes in the wall were less than two and one-half feet high, indicating that the shooter had fired in a downward direction. the cause of death was determined to be multiple gunshot wounds. the forensic pathologist who examined ammo body identified 17 separate gunshot wounds, at least two of which were independently fatal. seven of the wounds were abdominal bullet wounds, which as a group were also fatal. between 3:00 and 4:00 p.m. on july 18, 2012, appellant called white at work. joking and hung up. appellant called back and again told her he had shot his wife. in the meantime, police had begun looking for appellant, and approximately 4:30 p.m., at the apartment appellant had shared with ammons. a search of the vehicle turned up an expended nine-millimeter cartridge casing in the on july 18, 2012. he seemed upset and shaken. white noticed he was driving a toyota avalon, which she had not seen him drive before. appellant told her his t appellant told white that he had been at keep it clean that day when ammons came in screaming and had threatened to kill him. appellant said that ammons had away, turned it toward her, and shot her. appellant showed white the gun he had used to shoot ammons. he tried had happened, but white refused to touch the gun. appellant and white spent the night at the crystal inn in inglewood. the next day, white called the police from work. she told them she had information about the keep it clean shooting and had just been with the shooter. she asked that a plain clothes officer meet her at the bank in case appellant was watching. when the plain clothes officer arrived, white gave him phone number. 6 location. using cellular phone data, police located the avalon and arrested appellant in long beach. as appellant was ordered out of the car, police noticed a smith & wesson semiautomatic pistol the center console of the avalon. the gun had a high-capacity 15-round magazine, which was loaded with nine-millimeter hollow point cartridges. bullets and expended cartridge casings found at the crime scene as well as three bullets recovered from body were subsequently determined to have been fired from the smith & wesson. five expended nine-millimeter cartridge casings found in the passenger side door of the avalon were also determined to have been fired from the smith & wesson. the defense case the defense presented evidence that appellant was at the department of motor vehicles (dmv) at 3700 west el segundo boulevard in hawthorne at 2:53 p.m. on july 18, 2012. appellant testified that prior to going to the dmv that day, he had gone to keep it clean in the morning, but did not see ammons then. appellant returned to keep it clean approximately 1:00 p.m.4 appellant was outside in back when ammons and denise pulled up. denise went inside as appellant and ammons began to argue. ammons followed appellant into the building and tried to take his phone from him. ammons pushed appellant, and he pushed her back. as appellant started to walk away, ammons picked up a cordless phone and threw it at him. appellant then walked out the door, got in his car, and drove away. he did not pull a gun or shoot ammons, nor did he return to keep it clean that day. appellant went directly from the keep it clean officethen to the dmvas part of a photo receipt an applicant receives at the time he takes 4 however, after his recollection was refreshed with his cell phone records, 7 started a fourth test but did not complete it because he received a phone call from athena asking him to come to her house. e stamp. appellant left the dmv at 3:01 or 3:02 p.m. in his jaguar and drove to his apartment where he picked up some belongings and switched vehicles. appellant arrived approximately 7:45 or 8:00 p.m. appellant then went at evening white gave appellant a new cell phone as a gift. she suggested they spend the night at a motel to get away from her children, and they got a room at the crystal inn. appellant first learned of death when he was arrested on the evening of july 19, 2012. the avalon appellant was driving belonged to ammons, and she usually kept a gun in the car. the nine-millimeter gun police found the center console of the avalon was similar to a gun he believed belonged to ammons, but appellant had not known it was in the car. no blood was detected in tests of various items of clothing belonging to appellant which were found in the avalon at the time of appellant denied calling white at work the day of the shooting, he denied telling white he had shot ammons, and he denied demonstrating the shooting or trying to get white to hold the gun. discussion i. in considering possibilities raised by the evidence, the error was harmless appellant contends the prosecutor misstated the law regarding reasonable doubt during voir dire and in closing argument to the jury, and the trial court compounded the error by refusing specifically to admonish the jury that it was to consider all reasonable interpretations of the evidence and reject those that were unreasonable. according to shifted the burden of proof, and, error in refusing to give a curative instruction, requires reversal. we disagree. 8 a. relevant background during voir dire questioning of prospective jurors, the prosecutor read to the jury a portion of the instruction defining reasonable doubt, emphasizing that the burden on the the prosecutor then posed a hypothetical to illustrate the distinction between direct and circumstantial evidence in the context of reasonable doubt: prosecutor: hear the car start up, okay? and then you hear the garage door open and close. fifteen minutes pass, he comes back into the house, you hear the garage door open, you hear the garage door close, and he comes back into the house and he has a carton of milk. what are the chances he went to the s that the husband got the milk from a [b]ut every day in our everyday lives even with things that are important, . . . [w]e look at circumstantial evidence to asked the prospective jurors if, based on the hypothetical, they agreed it was proven beyond a reasonable doubt that the husband had gone to the store and purchased the milk. one prospective juror said no, because of the possibility that the husband could have gotten the milk from somewhere else. but when the prosecutor pressed, the juror admitted there was no evidence of that alternate scenario, and agreed with the prosecutor that considering such a possibility amounted to holding the prosecutor to a higher standard than beyond a reasonable doubt. outside the presence of the prospective jury panel defense counsel objected to the milk carton hypothetical and the suggestion that the jury consideration of alternative interpretations of the evidence would constitute speculation which would result in holding the prosecution to a higher standard than beyond a reasonable doubt. the court agreed thremarks misstated the law, declaring that 9 consideration of scenarios within the realm of possibility is not speculation. the judge said that if the prosecutor did not correct the error, the court would. when voir dire resumed the next day, the prosecutor read calcrim no. 224 on the sufficiency of circumstantial evidence to support a finding of guilt.5 the prosecutor then revisited the milk carton hypothetical from the day before, adding the facts that the husband returned with the milk and a dated receipt from the store, and had never been known to take milk from anyone. the prosecutor concluded by emphasizing the portion of the reasonable doubt instruction referring to possible doubthe evidence need not eliminate all possible doubt because everything in life is open to some possible or and added. . . and gave in the opening instructions to the jury and again at the conclusion of the evidence, the trial court delivered the standard calcrim no. 220 instruction defining proof beyond a reasonable doubt. the court also instructed the jury that nothing that the aw conflict with any of in its concluding instructions the court read calcrim no. 224 regarding the sufficiency of circumstantial evidence to prove guilt. during closing argument, defense counsel pointed out that another employee of keep it clean had been seen in the parking lot while appellant and ammons were arguing.6 in rebuttal, the prosecutor argued that there was 5 you must be convinced that the only reasonable conclusion supported by the circumstantial evidence is that the defendant is guilty. if you can draw two or more reasonable conclusions from the circumstantial evidence, and one of those reasonable conclusion[s] also points to innocence and another to guilt, you must accept the one that points to innocence. . . . however when considering circumstantial evidence you must accept only reasonable conclusions and reject any that are unre 6 prior to trial the court had excluded evidence of third party culpability on the ground that there was no evidence to support such a theory. appellant has not challenged that ruling. 10 support an alternate defense theory that this person could have been the shooter. the prosecutor reiterated that the jury may consider only reasonable possibilities, not alternate . . . because that is no defense counsel objected that the prosecutor was misstating the law, but the court simply told the prose at a sidebar conference immediately following the arguments, defense counsel asserted that the prosecutor had repeated the mistake she had made during voir dire with the milk carton hypothetical. the defense and disregard only possibilities that are alternatively, the defense asked the court to reread the circumstantial evidence instruction. the court agreed to reread the reasonable doubt instruction, but denied the other defense requests, and began its final instructions to the jury by repeating calcrim no. 220.7 b. any mischaracterization of the law regarding the was harmless to misstate the law generally [citation], and particularly to attempt to absolve the prosecution from its prima facie obligation to overcome reasonable doubt on all elements. [citation.][citation.]people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 829misconduct8 based on misstatements of 7 appellant states that a portion of calcrim no. 220 was emphasized with not eliminate all possible doubt because everything in the jury instructions in the record on appeal is the same as the copy of the instructions in the jury room, nor is it possible to determine who underlined or made other marks on the 8 prosecutorial misconduct, claiming that such law is irrelevant to 11 the law amounts to federal constitutional error only when it comprises a pattern of so egregious that it infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due process. [citations.] (id. at p. 819; people v. morales (2001) 25 cal.4th 34, 44.) further, denial of the right to a jury verdict of guilt beyond a reasonable doubt structural defect[] in the constitution of the trial mechanism, (sullivan v. louisiana (1993) 508 u.s. 275, 281282 [113 s.ct. 2078].) prosecutorial qualify as structural error. (boyde v. california (1990) 494 u.s. 370, 384385 [110 s.ct. 1190].) in the absence of structural error, a subject to a harmless error analysis, reversible only if there was a reasonable probability of a more favorable result for the defendant in the absence of the error. (people v. barnett, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 1133 [applying the state standard set forth in people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836837].) where, as here, the claim of misconduct is based on likelihood that the jury construed or applied any of the complained-of remarks in an people v. gonzales and soliz (2011) 52 cal.4th 254, 305; people v. morales, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 44; people v. ellison (2011) 196 cal.app.4th 1342, 1353.) here, after improperly suggesting during voir dire that possibilities raised by the evidence constitute cannot be considered, the prosecutor read calcrim no. 224, regarding the sufficiency of circumstantial evidence to support a finding of guilt. the prosecutor also amended the hypothetical and emphasized that that the prosecutor made a mistake in misstating the law, but did not commit misconduct. claim is indeed one of prosecutorial misconduct, which requires no showing of bad faith insofar as it is evaluated in accordance with an objective standard. (people v. barnett (1998) 17 cal.4th 1044, 1133.) 12 the trial court then delivered the standard calcrim no. 220 instruction defining proof beyond a reasonable doubt, and instructed the jury that nothing that the attorneys say is evidence, the jury must follow the instructions. we find these instructions and clarifications corrected any misstatements during could have misled prospective jurors.9 we find no misstatement of law, and in any event, there appears no reasonable likelihood that the appellant complains. (see people v. osband (1996) 13 cal.4th 622, 696.) a prosecutor may forcefully argue the case, and argument may be vigorous as long as it amounts to fair comment on the evidence, which can include reasonable inferences, or deductions to be drawn therefrom. [citations] . . [citati (people v. gamache (2010) 48 cal.4th 347, 371.) further, the prosecution is accorded considerable freedom to describe deficiencies in the defense case and factual account. (people v. redd (2010) 48 cal.4th 691, 735.) argument came in response to the defense suggestion in closing that another employee of keep it clean might have had a role in the shooting. the prosecutor properly commented on the absence of any evidence to support such a proposition, and correctly argued that assigning third party culpability in this case would be entirely speculative. (see people v. marshall (1996) 13 cal.4th 799, 831832 [prosecution may legitimately attack defense failure to present evidence in support of third party culpability theory].) even were we to assume misconduct based on the argument, we find any error in as requested by appellant to be harmless. before 9 we further note this is the very remedy requested by the defense when objecting to closing argument on the ground that the prosecutor was misstating the law as she had during voir dire. 13 argument, the court had already emphasized the proof beyond a reasonable doubt standard and instructed the jury on the sufficiency of circumstantial evidence to support a finding of guilt. thenargument the court re-instructed the jury on reasonable doubt. further, the court court. where the jury is properly instructed on the law, we presume the jury followed the instructions given. (people v. boyette jurors are presumed to be intelligent, capable of understanding instructions and applying them to people v. lewis (2001) 26 cal.4th 334, 390.) here, appellant of the most serious charge he faced, first degree murder, the jury demonstrated that it understood the applicable burden of proof, and applied it to appel ii. the trial court properly refused the requested manslaughter instructions the trial court refused the defense request for calcrim no. 511 (excusable homicide: accident in the heat of passion), calcrim no. 522 (provocation: effect on degree of murder), calcrim no. 570 (voluntary manslaughter: heat of passionlesser included offense), and calcrim no. 580 (involuntary manslaughter: lesser included offense). requests is aheat of passion as it relates to voluntary manslaughter.10 10 appellant does not specify the evidentiary support for each of the four requested instructions, simply arguing that substantial evidence of provocation would have supported no. 570), arguing that the evidence was insufficient to support the instruction, and any error in its omission was harmless. we have examined the other instructions requested by appellant and are satisfied that these instructions were properly omitted insofar as they are unsupported by the evidence. as explained in people v. rodriguez (1997) 53 . . could have been argued to the jury, given the evidence. in spite of all this, defendant 14 we find no substantial evidence of provocation to justify a voluntary manslaughter instruction under a heat of passion theory. accordingly, the trial court properly refused to give the requested instruction on this lesser included offense. as the california supreme court has explainedan intentional killing is reduced to voluntary manslaughter if other evidence negates malice. malice is presumptively absent when the defendant acts upon a sudden quarrel or heat of passion on sufficient provocation ( 192, subd. (a)) . . . people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 583 (manriquez).) quoting people v. lee (1999) 20 cal.4th 47, 5859, the high court continued: manslaughter from murder is provocation. the provocation which incites the defendant to homicidal conduct in the heat of passion must be caused by the victim [citation], or be conduct reasonably believed by the defendant to have been engaged in by the victim. [citations.] (manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at pp. 583584; people v. moye (2009) 47 cal.4th 537, 549.) [t]he heat of passion requirement for manslaughter has both an objective and a subjective component. [citation.]people v. steele (2002) 27 cal.4th 1230, 1252; manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 584.) m of people v. gutierrez (people v. moye, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 549.) the provocative conduct by the victim may be physical or verbal, but the conduct must be sufficiently provocative that it would cause an ordinary person of average disposition to act rashly or without due deliberation (id. at p. 550.) as [the high court] explained long ago in passion as would naturally be aroused in the mind of an ordinarily reasonable person s and winnow id. at p. 1276.) 15 y set up his own standard of conduct and justify or excuse himself because in fact his passions were aroused, unless further the jury believe that the facts and circumstances were sufficient to people v. logan (1917) 175 cal. manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 584.) to satisfy the subjective element of this form of voluntary manslaughter, the accused must be shthe actual influence of a strong p induced by such provocation. [citation.]people v. moye, supra, 47 cal.4th at however, if sufficient time has elapsed between the provocation and the fatal blow for passion to subside and reason to return, the killing is not voluntary manslaughter . . . [citation.] [citation.]ibid.) [i]courts duty to instruct the jury not only on the crime with which the defendant is charged, but also on any lesser offense that is both included in the offense charged and shown by the e [citations.] conversehas no duty to instruct on any lesser offense unless there is substantial evidence to support such instruction[.] [citation.] is not merely any evidence . . . no matter [citation], but rather from which a jury composed of reasonable [persons] could . . . conclude[] that the lesser offense, but not the greater, was committed. [citati [citation.](people v. castaneda (2011) 51 cal.4th 1292, 13271328.) in the present case, we find the evidence of provocation insufficient to satisfy either the objective or subjective standard for voluntary manslaughter based on heat of passion. , and that the witnesses who saw him at keep it clean arguing with ammons just before she was shot were mistaken in identifying appellant as the shooter. he thus presented extensive alibi testimony that he was at the dmv when ammons was shot, he went without stopping at keep it clean. according to appellant, the heated argument with ammons during which they pushed each other and she threw a phone at him took place 16 before appellant went to the dmv, hours before ammons was killed. the prosecution case, on the other hand, was that appellant willfully murdered ammons in cold blood. thus, neither party presented any evidence that appellant killed ammons in the heat of passion. we therefore agree with respondent that, for this reason alone, the trial court did heat of passion. (people v. gutierrez, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 826 [no instruction on voluntary manslaughter warranted where defendant flatly denied killing the victim]; people v. barton (1995) 12 cal.4th 186, 196, fn. 5 [instruction on lesser included offense unjustified when evidence shows defendant is either guilty of the crime charged or not guilty of any offense].) we further find no support for an instruction on involuntary manslaughter based on the evidence cited by appellant. appellant points to evidence of an on-going between ammons and appellant in the weeks leading up to death, which included frequent emotionally charged arguments, threats, and attempted suicide, which appellant prevented. appellant a gun and threatened to kill appellant during the confrontation on july 18 at keep it clean. but appellant himself flatly denied making any such statements to white, claiming he was not at keep it clean when ammons was killed. moreover, appellant is directly contradicted by denise testimony, who was an eyewitness to the shooting. it is also at odds with the observations of the two other witnesses at keep it clean when ammons was killed. appellant further maintains that act of following appellant as he [ed]s] apparently suicidal inclinations makes no 17 evidence was sufficient to establish provocation to justify a voluntary manslaughter instruction. even if conduct here could be said to satisfy the subjective element for voluntary manslaughter based on heat of passion (see, e.g., people v. steele, supra, 27 cal.4th at p. 1253), courts have repeatedly held that heated arguments, insults, verbal threats, and taunts to use a weapon do not satisfy the objective, reasonable person requirement for heat of passion, which requires sufficient provocation by the victim. (people v. gutierrez, supra, 45 cal.4th at pp. 826827 [victim cursing at defendant during an argument held insufficient]; manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 586 [victim held to be insufficient provocation]; people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1216 [fact that defendant and victim had a tumultuous relationship which included frequent arguing, yelling and cursing, and had a heated exchange earlier the same day were insufficient]; people v. najera (2006) 138 cal.app.4th 212, 226 [victim .) similarly, the high court has declared that simple assault, including scratching and kicking by the victim, level of provocation necessary to support a volupeople v. gutierrez, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 827.) citing manriquez, appellant contends rather than first degree murder reflects the reason of the accused was obscured or disturbed by passion to such an extent as would cause the ordinarily reasonable person of average disposition to act rashly and without deliberation and reflection, and from such passion rather than from judgment. (manriquez, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 584.) we disagree. pursuant to calcrim no. 522 (provocation: effect on degree of murder), as requested by the defense. (see people v. thomas (1945) 25 cal.2d 880, 903.) but the trial court refused to give this instruction at the same time and for the same reasons that it rejected the voluntary manslaughter instruction: namely, there was no evidence of provocation. 18 nevertheless, the jury could convict appellant of second degree rather than first degree murder without a finding of provocation by determining that appellant lacked the intent to kill (implied malice second degree murder), or he had the intent to kill but made the deliberation and premeditation. (calcrim nos. 520, 521.) in sum, there was no substantial evidence of provocation to support a voluntary manslaughter instruction. (see people v. avila (2009) 46 cal.4th 680, 707 [no error in refusing to instruct on voluntary manslaughter in the absence of evidence of provocation while instructing on second degree murder].) iii. the section 667.5, subdivision (b) enhancements in sentencing appellant to a total term of 85 years to life, the trial court imposed an additional five years for five state prison priors pursuant to section 667.5, subdivision (b).11 appellant argues that three of the five section 667.5, subdivision (b) enhancements should be struck. respondent contends that only one of these enhancements need be struck. the trial court imposed two five-year serious prior felony enhancements pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1) for case nos. 1 and 2. these cases consisted of a single count each, and thus neither case could be used as the basis for a section 667.5, subdivision (b) enhancement. (people v. jones (1993) 5 cal.4th 1142, 1152.) this left 11 we refer to the cases supporting the section 667.5, subdivision (b) enhancements by the numbering scheme used by appellant in the opening brief: case no. 1: va026679 ( 211). case no. 2: ta054004 ( 422). case no. 3: ta080083 (veh. code,  10851). case no. 4: na071741 (veh. code,  10851), consolidated with case no. 6. case no. 5: ta033047 ( 261.5). case no. 6: ya069434 ( 487, subd. (d)). case no. 7: ya076801 ( 273.5). case no. 8: va113187 ( 476a). 19 six casescase nos. 3 through 8remaining for possible imposition of the one-year enhancement under section 667.5, subdivision (b). as both appellant and respondent observe, a section 667.5, subdivision (b) enhancement may be imposed only for terms that were entirely separate. ( 667.5, subd. (g); people v. perez (1992) 4 cal.app.4th 893, 910911; people v. burke (1980) 102 cal.app.3d 932, 943.) the trial court correctly recognized that the sentences in case nos. 4 and 6 were served over the same period of time. accordingly, these two cases could account for only a single one-year section 667.5, subdivision (b) enhancement. similarly, the trial court correctly recognized that the sentences in case nos. 7 and 8 were served together, and these cases could also form the basis for only a single one-year section 667.5, subdivision (b) enhancement as well. based on these findings, there remained only four cases for the section 667.5, subdivision (b) enhancements: no. ta080083 (case no. 3); either no. na071741 (case no. 4) or no. ya069434 (case no. 6); no. ta033047 (case no. 5); and either no. ya076801 (case no. 7) or no. va113187 (case no. 8). however, the trial court erroneously concluded that there were five section 667.5, subdivision (b) enhancements rather than four, and imposed an additional five years pursuant to section 667.5, subdivision (b). accordingly, one of the one-year enhancements imposed under section 667.5, subdivision (b) must be struck. appellant, however, concludes that after correction of , only case nos. 3, 5, and 7 remain for the section 667.5, subdivision (b) enhancement, and no enhancement should apply to case no. 4 or case no. 6.12 in this regard, appellant 12 in the opening brief, appellant fails to explain why no section 667.5, subdivision (b) enhancement should apply as to case no. 4 or case no. 6 and addresses this contention only in the reply brief. 20 custody.13 specifically, appellant argues that the sentence in case no. 2 overlapped with the sentences in case nos. 4 and 6, claiming discharge before #4 and #5 [sic] started (albeit they were not physically served in prison due to the accumulated jail time). ppellant was received in prison custody in case no. 2 on january 28, 2000, and released on august 13, 2003. but appellant did not even commit the offense for which he was convicted in case no. 4 until 2006, well after his release from prison custody in case no. 2.14 appellant further claims error in the imposition of the one-year enhancement based on case no. 5 because the sentence for that case was served concurrently with the sentence for ca concurrent prison sentence imposed for two separate crimes, one of which was a serious felony prior . . . does not preclude imposition of the . . . one-year enhancement for the . . . [section 667.5, subdivision (b)] prior prison term allegation.people v. sandoval (1994) 30 cal.app.4th 1288, 1304, original italics, quoting people v. gonzales (1993) 20 cal.app.4th 1607, 1610; see also people v. medina (1988) 206 cal.app.3d 986, 989.) relying on people v. james (1985) 170 cal.app.3d 164, 167 (james), appellant acknowledges a split in decisions on this issue, but maintains that permitting imposition of both a five-year and a one-year enhancement for concurrent sentences on a prior serious offense and a prior nonserious offense vision (g) of section 667.5 . . we disagree. 13 aterm of custody for case nos. 4 and 6may 4, 2009was in fact the date of a parole violation, and that, according to an earlier entry in the chronological summary, the 16-month commitment in those cases was deemed to start on february 17, 2009. 14 appellant relies on a february 27, 2009 notation in the chronological history which indicates a discharge in los angeles superior court no. ta054004 (case no. 2), effective october 28, 2008. however, the relevant date for determining eligibility for a section 667.5, subdivision (b) enhancement is the date the defendant was released from prison custody, not the date the case was discharged. 21 as respondent observes, james, which held imposition of a five-year prior serious felony enhancement for one offense and a one-year prior prison term enhancement for another offense violated section 654 when the sentences for the two offenses had been served concurrently, has been rejected by numerous courts. people v. vaughn (1989) 209 cal.app.3d 398, 401, declined to follow jamess ruling or its reasoning, describing it as wron (see also people v. irvin a prior serious felony conviction and then also sentenced for a prior prison term for a different prior offense even though the convictions occurred at the same time and the people v. medina (1988) 206 cal.app.3d 986, 989991 (medina) [refusing to follow james commitment for two or more serious felony offenses may serve as the basis for sentence in people v. ruiz held [in medina] that section 667, subdivision (a) does not supersede or override section 667.5 where there are multiple convictions being served during a single sentence. (people v. medina, supra, 206 cal.app.3d at p. 990.) in part, we reasoned that the underlying purposes of section 667, subdivision (a) and section 667.5, subdivision (b) are different. the purpose of section 667, subdivision (a) is to visit greater punishment on recidivists who commit serious felonies, while section 667.5, subdivision (b) was intended to provide for additional punishment of the felon whose prior prison term failed to deter him or her from future criminal conduct. (medina, suprapeople v. perez, supra, 4 cal.app.4th at pp. 909910 [following vaughn in its criticism of james].) as the vaughn court explained: under section 667.5, the service of a prior prison term is the critical event which triggers imposition of an additional one-year term. act within the meaning of section 654 for prior conviction enhancements is the conviction. under section 667.5, the enhancement requires service act is the conviction plus service of the prison term. (people 22 v. vaughn, supra, 209 cal.app.3d at p. 402; people v. perez, supra, 4 cal.app.4th at p. 910.) in vaughn, as in this case, there were two separate acts: (1) the conviction of a serious felony ( 211) within the meaning of section 667 on april 12, 1995; and (2) the conviction of an unrelated felony ( 261.5, subd. (a)) on july 20, 1995, and the service of a prison term within the meaning of section 667.5. that the prison term for the serious overlapped the prison term imposed for the nonserious felony is immaterial as sentence was enhanced by two entirely (people v. vaughn, supra, 209 cal.app.3d at p. 402; people v. perez, supra, 4 cal.app.4th at p. 910.) disposition the sentence by striking one of the one-year enhancements imposed under penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b). the abstract of judgment and the records at the department of corrections and rehabilitation shall be amended accordingly. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. lui, j. we concur: chaney, acting p. j. johnson, j. 