filed 7/30/15 p. v. dycus ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. james emiliano dycus, defendant and appellant. b257242 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka099042) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. teri schwartz, judge. affirmed. ______ susan morrow maxwell, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, jason tran and jonathan m. krauss, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______ 2 an information, filed on november 20, 2012, charged james emiliano dycus with assault with a deadly weapon (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(1))1 and criminal threats ( 422, subd. (a)). the information specially alleged a great-bodily-injury enhancement ( 12022.7, subd. (a)) on the assault with a deadly weapon count and an enhancement for personal use of a deadly or dangerous weapon ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)) on the criminal threats count. a jury found dycus not guilty of assault with a deadly weapon but guilty of the lesser offense of assault ( 240). it also found dycus guilty of criminal threats and true the special allegation that he personally had used a deadly or dangerous weapon while committing the offense. the trial court sentenced dycus to a three-year state prison term for criminal threats, consisting of the two-year midterm plus one year for the weapon enhancement. the court imposed a concurrent term in county jail for assault. dycus appealed, contending that the evidence is insufficient to support the element of sustained fear required for a criminal threats conviction. we disagree and affirm the judgment. factual background otto arriaga and his estranged wife have two daughters. the wife, her daughters and her boyfriend, dycus, lived together. the wife had primary custody of the daughters, and arriaga had scheduled visitation with them. arriaga, a former jockey with permanent injuries to his left hand and right shoulder, was 4 feet 11 inches tall and weighed 110 pounds; dycus stood 6 feet tall and weighed 200 pounds. on the evening of august 4, 2012, the daughters were staying with arriaga at his trailer park home. dycus, who had been drinking earlier in the evening, drove to the trailer park. he parke arriaga told dycus that the girls were not his and to leave or arriaga would call the police. dycus did not leave but instead followed the daughters. arriaga picked up a hammer and asked his neighbor to 1 statutory references are to the penal code. 3 call the police. the neighbor thought arriaga wa . . . like he . . . feared for his life. as arriaga tried to get his daughters inside his trailer, dycus stabbed him with the worried that [dycus] was stabbing [him]uld not let go of the knife. [he] was trying to get dycus to drop the knife, arriaga bit . dycus released the knife, and arriaga kicked it. dycus took the hammer from arriaga then stop but begin hitting him again. arriaga thought dycus was going to kill him. one neighbor told dycus to stop, which he ultimately did. the older daughter took the hammer from dycus, and the younger one hit him on the back. the daughters had blood on them, which scared arriaga, but they had not been stabbed or injured. the struggle lasted two to three afraid that [dycus] would come again to [his] house and kill discussion evidence in a light most favorable to the judgment and presume the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence in support of the judgment. the test is whether substantial evidence supports the decision, not whether the evidence proves guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. mincey (1992) 2 cal.4th 408, 432, fn. omitted.) substantial evidence is that which is solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a (people v. johnson (1980) 26 cal.3d 557, 578.) atens to commit a crime which will result in death or great bodily injury to another person, with 4 the specific intent that the statement, made verbally, in writing, or by means of an electronic communication device, is to be taken as a threat, even if there is no intent of actually carrying it out, which, on its face and under the circumstances in which it is made, is so unequivocal, unconditional, immediate, and specific as to convey to the person threatened, a gravity of purpose and an immediate prospect of execution of the threat, and thereby causes that person reasonably to be in sustained fear for his or her imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed one year, or by imprisonment in the state describes people v. fierro (2010) 180 cal.app.4th 1342, 1349, fn. omittedstained fear, and the sustained in re ricky t. (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 1132, 1140.) beyond what is momentary, fleeting, tion.]people v. wilson (2015) 234 cal.app.4th 193, 201.) dycus contends that the only time arriaga reasonably could have been in fear was when dycus brandished the knife, and such time was too short to constitute sustained fear. we disagree. two to three minutes are sufficient for sustained fear under the circumstances here in which during those minutes dycus used a knife, stabbed and beat arriaga, repeatedly told arriaga he was going to die and had the capacity to make that happen. (people v. fierro, supra, 180 cal.app.4th at p. 1349 [even accepting about to die, a minute moreover, given these circumstances, arriaga reasonably continued to fear dycus after the incident and, as a result, moved because he was afraid that dycus would return and kill him. 5 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. rothschild, p. j. we concur: chaney, j. johnson, j. 