filed 7/26/16 p. v. gonzales ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. alexander gonzales, defendant and appellant. b257042 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba407699) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. edmund wilcox clarke, jr., judge. affirmed. adrian k. panton; and robert bryzman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and tannaz kouhpainezhad, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________ 2 in an amended information filed by the los angeles county district attorney, defendant and appellant alexander gonzales was charged with attempted murder (count 1; pen. code,  664/187, subd. (a)),1 assault by means likely to produce great bodily injury (count 2;  245, subd. (a)(4)), assault with a deadly weapon, to wit, a knife (count 3;  245, subd. (a)(1)), and attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder (count 4;  664/187, subd. (a)). it was alleged as to all four counts that appellant personally inflected great bodily injury within the meaning of section 12022.7, subdivision (a), and that he personally used a deadly and dangerous weapon, within the meaning of section 12022, subdivision (b)(1). appellant pleaded not guilty. a jury convicted appellant as to count 3 and found the great bodily injury enhancement true. he was acquitted of count 4. counts 1 and 2 were dismissed. the trial court sentenced appellant to the low term of two years, plus three years for the enhancement, for a total of five years in state prison. he received presentence custody credit for 490 days of actual custody, plus 73 days of conduct credits, for a total credit of 563 days. appellant timely filed a notice of appeal. on appeal, he raises two arguments. first, appellant contends that the ty to provide effective assistance of counsel. second, appellant asserts that the trial court erred in failing to instruct the jurors that they could not convict him solely on the basis of a pretrial statement. we affirm. factual background i. prosecution evidence on january 26, 2013, diego negrete (negrete), his girlfriend michelle melchor (melchor), and his brother, luis negrete (luis), attended a warehouse party in 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 los 2 along with about 10 other peos (andrew), andrew, mahe men were chest to chest. negrete then punched andrew in the side of his head. the men separated, the music continued to play, the party resumed as normal, and negrete continued to enjoy the party. fifteen minutes later, negrete went outside to get fresh air and smoke a cigarette. while he was standing outside, he saw appellant, andrew, and their friends escorted out. why are you fucking with my brothernegrete could not remember how he responded. appellant then took a fighting stance, punch, and both men fell to the ground. a fight ensued. someone lifted negrete up. as soon as he stood up, he felt pain under his left pectoral area. negrete touched the area and felt that his shirt was hot and wet. negrete appellant had stabbed him. melchor saw negrete bleeding right after his and saw stab wounds on negr. after a couple of minutes, negrete could not breathe and it felt like his lungs were not expanding. negrete passed out and melchor drove him to the hospital. alexander medina (medina) worked security at the show and was posted outside. ramon valdivia (valdivia) was working as the doorman. medina and valdivia escorted appellant and his friends out of the warehouse that night. while medina was escorting appellant to the street, he heard a commotion behind him. medina turned and saw that a fight had broken out between andrew and negrete. medina saw appellant run towards 2 4 the fight and join in it. at one point, all three men were on the ground fighting. once the men were separated, medina heard negrete complain that his body hurt. negrete pulled and another man holding a clean knife. appellant and andrew took off running. appellant and andrew. aaron saw negrete punch andrew in the face. aaron, appellant, and the other individuals with them helped separate the men instantly. the men calmed andrew down and, after a few minutes, the men left. while the men were walking out, negrete followed them, used profanity, and tried to provoke a fight with andrew. aaron took andrew to the car, looked back, and saw appellant on the ground with negrete on top of him. aaron ran towards the fight, but the men were separated before he reached not appear to be his own. aaron testified that appellant carried a red-handled knife in his pocket on a regular basis. after the night of the stabbing, aaron never saw appelknife again. officer eric rose and officer kevin raines subsequently interviewed appellant regarding the events surrounding the stabbing. appellant told the officers that he was grete bullied. appellant saw negrete punch andrew. appellant told andrew that they should leave. as they were urity guards were escorting andrew to his car, a fight broke out between negrete and appellant. at first, appellant claimed that he could not recall what had happened during the fight because he blacked - 5 handled knife and stabbed negrete twice. he claimed appellant threw his knife out of the car. ii. defense evidence natalie rodriguera (rodriguera), an acquaintance of negrete, was working at the party, taking money at the front door. she saw negrete drinking that night and he appeared to have been intoxicated. she saw him get into an altercation inside the warehouse with andrew. after the altercation, she saw security escort andrew, appellant, and their friends out of the building. negrete left right after them. she saw a verbal altercation between negrete and andrew turn into a physical altercation. she also saw negrete start the fight outside. she never saw anyone with a knife. -examination, the defense introduced surveillance video of the fight that showed a number of people surrounding appellant and negrete. discussion i. judicial bias appellant argues that judicial bias denied him his constitutional right to due process and the right to effective assistance of counsel. a. forfeiture the people contend that appellant forfeited this contention by failing to object below. we agree. (people v. seumanu (2015) 61 cal.4th 1293, 1320 [ific and timely objection to judicial misconduct is required to preserve the claim for appellate ; people v. banks (2014) 59 cal.4th 1113, 1177 judicial misconduct claims are not preserved for appellate review if no objections were made on those grounds at trial, overruled in part on other grounds in people v. scott (2015) 61 cal.4th 363, 391, fn. 3; people v. boyette (2002) 29 cal.4th 381, 458459.) the purpose of requiring a timely objection is to allow the trial court to cure any possible harm with an admonition. (people v. melton (1988) 44 cal.3d 713, 735.) 6 to pantomime shock and discouragement that [defense counsel was] being treated object to the court saying that. [] your honor, this whole trial i do not know where this is [coming] from, you have been admonishing me when i have been acting completely professional. i have not been acting in any in light of appeon grounds of judicial bias, the trial court claim is forfeited. (people v. boyette, supra, 29 cal.4th at pp. 458459 failure to object forfeited the issue for appellate review]; see also people v. johnson (2015) 60 cal.4th 966, 980 preserved for appellate review]; people v. guerra (2006) 37 cal.4th 1067, 1111 [failure court rulings].) b. even if we were to considemerits. 1. relevant legal authority (people v. freeman (2010) 47 cal.4th 993, 1000.) to succeed on a judicial bias claim, a defendant must overcome a presumption of judicial honesty and integrity. (withrow v. larkin (1975) 421 u.s. 35, 47.) in the absence of any evidence of some extrajudicial source of bias or partiality, neither adverse rulings nor impatient remarks are generally sufficient to overcome the presumption of judicial integrity, even if those remarks are critical or even hostile to counsel, the parties, or their cases. (liteky v. united states (1944) 510 u.s. 7 540, 555; people v. guerra, supra, 37 cal.4th at pp. 11111112 [judicial rulings alone, even when erroneous, will not support a claim of judicial bias].) a trial court has the duty and discretion to control the conduct of a trial. (people v. fudge (1994) 7 cal.4th 1075, 1108; see also misconduct if it persistently makes discourteous and disparaging remarks to defense counsel so as to discredit the defense or create the impression it is allying itself with the people v. carpenter (1997) 15 cal.4th 312, 353, superseded by statute on other groundsattorney, sometimes harshly, when that attorney asks inappropriate questions, ignores the (people v. snow judge based on actual observation of the witnesses and evidence in the courtroom do not people v. guerra, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 1111.) ct left something to be desired, or even people v. snow, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. behavior was so prejudicial that it denied [the defendant] a fair, as opposed to a perfect, trial. ibid.; see also people v. guerra, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 1112.) a new trial is required when the trial judge engages in judicial bias or unfairness to the extent that the defendant could not have received a fair trial. (people v. freeman, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 1000.) 2. analysis likely to be interpreted by jurors as criticisms of counsel as incompetent, unprofessional we disagree. a. defense cfirst appearance the following colloquy, outside the presence of the jury, occurred: 8 two-page motion to set aside the information, brought by [defense counsel] on behalf of [appellant]. [] did the people receive a copy of that? i personally took it upstairs and filed it . . . . [l]et me just see if i have the proof on here. . . . disputing you may have left a document somewhere in the building, she just does not have one. [] do you have an extra copy she can look at? her office. . . . you get here for trial. figure out how to get that sorted out. before midnight, procedurally, we might say. [] now, did you tell department 100 you were challengi the trial court, defense counsel, and the prosecutor then discussed whether document had been filed, she was merely pointing out that she did not have a copy of the motion. the trial court went on to summarize that appellant (and his codefendant, andrew) had been arraigned on the amended information on january 14. defense counsel then jumped in: okay. 9 file. so just establishing you feel or what you think. prlawyers have spoken out of turn. neither of them has made an impertinent or smart aleck place. if that was your goal, assessment of cou taken in context, the record shows that the trial court asked the prosecutor if she had received a copy of the motion, and she replied that she had not. immediately, defense counsel became defensive, almost accusatory, stating that she had a proof of service that she had personally completed and that she personally served the motion the document had been served; in fact, the trial court was not seeking proof of service. rather, the trial court only wanted to know if defense counsel had an extra copy for the prosecutor to review. again defense counsel became defensive, arguing that she did not ere, but that she had filed it. the trial court commented that defense counsel did not need to be argumentative from the first moment she arrived in court; all the trial court was trying to do was sort out the last minute, possibly even late-filed, motion. 10 the trial court then attempted to move the proceedings along by reading from the court file, only to be interrupted and corrected by defense counsel. the trial court told defense counsel that it was not asking for her opinion, to which she retortedis there a nnoyed with nature and defensiveness, the trial court explained that it was just trying to establish the from talking, to rudely, but she was also being impertinent. this exchange that appellant complains of demonstrates that defense counsel failed to afford the trial court proper respect and courtesy. if anything, defense counsel was hostile, not the trial court. regardless, these remarks were not prejudicial in any way because this exchange occurred outside the presence of the jury. (see, e.g., people v. guerra, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 1112.) b. comments in the jpresence next, appellant contends that although the trial court was more restrained in its criticism of counsel iof the jury led it to believe that counsel was incompetent and untrustworthy. first, appellant complains about the following, which occurred during the of valdivia: [the prosecutor]: so the pocketknife you saw on the other male, some person other than [appellant]; correct? [valdivia]: yes. [defense counselrepeating what he says. [the court [defense counsel 11 [the courtrepeating their answer both. to lead someone is to suggest a response, not to repeat a response. so overrule appellant complains that this exchange demonstrates an attempt by the trial court he rul preliminarily, appellant neglects to direct us to any legal authority that prohibits the trial court from explaining objections to counsel. (benach v. county of los angeles (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 836, 852 [when an appellant fails to support a point with reasoned argument and citations to authority, we treat the point as waived].) setting that procedural obstacle aside, as set forth above, appellant cannot demonstrate judicial bias merely by pointing to adverse rulings. (people v. guerra, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 1112.) and, appellant has failed to demonstrate unfairness or undue criticism of defense counsel. ( 1044; people v. fudge, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. [e] its appellant also complains of judicial bias arising out of another exchange during [the prosecutor]: when you saw [negrete] and this other bald man in the mosh pit, were there other people in the mosh pit at the same time? [valdivia]: yes, there was. [the prosecutor]: and were all the people that were in the mosh pit sort of slamming into each other? banging each other around? pushing each other around? that kind of activity? [defense counsel]: objection. leading, your honor. [the court]: overruled. [valdivia]: yes. how much time passed from the time you observed that typical mosh pit activity until you observed 12 repeating what someone says is a legal objection. supposed inability to handle her responsibilities or her unwillingness to comply with the does not amount to judicial bias. (liteky v. united states, supra, 510 u.s. at pp. 555556 a trial that are critical or disapproving of, or even hostile to, counsel, the parties, or their cases, ordinarily do not support a bias or partiality and patience, dissatisfaction, annoyance, and even anger, that are within the bounds of what imperfect men and women, even after having been appellant has not shown unfairness or undue criticism of defense counsel. ( 1044; people v. fudge, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 1108.) similarly, appellant argues that the trial court displayed judicial bias when, after tion that her question tion was overruled. according to appellant, the use of the pojury that the trial court was allied with the prosecutor in ensuring that the rules of nothing more than a generic remark. and, in light of the fact that the trial court overruled 13 u can ask what she observed, but you should not suggest an answer. that is what a leading attempts to educate counsel on the applicable law were likely to convey to the jury the and properly advised defense counsel how to ask a question without leading the witness. mode of interrogation of a witness so as to make interrogation as rapid, as distinct, and as effective authority that prohibits a trial court from explaining how to question a witness effectively. for the same reasons, we see no bias in the following exchange challenged by appellant: while defense counsel was questioning rodriguera, the trial court asked you like to have [rodriguera] give the description of who court did not simply ask a rhetorical question or make an angry accusation against counsel. participate in the examination of (people v. hawkins (1995) 10 cal.4th 920, 948, abrogated on other grounds in people v. lasko (2000) 23 cal.4th 101, 110; see also  1044; people v. fudge, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 1108 .) appellant then directs us to the following exchange: [rodriguera], you talked to my investigator, and i just, if i may approach, want you to look back at that line that counsel had you read. her. ask her to read it, and then ask the question. 14 previews and the trial court then sent the jury into the jury room and spoke to counsel outside turned and faced the jury and dropped your face down as if to pantomime shock and discouragement that you were being treated unfairly. this is unprofessional conduct and communicate to the jury inappropriately. [] so you will confine yourself to the lectern with your questions from this point forward. you will refer to the witnesses by her last name which is what court protocol requires. unless she is a child she should not be referred to by her first name. [] i tolerated that because good time for you to learn it and follow the court rules and examine the witness correctly and you will work from the [lectern]. [] and if i see you mugging at the jury again, i will point it out in front of the jury and point out to them how inappropriate it is. did not make a face. i object to the court saying that. [] your honor, this whole trial i do not know where this is [coming] from, you have been admonishing me when i have been acting completely professional. i have not been acting in any way out of bounds. [] i was trying to trying to do. and you prevented me from doing that and i was just saying let me show her the highlighted portion that she was shown because it specifically went to that line. jury as if pantomiming. i do not know what that means. towards the jury? 15 table who saw it happen and your opponent saw it happen and the witness is right here to avoid further problems, you will work from the lectern from this point forward. o me? what? why? mugging in front of the jury and disrespect for the court. means. you just did. you do not know what it is. i will get out a dictionary and read it to you so you understand what mugging in front of a ow where you open your hands and make try to communicate something with your face instead of just using words and evidence as you should. as for the comments made in front of the jury, there is no indication that the aled anything to the jurors. the trial court did not commit misconduct simply by expressing irritation with counsel or admonishing counsel in the people v. carpenter, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. 353.) as for the comments made after the jury was dismissed from the courtroom, there was no prejudice as the jurors were not present. (people v. guerra, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 1112.) in any event, we agree with the people that this exchange demonstrates that defense counsel was tious and disrespectful, and her behavior was hi 16 c. alleged bias that affected the disposition of issues presence of the jury affected the disposition of issues raised by counsel. for example, prior to cross-examining valdivia, defense counsel advised the trial court that she wanted to use the surveillance video in her cross-examination. but, she was unable to open the video with her computer. certainly the trial court was frustrated -as available for recall. thus, there was no evidence of judicial bias that affected the disposition of this issue. copy of the jury instructions that were going to be read to the jury. legal authority requiring the trial court to provide defense counsel with a copy of the jury instructions, particularly when the trial court explained how the instructions were going to be read and defense counsel had her own copy prior to the final jury instruction conference. c. harmless error conclude did not, the judgment is still not subject to reversal. appellant has not shown that there is a reasonable probability that, absent these comments, he would have received a more favorable result. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836; people v. harris (2005) 37 cal.4th 310, 350351.) the trial court instructed the jury not to be influenced by bias or sympathy (calcrim no. 200), not to speculate as to why the court made specific rulings (calcrim no. 222), and to determine on its own the credibility and believability of witnesses (calcrim no. 226). the jurors are presumed to have followed these instructions. (people v. harris, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 350.) moreover, the evidence stimony from 17 not reasonably probable that the jury would have reached a different result had the trial court not made the challenged statements. people v. sturm (2006) 37 cal.4th 1218 is readily distinguishable. in that case, the trial court behaved inappropriately towards two key expert witnesses for the defense and suggested that the defense attorney was being sneaky. (id. at p. 1240.) such improper conduct did not occur here. ii. sua sponte duty to instruct on corpus delicti rule appellant contends that the trial court had a sua sponte duty to instruct the jury on the corpus delicti rule pursuant to calcrim no. 359 because his out-of-court statements admitting that he had stabbed negrete out of anger were part of the 3 evidence, a trial court has a sua sponte duty to instruct on the corpus delicti rule and inform the jury that a finding of guilty cannot be based on the statements alone. (people v. najera (2008) 43 cal.4th 1132, 1137; people v. alvarez (2002) 27 cal.4th 1161, 1170, 1181.) but, any error in omitting a corpus delicti instruction is harmless if it is not reasonably probable that the jury would have reached a result more favorable to the defendant had the instruction been given. (people v. alvarez, supra, at p. 1181.) as set forth above, the prosecution did not rely solely on appellastatements to prove his guilt. there was eyewitness testimony, including that of negrete, who testified that appellant took a fighting stance, put his fists up, threw a punch, which 3 the trial court did instruct the jury pursuant to calcrim no. 358 as follows: the trial. you must decide whether the defendant made any of these statements, in whole or in part. if you decide that the defendant made such statements, consider the statements, along with all the other evidence, in reaching your verdict. it is up to you to decide how much importance to give to the statements. [] consider with caution any statement made by the defendant tending to show his guilt unless the statement was written or 18 negrete dodged, causing the men to fall to the ground fighting. when he stood up from negrete bleeding after his fight with appellant and that she saw the stab wounds to red-handled knife and that after the night of the stabbing he never saw it again. there altercation. it follows that the trial court did not err in failing to instruct on the corpus delicti rule. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. _____________________________, j. ashmann-gerst we concur: ______________________________, p. j. boren ______________________________, j. chavez 