filed 1/29/16 p. v. sheppard ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. lonnie sheppard, defendant and appellant. b257759 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma060603) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, hayden zacky, judge. reversed. leonard j. klaif, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and rene judkiewicz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________ 2 lonnie sheppard appeals from a judgment entered after a jury found him guilty of misdemeanor battery against the mother of his child (pen. code,  243, subd. (e)(1)),1 evading a peace officer by driving against traffic (veh. code,  2800.4), assault with a deadly weapon (a car) against another motorist while driving against traffic ( 245, subd. (a)(1)), resisting, delaying, or obstructing a peace officer ( 148, subd. (a)(1)), dissuading a witness from testifying ( 136.1, subd. (a)(2)), and violating a domestic relations court order ( 273.6, subd. (a)). after finding prior conviction allegations to be true, the trial court sentenced sheppard to 60 years to life in prison. sheppard contends the trial court erred (1) in denying his request to represent himself at trial (faretta2 motion), (2) in ordering him to wear a stealth belt, which hooked to the chair under his clothing, during trial,3 and (3) in declining to dismiss three of his prior strike convictions (romero4 motion). sheppard also contends there is insufficient evidence supporting his conviction for assault with a deadly weapon, and insufficient evidence demonstrating his prior convictions arose from separate acts and therefore qualified as four separate strikes under the three strikes law. for the reasons set forth below, we conclude the trial court erred in denying -representation, an error which is reversible per se. accordingly, we reverse the judgment and need not address all of the other contentions sheppard raises on appeal. 1 statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806 (faretta). 3 four occasions sheppard refused to go to court as ordered, (2) sheppard made requests for transfers from different jail facilities based on his claim his safety was at risk and the phone privileges were revoked because he was contacting the victim in violation of a domestic relations court order. 4 people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497 (romero). 3 background the possibility of sheppard representing himself first came up at a hearing on january 7, 2014, about 17 days before trial was set to commence.5 on that date, the alternate public defender accepted the appointment to represent sheppard after his former counsel declared a conflict of interest. the alternate public defender requested against sheppard. sheppard informed the trial court he did not want to waive time. the court explained to sheppard that it could find good cause to grant his new defense shepparent sheppard stated he did not want the alternate public defender to represent him, he did not want to represent himself, and he did not want to waive time. near the crepresent you, he can, or you can bring in private counsel. you want to think about it, come back tomorrow? you want to come back tomorrow? you can think about it, that a discussion . per. status, and continued the matter to the following day. the next day, january 8, 2014, the jail advised the trial court sheppard refused to go to court. later the same day, the jail advised the court sheppard was ill. on january 5 trial did not actually commence until march 27, 2014, more than two months later. 4 9, 2014, sheppard appeared in court with an attorney from the alternate public representing him.6 the court inquired if sheppard had had an . per. status. faretta waiver form, but the form was not filled out completely. the court noted it appeared that sheppard originally had initialed the boxes and then had erased his initials. sheppard indicated he did not fill out the form correctly because he was sick with the stomach flu the day before. the court paused the proceedings so sheppard could finish filling out the form. sheppard complied. the court asked sheppard if he had read and understood the form. sheppard responded affirmatively. . per. status, relating to the new charges filed against him in the case that was the subject of the motion to consolidate. the new charges were: dissuading the victim in the cases from testifying and violating a domestic relations court order protecting the victim. the coaugust 25, 2013, and continuing throughout october 7, 2013, deputy sheriffs utilized the inmate telephone monitoring system and reviewed numerovictim in violation of the domestic relations court order. as described by the court, with the victim not to have any type of police contact, otherwise he will do serious time behind the domestic violence incident that victim not to go to court so that information about the calls. the prosecutor explained he had received information on 145 calls sheppard made to the victim in violation of the domestic relations court order. the prosecutor had 6 this same attorney represented sheppard through sentencing. 5 listened to recordings of more than 40 of those calls. during the calls, sheppard told the victim how to avoid being served so she would not have to come to court and testify against him. sheppard acknowledged during the calls that he was violating the domestic relations court order by contacting the victim. sheppard also told the victim, if the prosecution found her, she would be arrested and held until she testified. the court noted one of does not have the right to disrupt the trial proceedings or interfere in such a way. sic], as its alleged in the preliminary report, that you have made in excess or approximately 145 calls in violation of the court order, a protective order, which has resulted in the initial dismiss and refile in the -603 matter. [] you are interrupting the court proceedings, and things moving on in an orderly fashion. you have violated the court order as occasions, and based on the allegations and the charges and the seriousness of the orders. you do not have the right to disrupt the proceedings. and you have not complied based on the representations that have been made. so i will respectfully deny the request type of way i can circumstances. you have to evaluate that. that court would have to evaluate it at that time. but w 6 a recitation of the evidence presented at trial supporting the charges is not neces-representation. discussion self-representation sheppard contends the trial court erred in denying his request to represent himself at trial. a constitutional right to proceed without faretta, supra, 422 u.s. at p. 807a trial court must grant a defendants request for self-representation if three conditions are met. first, the defendant must be mentally competent, and must make his request knowingly and intelligently, having been apprised of the dangers of self-representation. [citations.] second, he must make his request unequivocally. [citations.] third, he must make his request within a reasonable time before trial.(people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 729.) as a matter of federal constitutional law, pro se is timely interposed, a trial court must permit a defendant to represent himself upon ascertaining that he has voluntarily and intelligently (people v. windham (1977) 19 cal.3d 121, 128 (windham).) faretta motion is reversible per speople v. butler (2009) 47 cal.4th 814, 824.) although the trial court did not find sheppard failed to meet any of the conditions for self-. per. status. based on our review of the record, there is no indication sheppard failed to meet any of the requisite conditions (a timely, knowing, intelligent, unequivocal request for self-representation), and the attorney general does not argue otherwise. a court may deny an equivocal request for self-people v. butler, supra, 47 cal.4th at p. 825.) there is no support in the record for an argument that sheppard requested pro. per. status in order to delay or disrupt the proceedings. in fact, the record indicates sheppard initially 7 requested pro. per. status because he believed he could take his cases to trial sooner than his newly appointed sheppard submitted the faretta waiver form, sheppard made an unequivocal request for self-. per. status. . per. status based on prior violations of the domestic relations court order, which the trial court characterized as disruption and interference with court proceedings. while disruption and interference with court proceedings might have been reasons to revoke . per. status if disruptive behavior continued after pro. per. status was granted, violations of the domestic relations court order were not valid grounds for denying his request for self-representation. the attorney general does not cite any cases indicating otherwise.7 -representation (after advising him of the dangers of such representation), confirming that sheppard met the three requisite conditions for self-representation discussed above. the court could have warned sheppard that any disruptive behavior or interference with court proceedings might result in revocation of his pro. per. status. (see people v. carson, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 10 [in deciding whether to revoke a . per. status has been warned that particular misconduct will result in termination of in propria 7 neither sheppard nor the attorney general cites a case like this one where the -representation based on past misconduct, with no prior warning that the misconduct could lead to the forfeiture of the constitutional right of self-representationand we are aware of no such case. sheppard and the attorney general both cite cases in which trial courts revoked previously granted pro. per. status due to misconduct. (see, e.g., people v. butler, supra, 47 cal.4th 814; people v. carson (2005) 35 cal.4th 1.) we also cite these cases because they highlight the importance of exploring other alternatives or restrictions before duct. 8 request for self-representation. when a defendant engages in disruption and interference with court proceedings while representing himself-people v. carson, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 10.) on january 16, 2014, one week after -representation, the trial court ordered instead of denyin-representation on january 9, 2014, the court could at that time and preserved constitutional right to represent himself while protecting the victim frinfluence. (see people v. butler, supraprivileges in custody are not unusual. [citations.] they have never been deemed a ].) we misconduct in violating the domestic relations court order and attempting to dissuade the victim from testifying in this case. his past misconduct, however, should not have resulted in the loss of his constitutional right to represent himself. as discussed above, the trial court could have made efforts to avoid disruption and interference with court proceedings (a warning, revocation of phone -representation in the first instance. the error is reversible per se. sufficiency of evidence on count 6 for assault with a deadly weapon -representation, we need not address the other contentions sheppard raises on appeal with the exception of his challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence supporting the conviction on count 6 for assault with a deadly weapon upon 9 john doe. to the extent the evidence is insufficient to support this conviction, sheppard may not be retried on this count without offending the double jeopardy clause. s task is to determine whether, in light of the whole record viewed in the light most favorable to the prosecution, a rational trier of fact could have found the elements of the (people v. felix (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 1618, 1624.) ment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence.people v. smith (2005) 37 cal.4th 733, 739.) province of the trier of fact. (people v. ramos (2004) 121 cal.app.4th 1194, 1207.) an appellate court must accept logical inferences that the jury might have drawn from the evidence even if the court would have concluded otherwise. (people v. halvorsen (2007) 42 cal.4th 379, 419.) (people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 331.) as the trial court instructed the jury, to prove assault with a deadly weapon under section 245, subdivision (a)(1), the prosecution must establish: nature would directly and probably result in the application of force to a person; person to realize that his act by its nature would directly and probably result in application of force to someone; .) sheppard does not dispute a car may be used as a deadly weapon. he contends the eviden 10 (calcrim no. 875.) substantial evidence presented at trial demonstrates, after sheppard committed the battery upon the victim, he led police on a high-speed car chase as officers attempted to get him to pull over. he drove the wrong way down the shoulder of a highway, made unsafe lane changes, and reached speeds in excess of 100 miles per hour. after he was apprehended, sheppard told a nurse he intentionally swerved at oncoming vehicles during the police pursuit in an effort to kill himself. ronald ciotta, one of the motorists who encountered sheppard on the highway, testified at trial. ciotta was driving east in his ford 150 pickup truck, pulling a tractor-trailer. s car traveling west on the shoulder of the eastbound lanes, at a high rate of speed. as the two cars were approaching each other, sheppard pulled his car into the lane where ciotta was driving g within 50 weapon. (see people v. aznavoleh a driver who deliberately races through a red light at a busy intersection and collides with another vehicle, causing injury to another, can be convicted of assault with a deadly weaponsheppard drove his vehicle directly at oncoming traffic as he traveled at a high rate of speed. the probable result of the manner in which sheppard drove was a crash. the fact sheppard did not collide with ciotta or another motorist does not mean the evidence is insufficient to sustain the conviction. the prosecution may retry sheppard on this count (as well as the other counts on which sheppard was convicted, but does not challenge the sufficiency of the evidence). 11 disposition the judgment is reversed. not to be published. chaney, acting p. j. we concur: johnson, j. lui, j. 