filed 2/1/16 p. v. garcia ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. arthur garcia, defendant and appellant. b257247 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba355012) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, robert j. perry, judge. affirmed as modified. sylvia whatley beckham, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., supervising deputy attorney general, and nima razfar, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______________________________ 2 arthur garcia appeals from the judgment entered following his conviction by a jury of attempted murder and assault with a firearm with true findings he had personally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury to laveil hunter. garcia contends his counsel provided ineffective assistance because he failed to properly object to admission of testimony garcia had been seen with a gun about a month before the incident and the court engaged in prejudicial misconduct by actively questioning witnesses. we affirm enhancement. factual and procedural background 1. the information garcia was charged by amended information with attempted premeditated murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a), 664) and assault with a firearm (pen. code,  245, subd. (a)(2)). it was specially alleged garcia had personally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury (pen. code,  12022.53, subd. (d)), had suffered a prior serious felony conviction (robbery) within the meaning of penal code section 667, subdivision (a), and the three strikes law (pen. code,  667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12) and had served a prior separate prison term for a felony conviction (felon in possession of a firearm) (pen. code,  667.5, subd. (b)). garcia pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. 2. summary of the evidence presented at trial a. eli elizabeth ramirez testified laveil hunter asked her if she had any change as she was entering a liquor store around 10 p.m. on march 29, 2009. she said no. after elizabeth1 left the store, hunter again asked her for change. elizabeth told him she did not have any; and hunter began cursing at her, using racial slurs and threatening that he could kill her. elizabeth, scared, drove home. when she arrived a few minutes later, her brother raphael was there with garcia and pablo renteria. raphael got angry when 1 because elizabeth ramirez and her brother raphael ramirez share a surname, we refer to them by their first names for convenience. 3 elizabeth told him what had happened and asked her to drive him to the liquor store so he could talk to hunter. garcia and renteria said they would also go. raphael rode in the front passenger seat of the car. elizabeth dropped the three men off across the street from the liquor store and drove home. although elizabeth initially testified she did not hear anything as she drove away, when she was asked whether she had told police detectives she heard gunshots, she explained she heard d of pops, but did not know if they were gunshots. over objection, elizabeth further testified she had seen garcia with a gun about a month earlier at a party her brother and his friends were having; but she was not able to identify whether it was a revolver or a semiautomatic handgun.2 the jury was shown surveillance footage from cameras recording the front of the liquor store and the street alongside it and was presented with still photographs taken from the video footage. the video from the liquor store. a man in a dark jacket walked quickly from the passenger side of the car around the rear of it, crossing the street toward hunter, with another man following shortly behind him. just as the first man reached the sidewalk with the second man at about the middle of the street, a third man, wearing a white shirt, left the car from n got closer to hunter, he began to run; the third man was in the middle of the street waiting for a car to pass. after the car passed, the third man ran across the street and shot in the direction hunter had run. (a muzzle flash can be seen.) elizabeth identified her brother as the first man in the dark jacket walking toward hunter. she could not distinguish which of the other two men was garcia or renteria. 2 although garcia with guns. in response to follow-up questions, however, elizabeth told detectives she spreviously seen garcia with a gun. 4 b. hunter acknowledged he had asked elizabeth for change when she left the store, but testified he had never used racial slurs, threatened or cursed at her. when elizabeth said she did not have any change, a man who had come out of the store with her said, hunter responded to the man, and elizabeth told hunter 3 dudes drove up on me, told me what i was doing messing with their homeboy, and i although the surveillance video appears to show hunter looking drove up and as the men left it, he testified he did not see there was two of them coming from . . as hunter ran, he heard seven or eight gunshots. one of the shots struck him in the back of the leg. hunter testified he had seen the men before in the neighborhood. additionally, during an interview when he was in the hospital, hunter identified garcia and renteria picture 1b [elizabeth] is the one that was driving the car when they shot me. number 4b unter was unable to identify garcia as one of the men who had accosted him. he also testified he did not see the man who shot him because he was running away. c. los angeles police detective eric rose, who investigated the shooting incident, testified he interviewed renteria at the newton division station. during that interview renteria told rose that he and raphael had chased hunter and that it was garcia who had shot him. rose also testified renteria did not claim he had been the shooter. 3 elizabeth testified she did not know the man, but had seen him before around the liquor store. 5 d. renteria testified he shot hunter. he contended he had been socializing with some friends, although he did not know their names, and went to the liquor store because he testified he did not recognize anyone in the court room. he also claimed the only other person in the car was a woman whose name he did not know. he denied telling police detectives he and raphael had chased hunter and garcia shot him. when the prosecutor asked him questions about the during cross-examination renteria acknowledged he had pleaded guilty to assault with a firearm in connection with the incident and was serving a seven-year sentence. he also agreed he would be labeled a snitch if he gave the police a statement incriminating other people and that snitches get punished, even in state prison. e. the defense theory of the case garcia did not testify or present any other witness testimony. his primary defense theory was that raphael, who was most upset by the threat to his sister, shot hunter and that garcia did not know raphael intended to shoot him or else garcia would not have attorney argued renteria had so clearly lied that nothing he said, including his statement to detectives that garcia had shot hunter, could be trusted. in contrast, hunter was a very credible witness, and the fact he had identified garcia and renteria strongly suggested raphael was the shooter: seven or eight days later in the hospital? mr. renteria and mr. garcia. both of those people were the people who were approaching him, who were running towards him. he got shot by the third person who was across the street with a gun and he was the person who had the most motive to want 3. the verdict and sentence the jury found garcia guilty of attempted premeditated murder and assault with a firearm and found true the special allegations he had personally discharged a firearm 6 causing great bodily injury. after the trial court in a separate proceeding found true the special allegation that garcia had suffered a prior serious felony conviction, it sentenced him for attempted murder to an indeterminate term of life with a minimum parole eligibility of seven years doubled to 14 years pursuant to the three strikes law, plus a consecutive 25-year-to-life term for personally discharging a firearm causing great bodily injury, plus five years for the prior serious felony conviction enhancement. the court imposed and stayed sentence on the assault with a firearm conviction. discussion 1. o object under evidence code section 1101 to the admission of testimony garcia had previously been seen with a gun was not ineffective assistance of counsel a. legal principles governing ineffective assistance of counsel the right to counsel guaranteed by both the sixth amendment to the united states constitution and article i, section 15 of the california constitution includes, and indeed presumes, the right to effective counsel. . . . (people v. blair (2005) 36 cal.4th 686, 732.) iveness must be whether s conduct so undermined the proper functioning of the adversarial process that (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 686 [104 s.ct. 2052, 80 l.ed.2d 674]; accord, in re valdez (2010) 49 cal.4th 715, 729.) establish ineffective assistance of counsel under either the federal or state guarantee, standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms, s deficient performance was prejudicial, i.e., that a reasonable probability exists that, but s failings, the result would have been more favorable to the defendant.(in re roberts (2003) 29 cal.4th 726, 744-745; accord, in re crew (2011) 52 cal.4th 126, 150; see strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 694.) the burden of sustaining a charge of inadequate or ineffective representation is upon the defendant. the proof . . . 7 must be a demonstrable reality and not a speculative matter. (people v. karis (1988) 46 cal.3d 612, 656; accord, people v. vines (2011) 51 cal.4th 830, 875.) s performance must be highly deferential. it is all too tempting for a defendant to second-gues assistance after conviction or adverse sentence, and it is all too easy s defense after it has proved unsuccessful, to conclude that a particular act or omission of counsel was unreasonable. [citation.] a fair assessment of attorney performance requires that every effort be made to eliminate the distorting effects of hindsight, to reconstruct the circumstances of s challenged conduct, and to evs perspective at the time. because of the difficulties inherent in making the evaluation, a court must indulge a s conduct falls within the wide range of reasonable professional assistance; that is, the defendant must overcome the presumption that, under the circumstances, the challenstrategy(strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 689; see people v. gamache (2010) 48 cal.4th 347, 391; people v. carter (2003) 30 cal.4th 1166, 1211.) on a direct appeal a conviction will be reversed for ineffective assistance of counsel only when the record demonstrates there could have been no rations challenged act or omission. (gamache, at p. 391; people v. anderson (2001) 25 cal.4th 543, 569; people v. lucas (1995) 12 cal.4th 415, 442.) b. legal principles governing evidence of uncharged misconduct predisposition or propensity to engage in a particular type of behavior) as a basis for an inference that he or she acted in conformity with that character on a particular occasion: evidence code section 1101, subdivision (a),4 4 trait of his or her character (whether in the form of an opinion, evidence of reputation, or evidence of specific instances of his or her conduct) is inadmissible when offered to 8 uncharged misconduct, to prove the con (people v. ewoldt (1994) 7 cal.4th 380, 393.) inde[t]he rule excluding evidence of (people v. falsetta (1999) 21 cal.4th 903, 913.) evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b),5 misconduct when such evidence is relevant to establish s (ewoldt, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 393; accord, people v. leon (2015) 61 cal.4th 569, 597-598; see falsetta, at p. tting s other bad acts to prove his present conduct [is] subject to far- citing evid. code,  1101, subd. (b)].) c. reasonableness because the testimony was not clearly inadmissible under evidence code section 1101 testimony she had seen garcia with a gun about a month before the incident by objecting 6 we cannot determine why he did not also object it was impermissible character evidence, which his appellate counsel asserts would have 5 thing in this section prohibits the admission of evidence that a person committed a crime, civil wrong, or other act when relevant to prove some fact (such as motive, opportunity, intent, preparation, plan, knowledge, identity, absence of mistake or accident, or whether a defendant in a prosecution for an unlawful sexual act or attempted unlawful sexual act did not reasonably and in good faith believe that the victim consented) other than his or 6 determining whether garcia was the shooter was not necessary to find him guilty of attempted premeditated murder. as the court properly instructed the jury, garcia could be found guilty if he aided and abetted the perpetrator who had directly committed the crime. however, only the individual who actually discharged the firearm is subject to the enhancement alleged pursuant to penal code section 12022.53, subdivision (d) (personal discharge of a firearm causing great bodily injury or death). 9 presented a better ground for excluding the testimony; but on this record we cannot say the failure to do so constituted ineffective assistance. specific type of weapon, it is error to admit evidence that other weapons were found in people v. barnwell (2007) 41 cal.4th 1038, 1056; see people v. cox (2003) 30 cal.4th 916, 956, disapproved on other grounds in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22.) but as justice traynor explained for the supreme court in people v. riser (1956) 47 cal.2d 566, 577, disapproved on other grounds in people v. chapman (1959) 52 cal.2d 95, 98 and people v. morse type of weapon used to commit a homicide is not known, it may be permissible to admit into evicould have been the weapons employed. there need be no conclusive demonstration that cox, at p. 955 [trial court properly admitted evidence three gs truck even though cause of death was unknown; prosecutor allowed to show defendant had instruments that would allow him to overpower and cause the death of these young girls]; people v. carpenter (1999) 21 cal.4th 1016, 1052 s testimony defendant told her he kept a gun in his van was relevant and admissible as circumstantial evidence he committed the offenses]; see also people v. lane (1961) 56 cal.2d 773, 785 [admission of guns found in abandoned trucper seof a character which could be used in armed robbery . . . in furtherance of the ].) here, there was no evidence as to the type of handgun garcia showed raphaelelizabeth testified she did not know the difference between a revolver and a semiautomatic weapon and at best thought the handgun might have been silverand the prosecution did not rely on any specific type of handgun as having been used in the crime. thus, the gun elizabeth saw could have been the firearm used to shoot hunter; 10 and access to, and prior possession of, a gun was relevant circumstantial evidence he was the shooter, not simply an aider-and-abettor of the aggravated assault.7 the link between the handgun elizabeth saw and the weapon used in the shooting was, of course, tenuous. but dunder evidence code section 1101 simply did not rise to the level serious that counsel was not functioning a guaranteed the defendant by the strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 687.)8 indeed, [d]eciding whether to object is inherently tactical, and the failure to object will rarely establish ineffective assistance. (people v. carrasco (2014) 59 cal.4th 924, 985; accord, people v. salcido (2008) 44 cal.4th 93, 172.) 2. the trial court did not commit prejudicial misconduct by attempting to clarify witness testimony and control the pace of the proceedings garcia contends the trial court committed prejudicial misconduct by unnecessarily participating in the examination of witnesses. garcia recounts several examples of the court questioning each of the witnesses, primarily during direct examination, and argues ution. this claim has been forfeited and, in any event, lacks merit. 7 even if only minimally probative, the danger of undue prejudice by admission of the testimony was equally minimal. all evidence that tends to prove guilt is damaging or s case; the prejudice referred to in evidence code section 352 applies to evidence which uniquely tends to evoke an emotional bias against the defendant as an individual and which has very little effect on the issues.(people v. karis (1988) 46 cal.3d 612, 638.) firearm possession today is commonplace. evidence of it does not evoke an inappropriate emotional bias against a defendant as an individual. 8 we do not believe it would have been an abuse of discretion to overrule an 1101, subdivision (a). nor dinstruction under calcrim no. 375 was prejudicial under the strickland standard. (see fn. 7, above.) 11 a. law governing judicial misconduct the due process clause of the fourteenth amendment requires a fair trial in a fair tribunal before a judge with no actual bias against the defendant or interest in the outcome of the case. (see bracy v. gramley (1997) 520 u.s. 899, 904-905 [117 s.ct. 1793, 138 l.ed.2d 97].) judicial misconduct occurs when a trial judge strongly suggests (see liteky v. united states (1994) 510 u.s. 540, 555-556 [114 s.ct. 1147, 127 l.ed.2d 474]; see people v. houston (2012) it creates the impression that it is denigrating the defense or otherwise allying itself with s intervention must be significant and adverse to a substantial degree. (see mcbee v. grant (6th cir. 1985) 763 f.2d 811, 818; see also duckett v. godinez (9th cir.1995) 67 f.3d 734, 740.) in people v. sturm (2006) 37 cal.4th 1218 (sturm) the supreme court summarized the california standard for judicial misconduct: [t]he court has a duty to see that justice is done and to bring [citation.] . . . judicial posi [citation.] [] trial [citation.] a trial court commits misconduct if the jury may plainly perceive that the testimony of the witnesses is not believed by the id. at pp. 1237-1238.) b. garcia has forfeited his claim of judicial misconduct because he failed to object on this ground during trial. (see sturm, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 1237 [[a]s a general rule, judicial misconduct claims are not preserved for appellate review if no objections were made on tho garcia argues any objection would have been futile and no admonition could have cured the prejudice, thus his claim is cognizable on appeal. 12 (see ibid. [finding it would have been futile for defendant to derogatory comments and objections where it could cause the judge to be more negative toward defendant in front of the jury].) garcia, however, fails to support his contention with any reasoned argument. the court did not in its questioning of witnesses display hostility, frustration or animus toward defense counsel or the defendant; and there was no apparent risk that an objection might further anger or frustrate the court reflecting negatively on the defendant. indeed, garcia concedes defense counsel and the trial judge - significantly, garcia acknowledges may be that this manner of conducting the trial was the particular style of this particular these are precisely the circumstances in which an objection is necessary: the court was plainly unaware its attempts to facilitate examination and the pace of trial might have created a perception of bias. c. a trial court has both the discretion and the duty to ask questions of witnesses, provided this is done in an effort to elicit material facts or to clarify confusing or unclear testimony.(people v. cook (2006) 39 cal.4th 566, 597; see evid. code,  [t]he court, on its own motion or on the motion of any party, may call witnesses and interrogate them the same as if they had been produced by a party to the action, and the parties may object to the questions asked and the evidence adduced the same as if such witnesses were called and examined by an adverse party]; people v. carlucci (1979) 23 cal.3d 249, 256 [evid. code,  77confers upon the trial judge the power, discretion and affirmative duty . . . [to] participate in the examination of witnesses whenever he [or she] believes that he [or she] may fairly aid in eliciting the truth, in preventing misunderstanding, in clarifying the testimony or covering omissions, in allowing a witness his [or her] right of explanation, and in eliciting facts material to a j].) 13 the record demonstrates the court participated in the examination of witnesses to clarify confusing testimony and to advance the questioning. elizabeth was a reluctant witness. she was neither forthcoming nor articulate, and the prosecutor struggled to establish basic propositions and to refresh her recollection with statements she had made to detectives. for example, an inordinate amount of time was spent trying to establish familiarity with garcia and renteria and where they were when she first came home the evening hunter was shot. finally, the court intervened: these were what, friends of your brothers; is that what you thought? lived around that area, but two of his friends? the proceedings. gement reflected poorly on the disbelieved the defense. said or did during the trial as an indication of what i think about the facts, the witnesses, the jury is presumed to have followed s instructions, and there is no indication it did not. (people v. sanchez (2001) 26 cal.4th 834, 852.) 3. the record should be corrected to reflect the prior prison term allegation was not proved although it was specially alleged garcia had served a separate prior prison term for a felony conviction in 2004, at the bifurcated tria convictions the 14 people introduced no evidence regarding that conviction; and the court made no finding and neither imposed nor stayed an additional enhancement pursuant to penal code section 667.5, subdivision (b). garcia contends the absence of any evidence in support of an implied not true finding. he argues the record should be corrected to reflect that finding. (cf. people v. gutierrez (1993) 14 cal.app.4th 1425, 1440 [w]hen no words are used and the trier of fact fails to make a finding the effect is the same as a finding of not truewe agree and order the judgment entered on june 27, 2014 to be modified to reflect that the special allegation garcia had served a prior separate prison term for a 2004 felony conviction was not proved. disposition the judgment is modified to include a finding that the special allegation garcia had served a prior separate prison term for a 2004 felony conviction was not proved. as modified, the judgment is affirmed. perluss, p. j. we concur: zelon, j. blumenfeld, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 