filed 3/22/16 p. v. montellano ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. thomas montellano, defendant and appellant. b257452 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka100661) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. mike camacho, judge. affirmed. albert j. garcia for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, michael r. johnsen, supervising deputy attorney general, and alene m. games, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 thomas montellano appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial in which he was acquitted on one count of first degree residential burglary (pen. code,  459) and convicted on one count of grand theft of a firearm (pen. code,  487, subd. (d)(2)).1 the trial court sentenced appellant to an aggregate term of nine years in state prison, consisting of the midterm of two years, doubled for a prior strike conviction ( 667, subds. (b)(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)(d)), plus a five-year serious felony enhancement ( 667, subd. (a)(1)). appellant contends: (1) ue process rights; (2) the trial court committed prejudicial error when it instructed that the ; (3) e trial court strike conviction. we disagree and affirm. factual background in october 2012, 2 was living in the house on hacienda boulevard where he and appellant had grown up, which he had acquired sometime after his appellant was living with his mother, celia, but he still received mail at the hacienda boulevard house. celia had a key to house, and she and appellant visited family members there several times a month. appellant occasionally brought his children over to swim in the pool. although celia had unrestricted access to the house, albert had told celia that appellant was not allowed to visit when albert was not home. in 2011 thomas sr., was no longer able to live alone due to failing health and moved back into the house with albert. thomas sr. was a musician 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 we refer to individuals who share the same surname by their first names. 3 and owned several trumpets, which he kept at house. at some point thomas sr. had given one of the trumpets to appellant s son to play, but took it back sometime in 2011. albert, who also played the trumpet, believed that his father had given all of his trumpets to albert. on october 9, 2012, appellant and celia went to house to visit thomas sr. and to retrieve the trumpet . mary lara, who rented an upstairs bedroom from albert, was the only person home at the time. appellant told lara he was there to see his father and mentioned he was looking for a trumpet his father had given him. but neither albert nor thomas sr. was home: albert was away for the weekend, and thomas sr. had gone to the hospital a few days earlier. upon learning that both albert and thomas sr. were away, appellant proceeded , where he forced the door open, breaking the lock. appellant entered the room, and celia followed. celia testified that after looking around the room for the trumpet, she took a rifle from the closet collateral for the trumpet. celia and appellant then left the house together. according to again for three months. celia also testified that when she returned home, she put the rifle in her garage. after appellant and celia left, lara telephoned albert and told him appellant had broken into his bedroom. albert called the police. during the subsequent investigation, lara and celia told deputies that appellant had kicked door and left the house carrying the rifle. celia told police that appellant drove home, and appellant later left in her truck. celia explained to police that she had received an anonymous phone call from a person purporting to speak for appellant who told her the rifle was in her garage. the caller had asked celia to relay a message to ng in the door. . . . he was returning the gun. 4 discussion i. rt in the record appellant contends the evidence was insufficient to support his conviction for grand theft of a firearm, on the grounds that: (1) the prosecution failed to present o evidence that appellant intended to permanently or for an extended period of time deprive the owner of in reviewing a challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence, we examine the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment, drawing all reasonable inferences in of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence. (people v. maciel (2013) 57 cal.4th 482, 514515; people v. kraft (2000) 23 cal.4th 978, 1053.) further, s duty to acquit a defendant if it finds the circumstantial evidence susceptible of two reasonable interpretations, one of which suggests guilt and the other innocence, it is the jury, not the appellate court that must be convinced of the s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] reasonably justify the trier of facts findings, the opinion of the reviewing court that the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding does not warrant a reversal of the judgment. people v. virgil (2011) 51 cal.4th 1210, 1263; people v. lindberg (2008) 45 cal.4th 1, 27; people v. kraft, supra, at pp. 10531054.) to establish grand theft of a firearm, the prosecution was required to prove: (1) appellant took possession of a firearm owned by someone else; (2) appellant took the firearm without the o when appellant took the firearm he intended to extended a period of time that the owner would be deprived of a major portion of its value or enjoyment; and (4) appellant moved the firearm, even a small distance, and kept it for any period of time, however brief. ( 484, 487, subd. (d)(2); people v. davis 5 (1998) 19 cal.4th 301, 305; people v. williams (1946) 73 cal.app.2d 154, 157; calcrim no. 1800.) rifle, but instead showed that the firearm belonged to the family in a collective sense. in e family closet in his locked bedroom. but albert identified the rifle in the photograph as his rifle. he further testified that he had kept the rifle in the closet of his locked bedroom in the what would reasonably be expected conclusion that albert was the rightful owner of the rifle. eprive his brother of the rifle permanently or for an extended period of time fails as well. the temporarily, but for so extended a period of time as to deprive the owner of a major people v. avery (2002) 27 cal.4th 49, 52.) evidenis rarely demonstrated by direct proof, and as a result, may be inferre (people v. hussain (2014) 231 cal.app.4th 261, 273.) of the trumpet, the jury could readily infer that to sustain his conviction for grand theft of the firearm. 6 ii. the trial court voluntary absence from trial, and appropriately instructed the jury regarding flight a. relevant background appellant was present for the first two days of trial, but failed to appear the morning of the third day, and was absent for the remainder of the trial. outside the presence of the jury, the trial court noted that appellant had been ordered to appear at 9:00 a.m. defense counsel reported that he had spoken with his client the night before when he spoke to celia that morning, she had told him that appellant up at 7:00 a.m. the attorney had neither heard from appellant nor had he been able to locate him after leaving absence. defense counsel advised the court that he was still unable to reach appellant. he court declared the trial would proceed without him. defense counsel objected to proceeding in appellant and requested a continuance, arguing that the specific reasofailure to appear was unknown, and extreme prejudice would result from proceeding without him. the court denied the continuance, finding that appellant was with his girlfriend who was simply not returning phone calls, and was attempting to impede the judicial process with his absence. the court also stated its inclination to permit the people to argue consciousness of guilt through flight based voluntary absence. the court then addressed the jury: of people versus thomas montellano. now, mr. montellano is not present before the court as i speak, but he continues to be represented by counsel, mr. ellis. . . . [] . . . [] mr. thomas montellano, as you can plainly see, has chosen not to attend this trial. he has voluntarily evidently absented himself from this trial but his decision will not delay these proceedings any further. 7 if he chooses not to attend, that is his right evidently and he has chosen not to attend. return to court, which means that he is under court order to return. the fact that he has failed to appear shows a violation of a court order. even though he has a right to be present during his trial, he can choose obviously to waive that right and not be present but he cannot ignore a court order to attend. so technically he is supposed to be here and he permits. and you will be instructed accordingly as to how you can consider mr. case. thereafter, on six separate occasions, the court reminded the jury that appellant was voluntarily absent from the proceedings. in concluding instructions t immediately after the court gave the flight instruction, a juror asked the court a question: juror: the court: juror: the court: tell you is that this instruction juror: his absence in [sic] the court: e jury will be permitted to consider that as evidence of flight in considering whether or not he had a consciousness of guilt. [] now, again, as the law reads juror: the court: get into a discussion, i should say; a poor use of words on my part. just follow the law. the law says if you conclude, as an individual juror, even as a unanimous jury, that the defendant fled or tried to flee, including his conduct recently as 8 today, you can consider that conduct in reaching your verdict. however, evidence that the defendant fled or tried to flee cannot prove guilt by itself. so consider the law, and you can apply it to everything that has transpired up to and including the defendant following closing arguments by counsel, the same juror attempted to pose another question to the court, but the court explained that there was a procedure for asking questions that must be followed. the juror made no further inquiry, and no questions were submitted by the jury during deliberations. that afternoon, the jury returned verdicts acquitting appellant of burglary and convicting him of grand theft of a firearm. before commencing rial court again rvous in ourt took a 15-minute recess for appellant to return to the courtroom. but appellant failed to appear, and eventually the trial without him. b. are forfeited ial misconduct took three forms: (1) voluntary absence from trial; (2) disclosing to the jury that appellant had been under a court order to return to court, and that his voluntary absence was a violation of that order; and (3) and determine whether such flight evidenced a consciousness of guilt. failure to object below forfeited these claims on appeal. well as its repeated reminders to the jury regarding a 9 trial. the lack of any objection or request for an admonition to the jury forfeited the claim on appeal that these remarks constituted judicial misconduct which violated due process rights. (people v. sturm (general rule, judicial misconduct claims are not preserved for appellate review if no people v. snow (2003) 30 cal.4th 43, 7778.) similarly, claim that the trial court improperly instructed on flight was forfeited by the failure to object below. (people v. sanders (1995) 11 cal.4th 475, 533.) further, it does not appear that objections to the trial courts statements regarding instruction would have been futile. (people v. snow, at p. 78; people v. sanders, at p. 531.) indeed, the trial court gave defense counsel ample opportunity to secure the presence of his client, and properly weighed jection to proceeding without appellant. in any event, as we explain below, even if not forfeited, merit. c. voluntary absence from trial did not constitute judicial misconduct, nor did they occasidue process rights appellant asserts that the court should have admonished the jury against considering decreeing that his absence constituted s order to appear. but defense counsel requested no such admonition, and the trial court had no sua sponte duty to instruct the people v. sully (1991) 53 cal.3d 1195, 1241.) unlike the appearance of a shackled defendant before the jury, our supreme ibid.) appellant goes on to characterize the jury that failure to appear constituted a violation of a direct court order as a serious and prejudicial instance of judicial misconduct requiring reversal. we disagree. 10 citing section 1320.5, which makes it a felony for a person charged with a felony to willfully fail to appear in order to evade the process of the court, appellant contends that appellant continues: mindopen court, and in the presence of the jury, was extravagant judicial misconduct that deprived appellant of his due improper, the record is devoid of any evidence of prejudice based on statement. the court the jury that appellant had been ordered to return to court, and by his voluntary absence had violated that order, falls far short of a declaration that appellant was guilty of a separate criminal offense based on his voluntary failing to appear. prejudice. in light of an acquittal on the most serious charge appellant was facing (first degree burglary) and the abundant evidence supporting his conviction on the grand theft charge, appellant has failed to any adverse effect on the verdict whatsoever. (see people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) ts conduct left something to be desired, or even whether some comments would have been better left unsaid. rather, we ms behavior was so prejudicial that it denied [the defendant] a fair, as opposed to a perfect, trial. (people v. snow, supra, 30 cal.4th at p. 78.) (people v. harris (2005) 37 cal.4th 310, 347.) in the absence of any showing of prejudice, the record in this case does not support appellant was deprived of his constitutional right to a fair trial or an impartial judge. 11 d. the trial court properly instructed the jury regarding flight based contending the flight instruction applies only when the evidence shows the defendant departed the crime scene to avoid arrest, appellant asserts that the record does during his trial.3 we disagree. calcrim no. 3724 allows the jury to draw an inference of consciousness of guilt if it finds the defendant fled the scene of a crime to avoid observation or arrest, or if it finds the defendant fled after he was accused of committing the crime. (people v. snyder (1976) 56 cal.app.3d 195, 198199 (snyder); people v. vargas (1975) 53 cal.app.3d 516, 530 (vargas).) in snyder, the defendant was absent following jury selection and remained so until after a verdict had been reached. on appeal the court upheld the trial court flight instruction, noting: reas absence was voluntary and it was a fact relevant to the determination as to his guilt or innocence. [citation.] for the jury to (snyder, at p. 199.) similarly, in vargas, the defendant was present for jury selection but failed to appear the following day for trial, and the trial proceeded without him. the trial court informed the jury that although the defendant had been there earlier, he apparently had voluntarily left the courthouse. the defendant did not return for the remainder of the 3 appellant left town immediately after the incident, and does not contend the trial court erred in instructing the jury on flight based on that fact. 4 calcrim no. 372 provides: or tried to flee immediately after the crime was committed or after he was accused of committing the crime, that conduct may show that he was aware of his guilt. if you conclude that the defendant fled or tried to flee, it is up to you to decide the meaning and importance of that conduct. 12 deciding his guilt or innocence. (vargas, supra, 53 cal.app.3d at pp. 522523, 529; caljic no. 2.52.) on appeal, the defendant claimed error based on the lack of evidence (vargas, at p. 530.) the appellate court rejected both arguments, holding that in order for the trial to proceed, the trial absence to make a finding as to whether the absence was voluntary. (ibid.) but the elevant to the jury, which was only to be informed the absence was voluntary and determine for itself the weight to be given the ibid.) as for to testify, the court explained: the flight instruction only permitted an inference to be drawn from ts failure to be physically present. the jury were expressly (id. at pp. 530531.) here, as in snyder and vargasvargas, supra, 53 cal.app.3d at p. 530), and the jury was appropriately instructed that it could consider that evidence in deciding his guilt or innocence. we find no indication the jury misconstrued the flight instruction, or placed undue we review the instructions as a whole to determine whether it is reasonably likely that the jury misconstrued them. (people v. roybal (1998) 19 cal.4th 481, 527; people v. mendoza (1998) 18 cal.4th 1114, 1134; people v. frye (1998) 18 cal.4th 894, 957, overruled on another point in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22; people v. ramos (2008) 163 cal.app.4th 1082, 1088.) in people v. frye, our supreme court held: this artificial isolation, but must be viewed in the context of the overall char (people v. frye, supra, 18 cal.4th at p. 957, quoting boyde v. california (1990) 494 u.s. 370, 378 [110 s.ct. 1190, 1196]; see also people v. burgener (1986) 41 cal.3d 505, 538 13 correctness of jury instructions is to be determined from the entire charge of the court, not , overruled on other grounds in people v. reyes (1998) 19 cal.4th 743, 753.) in addition to the flight instruction, the trial court gave calcrim no. 200, which cautioned jurors to [p]ay careful attention to all of these instructions and consider them together. [] . . . [] do not assume just because i give a particular instruction that i am the flight instruction itself informed jurors that a the trial court further instructed regarding the presumption of innocence and the guilt beyond a reasonable doubt (calcrim no. 220), absolute, constitutional right not to testify (calcrim no. 355). these instructions insured that the flight instruction did not undermine the presumption of innocence or relieve the prosecution of its burden to prove s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. e. nothing the trial court said removed the question of whether flight consideration appellant contends that the court essentially directed the jury to find that appellantduring trial of whether a flight had, in fact, occurred, in order to consider whether that conduct evi we disagree. law, explaining that if flight, that conduct could be considered in reaching a verdict. the court also emphasized that evidence of flight could not prove guilt by itself. thus, the flight instruction and the placed the determination of whether constituted flight squarely with the jury. moreover, as set forth above, appellant has failed to demonstrate any prejudice 14 ght. the jury acquitted appellant of burglary. overwhelming. on these facts, there appears no reasonable probability that a result more favorable to appellant would have been reached absent on the issue of flight. (people v. silva (1988) 45 cal.3d 604, 628; people v. watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836.) iii. the trial court properly exercised its discretion in denying tion to strike his prior conviction appellant contends that the trial court abused its discretion in denying his motion to dismiss his prior strike conviction under people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497, 530 (romero), because the ruling was premised on unsupported assumptions that the court improperly we disagree. we review the prior strike conviction under the deferential abuse of discretion standard. (people v. carmony (2004) 33 cal.4th 367, 374 (carmony).) a sentencing norm established by the three strikes law narrowly circumscribed. indeed, a strong presumption [exists] that any sentence that conforms to paradigm is both rational and proper. (carmony, supra, at p. in light of this presumption, a trial court will only abuse its discretion in failing to strike a prior felony conviction allegation in limited circumstances.ibid.) reviewing nature and circumstances of his present felonies and prior serious and/or violent felony convictions, and the particulars of his background, character, and prospects, the should be treated as though he had not previously been convicted of one or more serious people v. williams (1998) 17 cal.4th 148, 161 (williams); carmony, supra 15 ly support the striking of a prior carmony, at pp. 377378.) he burden is on the party attacking the sentence to clearly show that the sentencing decision was irrational or arbitrary. [citation.] in the absence of such a showing, the trial court is presumed to have acted to achieve legitimate sentencing objectives, and its discretionary determination to impose a particular sentence will not be (people v. superior court (alvarez) (1997) 14 cal.4th 968, 977978 (alvarez); carmony, supra, 33 cal.4th at pp. 376377.) thus, it is not enough to show that reasonable prior conviction, and [w]here the record demonstrates that the trial court balanced the relevant facts and reached an impartial decision in conformity with the spirit of the law, we shall affirm the trial courts ruling, even if we might have ruled differently in the first instance (carmony, at p. 378.) in determining that appellant did not fall outside the spirit of the three strikes law, the trial court cited misdemeanor convictions since 1986, one prior prison term, and two felony convictionsone in 1992 (burglary,  459) and the other in 2001 (criminal threats,  422). the court emphasized that appellant was on a three-year grant of probation on two separate cases when he committed the current offense. observing that several of the misdemeanors could have been charged as felonies, and appellant had benefited from judicial leniency on several occasionsthe court in light of these factors we do not consider tto be irrational or arbitrary. an abuse of discretion also occurs where the court considered impermissible factors in declining to dismiss (carmony, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 378.) appellant contends that the trial court relied on factors in aggravation that were unsupported by the record, and thus abused its disc 16 prior conviction. we disagree. as respondent observes, the court expressly did not rely on any of the factors in aggravation it had found, declaring that the factors in mitigation washed out those in aggravation. thus, no impermissible factors figured into the trial romero motion. romero motion resulted in an unfair and excessive sentence for the theft of a rusty, old family rifle. in so arguing, appellant focuses on a single factorthe nature and circumstances of current offenseto the exclusion of all others. (see people v. garcia (1999) 20 cal.4th 490, 501.) were we to hold that this factor should predominate over other appropriate considerations, we would be improperly substituting our own judgment for that of the decisions in romero and williams. (carmony, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 379; alvarez, supra, 14 cal.4th at p. 979.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. lui, j. we concur: chaney, acting p. j. johnson, j. 