filed 4/20/16 p. v. sangurima ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. christian sangurima, defendant and appellant. b257872 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba411802) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, ronald h. rose, judge. affirmed. mark j. shusted, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, roberta l. davis and blythe j. leszkay, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ 2 christian sangurima, who was convicted of a carjacking that was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang with the intent of promoting, furthering, and assisting in criminal conduct by gang members (pen. code,1  215, subd. (a), 186.22, subd. (b)(4)), appeals his conviction and sentence on the grounds that he personally was denied the right of allocution before imposition of judgment and that the court potentially committed error under people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 (marsden). he requests that the matter be remanded for the limited purpose of permitting him to exercise a personal right to show legal cause why judgment should not be pronounced. we affirm. factual and procedural background after a jury trial, sangurima was convicted of carjacking, and the jury found true appointed attorney filed a motion for new trial. on july 25, 2014, sangurima, his attorney, and the prosecutor appeared for a hearing on the new trial motion, a court trial on prior conviction allegations, and sentencing. to accommodate his schedule and because sangurima was in the process of retaining private counsel. the court denied the requested continuance and turned to the new trial motion, asking counsel if there was anything he wished to add to his written presentation. counsel said he had nothing to add but that his client wished to address the court on a new trial motion. the court declined to permit sangurima to speak because he was represented by counsel. stated that he believed that his client felt that he had not had an opportunity to review the motion for a new trial. the prosecutor declined to argue the motion, and the court began to rule on the motion for new trial. as the court spoke, sangurima interrupted, saying, 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 the court finished explaining its ruling denying the new trial motion, and then this is a blatant attempt by mr. sangurima to postpone sentencing in this matter. he was i have a motion. you cannot deny my faretta2 it is denied, and you will support his position, and that the court could not deny him his right to self-representation. the court again stated its finding that sangurima was attempting to delay sentencing: that motion was denied, he decided to attempt to have another method to postpone this the court proceeded to conduct the priors trial, and the court that there was no legal cause why judgment should not be pronounced. as the court heard argument from the prosecutor and defense counsel as to the appropriate may i address the the court continued discussing sentencing with counsel. address the court. the court permitted sangurima to speak. sangurima asked the court 2 faretta v. california (1975) 422 u.s. 806 [concerning the right to self-representation] (faretta). 4 to excussentencing, not other issues. ask [for] my faretta rights. you denythe court interrupted, asking, faretta rights faretta the court began to sentence sangurima, then broke off to tell sangurima that he asked you for my faretta impose sentence. the court ordered sangurima removed from the courtroom. sangurima again protested that the court was denying him his faretta rights and that he asked to address the court. sangurima was removed from the courtroom and the court sentenced him to life in prison with a minimum of 23 years to be served. sangurima appeals. discussion i. denial of opportunity to address the court prior to judgment section 1200 provides that when a defendant appears for judgment, the court must, hat this right is personal to the defendant and that he was denied the right to allocution when he was denied the opportunity to address the court personally with respect to legal cause prior to the pronouncement of judgment. we conclude sangurima was not denied his rights. s inquiry of a defendant as to whether there is any reason why judgment should not be 5 pronounced. [citations.] used for a mitigating statement made by a defs inquiry. (people v. evans (2008) 44 cal.4th 590, 592, fn. 2, italics omitted (evans).) sangurima does not claim he was denied his right of allocution in the nontraditional sense: he does not argue he wished to make a mitigating statement in response to the courts inquiry but was not allowed to do so. instead, he claims that section 1200 and evans give a defendant the right to the traditional form of allocution that requires that the defendant, even when represented by counsel, must be personally afforded . . this is not the law. when the court asked whether there was any legal cause why judgment should s counsel replied that there was not, this constituted compliance with . . . (people v. sanchez (1977) 72 cal.app.3d 356, 359 (sanchez); see also people v. cross (1963) 213 cal.app.2d 678, 681 (cross) [the inquiry made by the court and the response thereto of counsel . . . constituted a compliance with the law of this state as to allocution].) ii. marsden sangurima alleges that the trial court committed otential marsden emarsden, supra, 2 cal.3d 118 and the right of a defendant to request replacement of his appointed counsel. sangurima does not argue, nor could he based on this record, that he sought and was denied a hearing pursuant to marsden, supraconduct a marsden hearing defendant that he wants a subspeople v. mendoza (2000) 24 cal.4th 130, 157.) as one basis for his request for a continuance, defense counsel had advised the court that sangurima wanted to retain private counsel, but nothing sangurima said to the trial court in the course of attempting to make a presentation clearly indicated a desire for substitute appointed counsel. instead, sangurima wanted to address the court concerning the new trial motion, and when told he could not do so because he was 6 represented by counsel, he attempted unsuccessfully to assert the right to self-representation to remove that obstacle to making his presentation. at one point, sangurima did saythis statement, however, was immediately preceded by and immediately followed by sangurimaself under faretta, supra, 422 u.s. 806, and his belief that the court could not deny that request. we understand this solitary refereright to self-representation and not alluding to any desire for substitute counsel, as part of the attempt to represent himself. we also observe that the record demonstrates that sangurima knew how to obtain a marsden hearing, because he had done so in the past. immediately prior to the commencement of trial, sangurima had requested and obtained a marsden hearing where he cogently presented the basis for his dissatisfaction with counsel. (see people v. gonzalez (2012) 210 marsden motions demonstrate his awareness of his entitlement to a hearing if he desired to substitute counsel].) there was no marsden error here. instead, sangurima asserts marsden error. while would have made had he been given the opportunity asserts that his citation of the errors by trial counsel and their on that speculation, and proceeding on the premise that he had a right to allocution with respect to legal cause under section 1200, sangurima suggests that if he had been permitted to speak, and if as part of that speech he had his complaints against trial counsel, appellant might also have realized he needed a different attorney, and requested a marsden hearing, which would have triggered further inquiry from sangurima contends that the matter should be ch he later specifies to be to show legal cau . . . 7 this argument has no merit. as we have already concluded, because he was represented by counsel during the inquiry as to legal cause why judgment should not be pronounced, sangurima had no right to personally address the court on this question, and requirements of section 1200. (sanchez, supra, 72 cal.app.3d at p. 359; cross, supra, 213 cal.app.2d at p. 681.) moreover, argument rests entirely on speculation that he might have constitutionally deficient if he had been allowed to argue the new trial motion. rror must be affirmatively shown by the record and cannot rest upon speculationpeople v. crawford (1953) 115 cal.app.2d 838, 842.) the record, furthermore, does not support marsden hearing, as well as his vehement and persistent demands to speak on the new trial motion and to represent himself, both representation, he was aware of how to do so and able to raise such issues to the court. as no error has been demonstrated, no remand is appropriate. iii. self-representation in his reply brief, sangurima for the first time argues that he timely, knowingly, and unequivocally asserted his right to self-representation under faretta, supra, 422 u.s. 806. claims not raised until the reply brief are waived. (people v. duff (2014) 58 cal.4th 527, 550, fn. 9.) even if we consider this argument, however, argument presents no basis for reversal. the right of self-representation is absolute, but only if a request to do so is knowingly and voluntarily made and if asserted a reasonable time before trial begins. otherwise, requests for self-representation are addressed to the trial courts sound discretion.people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 453.) here, motion for self-representation made after the jury returns its verdict on a primary offense but prior to commencement of a bifurcated trial on prior convictions is untimely and subject to the s discretion because proceedings on the priors are merely part of the trial 8 (people v. miller (2007) 153 cal.app.4th 1015, 1023; see also people v. rivers (1993) 20 cal.app.4th 1040, 1048.) similarly, requests for self-representation at sentencing are not timely unless they are made within a reasonable time prior to the commencement of the sentencing hearing. (miller, at pp. 1023-1024; see also doolin, at p. 454 [capital sentencing].) here, sangurima did not express any interest in the sentencing proceeding. he made his faretta motion so that he could pursue his motion for a new trial, a collateral proceeding that is a continuation of the trial. faretta motion therefore was not timely, and consequently he did not have an absolute right to represent himself. rather, his right to self-representation at that point was subject to the courts discretion. (see doolin, at p. 455, fn. 39.) made shortly after his request for continuance had been denied, and sangurima admitted to the court that he was not ready to proceed as his own counsel that day. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in denying the faretta request after finding the request was made for the purposes of delay. rial court is whether the the proceedings (id. at p. 454.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. zelon, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. blumenfeld, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 