filed 2/10/16 p. v. huynh ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. john taylor huynh, defendant and appellant. b258509 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka094327) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. thomas c. falls, judge. affirmed. patricia a. scott, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general and lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and andrew s. pruitt, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. __________________________ 2 defendant and appellant john huynh was convicted of first-degree premeditated murder (pen. code,  187, 189) and an allegation that he personally used a deadly weapon, a knife, was found to be true (pen. code,  12022, subd. (b)(1)). he was sentenced to a term of 26 years to life in prison. defendant appeals, challenging only the sufficiency of the evidence of premeditation and deliberation. we affirm. factual background in 2001, when defendant was 17 years old, he killed his mother by stabbing her in the neck and subsequently slashing her throat and wrists. he then hired a day laborer to dig a hole in his backyard. he buried the body in the shallow grave, cleaned the blood off the walls, burned other evidence, and abandoned the home. he told everyone that his appeared to get away with murder until 2011, when guilt compelled him to walk into a police station and confess the crime. he then accompanied police officers to the scene, and showed them where he had buried the body. ibed. at the police station and at the crime defendant had admitted to police that he had argued with his mother in an upstairs bedroom. he ran downstairs to the kitchen and grabbed a kitchen knife and plastic garbage bag. he returned upstairs and although this was unsuccessful. he stabbed his mother in the neck repeatedly. he then placed her on the bed. she was still alive, so he cut her throat and wrists. he waited until she died. at trial, defendant offered evidence that he suffered from schizoaffective disorder, and that he had been undergoing psychotic episodes both when he killed his mother and when he confessed to the crime. he also suggested that he had killed his mother in self-defense, because she was an abusive parent who had attacked him with a metal rod. contrary to his statement to the police that he had obtained the knife from the kitchen 3 downstairs, at trial defendant testified that the knife was simply at hand in the bedroom, and he had grabbed it instinctively to defend himself. standard of review on appeal, defendant contfinding of first-either to sustain a conviction or to support the denial of a section 1118.1 motion, the standard of review is essen judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidenceevidence that is reasonable, credible and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence. [citation people v. hajek and vo (2014) 58 cal.4th 1144, 1182-1183.) discussion degree. (pen. code,  premeditamurder of the first degree the legislature apparently emphasized its intention to require as an element of such crime substantially more reflection than may be involved in the people v. boatman (2013) 221 cal.app.4th 1253, 1264 (boatman) ibid. not the duration of time as much as it is the extent of the reflection ibid.) in considering whether circumstantial evidence is sufficient to support a finding of premeditation and deliberation, courts consider three factors first set forth in people v. 4 anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15. these factors are: (1) planning activity; (2) motive; and (3) manner of killing. traditionally, courts uphold findings of first degree murder when there is evidence of all three types, or extremely strong evidence of type (1), or evidence of (2) combined with (1) or (3). (people v. sanchez (1995) 12 cal.4th 1, 32, disapproved on another point in people v. drolin (2009) 40 cal.4th 390, 421 fn. 22; boatman, supra, 221 cal.app.4th at p. 1266.) however, the anderson factors simply set forth guidelines for analysis. (boatman, at p. 1270.) anderson analysis was intended as a framework to assist reviewing courts in assessing whether the evidence supports an inference that the killing resulted from preexisting reflection and weighing of considerations. it did not refashion the elements of first degree murder or alter the people v. thomas (1992) 2 cal.4th 489, 517.) if the anderson factors are not present, a finding of premeditation and deliberation can still be upheld based on substantial evidence from which rational jurors could have found that the killing was the result of preexisting thought and the careful weighing of considerations. (boatman, at p. 1270.) we first consider the evidence of each of the anderson factors. the first factor is planning. defendant told police that he ran downstairs to obtain the knife and the plastic bag from the kitchen, then brought those items back to the bedroom where his mother was waiting. the act of obtaining a weapon from another location and bringing it to kill the victim demonstrates planning. (people v. perez (1992) 2 cal.4th 1117, 1126; people v. wharton (1991) 53 cal.3d 522, 547.) the second anderson factor is motive. all non-accidental killings have some degree of motive; what matters for the anderson analysis is if there is evidence of a motive that supports an inference that the killing was the result of pre-existing reflection and careful thought, not a rash impulse hastily executed. (boatman, supra, 221 cal.app.4th at p. 1268.) defendant told police that his mother had been a burden on when shalthough not overwhelming, this is evidence of motive. 5 the third anderson factor is the manner of killing. if the defendant stopped in the middle of the killing to get another weapon or make a secondary attack, that demonstrates evidence of premeditation. (people v. lewis (2009) 46 cal.4th 1255, 1293.) in this case, defendant admitted that after stabbing his mother in the neck repeatedly, he slit her throat and wrists so that she would die faster. while defendant explained that this was an act of mercy in that he believed his mother was, at that point, past the point of no return, it can also be interpreted as a secondary attack which evidences premeditation. other evidence supports a finding of premeditation, apart from the anderson factors. evidence of a premeditation.1 people v. perez, supra, 2 cal.4th at p. 1128.) in this case, after defendant attacked his mother, he did not seek medical attention for her or remorsefully admit his crime. instead, he buried the body, cleaned the crime scene of evidence, and attempted to start a new life, something he apparently achieved for nearly 10 years. this is evidence from which the jury could conclude that calculating. because there was evidence of each anderson factor, as well as additional e-well-own testimony and y, was abnormal or his perception of reality delusional unless those conditions resulted in (people v. stress (1988) 205 cal.app.3d 1259, 1270.) the jury was properly instructed 1 post-killing conduct may also be considered as part of the third anderson factor. (see people v. perez, supra, 2 cal.4th at p. 1128.) 6 on this point, and clearly concluded, on the evidence, that defennot interfere with his ability to premeditate the murder.2 disposition the judgment is affirmed. rubin, acting p. j. we concur: flier, j. grimes, j. 2 defense witness dr. pantea farhardi, a forensic psychiatrist expert, testified that based on her 2013 examination, defendant suffered from schizoaffective disorder. but disorder at the time of the 2001 killing. she also testified that she did not know what symptoms defendant may have had in 2001. the jury was free not to credit this any mental disorder. 