filed 8/12/15 p. v. rattler ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jajuan rattler, defendant and appellant. b258743 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba424392) appeal from the superior court of los angeles county, lia martin, judge. affirmed. paul r. kraus, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews, supervising deputy attorney general, robert c. schneider, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction a jury convicted defendant and appellant jajuan rattler of possession of a firearm by a felon. (pen. code,  29800, subd. (a)(1)1.) defendant admitted that he suffered four prior felony convictions within the meaning of the three strikesaw ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)) and two prior felony convictions within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). the trial court sentenced defendant to six years in state prison. on appeal, defendant contends that the trial court abused its discretion in permitting the prosecution to present gang evidence. we affirm. background about 5:15 a.m. on may 4, 2014, los angeles police department officer jeremy miller and his partner conor sever patrolled the area around 73rd and main streets. recently, there had been a number of automobile burglaries and vandalisms in the area. while on patrol, officer miller saw a man standing close to and nearly between some parked cars. the man caugwas wearing all dark with a white cincinnati c on it. officer miller took note of the cap because t]hat cap . . . in that neighborhood. as the officers approached in their vehicle, the man looked in their direction, turned, and ran into the courtyard of a nearby apartment building. the officers drove to the apartment buildinga distance of about 150 feet. the windows of their police car were open. when they stopped, officer miller heard the sound of a heavy metal object striking concrete. previously had heard the sound produced when a gun strikes concrete and described it as the sound seemed to come from the courtyardat that time of the morning, it was very quiet outside. 1 all statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 3 who had run into the courtyard walk out from behind a shrub. the man had removed his sweatshirt, but was still wearing the baseball cap. officer miller identified defendant as the man who walked out from behind the shrub. officer sever searched behind the shrub from behind which defendant had walked and found a fully loaded ruger .357 caliber magnum revolver lying on a concrete pad. the officer retrieved the handgun and maintained it and the bullets in a manner that would allow them to be checked for fingerprints. officer miller detain mobile data terminal. officer miller determined that defendant had search and seizure conditions, which permitted the officer to search defendant without probable cause. the officer searched defendant and did not find any weapons. when officer miller initially saw defendant near the cars, he had not seen any weapons on defendant. larklyn watts, a los angeles police department forensic fingerprint specialist, did not find any latent fingerprints on the handgun officer sever recovered. she did not test the bullets for fingerprints. the parties stipulated that defendant previously had been convicted of a felony. discussion defendant contends that the trial court abused its discretion when it permitted the area where defendant was arrested because such evidence was not relevant to any issue in the case. alternatively, defendant argues, if the evidence was relevant, its probative value was substantially outweighed by its prejudicial impact and thus should have been excluded under evidence code section 352. , caused his trial to be fundamentally unfair. even if the trial court should have excluded gang testimony about debaseball cap, any such error was harmless. 4 a. background pretrial, defense counsel moved to exclude evidence that defendant was affiliated with a gang. the prosecutor stated that he did not want to introduce evidence that defendant was a member of a particular gang, but did want to introduce evidence that defendant was wearing gang attire, which attire drew officexplained that wearing a cap that neighborhood much 100 percent of the time indicative of crip membership.he explained that a person wearing such a cap in that neighborhood would catch the attention of the police, and sought introduction of the cap to explain the attention officers miller and sever paid to defendant. the trial court ruled that the prosecution could introduce the cap to explain what defendant, but that the prosecution could not introduce evidence that identified that explained counsel argued was drawn to defendant and there was not a gang enhancement allegation in the case. the trial court responded, inadvertently creates some reason for the jury to start to speculate that [defendant] was just being messed wit as set forth above, officer miller testified that the man he saw standing close to and nearly between some parked cars was wearing all dark clothing, including a baseball ed that he noticed the cap because because of his apparel in that neighborhood an b. application of relevant principles evidence code section 210 as evidence having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action.evidence code section 352 provides, the court in its 5 discretion may exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury.he admission of evidence, even if erroneous under state law, results in a due process violation only if it makes the trial fundamentally unfair. [citations.] absent fundamental unfairness, state law error in admitting evidence is subject to the traditional watson test: the reviewing court must ask whether it is reasonably probable the verdict would have been more favorable to the defendant absent the error. (people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 439, citing, inter alia, people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) trial fundamentally unfair essentially under the theory that the erroneous admission of any gang evidence renders a trial fundamentally unfair. although gang evidence can have a highly inflammatory impact on a jury (people v. albarran (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 214, 223), the gang evidence in this case was innocuous. officer miller testified that defendant caught his attention because of the clothes he was wearing, including the baseball cap. the officer explained that in the neighborhood in which defendant was officer miller did not testify that defendant was a gang member, identify the gang to which defendant might belong, or describe the criminal activities of any such gang. s gang testimony did not render people v. partida, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 439.) even if erroneous, t at 5:15 a.m., in an area that had experienced a number of automobile burglaries, officer miller spotted defendant standing close to and nearly between some parked cars. as officers miller and sever approached defendant in their vehicle, defendant looked in their direction, turned, and ran into the courtyard of a nearby apartment building. the officers drove the short distance to the apartment building where officer miller heard a sound that he believed was a gun hitting concrete 6 and seemed to come from the courtyard. immediately after that sound, defendant walked out from behind a shrub. officer sever searched behind the shrub and found a handgun. defendant stipulated that he was a convicted felon. in light of that evidence, no reasonable juror would have acquitted defendant of the charge of possession of a firearm by a felon even error in admitting that testimony was harmless. (people v. partida, supra, 37 cal.4th at p. 439; people v. watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. mosk, j. we concur: turner, p. j. kirschner, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 