filed 11/9/15 p. v. akin ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. edwin akin, defendant and appellant. b258495 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va128324) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. robert j. higa, judge. affirmed. russell s. babcock, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, william h. shin and nathan guttman, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________________________ 2 defendant, edwin akin, was charged with assault with a semiautomatic firearm (pen. code,  245, subd. (b);1 counts 1-3) and felon in possession of a firearm ( 29800, subd. (a)(1); count 4). it was alleged that defendant personally used a firearm with respect to counts 1 through 3 ( 12022.5, subds. (a), (d)), and, for all counts, it was alleged that he acted for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subds. (b)(1)(a), (b)). it was further alleged that defendant suffered a prior serious felony conviction ( 667, subds. (a)(1), (b)-(i); 1170; 1170.12, subds. (a-d)) and served prior prison terms ( 667.5, subds. (a), (b)). in a first jury trial, the jury deadlocked on all counts, and the trial court declared a mistrial. on retrial, the jury found defendant guilty on count 4. the jury deadlocked on counts 1 through 3, however, and the trial court declared a mistrial on those remaining counts. in a bifurcated trial on special allegations, the jury found true, with respect to count 4, the prior serious felony conviction, the prior prison terms, and the gang allegations. the prosecution dismissed counts 1 through 3. the trial court sentenced defendant to a total of 17 years in state prison, consisting of: the upper term of three years, doubled to six years for the prior strike ( 1170.12, subd. (c)(1)); five years pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1); two years pursuant to section 667.5, subdivision (b); and four years pursuant to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)(a). on appeal, defendant contends that the gang enhancement findings were not supported by substantial evidence. we affirm. facts prosecution evidence at trial on january 12, 2013, at approximately 8:30 p.m., patricia aguilar was driving on 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless stated otherwise. 3 passenger seat. after turning left onto danby, patricia stopped her car because a white hooded sweatshthe man was light-skinned and clean-shaven. to look at the car. he walked quickly toward the car, raised his arms, and pointed a silver-colored gun at the car. he appeared to be angry and was shouting something, but e gas pedal and passed the right side of the van. patricia drove to a nearby residence, close to the intersection of pioneer boulevard callahan and deputies vicente gallardo and ariel castro arrived at the residence. deputy gallardo interviewed patricia, andrew, and natalie about the incident. while he deputy gallardo turned and saw a white van traveling west on bradhurst toward pioneer. the van immediately stopped, and then started driving in reverse. the deputies got in their cars, activated the overhead lights, and pursued the van. the van continued to travel in reverse down bradhurst, eventually coming to a stop about halfway down the block, near a curve in the road. were rolled down. detective callahan drew his weapon and ordered defendant to show his hands, but defendant did not obey the order. deputy castro made his way to the passenger side of the van and opened the passenger door. at the same time, detective d pulled him out of the window. 4 defendant was handcuffed and searched. he wore a beanie and a black, hooded but were unable to find a gun. defendant was placed standing in the street, and illuminated with the spotlight from a patrol vehicle. andrew identified defendant as the gunman. patricia did not recognize defendant. natalie, although initially unsure, identified defendant as the gunman after the beanie was placed on his head. all three witnesses recognized the van. in court, both andrew and natalie identified defendant as the man who pointed the gun at a gun close to some bushes and an electrical box, about five feet from the curb, on the passenger side of the stopped van. the gun was a semiautomatic and had a chrome slide and trigger guard. there were bullets in the magazine and the chamber. patricia, andrew, and natalie were shown the gun, and all thought it looked like the one they had seen the gunman holding. during later gun testing, the gun could not be fired because its firing pin was broken. the firing pin on the type of gun used by defendant commonly breaks, and could easily break from being tossed on the ground. defense evidence at trial van before january 12, 2013. according to espinoza, the passenger window was broken and could not be rolled down. after defendant was arrested, he made a phone call from jail to a man nicknamed espinoza participated in these arrangements. defendant gave espinoza his van in exchange for her contribution to his bail. after acquiring the van, espinoza tried to fix the passenger window by disassembling the passenger door, but the electrical motor powering the window was broken. 5 prosecution evidence on special allegations deputy steven lopez testified as a gang expert. according to deputy lopez, the territory of the quiet village gang included the intersections of bexley and danby, as well as pioneer and bradhurst. quiet village had approximately 115 to 120 documented members and 15 to 20 active members. one of the ways in which quiet village members control their territory is to run up to vehicles passing through the territory and shout out their gang membership, fear in the community and let them know this is our makes people less likely to report crimes taking place in quiet village territory, allowing gang members to commit more crimes. through theft, extortion, robbery, and drug sales, weapon, vehicle theft, grand theft, witness intimidation, drug sales and trafficking, firearm possession, and murder. deputy lopez opined that, on january 12, 2013, defendant was an active quiet village gang member who went by the moniker wolf or wolfie. defendant had a tattoo village. he also had gang tattoos on the back of his neck and across his chest. e at almost all times, and would be used to promote the gang. defendant had to earn the ing a violent or serious crime. deputy lopez further testified that the spot at which defendant stopped the van when fleeing was directly in front of a safe house and known hangout for quiet village gang members, where members stored firearms and narcotics, and where members have previously hidden after running from police. a high-ranking member of the quiet village gang, who goes by the name big willie, was associated with that house. big willie is the father of little willie. 6 when presented with a hypothetical based on the facts of the case, deputy lopez opined that defendant pointed the gun at patto cause fear within the community. asked to exclude the act of pointing the gun from the hypothetical, deputy lopez testified that the act of possessing the gun was for the benefit of the gang because gang members possess firearms to commit crimes and to instill fear. possession of the gun also benefited the gang by protecting gang territory from a rival gang, jim town, with whom quiet village was feuding in january 2013. deputy lopez further testified, based on similar hypothetical questions, that defendant acted with the intent of promoting, furthering, or assisting criminal conduct by the quiet village gang. in response to further hypothetical questions, deputy lopez elaborated on where he chose to stop his vehicle, it shows to me his association with big willie and little willie, and that location which i previously referred to as a stronghold for the quiet village g defense evidence on special allegations gregorio estevane testified as a gang expert for the defense. he opined that the testified that there was no evidence that defendant continued to be an active gang member. discussion defendant contends that the criminal street gang enhancement was improperly imposed because there was a lack of evidence that he possessed the gun for the benefit of the quiet village gang, or that he specifically intended to promote, further, or assist criminal conduct by gang members. section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1) provides for a sentence enhancement when the defendant is convicted of committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or 7 assist in any criminal that the felony be gang related and that the defendant act with a specific intent to people v. rodriguez (2012) 55 cal.4th 1125, 1139.) we review a section 186.22 gang enhancement finding for substantial evidence. (people v. ortiz (1997) 57 cal.app.4th 480, 484.) sufficiency of the evidence supporting a conviction, the reviewing court must examine the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidenceevidence that is reasonable, credible and of solid valuesuch that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] the appellate court presumes in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence. [citations.] the same standard applies when the conviction rests primarily on circumstantial evidence. circumstantial evidence susceptible of two reasonable interpretations, one of which suggests guilt and the other innocence, it is the jury, not the appellate court that must be court that the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding people v. kraft (2000) 23 cal.4th 978, 1053-1054; see also people v. martinez (2008) 158 cal.app.4th 1324, 1329, people v. ochoa (2009) 179 cal.app.4th 650, 657 [applying substantial evidence test to contentions that gang enhancements were unsupported by the evidence].) committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1) does not apply when a crime is committed only people v. gardeley (1996) 14 cal.4th 605, 622.) 8 generally, where a gang enhancement is alleged, expert testimony concerning the culture, habits, and psychology of gangsincluding the motivation for an individual is permissible, and a jury may rely on such testimony in making a finding on a gang allegation. (people v. ward (2005) 36 cal.4th 186, 210; people v. gardeley, supra, 14 cal.4th 605, 617.) however, a finding that an offense is subject to section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1) (people v. ochoa, supra, st provide some gang activities or personal affiliations, for a finding that the crime was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a people v. martinez (2004) 116 cal.app.4th 753, 762.) defendant argues that there was no evidence that his crime was committed for the based on fear in the community. as defendant points out, however, neither patricia, natalie, nor andrhe approached the car, or that they knew that he was a gang member. according to related. the evidence, though, supported the conclusion that defendant was an active member of the quiet village gang. defendant had quiet village tattoos and parked his van in the middle of the street in quiet village territory. furthermore, defendant attempted to dispose of his weapon near a quiet village gang safe house, where gang members were known to store guns. after encountering the police, defendant drove in reverse halfway down bradhurst, where he finally stopped directly in front of the house associated with big willie. the testimony of deputies gallardo and lopez, when considered in tandem, demonstrates that the gun was found by bushes and an electrical box, which either abutted or were on the property associated with big willie. moreover, 9 little willie, the son of big willie, bailed defendant out of jail, and deputy lopez testified that little willie would not have done so if defendant was not an active gang defendant does not dispute that the crime occurred in quiet village territory. the people v. vang pinion that particular criminal section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1) gang enhancement]; people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 63.) deputy lopez testified about how queputy lopez testified how, at the time of the crime, quiet village was feuding with the jim town gang. the jury, therefore, could reasonably conclude that defendant possessed a gun within quiet village territory in order to benefit the gang by protecting its territory from rival gangs, particularly from the goal of protecting its territory.2 thus, the record contains substantial evidentiary supportbeyond the mere fact that defendant was a quiet village gang memberfor the 2 although the jury did not convict defendant of assault with a semiautomatic firearm, the record reveals that the most likely reason for the deadlock on these charges was the fact thaposed three questions to the trial court, all of which asked whether defendant could have operable. there is no reason to assume that the jury did not believe that defendant pointed the gun at the car. 10 ii. the finding that defendant possessed specific intent was proper the gang enhancementthat defendant committed the crime with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang memberswas deficient because it was based on only two facts: that defendant had quiet village tattoos and that he possessed a gun in quiet village gang territory. conviction for mere nominal or passive involvement with a gang. . . . rather, it applies when a defendant has personally committed a gang-related felony with the specific intent people v. albillar, supra, 51 cal. 4th 47, 67-t is rarely susceptible of direct proof and usually must be inferred from the facts and people v. pre (2004) 117 cal.app.4th 413, 420.) defendant contends that this matter is similar to people v. rios (2013) 222 cal.app.4th 542 (rios). in rios, the defendant, a gang member, was found driving a stolen car, and a loaded gun was found under the passenger seat. at trial, a gang expert e, further, or assist conduct by gang members because it would enable the gang to commit further crimes. (id. at pp. 573-574.) the appellate court found this evidence insufficient to support a finding of specific intent, noting that the gun possessed by the defendant was not used to intimidate anyone in the community, there was no evidence that a victim knew defendant was acting with a gang purpose, the defendant was not in his own gang territory or that of a rival gang, the defendant did not display his gang affiliation, and the victims of the car theft were not rival gang members. (ibid.) defendant also relies on in re daniel c. (2011) 195 cal.app.4th 1350. in that case, the minor, a gang affiliate, entered a supermarket with two companions, and, after the companions left the store, the minor took a bottle of liquor and tried to leave without paying for it. when confronted, the minor broke the bottle and hit a store employee with it, and then fled with his companions. (id. at pp. 1353-1354.) in finding the evidence 11 insufficient to support a gang enhancement, the appellate court concluded there was no evidence the minor and his companions planned to commit a violent crime, and there was no evidence that the minor or his companions identified themselves in the store as gang members. instead, it appeared from the evidence that the minor simply intended to walk away from the market with the bottle of liquor, and the assault was only a matter of happenstance. (id. at p. 1363.) given these facts, an expert opinion that the minor id. at pp. 1363-1364.) in re frank s. (2006) 141 cal.app.4th 1192, another case cited by defendant, also dealt with a lack of evidence supporting a gang enhancement. the minor, who was stopped by police after running a red light on his bicycle, was found to be in possession of a concealed knife, a bindle of methamphetamine, and a red bandana. an expert testiid. at p. 1199.) the appellate court reversed the true finding on the gang enhancement, finding opinion on gangs in general and her conclusion that the crime was committed for the benefit of a gang. (ibid.y evidence that the minor was in gang territory, had gang members with him, or had any reason to expect to use the knife in a gang-ibid.) was committed in gang territory. although this evidence by itself would not be enough to demonstrate specific intent (see people v. ramon (2009) 175 cal.app.4th 843, 853), when considered in combination with the other evidence presented at trial, it provided a firm basis rios other gang members did not show that the crime was not gang related. furthermore, in contrast to rios 12 id. at p. 573), in this case there was ample evidence that defendant threacar while in gang territory. and, as explained above, deputy lopez testified that quiet village gang members patrolled their territory and used firearms to intimidate those entering it. thus, the jury could properly conclude that defendant possessed the handgun with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in fellow gang memberscriminal conductthat is, by maintaining control of the area so as to allow fellow gang members to further their criminal enterprise within the territory. the evidence that defendant attempted to dispose of his weapon near a quiet village gang safe house provides further support for this conclusion. in people v. margarejo (2008) 162 cal.app.4th 102, the defendant attempted to leave a gun with a id. at e halfway down the block, stopping in front of a gang safe house, and then throwing the gun in the direction of the house, likewise allowed the jury to infer that defendant intended to assist gang members by preserving the gun for their use. thus, substantial evidence supports the conclusion that defendant acted with the requisite specific intent. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. boren, p.j. we concur: ashmann-gerst, j. chavez, j. 