filed 1/26/15 p. v. perez ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. anderson perez, defendant and appellant. b258462 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba419480) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. norman j. shapiro, judge. affirmed. anderson perez, in pro. per.; and tracy l. emblem, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 a jury convicted anderson perez of two counts of second degree robbery, with a finding as to one count that perez personally inflicted great bodily injury on the victim. both robberies were committed december 16, 2013, and involved a juvenile female accomplice who physically stole property from a woman out for a walk. in the first robbery, a gold and diamond necklace was snatched by the young woman, who then , which sped away. in the second robbery, the young woman the woman clung to her purse and the van window. the van accelerated, dragging the woman, then made a u-turn, which threw the victim off onto the street. the court sentenced defendant to six years in prison. defendant filed a timely appeal. we appointed counsel to represent defendant on appeal. after examination of the record, counsel filed an opening brief raising no issues and asking this court to independently review the record. defendant filed his own supplemental letter brief raising several contentions, which we address. first, defendant arguerobbery in which a defendant is incorrect. the victim was unable to identify defendant at trial, but did not testify he was not the driver of the van. defendant was arrested the same day as the robberies and the victim identified him in the field. at trial, the prosecution introduced evidence of that prior identification. moreover, defense counsel means of a penal code section 1118.1 motion, which the trial court denied. defendant also asks this injury enhthe victim testified that for a time th shoulder because bags the victim was holding in her hand blocked its removal. the victim initially held onto the window of the van and ran alongside it while asking the driver to stop. as the van accelerated, it began dragging her. she begged the driver to 3 stop, but he and the female passenger just laughed. then the van made a u-turn, throwing the victim off of it and to the pavement. she suffered injuries that were still obvious at trial, nearly eight months later. accordingly, ample evidence supported the great bodily injury enhancement. entences were given as sentences on the two counts are concurrent. if defendant is referring to the term on the great bodily injury enhancement being consecutive to the term for the robbery to which it is attached, the answer is that the statute requires a consecutive term. (pen. code,  12022.7, subd. (a).) e, they arose as a result of the testimony of defendant and his wife at trial. such inconsistencies presented an support the verdicts. we have examined the entire record and we are satisfied that has fully complied with her responsibilities and that no arguable issues exist. (people v. kelly (2006) 40 cal.4th 106, 109110; people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436, 441.) 4 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. bendix, j.* we concur: chaney, acting p. j. johnson, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 