filed 1/29/16 p. v. pantchev ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. gueorgui pantchev, defendant and appellant. b258186 (los angeles county super. ct. no. sa082367) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, kathryn a. solorzano, judge. affirmed. murray a. rosenberg, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and bythe j. leszkay, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 a jury convicted gueorgui pantchev of two counts of stalking (pen. code,  646.9, subd. (a)),1 five counts of dissuading a witness ( 136.1, subd. (c)(1)), and two misdemeanor counts of disobeying a court order ( 166, subd. (a)(4)). the court sentenced him to eight years four months in state prison. he challenges his conviction, claiming (1) the trial court erred and violated his constitutional rights when it precluded his treating psychiatrist from giving a lay opinion that appellant did not write the threatening e-mails at issue, (2) the court erred in refusing to give a third party culpability instruction, and (3) cumulative error warrants reversal. we find no errors and affirm. statement of facts 1. prosecution case dr. michelle zeller and dr. sharon gohari, both of whom worked at the united states department of veterans affairs (va), veterans health administration, west los angeles medical center (va hospital) where appellant, a marine and an iraq war veteran, was being treated. a. dr. zeller dr. zeller was a clinical psychologist and first became aware of appellant in april 2011, when he went to her office, which was located in an area where patients customarily did not go. at the time, dr. zeller was meeting with a psychology trainee when appellant stood in the doorway and asked if she was michelle zeller. dr. zeller was confused because she had never seen or met him before. she asked him to give her a moment while she finished with her student, and she shut the door. the student told dr. zeller appellant had gone into restricted areas in another building on the va campus. two minutes later when dr. zeller opened the door, appellant was down the hall asking a trainee to open his medical file, which staff was not authorized to do. dr. zeller asked appellant to leave, and he again asked if she was michelle zeller. he would not identify himself. he seemed agitated and angry and said he found dr. medical chart. he left out the back entrance to the building. dr. zeller later recalled she 1 undesignated statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 3 when a colleague was on vacation. the next day apletter under dr. fodder you can use to train did not understand. over the next two years, appellant sent about 40 e-mails to dr. zeller that were, in bombs, torpedoes, cross bones. he even sent some videos of the mob doctor, just very threateninprior to september 2, 2011, she had filed a police report. on september 2, 2011, she e-mail-them. appellant responded from the e-mail the address he had been using at that timeand identified himself by name, suggested he could stop by her office in person, gave her office location, and mentioned sic] relationship, which made dr. after that, appellant became angrier and his behavior became more severe. on august 10, 2012, and again on september 14, 2012, dr. zeller was named as a protected person in protective orders against appellant. five days after the first protective order issued, she began receiving e-mails from e-mail addresses that did not identify appellant by name or the e-mail address he had been using. on september 16, 2012, she received two e-mails from stressedaboutsecurity@hush.com about 40 minutes apart with nearly the same text. - before you point at someone, think about someone paying you a visit and a 50 caliber weapon that penetra[ 4 and contained the identical text, adding be able to absorb even a bullet meant for you let alone a collector, and will delude yo[u] saying that 50 cal is illegal. would you like to purchase one? maybe it will give you a e-mails made dr. permission to carry pepper spray with her on the va campus, and was more vigilant. on september 18, 2012, dr. zeller received an e-mail from the address . the e-mail purported to be from dr. dean norman, the chief of staff at the va he-mailreferred to dr. the e-mail may i please achampagne, whatever he offered dr. sharon gohari, and a visit to your house or apartment convince you of my sincere request? [] starting the foreplay out is an option as well. there are plenty of nice and quite [sic] places near n. oakhurst drive in be[verly] hills. [] i do not know on which corner of the street i will get hit, in my office, on my way home, in my living room, or in my bedroom. [] at this point i do not even know how much longer i will be your chief of stuff. [] i have been sticking my as discussed more fully below, dr. gohari also received this e-mail, and a portion of it addressed her directlsorry things with you and your patient did not work out and he refused to go out with you and have any more se[x with] you. we all understand that you are enraged with your patient because he refused to go out with you. [] would you please gi b. dr. gohari dr. sharon gohari was a physician in the polytrauma clinic, treating traumatic brain injury and other physical injuries at the va hospital. she first encountered appellant in 2009 when he asked to be seen as a walk-in at her clinic. at the 5 appointment, he kept talking about unrelated matters to keep the appointment from ending. she eventually took him out of the room, and he asked if he could show her his hernia. she felt uncomfortable with the request and referred him to his primary physician. as she met with her next patient, appellant returned to the closed room and said he had other things to discuss with her. she told him he had to leave. he tried to enter the room one more time before leaving. dr. gohari never treated appellant again, but he would occasionally stop her in the halls to ask her questions. one afternoon he asked her to coffee. she refused, telling him the request was inappropriate and not to ask. he said she was supposed to say no as part kind of invading [her] personal space. to avoid him following her to her car, she stopped and told him she was being picked up. she waited a short time to ensure he was gone before leaving. in march 2011, appellant slipped what dr. office door, which was located in an area restricted to authorized personnel. it had her name and his name on it, as well as e-mail address. she turned it over to the va police. about a week later, appellant went to an attending room in a restricted area and knocked on the door. dr. gohari opened it and saw him holding a copy of something like his manifesto with anothedr. gohari said she was not there and closed the door. appellant was not receiving treatment in dr. dodge challenger near her office. on june 29, 2012, dr. followed by a police escort. she told her fianc to leave and started walking to her car in her hair in a ponytail. the police officer following appellant at that time had received a report that appellant was on the grounds without signing in, and that he was near dr. 6 in the ensuing days, appellant sent dr. gohari a series of e-mails. on july 1, 2012, appellant sent dr. gohari a long e-mail e-mail address entitled, different fonts, sizes, styles, and color, and it referred to dr. appellant saw her on june [boldface, font type & formatting omitted]). it also referred to seeing her with her fianc ancee [sic] was so cute, genuine revealing desperate need [sic]. you spontaneously raised on your toes and lean-pushed forward, very touchy, right when i drove by you. i envy him for that:), which made me think that if you cling on me in such a way, i would have hard [sic] time resisting the temptation and remembering you let alone thinking of you are a sorceress:):):), which i am certain you would gladly do. it seemed as you were clinging and hugging a senseless chump, which neither trembled nor [italics & boldface omitted.]). the next day appellant sent her another e-mail e-mail address appearance on june [boldface, font type & formatting omitted]), as well as her fianc and the police officer following him. appellant sent her another e-mail the next day from the same address, this one he again referred to the june 29, 2012 encounter, now describing how dr. gohari jumped in front of his car like a matador, pushed her fianc out of the way, and challenged appellant ..... and if she does not like the inviter and follower, or if he bores her, she would practice: [] 1) kick his ass [tab] first [] 2) cpr [tab] second [] 3) castration for fun [tab] (boldface & font types omitted.) on the next page and hair: 7 [] pss.... georgy... are you awake.... how is my outfit.... is it ironed.... what about my hair.... are coat..... i am going to change... oh, let me show you how sharp my sward is... see how good i am.... i cut your pillow right by your throat without awaking you... huss..... oh, look, see how i cut the comforter between your legs, without cutting the mattress and cutting your balls.... are you ok.... do you like a cup of water or coffee... if you need a doctoresse, i know one... sweet dreams sweaty, be back in a to.. [] hence replacing his nightmares with more peasant ones. [] also, practice: [] [bullet] kill and revive [] [bullet] knock and cpr [] [bullet] get in and get out (sic.; boldface, underscoring & font type omitted.) it ended with the word . dr. gohari e-mail. she started taking self-defense martial arts classes and bought a gun, even though - on august 8, 2012, appellant sent dr. gohari another e-mail e-mail samuel mason responded to this e-mail with an e-mail dr. gohari felt was spineless, worthless excuse for a man. you are the worst kind of punk, who hides behind a computer key board and monitor. i wish, i would catch you in the act of harassing my co-worker. you will find out what a real military man is about. now, take this to the staff on the 6th floor, or better yet to your therapist, and cry like a little girl that the mean man in the clinic is after me. you worthless, smoking pile of horse manure, you are not mason was disciplined and removed from his position for this e-mail, but was later reinstated at the polytrauma clinic. like dr. zeller, dr. gohari was named in protective orders dated august 10, 2012, and september 14, 2012, against appellant. she received an e-mail august 23, 2012. she also received e-maile-mail 8 addresses, which august 17, 2012, she received an e-mail 6of you and your fianc dressed in black shows a west los angeles va docto[r] playing psychologist and female psychiatrist, all forming a nasty trio, generating serious offences, requiring serious defense, costing hundred thousands. do you really think you can fuck someone by falsely imprisoning him, generate losses of over $250,000 and get away with it by a slap on the wrist? [] . . . [] he played chicken with you while your champ-fianc was scared shitless next to you, the police was next [to] you, and your co-workers were all watching inside, and no one noticed. do you remember when he got o[ut of] his car and stepped towards you, and you spontaneously rushed towards him, while your champ-man froz[e] shitless? [] he stooped neither because of you nor because of the police. he did not want to intimidate youa smaller weaker girl, put tears in your eyes and ruin your evening, he had plenty of time to do so and the police would not have noticed anything. he does not want to harm you physically. you and your wimpy man were so disorganized, drawing all kind of attention, that he deliberately drew all of the police attention on him, s[o you] could get away unnoticed, as you two did. [] if he could pull this, do you know how much more he can pull? do not be stupid and get the false sense [of] security. you have no idea what you are up against. you are screwing with the wrong person. you m[ight have] gotten away so far but with this one you will not. any benefit you have gained by screwing him, will b[e] out plus more and dr. gohari felt threatened and frightened by this e-mailthe front door, walk each other to their cars, take alternate paths, and ask for police escorts. on september 16, 2012, dr. gohari received two nearly identical e-mails within two minutes of each other, and a third similar e-mail about a half hour later. they all 9 mob doctor - were nearly identical to the two e-mails dr. zeller received on the same day from the same e-mail address, including the same language a visit with a 50 caliber weapon that pene[e-mail added: will delude [you] saying that 50 cal is illegal. would you like to purchase one? maybe it will give you a peace of mind, better than th[e] when she received these e-mails, dr. roke down into tears, and the police, and took the rest of the day off. on september 18, 2012, dr. gohari received the same e-mail sent to dr. zeller rportedly sent by this e-mail made her particularly fearful because it referred to north oakhurst drive in beverly hills, and she had previously lived on that street. on september 22, 2012, dr. gohari received an e-mail from va chief of police. the about is that nothing happens to you at work. as long as nothing happens to you at wor [sic] dr. norman has ordered extra security for his executive housing and you can take advantage of it. [] bouncing your asses on dr. would give you an exclusive pass to the executive housing. the longer you keep our soft dicks hard and the more you bounce your asses on our dicks, the lon[ger] you would stay in the executive housing and be safe. otherwise, you are on your own, ladies. [] a blowjob would convince my men to patrol by your office, houses and apartments instead of watching po [sic 10 dicks and keeping them hard longer, would get my men near you to make sure you feel safe. [] dr. sharon gohari, we have heard so much about you. all of us fantasize about you. what was it like for to [sic] have sex with your patient? unlike your patient, we all find you very attractive, especially compared to fat [sic] ugly wives, and we would all be privileged to have sex with you. [] at least, give us some good time before we dr. gohari again felt terrible and fearful after she received this e-mail. in all, dr. gohari received upward of 50 e-mails from appellant. during this time, dr. gohari did not have problems with any other patients and had not received threatening e-mails from anyone else. she had not accused anyone else of harassing or annoying her, and she was not a witness in any other case. she was afraid of appellant at the time and remained that way at trial. c. other evidence while being treated at the va hospital, appellant was restricted from freely moving about the grounds. he initially had to sign in and out with the va police for appointments, and later had to have a police escort. he was restricted to appointments in only one part of the facility. he failed to comply at times, and when confronted, he became heated, argumentative, and abusive. va police officer nathaniel webb respondduring his june 2012 encounter with dr. gohari and her fianc. after the encounter, he received e-maile-mail address. he was also aware that protective orders had been put in place for dr. zeller and dr. gohari. on september 16, 2012the same day dr. zeller and dr. gohari received the 0.50-e-mailshe received an e-mail from auto30752472@mac.hush.com with the subject, ake a difference hitting you in and detective if 50 caliber will make a difference hitting . . . your . . . vest or in your face besides on open versus closed casket ceremony. . . . you stupid six-and-a-half foot piece the movie full metal jacket (warner bros. 1987), in which a drill sergeant at boot camp 11 explains the most lethal weapon in the world is a marine with a rifle. after receiving this e-mail, officer webb became cautious, altering his routes to and from work and being more aware of his surroundings. on november 1, 2012, jose cisneros, a district attorney investigator, interviewed reminded him of the television show west wing. he said he thought the term dr. gohari was funny because when he encountered her in the parking lot with her fianc, -dr. gohari stepped in front of his car to challenge him to a fight, reminding him of a female matador. the same day as his interview, officers searched appelhis laptop computer and cell phone. the search did not yield any evidence directly e-mailthe va hospital. 2. defense case dr. andrew shaner was va hospital from july 2011 until arrest in november 2012. he first learned of appellant because he was the chair of the disruptive behavior committee. he took over treating appellant after appellant made it difficult for his current psychiatrist to continue treatment, and no other psychiatrist would take him. dr. shaner diagnosed appellant with traumatic brain injury from a head injury he sustained while in iraq, resulting in lack of attention, posttraumatic stress disorder, and obsessive compulsive disorder. his symptoms worsened over time. he was on about 30 medications in 2012, but dr. shaner stopped all of them because they did not appear to benefit him. at one point appellant was excluded from the west los angeles va hospital grounds, but he did not go to another facility because the services he needed were only available at the west los angeles location. dr. shaner saw many e-maile-mails. according to dr. shaner, appellant did not have a history of violence, and dr. shaner never felt afraid of him or threatened by him. appellant explained to dr. shaner that the 12 simply meant he wanted to destroy their careers, not threaten violence. appellant testified in his defense. he immigrated from bulgaria to the united states in 1993 at age 22 and became a united states citizen in 2004. he joined the marines in 1999 and was deployed to iraq in 2003. that same year he was injured by an air blast in iraq and was honorably discharged. he began developing health problems in 2004 or 2005, including asthma, depression, trouble sleeping, nightmares, neck and back problems, joint problems, and memory and attention issues. he started treatment at the va hospital. the va gave him a computer in 2004, and he purchased another computer in 2009, which was confiscated during the search of his apartment. after he returned from iraq, he graduated from the university of california-los angeles, took a graduate admissions test, and attended johns hopkins university for graduate business school in 2011. in 2011, he visited the va hospital several times every day. appellant met with dr. gpentagram fell off. she told him she liked to keep it hidden from patients. appellant also noticed witchcraft and sorcery books on her desk. he believed a pentagram is a sign a person is a devil worshipper. dr. gohari told him he was interesting and she wished she could get to know him better. she said she recently moved to california, was lonely, and her relationship with her significant other was not going well. she asked if he would be interested in going out with her or having a private meeting with her to get to know her. ening [sic][w]hat is this crazy witch going to do with me? will she cook me up and eat me or sell my body parts as a doctor, was concerned about someone finding out, but she told him not to worry because she had and he was concerned someone would walk in. she said she would say she was 13 months later appellant asked dr. gohari if she wanted to have coffee with him id so because he realized he had insulted and enraged her by turning her down, so he figured he would ask her for coffee appellant denied contacting dr. zeller or dr. gohari once he received the restraining orders. he e-mails referencing the 0.50-caliber bullets and denied h-related e-mail accounts. his e-mail addresses were and gmail.com. he sent e-mails to his providers because he did dr. gohari, like dr. gohari did, which got him flagged. e-mails to dr. zeller, dr. gohari, and others. he also claimed neither dr. gohari nor dr. zeller told him to stop e-mailing them, although he acknowledged dr. e-mail to that effect. he continued to include her on e-mails because he did not want to talk about her behind her back. he testified he heard dr. gohari enjoyed some of his e-mails. he also explained he accidentally referred to dr. used the term in a couple of e-mails before correcting it. he referred to dr. gohari as va parking lot. when appellant told other doctors dr. gohari falsely accused him of following her to her car and asking to have sex with her, they laughed at him, so he became worried and began regularly reading his medical records. he saw dr. e-mailed her, digging in my char after dr. shaner took him off certain medications in 2012, he had problems with concentration, depression, collecting his thoughts, formulating sentences, memory, sleep, appetite, communication, and getting along with people. discussion 1. exclusion of dr. appellant contends the trial court erred and violated his rights to due process and request to prohibit dr. shaner from 14 offering his lay opinion that a coe-mails (i.e., the e-mails from e-mail addresses at hush.com, hushmail.com, and mac.hush.com e-maile-mail addresses showed appellant did not wre-mails. we disagree. a. procedural background before dr. shaner testified, the prosecution sought to prevent dr. shaner from e-mails, arguing his opinion was irrelevant and the jury could make the same determination by reviewing e-maile-mails in evidence. defense counsel argued dr. shaner could e-mails based upon his e-mails did not e-mails, such as the type of font, underscoring, boldface, and different types of characters defense counsel claimed were a, however, that was not an area of dr. expertise and his lay opinion would not assist the jury because defense counsel could make the same argument to the jury based on the e-mails in evidence. the court also worried it would create a collateral trial if dr. e-mails appellant sent to him that were not before the jury. defense counsel cited evidence code section 1416, which provides in relevant ess who is not otherwise qualified to testify as an expert may state his opinion whether a writing is in the handwriting of a supposed writer if the court finds that the court noted that section usually applies by looking at the handwriting itself or the style and word choice. defense counsel reiterated that dr. shaner would testify that appellant would use e-mails he signed, whereas the e-mails did not have those characteristics. the court believed the issue implicated evidence code section 352 because the question was whether the jury should hear dr. rist who treated 15 him for a long period of time, versus his communications with dr. zeller, who never treated him, and dr. gohari, who treated him once. counsel asked why dr. shaner could e-mails but the victims in the case could e-mails were from appellant. the court pointed out their beliefs and state of mind were at issue on the stalking offenses. the court postponed further discussion. later, the prosecution clarified the six e-mails forming the basis for the dissuading a witness counts ( 136.1, subd. (c)(1)) e-mails sent on september 16, 2012, to dr. zeller, dr. gohari, and officer webb (the count involving officer webb was dismissed during trial). the court reviewed the content of those e-maile-mails and the e-maile-mail emphasis, a way of communicae-mails that could support a jury e-mails were written by appellant. the court found this was a factual issue to be resolved by the jury and dr. that issue. when defense counsel emphasized dr. because part of dr. she-mails from appellant not admitted in the case, the court found dr. confusing, misleading, create a collateral issue, and consume an undue amount of time. the court then reviewed two e-mails dr. shaner had received from appellant that had been admitted in the case. it noted the writing style used boldface and underscoring, quotations, and smiley faces, but concluded dr. the jury to draw an infee-mails were not authored by appellant inferences that they think are appropriate under the circumstances and under the law. [] so under [evidence code section] 352, i find that the probative value is substantially 16 outweighed by undue consumption of time, creating a substantial confusion of the issues, misleading thdr. shaner to the court revisited the issue during dr. reiterated dr. shaner could give his opinions as a doctor who treated appellant, but his observations as to the font style of the e-mail[t]he jurors do not need to know dr. opinion . . . would simply be the opinion of nothing. he has no expertise with regard to fonts, and if a font was at issue, as to whether or not the font used in his email versus the font used in particular emails that are at issue in this case; if for some reason there was something that he could add, then we can talk defense counsel pointed out he was not asking for dr. reiterated even his observations were not relevant. b. analysis the trial court excluded dr. value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of evidence under evidence code section 352 for abuse of discretion. (people v. brown (2003) 31 cal.4th 518, 547.) we find none. is limited to such an opinion as is permitted by law, including but not limited to an opinion that is: [] (a) rationally based on the perception of the witness; and [] (b)  800; see people v. farnam (2002) 28 cal.4th 107, 153.) the trial court correctly noted dr. shaner had no special knowledge or experience in analyzing the use of fonts and typefaces in e-mail, so e-mails did not appear similar to the e- 17 mails e-mail addresses. but defense counsel did not point to anything specific or unique in dr. e-mails. instead, counsel relied on the differences apparent simply e-mails and the e-mail e-mail addresses. as the court recognized, the jury was equally equipped to compare the two sets of e-mails and draw the inference it felt was supported by the evidence. thus, dr. about the similarities and differences in the two sets of e-mails would not have been the case. (evid. code,  800, subd. (b).)2 the court also properly found dr. risked jury confusion, wasting trial time, and misleading the jury. if dr. e-mails not introduced into evidence, the court would have had to conduct separate proceedings, which would have wasted trial time and risked confusing the jury about a collateral issue. even if dr. e-mails introduced into evidence, his opinion would have been cumulative of the two sets of e-mails already introduced. also, dr. might have led the jury to give his opinion undue weight, even though he had no particular expertise on whether the e-mails themselves were written by the same person. , there was nothing improper about the trial court allowing dr. zeller and dr. gohari to testify about the author oe-mails but excluding dr. ony. dr. shaner was not a victim in this case, whereas dr. zeller and dr. gohari were, making their beliefs and states of mind relevant. thus, the court did not abuse its discretion in excluding dr. 2 appellant cites evidence code section 1416 in his opening brief, but only presents substantive argument under that provision in his reply brief. the contention is therefore forfeited. (people v. alexander (2010) 49 cal.4th 846, 922.) 18 nor did the exclusion of dr. opinion process and to present a defense. a general matter, the ordinary rules of evidence people v. lucas (2014) 60 cal.4th 153, 270, disapproved on other grounds by people v. romero (2015) 62 cal.4th 1, 53, fn. 19.) here, appellant had ample opportunity to present his e-mails through other evidence, including his own testimony, and argument by his counsel. nothing about the application of the standard rules of evidence in this case affected his constitutional rights.3 2. refusal to give third party culpability instruction appellant argues the trial court erred in refusing to give a third party culpability instruction. we find neither error nor prejudice. a. procedural background as discussed above, appellant sent dr. gohari an e-mail from one of e-mail addresses, efront desk clerk samuel mason angrily responded, resulting in discipline and removal from his position. during a conference on the jury instructions, defense counsel requested the following instruction on third party culpability based on that evidencebeyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant is the person who committed the act of witness intimidation. the defendant does not have to prove that another person the crime. if after considering all the evidence, you have a reasonable doubt that the defendant was the one who committed the crime, you must give the defendant the benefit of that doubt and fin e-mails were widely disseminated, appellant 3 respondent argues dr. to prove the content of a writin was properly excluded for other reasons, we need not address this contention. 19 responded harshly to one of his e-mails resulting in his discipline, demonstrated someone other than appellantand in particular, masone-mails to frame him. counsel further noted evidence directly implicating mason would have come through dr. opinion e-mails, but the court had precluded that testimony. the court noted defense counsel had not advanced this theory during trial. the court also pointed out a third party culpability instruction is usually based on evidence that another person had the motive to commit the crime charged and circumstantial evidence connecting that person to the crime, and there was no evidence of that in this case. the court reviewed the testimony about masone-mail and concluded there was e-mails. the court therefore denied defense in closing, defense counsel argued there was no direct evidence linking appellant e-mails, even though police searched his electronic devices, and mason or e-mailsanimosity at the v.a. and there were . b. analysis not the defendant, committed the crime charged. he has a right to present evidence of third party culpability where such evidence is capable of raising a reasonable doubt as to his guilt of the charged crime. but evidence of mere motive or opportunity to commit the crime in another person, without more, will not suffice; there must be direct or circumstantial evidence (people v. mackey (2015) 233 cal.app.4th 32, 110-111 (mackey).) with regard to requested instruction that pinpoints a defense theory of the case by, among other things, relating the reasonable doubt standard of proof to particular elements of the crime id. at p. by the defendant if it incorrectly states the law, is argumentative, duplicative, or 20 potentially confusing [citation], or if it is not supported by substantial evidence [citation].ibid.) party culpability instruction was not supported by substantial evidence. despite mason angry and inappropriate e-mail to appellant, e-mails. appellant suggests he could have offered dr. opinion that he suspected mason e-maile-mail e-mails, but, as the trial court noted, appellant never raised that theory during trial. even if he had, the court would have properly excluded that opinion just as it properly excluded dr. e-mails. appellant also suggests the instruction was warranted because e-mail e-mail and mason had access to dr. nd ova e-mail addresses. yet, appellant fails to explain how the e-mails were in fact why having access to va e-mail addresses implicated mason or anyone else, especially given appellant obviously had similar access. at best, the evidence suggested mason or someone else might have had a motive to frame appellant, but that was insufficient to justify giving a third party culpability instruction. (mackey, supra, 233 cal.app.4th at p. 110.) even if the trial court erred in refusing to give this instruction, appellant suffered no conceivable prejudice. generally, third the reasonable doubt instructions give defendants ample opportunity to impress upon the people v. hartsch (2010) 49 cal.4th 472, 504; see mackey, supra, 233 cal.app.4th at p. 111.) here, the jury was properly instructed on the reasonable doubt standard based on calcrim no. 220, and the instructions on the the e-mails, it had the proper instructions upon which to acquit appellant. (mackey, supra, at p. 112.) further, the jury 21 e-maile-mail in evidence, and defense counsel was permitted to argue in closing that mason or someone else could have easily sent the e-mail[at the va] who did people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) 3. there was no cumulative error. because we have found no errors, there was no cumulative error warranting reversal. disposition the judgment is affirmed. flier, j. we concur: rubin, acting p. j. grimes, j. 