filed 10/28/15 p. v. abbott ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. david brian abbott, defendant and appellant. b258086 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya083184) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. eric c. taylor, judge. affirmed. richard m. doctoroff, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell, nathan guttman, and steve mercer, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant and appellant david brian abbott (defendant) appeals from his conviction of voluntary manslaughter. he contends that the trial court erred in failing to instruct the jury as to involuntary manslaughter in general, and as to involuntary manslaughter based upon unconsciousness caused by voluntary intoxication. defendant further contends that defense counsel rendered ineffective assistance by not requesting the instructions. finding no merit to defendan background defendant was charged with the murder of samantha sproson (sproson), in violation of penal code section 187, subdivision (a).1 the information further alleged that defendant personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing death, within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivision (d). a jury found defendant not guilty of murder but guilty of the lesser included offense of voluntary manslaughter in violation of section 192, subdivision (a), and found true the firearm allegation. on july 31, 2014, the trial court sentenced defendant to a total term of 15 years in prison, comprised of the upper term of 11 years, plus the middle term of four years for the firearm enhancement. the court ordered defendant to pay mandatory fines and fees, and awarded total presentence custody credit of 1,083 days. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal from the judgment. prosecution evidence sproson died of a single gunshot wound to the back of the head inflicted by defendant on december 31, 2011. michael tapp (tapp) testified that he was awakened by around 5:00 a.m. on the morning of the shooting. sproson lived next door, and they shared a common wall which did not keep out 2 which he repeated numerous times. finally, defendant said, 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code, unless otherwise indicated. 2 3 defendant then counted down from 10 to one. when he reached one, tapp heard footsteps going toward the back of apartment. when sproson said she did not have the clip, defendant demanded it again and then counted down from three. about 30 seconds later, tapp heard a pop like a firecracker, and called 911. tapp heard a rustling sound on the hardwood floors, but no more voices. defendant lived in the same apartment complex as tapp for about two years. they socialized with other neighbors 10 or 12 times, and on such occasions defendant usually drank alcohol. once when defendant was with friends, tapp observed that defendant was so intoxicated he was unable to walk straight on his own and was stumbling from side to side. friends virtually dragged him to the local bar. on another occasion, tapp observed defendant talking to the landlord while he appeared to be intoxicated. speech was slurred and he kept repeating himself. tapp testified that ddid not seem slurred at the time he heard defendant demanding the clip. sandy marino (marino), also lived in the same building. she testified that sproson was her friend, that she had introduced her to defendant, and that she regularly socialized with defendant and sproson. defendant, whose nickn drank a lot, almost every day, and often became so intoxicated he would lose his balance, his speech would become slurred, and he would pass out. marino testified that sproson ten parties and fights between defendant and sproson, some of them physical. sproson drank an average amount, not a lot. once marino saw defendant drag sproson down the stairs by the nape of her neck and once by placing ha headlock sproson did not appear to be physically injured. w, two hermosa beach police officers arrived (no. 6). one of them, officer mark smuts, testified that he saw defendant who appeared to be very intoxicated, but with fine coordination. defendant was not staggering or swaying; he was not holding on to anything, and he did not fall. defendant answered th4 questions, gave his name as told them that his girlfriend lived in apartment no. 6, and that he lived in apartment no. 7. when he was asked whether his girlfriend was still inside, defendant replied, he should be defendant was then placed in handcuffs and led to patrol car. during the walk, defendant did not lose his balance. when detective sergeant raul saldana arrived at the crime scene, he observed in the bathroom, her head close to the toilet, and the lower part of her body in the hallway. it appeared that the bullet, fired from 18 inches to two feet away, traveled in a straight line, and entered the back of her head about two inches behind her left ear. the bullet exited her head at the right temple and struck the middle of the underside of the toilet lid, which was up and resting vertically against the toilet tank. during the booking process officer smuts observed that defendant appeared to have perfect coordination, with no stumbling or holding himself against the wall for balance as he stood. defendant was able to follow the turn around. when dn later, at approximately 9:20 a.m. the same morning, his blood alcohol content (bac) was .25 percent. sergeant saldana testified that he had dealt with many intoxicated people, perhaps thousands over his 30 or so years as a police officer, and the highest bac he had encountered was .46 percent. he had handled people with a .25 percent bac several times and had seen a variety of behavior in individuals with a high bac. sergeant saldana observed defendant during the booking process, and noticed that although defendant speech was slurred and he appeared to be intoxicated, he made sense and could be understood. defendantcoordination was good, he was not swaying or stumbling, he seemed pretty steady on his feet, did not lean on anything, and maintained his balance. defendant was cooperative, and not combative, antagonistic, or belligerent. sergeant saldana assisted los angeles county a search of where they found a nine-millimeter semiautomatic handgun under the mattress and box springs of the bed. a sear5 an expended nine-millimeter casing, an unfired nine-millimeter round, a fired . mushroomed bullet and from several bloodstains on ing and foot. defense evidence defendant presented the testimony of physician and former police officer, terence mcgee, a specialist in addiction medicine and expert in testing for alcohol and drug abuse. dr. mcgee estimated bac at 5:00 a.m. was probably .30 percent if his bac was .25 percent at 9:20 a.m. he testified that the average person with a .30 percent bac would be unconscious, and death from respiratory arrest would normally occur at .40 percent; however, a person can develop a tolerance to alcohol over time, and the practiced alcoholic could surpass those levels without the same effects as others. nevertheless, a person with a .30 percent bac, would have impaired judgment, causing him to behave differently from himself in a sober state, and to make bad decisions. dr. mcgee explained that a heavy drinker who still managed to keep a job, pay rent, functioning alcoholiwhether a functioning alcoholic would have the same level of impaired judgment as someone who rarely drank would depend on the situation and the person, as alcohol affected everyone differently. dr. mcgee thought it was possible that a person with a bac of .30 or .33 percent would be able to pick up a bullet from the ground, travel 40 to 50 feet, and then place a gun under a mattress. , 80 percent of the population would be comatose at .30 percent, and no one at that level would be rational or normal in any intellectual way. dr. mcgee viewed a video recording of booking, which took place between 7:20 and 7:30 a.m. on the day of his arrest. dr. mcgee estimated that at that time, defendant probably had a bac of about .27 or .28 percent. the video showed defendant walking in with officers. dr. mcgee eyes were droopy and blood shot, and he thought that defendant sounded intoxicated; however, although voice was gravelly, he could not recall any slurring. as defendant stood with his hands cuffed behind him, he did not sway or lean against a wall to keep 6 himself up, and as officers instructed him to turn around, sit down, and so forth, defendant was able to follow the directions. the fact that coordination was good indicated that he had been using alcohol for a long period of time and had built some tolerance. there was no question in mind that defendant was an alcoholic. picking up a shell casing and bullet, going back to his own apartment, and placing the gun under the mattress, took coordination and thought, indicating that defendant had a higher tolerance for alcohol than most people. defendant testified in his defense that sproson had been his girlfriend for about two years. he described an incident that occurred during the recent thanksgiving holiday weekend, which they spent together at lake havasu. during an argument, sproson slapped him on the cheek and then tried to punch him, but he moved out of the way, pushed her onto the bed and left the room. she drove home alone the next day. defendant testified that this was not the first time she had hit him. after returning home sproson wrote in her diary that she had been drunk, said mean things, and was being selfish. she regretted the alcoholic she had become, and wanted to change. defendant testified that after he returned home, she apologized and they continued their relationship. defendant testified that he drank daily, and drank excessively on a regular basis, although not during the work day. he started drinking in high school and considered himself an alcoholic. on any given evening he would drink 20 beers, plus a shot of rum for every two or three beers. he described the events of friday, december 30, 2011: he worked that day, and after work, he bought three or four 30-packs of beer and two large bottles of ru; he arrived home at 3:00 p.m., had his first beer immediately, and drank about 12 more, plus some rum, before he and sproson walked to a nearby restaurant for dinner at 6:00 or 7:00 p.m.; sproson also drank both beer and rum before dinner, and they continued to drink after dinner; and they stayed up all night and he did not stop drinking until 4:30 a.m. around 3:00 a.m., sproson went downstairs to her apartment to feed her dog, and returned about two hours later. in the meantime, defendant decided to clean his pistol, as he was planning to go to the shooting range in the next few days. by that time, he had 7 opened the second 30-pack of beer and a second bottle of rum. he sat at the table, took the clip out of the gun, cleaned the gun, sprayed lubricant on the internal parts, placed a round in the chamber, as was his custom, and put the cleaning kit away. sproson then returned, the table, and ran back to her apartment. defendant got up to follow her, not realizing he still had his gun in his hand. defendant testified that as he followed sproson, he demanded his clip several times and counted down from 10 to one. he also said that he still had one round in the chamber and threatened to shoot her, but he did not mean it. sproson replied that she did not have his clip and asked he asked her again for the clip and counted down from three to one, but still did not intend to do anything if she failed to hand over the clip. defendant followed sproson as she walked toward the bedroom. when he was about two feet behind her, she turned, threw the clip at him, striking his lip, and then spun around to her left. startled, stunned, and in pain, defendant raised his hand and pulled the trigger, in a motion he described as a reflex. defendant then kneeled over the fallen sproson and checked for a pulse. he did not see a wound because her hair was in the way. he did not call 911. defendant testified he could not remember anything after that until the two officers approached him he did not remember picking up the casing or the mushroomed bullet, or putting the gun under the mattress. defendant claimed he did not intend to kill sproson, did not get his gun in order to kill her, and that he missed her very much. discussion defendant contends that the trial court erred by failing to give a jury instruction defining the elements of involuntary manslaughter, such as calcrim no. 580, and by failing to give instructions such as calcrim no. 625 and 626, regarding voluntary intoxication resulting in unconsciousness. he argues that the court should have given both instructions sua sponte because involuntary manslaughter is a lesser included offense of murder, and because the latter instructions would have provided an 8 understanding of voluntary intoxication as it relates to involuntary manslaughter. defendant also contends that because the jury sent out an inquiry regarding involuntary manslaughter, the trial court was obligated under section 1138 to give the instructions.3 defendant also contends that the absence of these instructions deprived him of due process, and that his trial counsel rendered constitutionally ineffective assistance by failing to request them. ii. duty to instruct any disagreement between them as to the testimony, or if they desire to be informed on any point of law arising in the case, they must require the officer to conduct them into court. upon being brought into court, the information required must be given in the presence of, or after notice to, the prosecuting attorney, and the defendant or his counsel, pressly or by failure to object. (people v. mccleod (1997) 55 cal.app.4th 1205, 1219-1220.) a trial court must instruct sua sponte on lesser included offenses that are supported by substantial evidence. (people v. licas (2007) 41 cal.4th 362, 366.) people v. abilez (2007) 41 cal.4th 472, 515.)4 required to trigger any evidence . . . no matter how 3 the jury submitted the following questions is innocent of murder 1 & murder 2 then are we definitely to charge guilty with voluntary manslaughter; or could he also be innocent of voluntary manslaughter [i.e.] if it was an accident tha defense 4 defendant was convicted of voluntary manslaughter. involuntary manslaughter is not a lesser included offense of voluntary manslaughter. (people v. orr (1994) 22 cal.app.4th 780, 784-785.) voluntary manslaughter is an unlawful killing where malice has been negated by such factors as heat of passion or imperfect self-defense. (people v. bryant (2013) 56 cal.4th 959, 969;  192.) 9 ut not the greater, was people v. cruz (2008) 44 cal.4th 636, 664; see also people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 154, 162.) the greater offense charged in this case was murder. murder is the unlawful killing of a human being with malice aforethought ( 187), while involuntary manslaughter requires a finding that the defendant acted without malice, commission of a lawful act which might produce death, in an unlawful manner, or without due caution and circumspection., subd. (b); people v. thomas (2012) 53 cal.4th 771, 815.) voluntary intoxication and kills in that state, the killing is attributed to his or her negligence in self-intoxicating to th (people v. ochoa (1998) 19 cal.4th 353, 423;  192, subd. instruct sua sponte extends to involuntary manslaughter based on unconsciousness, so long as there is substantial evidence to support it. (people v. halvorsen (2007) 42 cal.4th 379, 418-419.) iii. involuntary manslaughter due to criminal negligence defendant contends that the evidence showed that he fired the gun accidentally, while committing misdemeanor brandishing a firearm.5 manslaughter: a misdemeanor, a lawful act, or a noninherently dangerous felony. all people v. butler (2010) 187 cal.app.4th 998, 1012.) riminal negligence [is] unintentional conduct which is gross or reckless, amounting to a disregard of human life or an indifference to the consequences. (people v. guillen (2014) 227 5 every person who, except in self-defense, in the presence of any other person, draws or exhibits any firearm, whether loaded or unloaded, in a rude, angry, or threatening manner, or who in any manner, unlawfully uses a firearm in any fight or quarrel is punishable as 10 cal.app.4th 934, 1027, citing people v. penny (1955) 44 cal.2d 861, 879.) such disregard or indifference is measured objectively, and merely requires a showing that a reasonable person would have been aware of the risk. [citation.] (people v. butler, supra, at pp. 1008-1009, fn. omitted.) n accidental shooting that occurs while the defendant is brandishing a firearm in violation of section 417 could be involuntary manslaughter. people v. thomas, supra, 53 cal.4th at pp. 813-814.) defendant testimony presented this precise explanationthat he shot sproson accidentally. we have reviewed the cited by defendant, but nowhere on those two pages is there an express or implied claim of accident. furthermore we have found no such testimony anywhere else in the trial transcript. defendant testified that he did not intend or plan to kill sproson, but he did not testify that the gun fired accidentally. defense counsel asked defendant what happened after he was struck in the -- i guess, my reflex i just -- i came up -- it hit so hard, i just -- my hand came up, and i -- i believe, i pulled the trigger (italics added.) intent to kill, by itself, does not require an instruction on involuntary manslaughter, and a gun does not fire by accident when the trigger is intentionally pulled. (see people v. thomas, supra, at pp. 814-815.) thus, an instruction regarding involuntary manslaughter due to accident was unwarranted. as the trial court was not required to give such an instruction, and because d not abuse its discretion in not following the precise procedure of section 1138.6 (see people v. mccleod, supra, 55 cal.app.4th at pp. 1219-1220 [error under section 1138 reviewed for abuse of discretion].) regardless, if the trial court had erred, any such error would be harmless under any standard of prejudice 6 see footnote 3, ante. 11 people v. prettyman (1996) 14 cal.4th 248, 276.) the jury was instructed with calcrim nos. 3146 and 3149 regarding the personal use and the intentional discharge of a firearm. the jury found that defendant personally and intentionally ath. iv. unconsciousness due to voluntary intoxication defendant contends that the trial court was required to instruct that killing while unconscious due to voluntary intoxication is involuntary manslaughter. under section 29.4 (former section 22), voluntary intoxication can negate premeditation, deliberation, express malice, or other required specific intent, but it cannot completely relieve a defendant of criminal liability. (people v. halvorsen, supra, 42 cal.4th at pp. 417-418.) rather, a killing while unconscious due to voluntary intoxication is treated as involuntary manslaughter. (people v. ochoa, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 423.) without citation to authority, defendant suggests that a person is unconscious if he is too intoxicated to harbor a conscious disregard for human life. on the contrary, voluntary intoxication does not negate a conscious disregard or implied malice. (people v. timms (2007) 151 cal.app.4th 1292, 1297-1298, 1300.) as the california supreme court has recognized in dictum, depending on the facts, it now appears that des voluntary intoxication, even to the point of actual unconsciousness, would not prevent his conviction of second degree murder on an implied malice theory. (people v. boyer (2006) 38 cal.4th 412, 469, fn. 40; see also people v. carlson (2011) 200 cal.app.4th 695, 706-707.) voluntary intoxication is irrelevant to proof of the mental state of implied malice or conscious disregard (people v. timms, supra, at p. 1300.) unconscious in this context does not mean unconscious of the danger to human actions. (people v. haley (2004) 34 cal.4th 283, 313; see people v. ferguson (2011) 194 cal.app.4th 1070, 1081-1083.) [u]nconsciousness need not rise to the level of coma or inability to walk or perform conscious of acting [citation.] (people v. halvorsen, supra, 42 cal.4th at p. 417.) 12 within the contemplation of the penal code is one committed by a person who because of somnambulism, a blow on the head, or similar cause is not conscious of acting and whose act therefopeople v. ferguson, supra, at p. 1083.) the evidence defendant cites as demonstrating unconsciousness shows only that defendant was undoubtedly quite intoxicated, with a bac of .30 to .33 percent. defendant notes that dr. mcgee testified that the average person, and even most long-term drinkers with such high a bac would have passed out; and he explained that although some long-term drinkers could have sufficient alcohol tolerance to be walking around, such a person would be extremely intoxicated, have impaired judgment, and could act rashly and impulsively. unconsciousness, as a very intoxicated person is not unconscious simply because he demonstrates extremely bad judgment. (see people v. ferguson, supra, 194 cal.app.4th at p. 1084.) defendant also notes his lack of memory after firing the gun. a inability to recall the event, without more, [is] insufficient to warrant an unconsciousness instruction. (people v. rogers (2006) 39 s] selective recollection was natural, far short of a claim or description of . . . coexistent unconsciousness(people v. carlson, supra, 200 cal.app.4th at p. 704.) nevertheless, defendant remembered the event well enough to describe it in detail. he did not lose his memory until after he shot sproson and confirmed she was dead. damply demonstrated that he was not unconscious during that time. (cf. people v. halvorsen, supra, 42 cal.4th at p. 418.) further, the prior to the shooting provided substantial evidence of consciousness. (ibid.) defendant cleaned his gun and put the cleaning kit away, and he was able to describe the steps he took in doing so. knowing he had a bullet in the chamber of the gun in his hand, defendant used two count-downs and the threat of shooting sproson to obtain her compliance. then, after 13 sproson threw the magazine and turned her back to him again (and after she kneeled, stumbled, or was pushed downward, as indicated by the trajectory of the bullet), defendant raised the gun and pulled the trigger. he then checked her pulse, picked up the casing and spent bullet, and returned to his own apartment to hide the gun. s own expert testified that these last actions took coordination and thought, indicating a higher tolerance for alcohol than most people.7 not only did the facts consciousness, they also provided substantial evidence of malice. . . . when a killing results from an intentional act, the natural consequences of which are dangerous to human life, and the act is deliberately performed with knowledge of the danger to, and with conscious disregard for, human life. (people v. cook (2006) 39 cal.4th 566, 596.) whether the defendant was aware of the danger and acted with a conscious disregard for human life may be inferred from the circumstances and defendants acts leading up to the killing. (people v. nieto benitez (1992) 4 cal.4th 91, 107-108.) in particular, brandishing a loaded weapon during a heated argument, as defendant did here, implies malice. (id. at pp. 108-109.) other circumstances included with the use of his gun, as shown by his sufficient understanding of its parts in order to clean it, his custom of keeping a bullet in the chamber, and his intended shooting-range practice; the physical violence that had erupted in past arguments with sproson, and his own testimony that sproson had used force against him on more than one occasion, most recently the month before the shooting; and defendantn to her apartment with a loaded gun while threatening to shoot her. further, as the jury found, defendant fired the weapon intentionally. he admitted that he pulled the trigger, albeit 7 in contrast see people v. lee (1999) 20 cal.4th 47, 53, 58, where the evidence was estimated to have been between .33 and .39 percent; a witness testified that the defendant appeared different, giving a bstaggering and falling against the wall as he got his gun; the witness heard a shot, came to look, and saw the defendant holding the victim and begging her not to die; the gun was on the floor. 14 impulsively, and he did not testify that the gun accidentally discharged. we conclude that under such circumstances, no rational jury could conclude that defendant was unconscious or that he did not harbor a conscious disregard for the danger his actions thus, instruction on the lesser offense of involuntary manslaughter was unwarranted. (see people v. depriest (2007) 42 cal.4th 1, 50.) as involuntary manslaughter instructions were factually and legally unsupported, counsel did not render ineffective assistance by not requesting them. (see people v. szadziewicz (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 823, 836.) if the trial court had erred in failing to instruct sua sponte on unconsciousness, would thus be reviewed under the harmless error test of people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836, which asks whether an examination of the whole record reveals a reasonable probability that the error affected the outcome. (people v. breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th. at p. 149, 165; cal. const., art. vi,  13.) under the same evidence and reasoning by which we found that no reasonable jury would find unconsciousness, we conclude that there would be no such probability; and further, we conclude beyond a reasonable doubt that the omission of the instructions diverdicts. (see chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. ____________________________, j. chavez we concur: __________________________, p. j. boren __________________________, j. hoffstadt 