filed 11/5/15 p. v. lara ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. hector manuel lara, defendant and appellant. b258303 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma061812) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. kathleen blanchard, judge. affirmed in part, conditionally reversed, and remanded in part with directions. stephen m. vasil, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson, supervising deputy attorney general, and idan ivri, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 a jury convicted hector manuel lara (defendant) of possessing methamphetamine, and the trial court sentenced him to six years in jail. on appeal, defendant argues that the trial court erred in conducting too narrow a review of three los pitchess v. superior court (1975) 11 cal.3d 531 (pitchess), and in sentencing him to the middle term. although pitchess pitchess requires. we accordingly remand for a further pitchess hearing. factual and procedural background restaurant nervously when opening his wallet, walked out to the parking lot and proceeded to talk to himself, and then returned and started looking under tables. two when the officers encountered defendant outside the restaurant, one of them noticed that defendant was fidgety, that his pupils were dilated, that his speech was rambling and incoherent, and that he was sweating profusely despite an air temperature a few degrees above freezing. the deputies arrested defendant, and the busboy then brought them the wallet defendant had left in the restaurant. folded square of paper containing 3.2888 grams of methamphetamine. the people charged defendant with possessing methamphetamine (health & saf. code,  11377, subd. (a)). id.,  667, subds. (b)-(j), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)), and that he served two additional prior prison terms (id.,  667.5, subd. (b)) for his 2004 conviction for receiving a stolen vehicle (id.,  496d, subd. (a)) and his 2011 conviction for false imprisonment (id.,  236). after the jury convicted defendant and defendant admitted the prior convictions during the second half of the bifurcated trial proceedings, the trial court sentenced 3 defendant to six years in jail. the court selected the middle term of two years on the possession count, doubled it to fone additional year for each prior prison sentence. defendant timely appeals. discussion i. pitchess motion a. pertinent facts prior to trial, defendant filed a pitchess motion seeking in camera review of the personnel records and citizen complaints against the two deputies who arrested him and a third deputy who photographed the wallet and drugs. declaration, based on information and belief, denying that defendant exhibited any signs of drug use, denying that defendant possessed any methamphetamine, and asserting that [ed] [the] methamphetamine in [his] wallet or else l[ied] about 1 defendant asked the trial court to review the records and complaints for any evidence of (1) fabrication of charges, (2) fabrication of evidence, (3) fabrication of reasonable suspicion and/or probable cause, (4) perjury, (5) dishonesty, (6) writing false police reports, (7) filing false or misleading reports (such as false overtime and medical reports), and (8) any other misconduct involving moral turpitude. the trial court granted the motion as to all three deputies, but only as to the the court conducted an in camera review and found no responsive records or complaints. after the court denied the pitchess motion, defendant filedand the court denieda motion to suppress the methamphetamine as the fruit of an unlawful arrest. b. analysis 1 pitchess motion without p 4 law. (pen. code,  832.7, 832.5, 832.8.) they are not wholly immune from disclosure; instead, they may be disclosed but only if the party seeking them follows special procedures first articulated in pitchess and later codified in evidence code sections 1043 e for the discovery that is, a showing that the agency from which the records and complaints are sought possesses them and, more relevant here, a showing that the records and (evid. code,  1043, subd. (b)(3).) to establish materiality, the requesting party must (1) ,(2) must explain both how the information sought is in the pending litigation and how the information would support a defense or negate the warrick v. superior court (2005) 35 cal.4th 1011, 1021, 1025-1027 (warrick); california highway patrol v. superior court (2000) 84 cal.app.4th 1010, 1021 (chp).) defendant raises two issues on appeal. first, he asks us to evaluate the sufficiency of the in camera hearing that the trial court conducted. we have done so, and conclude that it was done correctly. (people v. mooc (2001) 26 cal.4th 1216, 1229.) second, he argues that the court should have conducted a more expansive in camera hearing. in particular, defendant asserts that the court erred in limiting the in camera review only to misconduct involving thbecause most of the other types of misconduct he sought to discover (namely, the fabrication of evidence, the fabrication of charges, the fabrication of reasonable suspicion or probable cause, pin this case (namely, the planting of methamphetamine and the filing of a false police misleading internal reports or other misconduct involving moral turpitude. we review the people v. cruz (2008) 44 cal.4th 636, 670.) 5 we conclude that the trial court abused its discretion. pitchess requires the in it. (chp, suprapeople v. gill (1997) 60 cal.app.4th 743, 750 (gill) [same]; warrick, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 1021 [requiring mispeople v. hustead (1999) 74 cal.app.4th 410, 416 [prior incidents of excessive force not similar to for this: incidents that are similar, but not identical, can lead to admissible evidence of an type of misconduct. (gill, supra, 60 cal.app.4th at pp. 749-750; people v. memro (1985) 38 cal.3d 658, 681-682, overruled on other grounds by people v. gaines (2009) 46 cal.4th 172, 181, fn. 2 (gaines).) t erred in not reviewing the personnel records of the three deputies for prior incidents involving (1) the planting or fabrication of any evidence (rather than just narcotics) (see warrick, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 1027 [in cocaine possession case, ordering gill, supra, 60 cal.app.4th at p. 750 [same]), (2) the fabrication of charges to the extent it relies upon the fabrication of evidence (see gill, at p. 750), (3) perjury (see brant v. superior court (2003) 108 cal.app.4th 100, 108 (brant) [in drug possession case where defendant alleges officers lied, ordering in camera review of records for perjury]), and (4) dishonesty (see people v. johnson (2004) 118 cal.app.4th 292, 296, 300-303 [in drug possession case where defendant alleges officers lied, ordering in camera review of records for incidents of dishonesty]; cf. chp, supra, 84 cal.app.4th at p. 1023 [in driving under the influence case where defendant alleges officers lied, misconduct involving time card irregularities not sufficiently similar]). what is more, in probable cause for his arrest, prior incidents involving the fabrication of reasonable suspicion 6 (brant, at p. 108; cf. giovanni b. v. superior court (2007) 152 cal.app.4th 312, 317-321 [in camera review of prior incidents of fabrication of probable cause not warranted when arrest rested on independent basis not attacked by defendant].) chp chp is distinguishable. the dissimilarity between the alleged misconduct and time card irregularities in chp is greater than the dissimilarities between the alleged misconduct in this case and the categories of prior misconduct for which defendant seeks in camera review in this case, as we explain above. the people further contend that warrickruling that pitchess planting of specific types of evidence) was an instruction to the trial court after that court initially refused to conduct any in camera review at all, and should be limited to that circumstance. however, warrick grounded its ruling on its conclusion that evidence is evidence code section 1043, subdivision (b)(3) ed to the misconduct alleged in the pitchess motion. as noted above, many other more importantly, the people offer no reason why we should adopt a different definition odeunderinclusive (that is, depending on whether the court conducted an in camera review that was too narrow or no in camera review at all). , we conditionally remand the matter to the trial court to (1) conduct an in camera review of the privileged records and complaints of all three deputies for all of the five additional categories of misconduct enumerated in this opinion, (2) order the discrelevant to the subject matter involved subd. (a)), and, if any such records are disclosed, (3) allow defendant the opportunity to establish there is a reasonable probability that the outcome of his suppression motion or trial would have been different and, if so, to retry the case. if there are no additional 7 disclosures or if defendant cannot establish prejudice, the trial court may reinstate the judgment of conviction. (gaines, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 182; gill, supra, 60 cal.app.4th at p. 419.) ii. sentencing offense may be sentenced to 16 months, 2 years or 3 years in jail. (health & saf. code,  specifies three possible terms [of imprisonment], the choice of the appropriate term shall rest within the sound discretion of the [trial] court. (b); people v. sandoval (2007) 41 cal.4th 825, 847 [noting abuse of discretion review on appeal].) a trial court abuses that discretion if, in choosing among the low, middle and high terms, it relies upon facts or circumstances that are irrelevant or prohibited. (ibid.) defendant argues that the trial court erred in selecting the middle term of two years on the underlying drug possession charge because (1) the court relied on two inappropriate considerations, section 1170, subdivision (c). neither argument warrants reversal. with respect to the first argument, defendant asserts that the trial court impermissibly (1) treated his decision to go to trial (rather than enter a plea) as an aggravating factor in violation of his constitutional right to go to trial (see people v. weber because the defendant pleads not guilty and exercises his right to a (2) treated his trial testimony denying possession of drugs as perjuryand thus, an aggravating factorwithout first making a finding as to the elements of perjury (see people v. howard (1993) 17 cal.app.4th 999, 1002, 1004 [so requiring]). the record and the law do not support these arguments. at the sentencing hearing, defendant asked for the low term (or, failing that, the middle term), and the people sought a high term sentence. the trial court selected the middle term. just minutes before, in 8 ned between his 1997 robbery conviction and the instant offense. the court also explained certainly in terms of your plea negotiations. early taking of responsibility is a factor in mitigation under the rules of court. [] here, not only did we not have that but we did have the defendant who took the stand and was unwilling to take responsibility for the e court did not punish defendant for going to trial; instead, it acknowledged the absence of the mitigating factor of acceptance of responsibility. (see cal. rules of court, rule 4.423, subd. (b)(3) [mitigating factors acknowledg[ing] wrongdoing before arrest or at an committed perjury, so findings as to the elements of perjury are not necessary. moreover, the criminal history the court discussed is a valid aggravating factor (id., rule 4.421, subd. (b)(2) [aggravating factors include that convictions . . factor is sufficient to sustain a middle or high term sentence (e.g., people v. williams (1991) 228 cal.app.3d 146, 153). also lacks merit. to ng of no mitigating factors are reasonably viewed as a statement of reasons for its middle term sentence. even if we assume that a more express statement is required, defendant forfeited his right to that statement by not objecting during the sentencing hearing. (people v. scott (2015) 61 cal.4th 363, 406.) defendant argues that this forfeiture is due to his strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687.) we disagree. strickland requires a 9 outcome of the proceeding would be different. (ibid.) defendant has not made this itigating factors made its choice among the three sentencing options clear. disposition the judgment is reversed and remanded with directions to the trial court to conduct an in camera hearing as to all three deputies with respect to prior incidents of (1) the planting or fabricating of any evidence, (2) the fabrication of charges to the extent it relies upon the fabrication of evidence, (3) perjury, (4) dishonesty, and (5) the fabrication of reasonable suspicion and probable cause. if the hearing reveals no discoverable information, the trial court is directed to reinstate the judgment of conviction and the sentence. if the inspection reveals relevant information, the trial court must order disclosure, allow defendant an opportunity to demonstrate prejudice, and order a new trial if there is a reasonable probability the outcome would have been different had the information been disclosed. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. _______________________, j. hoffstadt we concur: ____________________________, p.j. boren ____________________________, j. ashmann-gerst 