filed 11/5/15 p. v. deguzman ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. anthony deguzman, defendant and appellant. b258908 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va118241) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, thomas mcknew, jr., judge. affirmed. sanger swysen & dunkle and stephen k. dunkle, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, michael c. keller and john yang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________ appellant anthony deguzman appeals from the judgment entered following his jury convictions for multiple sexual offenses.1 the court sentenced appellant to prison for 15 consecutive terms of 15 years to life (counts 1 15, respectively), with concurrent determinate terms on the remaining counts. we affirm. issues appellant claims (1) the trial court erroneously precluded him from cross-examining a witness as an expert and erroneously failed to give sua sponte a limiting instruction concerning child sexual abuse accommodation syndrome (csaas) testimony, (2) appellant failure to impeach witnesses, (3) the prosecutor committed misconduct during jury argument, and (4) cumulative error violative of due process occurred. discussion 1. the court did not erroneously restrict cross-examination or commit instructional error. a. pertinent facts. detective rudy acevedo, the detective assigned to the present case, testified for the people at trial as follows. acevedo had been a sworn peace officer for about 24 years and a detective in the special victims bureau (svb) of ted only cases of sexual assault and child abuse. acevedo received special training to be an 1 the jury convicted appellant on five counts of aggravated sexual assault of a child (pen. code,  269, subd. (a)(1) (subsequent statutory references are to the penal code); counts 1, 4 , 7, 10 & 13), five counts of aggravated sexual assault of a child ( 269, subd. (a)(4); counts 2, 5, 8, 11 & 14), five counts of aggravated sexual assault of a child ( 269, subd. (a)(5); counts 3, 6, 9, 12 & 15), two counts of forcible rape ( 261, subd. (a)(2); counts 16 & 19), two counts of forcible oral copulation ( 288a, subd. (c)(2); counts 17 & 20), and two counts of sexual penetration by a foreign object ( 289, subd. (a)(1); counts 18 & 21). there is no dispute as to the sufficiency of the evidence that appellant committed the present offenses; a detailed recitation of their facts is unnecessary to resolve this appeal. it is sufficient to state the evidence established appellant committed the offenses against r., his stepdaughter, in los angeles county beginning in about 2001 when she was nine years old. svb detective. acevedo had investigated, or had been involved in the investigation of, over 800 or 900 cases of child sexual assault. during direct examination ogained in the special victims bureau, how common is it for a child to disclose later in and observed, [acevedo] is qualified as a detective in the special victims bureau and he has been so for at least 8 or more years. he can testify as acevedo testified as follows. it was very common for victims to disclose late. late reporting. reported the prosecutor asked usually did. the prosecutor later asked acevedo what reasons victims gave him for late reporting. acevedo testified that many times victims felt ashamed, felt embarrassed, and had received threats, and that acevedo also testified tend to give them the cognitive abilities of an adult. we try to think that they think like -year-old and an adult think differently. the following also occurred during direct examination: experience, why would shame or embarrassment about talking about it to adults, or reporting it i should say? [] hearsay objection, then observed, [time in . . . he can render his opinion with respect to what he has imes when victims are . . . molested, . . . usually the experience with respect to why late reporting [occurs], particularly with younger alleged victims, and you have indicated because of being a close family member, that is a reason why a young pesic.) acevedo indicated yes and late the prosecutor subsequently asked acevedo whether, in cases he had investigated (sic.) t want to abuse that trust or that authority. they feel that they are subservient to that person and they have to follow what during cross-examination, appellant asked acevedo whether he had followed post2 guidelines during the investigation. during later discussions outside the presence of the jury, appellant maintained the court repeatedly had vouched for acevedo because of his 800 or 900 investigations; therefore, appellant should be allowed to cross-examine acevedo concerning the guidelinindicated if acevedo to cross-examine acevedo as an 2 post is an acronym for peace officer standards and training. the court disagreed he has that skill as part of his job. he would not qualify as an expert in anything other appellant tprofessional skills as a detective, not his skills as to the mental state, . . . or anything else. only within his skill level, and you have been allowed to ask those questions, the court denied it had said acevedo qualified in court as an expert. the court indicated acevedo was, however, a professional in his field and, as such, he could testify how he operated within his field. the court also indicated acevedo was a detective doing his work as he understood it and, although appellant could cross-examine him on any deviation from guidelines, appellant could not pose hypothetical questions to acevedo. b. analysis. appellant claims the trial court erroneously precluded him from cross-examining acevedo on his expert csaas testimony and erroneously failed to give sua sponte a limiting instruction concerning csaas testimony. we reject the claim. detective acevedo did not testify as an expert on csaas. he was not listed as an expert, nor was he qualified as one under evidence code section 720, subdivision (a). his testimony did not provide the jury with recent findings of professional research on a (compare people v. bledsoe (1984) 36 cal.3d 236, 247; people v. bowker (1988) 203 cal.app.3d 385, 393-394.) he was not qualified to testify, nor did he testify, as a mental health professional. he did not explicitly refer to csaas, nor did he refer to the characteristics of that syndrome. detective class.people v. roscoe (1985) 168 cal.app.3d 1093, 1100.) rather, he testified concerning those child molestation victims who were the subject of investigations that he conducted or in which he had been involved.3 his testimony on that issue was not ibid.) furtherdenied to the trial court that he was going to pose hypothetical questions. we conclude the trial court did not abuse its discretion by precluding appellant from cross-examining detective acevedo as a csaas expert. the subject matter of the predicate direct examination testimony of detective acevedo was not expert testimony about csaas. finally, appellant, citing people v. housley (1992) 6 cal.app.4th 947 (housley), argues the trial court erroneously failed to instruct sua sponte (using, e.g., calcrim no. 1193) that expert csaas testimony could not be used by the jury to determine if a inconsistent with having been abused. we reject the claim. housley expert is called to testify regarding csaas we hold the jury must sua sponte be instructed that (1) such evidence is the evidence are not inconsistent with having been molested; and (2) the testimony is not ihousley, supra, 6 cal.app.4th at p. 959, italics added.) however, it is not clear housley is controlling. a number of appellate cases have concluded that the instruction appellant seeks is a limiting instruction that a court must housley, supra, 6 cal.app.4th at p. 957.) moreover, as we have concluded that a csaas expert was not called to testify in this case and csaas testimony was not given, housley is inapplicable. the trial court did not -examination of acevedo as discussed or by failing to give the limiting instruction. 3 what children told him was hearsay, the admissibility of which appellant does not challenge on appeal. he has thus forfeited the admissibility issue (evid. code,  353, subd. (a)), and even if he challenged on appeal the admissibility of the hearsay, any error in its admission into evidence would be harmless. 2. appellant was not denied effective assistance of counsel. a. pertinent facts. appellant is appealing following his conviction after a retrial; his first trial resulted in a hung jury and a mistrial. all testimony referred to below is from the first trial.4 joseph deguzman (joseph), r., testified that about december 1, 2010, he overheard a telephone conversation between r. and his mother z. during the conversation, r. looked at joseph r. testified that, at the preliminary hearing, she admitted making a statement to joseph about blackmail. the following occurred between r. hold something over [sic] the fan? [] a the truth be told, yes. [] q so what were you hoping to get from your father? [] a nothing. i just wanted the truth r. did not remember exactly what she said to josephtestified she sic.) r. denied she was on the phone with z. or that r. talked to z. about blackmail. z. denied r. mentioned blackmail to z. r. z. and appellant were getting divorced, r. [d]posted think they have all control when in reality all control is in my get that through their head. they are about to get a taste of their own r. did not know what that post concerned. z. testified she sent to appellant a text message to 4 the testimony below is da new trial. there is no dispute the transcripts reflect testimony given at the first trial, that joseph and z. referred to in those transcripts are joseph deguzman and z. deguzman, r.s brother and mother, respectively, and that joseph was also known as jc. was trying to be nice; you just turned me into a bitch. from here on out, only call me appellant claims he received ineffective assistance of counsel because his trial counsel failed to impeach r. and z. with their above testimony from the first trial. we reject the claim. defense counsel made a sensible tactical decision in declining to introduce such evidence. the testimony was, at best, vague and, had the impeachment occurred, it would have provided both the victim and her mother with an opportunity to explain the damage caused by appellantheld to answer for his misconduct. while appellant asserts that this type of impeachment would have been useful, it was roll the dice cannot be held constitutionally inadequate. assistance of trial counsel claim, therefore, fails and no violation of his constitutional rights occurred. 3. no prejudicial prosecutorial misconduct occurred. during rebuttal jury argument, the prosecutor commented without objection, bailiff once told me, he goes, what a lot of defense attorneys like to do is throw up the fireworks while they pick your pocket. sworks and picking r.r., who deserves to have justice, who deserves to have closure, you are writing the chapter in her life where she gets the happy ending, where she gets to have closure, where she gets to say, you know, i went through a very painful process, i stood up for myself, and you heard her say that repeatedly on the stand that she was learning to stand up for herself. you are helping reward her for standing up for herself in a way that people did not in her life, and you are writing the next chapter in her life for appellant claims the above two sets of comments constituted prosecutorial misconduct. the claim is unavailing. appellant failed to object on the ground of prosecutorial misconduct and request a jury admonition with respect to either set of comments, and a jury admonition would have cured any harm. appellant waived the issue of whether the comments constituted misconduct. (cf. people v. gionis (1995) 9 cal.4th 1196, 1215; people v. mincey (1992) 2 cal.4th 408, 471.) even if the misconduct issues were preserved for appellate review, no prejudicial prosecutorial misconduct occurred from these brief, isolated comments on the absence of a plausible defense. (cf. people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 1002-1003 [no prejudicial prosecutorial misconduct where prosecutor commented the job of defense counsel was to create straw men and put up smoke and red herrings]; people v. medina (1995) 11 cal.4th 694, 759-760 [no prejudicial prosecutorial misconduct where ht thing, to do justice, not for our society, necessarily or exclusively, but for [the 18-year-old victim employee].].) no violation of 5 5 as there were no cognizable errors in claim that cumulative error violative of due process occurred. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports jones, j.* we concur: edmon, p. j. aldrich, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 