filed 5/15/15 p. v. quintanilla ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. nelson orlando quintanilla, defendant and appellant. b258482 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba100177-01) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, craig richman, judge. affirmed. alex green, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. ______________________________________________ 2 in august 1994, defendant and appellant nelson orlando quintanilla pleaded no contest to possession of a controlled substance for sale. twenty years later, quintanilla filed a petition for a writ of error coram nobis and a motion to vacate his conviction in furtherance of justice. the trial court held an evidentiary hearing and then denied no arguable issues and asking the court independently to review the entire record under people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436. we have done so and find no error. we therefore affirm. factual and procedural background because quintanilla waited twenty years to file his petition and motion, little remains of the court file in this case.1 according to moving papers in the trial court, the los angeles police department arrested him on august 16, 1994 for possession for sale of a controlled substance -- 28 wafers of rock cocaine found in a black plastic key box -- in violation of health & safety code section 11351.5. on august 31, 1994, quintanilla pleaded no contest to the charge. apparently in he court placed him on probation and ordered him to serve 180 days in the county jail. quintanilla was deported in september 1994 and the court issued a bench warrant for his arrest in april 1997. twelve years later, in april 2009, quintanilla was arrested on the warrant. he admitted the probation violation, and the court gave him credit for time served (21 actual days) and terminated probation. federal authorities apparently took quintanilla into custody on march 7, 2014. on july 1, 2014, quintanilla -- represented by counsel -- filed a pleading entitled motion to vacate conviction pursuant to penal code [section] 1385 quintanilla 1 from the discussion at the hearing in the trial court, it appears counsel and the transcript of the preliminary -defendant, and a probation department report. none of these documents are included in the record on appeal. 3 quintanilla contended that the lapd later terminated the arresting officer for misconduct: beating a suspect severely in february 1998. quintanilla also argued that his defense attorney was constitutionally ineffective because she did not ask him about his citizenship or immigration status . . . meaningful out the immigration consequences of his plea. on july 21 and 22, 2014, the trial court conducted an evidentiary hearing on quintanilla did not appear at the hearing because he was in federal immigration custody. nsel submitted a declaration by quintanilla. quintanilla stated in his declaration that, at the time of the plea, his public r even asked if [he] was a united states the district attorney objected to the declaration because quintanilla was not available for cross-examination. ho had represented him in 1994 -- clarisse hamblin -- to appear and testify at the hearing. hamblin testified in 1994, hamblin had been a public defender for about five years. hamblin said her practice in 1994 in advising a hamblin testified it has always possible for my client. especially, if immigration is an issue in the case. i will certainly office -- which i feel obligated to convey to the client at any time [the defendant is offered] a deal by the district attornconsequences, what i believe the consequences could be to their immigration status in the united states, to their presence in the united states, i.e., that they could be deported 4 if they entered into the plea specific immigration status of the individual was, what the charges were and what potentially, what the potential consequences of entering a plea to those specific charges were. yes, i would probe further . . . . the nuances of immigration law. evaluated whether the evidence against her client was strong or weak and she would have considered counteroffers to different charges as well as possible motions. ubmitted excerpts from the rampart area corruption incident public report, dated march 1, 2000. according to the report, los angeles police department officer brian hewitt choked and beat an arrestee in february 1998. the department fired hewitt after a board of rights hearing. hewitt apparently was the officer who had arrested quintanilla in this case in august 1994. at the grant quintanilla a writ of error coram nobis based on the finding that several years later hewitt brutally beat an arrestee. counsel argued that, at the time he entered his plea decourt to vacate his conviction in the interest of justice under penal code section 1385 because his public defender was constitutionally ineffective and his deportation by federal authorities would leave his wife and his children bereft. partner, officer thornton, had testified at the co-that he had seen quintanilla drop an item on the street. according to the prosecutor, thornton testified he then saw hewitt pick up the item -- the key box -- and show it to him. so, argued the prosecutor, even if hewitt were tainted there was another witness to the prosecutor also contended the court could 5 case had long since ended. as for the equities, the prosecutor noted that quintanilla had been deported soon after his conviction, had returned to the united states illegally, and had had a number of avenues open to him over the previous twenty years to move to withdraw his plea or challenge his conviction. he had not done so. the trial court denied the petition and motion. transcript of the plea proceeding, noted the deputy district attorney who took . . . advised [him] during the course of his plea of the 2 of what he believed to be an advantageous disposition, pre-preliminary hearing, knowing that the witnesses were available to come to court to testify and were actually a month of the plea and had there been any surprise concerning the deportation it would have been raised at that parrested on the warrant in 2009 and granted a termination of his probation with credit for time served. quintanilla appealed. his court-appointed counsel submitted a brief asking this court independently to review the record under people v. wende, supra, 25 cal.3d 436. on march 19, 2015, the court received a letter from quintanilla stating that his family needs him in the united states and that he has not suffered any convictions since 1994. discussion t and motion for abuse of discretion. (people v. mcelwee 2 as the district attorney advised quintanilla at the time of his plea of the immigration consequences, quintanilla could not and did not move to vacate his plea under penal code section 1016.5. his attorney noted at the hearing that quintanilla also did not qualify for habeas relief. (see people v. villa (2009) 45 cal.4th 1063, 1066 (villafederal custody, not in california custody as a result of his 20-year-old conviction].) 6 (2005) 128 cal.app.4th 1348, 1352 [writ petition]; polanski v. superior court (2009) 180 cal.app.4th 507, 536 (polanski) [motion under penal code section 1385].) 1. for a writ of error coram nobis coram nobis is a nonstatutory, common law remedy whose origins trace back to an era in england in which appeals and new trial motions were (people v. kim (2009) 45 cal.4th 1078, 1091 (kim).) existed some fact which would have prevented its rendition if the trial court had known it and which, through no negligence or fault of the defendant, was not then known to the court kim, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 1091, quoting people v. adamson (1949) 34 cal.2d 320, 326-327.) the petitioner must meet several requirements. must show that some fact existed which, without any fault or negligence on his part, was not presented to the court at the trial on the merits, and which if presented would have prevented the rendition of the judgment. kim, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 1093, quoting people v. shipman (1965) 62 cal.2d 226, 230 (shipman).) second, he must also show that the newly discovered evidence . . . [does not go] to the merits of issues tried; issues of fact, once adjudicated, even though incorrectly, cannot be reopened except on motion for new trial. ibid is second requirement applies even though the evidence in question is not discovered until after the time for moving for a new trial has elapsed or the motion has been denied. (ibid must show that the facts upon which he relies were not known to him and could not in the exercise of due diligence have been discovered by him at any time substantially earlier than the time of his motion for the writ. . . . (ibid.) kim, supra, 45 it is well settled that a showing of diligence is prerequisite to the availability of relief by motion for coram nobis. id., at p. 1096, quoting people v. shorts (1948) 32 cal.2d 502, 512.) 7 kim, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 1096, quoting people v. castaneda gence requirement is not some abstract technical obstacle placed randomly before litigants of decided cases and its interest in providing a reasonable avenue of relief for those kim, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 1097.) t was . . . an officer whose trustworthiness was utterly lacking . . . due to his propensity . . . to engage in egregious police misconduct against arrestees that he suspected of criminal behaviour [sic until three and a half years after his arrest and no contest plea. but, he contended, had the prosecutor, defense counsel, and the court known in august 1994 that hewitt would . . . 1998), and told him about it in 2014. but, as the trial court noted, quintanilla was deported almost immediately after his august 1994 conviction. he returned to the united states that same year. plainly, within weeks of his plea, quintanilla learned of the immigration consequences (even if he somehow failed to hear what the prosecutor told him at the time of his plea). yet he took no action to seek to withdraw his plea or challenge his conviction while the people still had an opportunity to go forward with their prosecution and bring quintanilla to trial. the rampart scandal received considerable press attention and the public report quintanilla now cites was released on march 1, 2000, more than 14 years before he petitioned for coram nobis. on this record, quintanilla has failed to show -- and cannot show -- 8 in the exercise of due diligence . . . at any time substantially earlier than the time of his motion for the writ. kim, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 1097, quoting shipman, supra, 62 cal.2d at p. 230.) 2. mofurtherance of justice conviction in under penal code section 1385. quintanilla . . . the right to effective representation as guaranteed by the 6th amendment to the united conviction (and, presumably, his deportation) would have a either of his or her own motion or upon the application of the prosecuting attorney, and in a defendant has no right to make a motion, and the trial court has no obligation to make a ruling, under section 1385. polanski, supra, 180 cal.app.4th at p. 527, quoting people v. carmony (2004) 33 does have the right to invite the court to exercise its power [by, for example, striking a count of an accusatory pleading], and the court must consider evidence offered by the defendant in support of his assertion that the dismissal would be in furtherance of justice. id. at p. 527.) quintanilla did not cite any case in the trial court for the proposition that a court may vacate a conviction under section 1385 long after the case has ended and probation has been terminated, nor have we been able to find one. (compare people v. barraza (1994) 30 cal.app.4th 114, 121, fn. held to authorize people v. orabuena (2004) 116 cal.app.4th 84, 96-98 [court had authority to dismiss disqualifying misdemeanor under section 1385 to render defendant eligible for proposition 36 drug treatment when court had suspended imposition of sentence and 9 defendant was still on probation].) nor should quintanilla be permitted to circumvent governing law limiting his procedural remedies for purported ineffective assistance of counsel by asking the court to exercise its authority under the general provisions of section 1385. (see villa, supra, 45 cal.4th 1063 [habeas not available to defendant whose counsel him about deportation, because defendant no longer in california custody]; people v. shokur (2012) 205 cal.app.4th 1398, 1401 [no ask about his immigration status nor advise him conviction would result in removal].) in any event, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in concluding that furtherance of justice. the lawyer who represented quintanilla at the time of his plea testified that she was quite familiar with immigration law and that she routinely advised clients about the consequences of a plea. she tried to get the best offers she could for her clients, taking into account the potential immigration consequences. the prosecutor told quintanilla at the time of his plea of the immigration consequences. quintanilla continued to live in the united states for the next 20 years. as the trial court noted, once he was deported in september 1994, quintanilla obviously knew his conviction would result -- indeed, had resulted -- in his removal from the united states. yet he took no action to come to court to seek to withdraw his plea at a time when the people could have taken the case to trial -- while the prosecution still had its evidence (the cocaine) and witnesses. nor did quintanilla make any effort to comply with the terms of his probation. when he finally was apprehended on the warrant in 2009, quintanilla admitted the probation violation and served only 21 days in jail, never raising any issue wife and children will no doubt suffer from his absence. but the responsibility for that suffering must lie with quintanilla, not the people or the court. 10 disposition responsibilities, that no arguable issues exist, and that the court properly denied the writ petition and motion. accordingly, we affirm. not to be published in the official reports egerton, j.* we concur: edmon, p. j. kitching, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 