filed 5/18/16 p. v. townsend ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. dandray lee townsend, defendant and appellant. b258676 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma061557) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, kathleen blanchard, judge. affirmed with directions. james m. crawford, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general of california, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., supervising deputy attorney general, and nima razfar, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 on december 5, 2013, around 10:30 p.m., eusebio garcia (garcia) drove to lancaster to meet latisha wong (wong) in order to collect money she owed him. when garcia picked wong up, she told him that she first wanted him to drive her to a nearby store in order to purchase cigarettes. after garcia agreed, wong directed him to follow a particular route, ostensibly to the store. when they drove past two pedestrians, she convinced him to stop the car in order for her to talk with them. as garcia stopped the car, the two pedestrians, dandray lee townsend (townsend) and jeffrey lamont johnson (johnson), were walking on the sidewalk. townsend and johnson, each armed with firearms, then entered the car; wong immediately exited the car and ran away. townsend and johnson then robbed garcia of $300 cash, his wallet containing his bank card, and his phone. townsend and johnson next forced garcia out of his car and drove away. subsequently, using the stolen bank card, they withdrew $200 from bank account. on july 22, 2014, a jury convicted townsend of kidnapping during the course of a carjacking, kidnapping to commit robbery, carjacking, robbery, criminal threats, and assault with a semiautomatic firearm. on appeal, townsend raises three issues: (1) that the evidence at trial failed to corroborate testimony, as required by penal code section 11111; (2) that in imposing sentence on count 4 (robbery) and in imposing a consecutive sentence on count 1 (kidnapping during the course of a carjacking), the trial court violated section 654 prohibiting multiple punishments for the same act; and (3) that evidence did not support the prior prison term sentencing enhancement related to july 16, 2010 conviction. on the first issue, we testimony, particularly the evidence of his brother instructing them to intimidate garcia not to testify against townsend. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 attempts to conceal his involvement in the charged crimes reveal a consciousness of guilt that corroborated w further, we find no error in the trial courtsection 654 in this case, because townsend harbored separate criminal objectives when he robbed garcia of his personal items as alleged in count 4 and when he kidnapped garcia during the course of carjacking as alleged in count 1. we conclude that avoidance of detection and conviction for the robbery was the objective of the conduct alleged in count 1. criminal objective for robbery differed from his objective for the kidnapping during the course of a carjacking, townsend is separately punishable on his convictions for counts 1 and 4. because the trial court failed to specify on the record which two of three prior prison terms underlie sentencing enhancements, we do not reach the third issue raised by townsend. thus, we order a limited remand for the trial court to make the necessary on-the-record statements to allegations, i.e., the trial court must either impose or strike each prior prison term enhancement and if the trial court strikes an enhancement then it must set forth the reasons for doing so. pursuant to government code section 68081, this court has received and considered supplemental briefing from the parties on a fourth issue: whether sufficient evidence supported true finding that townsend committed the charged crimes in affiliation with a criminal street gang. after reviewing the psupplemental briefing, we conclude that the record amply . background i. facts of the case after meeting on facebook and communicating online, garcia and wong met in-person for the first time in november 2013 when she invited him to attend a party hosted at her house; at the party, garcia loaned wong $50. on december 4, 2013, garcia texted wong about her repaying the money to him; on december 5, 2013, around 7:00 p.m., wong agreed to meet garcia to repay him the $50. claiming that she had only $100 bills 4 and that she needed change to pay her rent, wong asked garcia to bring $200 in $20 bills to the meeting.2 at or about 10:30 p.m., garcia drove to the meeting place at the intersection of avenue h-8 and date avenue in lancaster; when wong entered garciacar, garcia immediately asked her about the $50 she owed him. wong responded that she first wanted to purchase cigarettes at a nearby store at the intersection of avenue h and 10th street. when garcia began driving on avenue h-8 toward the store, wong directed him to drive in the opposite direction and to turn right on date avenue. garcia drove past johnson and townsend, who were on foot. wong told garcia that johnson and townsend were her brother and his friend, respectively; she directed garcia to pull over to where they were walking; garcia refused. representing that johnson and townsend were also headed to the store to purchase cigarettes and that she could obtain money from them for the purchase, wong again attempted to persuade garcia to stop his car. still wary of johnson and townsend approaching his car, garcia stopped the car but told wong to walk to them, to get the money from them, and then to return to the car. however, when garcia stopped the car, wong yelled to the two men to come to the car; johnson walked to the driver side door and opened it. he placed a gun against garcia, forced garcia to move to the front passenger seat, and sat behind the wheel of the car. also armed with a gun, townsend entered the car through the driver side rear door and struck garcia over the head with the weapon; meanwhile, wong exited the car and ran away.3 as johnson drove garciacar with garcia in the front passenger seat and townsend in the back seat, johnson and townsend demanded that garcia give them his money and personal items; they threatened to kill him if he failed to comply. garcia gave 2 the as one cannot make $50 in change with only $100 and $20 bills. 3 the record is silent on the specific types of firearms that johnson and townsend carried. 5 them the $200 in cash that wong had asked him to bring, his wallet containing his bank card plus an additional $100 in cash, and his phone. after driving about a mile, johnson and townsend demanded that garcia get out of his car; they again threatened to kill him if he refused to obey. garcia exited the car near the intersection of avenue h-8 and the sierra highway; he ran toward avenue i. at an unknown time later in the day, townsend and johnson withdrew an additional $200 from garcia4 garcia later recovered his vehicle abandoned in a nearby park close to the intersection of avenue h-8 and the sierra highway. during the ensuing police investigation, garcia identified johnson as the person who had driven his car away; although garcia described some physical characteristics of the other perpetrator, garcia could not identify townsend as the second assailant. wong, however, identified johnson and townsend as the two perpetrators. multiple persons gave statements to the police or testimony at trial that both johnson and townsend are members of the bloods on point gang and that they both have tattoos depicting their gang affiliation. during the police investigation, wong told the police that she believed both men are bloods on point gang members and that they associate with other members of that gang. at trial, the investigating officer, dale parisi, testified that tattoos on his forearm, on his left bicep, and and the b.o.p. star tattoo on their respective affiliations with the bloods on point gang. officer parisi also testified that two field identification cards from street interviews with townsend confirmed that townsend self-identified as a gang member. at trial, the gang expert, officer daniel welle, opined that in light of self-identification as a gang member in field interviews and his tattoos depicting a b.o.p. star on his , and , 4 garcia had attached his personal identification number to his bank card. 6 johnson is a member of the bloods on point gang. relying on field identification cards mentioned by officer parisi, and admission of his gantownsend had suffered an arrest on an unrelated matter, officer welle opined that townsend is a bloods on point gang member. officer welle also confirmed that the charged crimes occurred within the territory of the bloods on point gang. ii. procedural history on march 27, 2014, the people filed a six-count information charging townsend with various crimes related to the december 5, 2013 incident. count 1 alleged kidnapping during the course of a carjacking, a serious felony in violation of section 209.5, subdivision (a); count 2 alleged kidnapping to commit robbery, a serious felony in violation of section 209, subdivision (b)(1); count 3 alleged carjacking, a serious and violent felony in violation of section 215, subdivision (a); count 4 alleged robbery, a serious and violent felony in violation of section 211; count 5 alleged criminal threats, a serious felony in violation of section 422, subdivision (a); and count 6 alleged assault with a semiautomatic firearm, a serious felony in violation of section 245, subdivision (b). the information also charged that, as to all counts, townsend committed the offenses in affiliation with a criminal street gang, that, as to all counts, townsend committed the offenses while personally using a firearm, and that townsend had three prior prison terms. on july 22, 2014, the jury convicted townsend on all counts and found true the gang allegations, the firearm allegations, and the prior prison term allegations. on august 28, 2014, in furtherance of justice pursuant to section 1385, the trial court dismissed count 3 (carjacking) as a lesser included offense of count 1 (kidnapping during the course of a carjacking). the trial court selected count 4 (robbery) as the base term and imposed a five-year upper term plus two 10-year terms for the gang enhancement and firearm enhancement, plus two one-year terms for two of three prior prison terms. however, the court did not delineate on the record which specific prior prison terms were the bases of the one-year terms. the court imposed a consecutive sentence on 7 count 1 (kidnapping during the course of a carjacking): a 25 year to life term plus a 15-year term and a 10-year term for the gang and firearm enhancements, respectively. the totaled 52 years to life. discussion i. sufficient evidence corroborated testimony. during the police investigation, the police interviewed wong several times about the relevant events that occurred on december 5, 2013, and her version of the events was generally similar to . wong recounted that she had borrowed $50 from garcia, that he had sent her a text message asking for repayment of the money, and that they had agreed to meet on december 5, 2013 near the intersection of avenue h-8 and date avenue in lancaster. she further described that when garcia arrived at the meeting place, she entered car, asked him to make a u-turn, and told him to drive near her friends who were walking to a neighborhood store. as garcia and wong drove down date avenue, wong rolled down her window and asked her friendsjohnson and townsendfor money to purchase cigarettes. johnson then approached the stopped vehicle, went to the driver side door, produced a firearm, and told garcia to move to the front passenger seat of the car. townsend also approached the vehicle and produced a firearm. wong then away. wong identified johnson as the driver: she referred to johnson by his street names -ed his physical appearance, and showed to officer parisi a photograph of johnson posted on facebook first name is jefferson. wong identified townsend as the second assailant: she described to police his physical appearance and other personal information about him; further, wong identified townsend in a six-pack photographic lineup. wong also reported to the police that johnson and townsend are members of the bloods on point gang and that she was afraid that if she testified against them they would retaliate against her with violence. she also told the police that bloods on point gang 8 members had already started fights with her boyfriend because she had been talking to the police about the december 5, 2013 incident. at trial, when the prosecution called wong as its first witness, wong claimed that she suffered from amnesia caused by a surgical procedure and that she had no memory of any events occurring before january 2, 2014, including the relevant events that occurred on december 5, 2013 as well as her statements to police about those events. following who recounted to the jury statements during her police interviews, wherein she described the relevant events of december 5, 2013. the trial court instructed the jury on accomplice liability: the court informed the jury that it had the responsibility to determine whether wong was an accomplice, and that if it found that wong was an accomplice, it would then have to determine whether sufficient evidence corroborated her statements. post trial, during a hearing on this accomplice testimony issue, the court specified that the recordings jailhouse telephone calls provide the sufficient corroboration connecting him to the crime here. on appeal, townsend argues that wong was an accomplice to his crimes and that no evidence corroborated her testimony; thus, the requirements imposed by section 1111 have not been met. section 1111 defines an accomplice as identical offense charged against the defendant on trial in the cause in which the .) townsend argues the prosecutor status as an accomplice during his closing argument, and thus, her status is . while townsend misleadingly quotes only portions of the s other portions in order to present statements out of context, we need not dwell on whether sufficient evidence supports a conclusion that wong was an accomplice. substantial corroborative evidence connects townsend to the crimes charged in this case. ain-court testimony or extrajudicial statements must be 9 defendant with the  1111; people v. rodriguez (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 11321133.) corroborating evidence can be entirely circumstantial and people v. santo (1954) 43 cal.2d 319, 327 (santo); people v. nelson (2011) 51 cal.4th 198, 218.) it need not corroborate every fact to which an accomplice testifies; it need not by itself establish every element of the crime. (santo, at p. 327; nelson, at p. 218.) it is sufficient that the evidence tends in some degree to implicate the defendant or tends to connect the defendant with the crime in such a way as to satisfy the jury that the accomplice is telling the truth. (santo, at p. 327; people v. gonzales and soliz (2011) 52 cal.4th 254, 304.) relevant in this case, evidence of a defendant attempt to conceal his involvement in a crime implies a consciousness of guilt that can constitute corroborating evidence. (people v. avila (2006) 38 cal.4th 491, 563; santo, at p. 327.) while in jail, townsend made multiple phone calls to his girlfriend and to his brother, instructing them to intimidate garcia into not testifying at trial; townsend relied on code words to conceal his plans from the police whom he knew were recording the calls. the police have access to a system that records all jailhouse telephone calls: officers can search for specific telephone calls via to place a call, or the telephone number that the inmate calls. officer parisi searched for jailhouse calls made by townsend based on his booking number and discovered that he had made several calls while in jail. based on the telephone number and corresponding address of the call recipients and officer of her, officer parisi determined that the recipients of calls were girlfriend, emerald grant, , brian wilson. at trial, the jury heard audio recordings of portions of telephone calls and received written transcripts of the corresponding portions of the conversations. for example, after the first day of trial, townsend directed his girlfriend to find 10 garcia in order to intimidate garcia from testifying against townsend. he first stated with urgency repeated townsend told his girlfriend that he had instructed his brother brian to do the same. townsend explained to his girlfriend that complying with his request to find and to intimidate garcia go away, referring to the ongoing trial. townsend also acknowledged to his girlfriend that he was speaking to her in code in order to conceal his plans from the police, who he knew were recording the conversation: you the smartest person for the job, you the best candidate to get that done and, but responded that she did not know any pdl, townsend expressly identified wong by her first acknowledged to his girlfriend that he was trying to conceal his plans from the police who were listening on the callwell i mean i tried to give you some type of clues like . . . .[a] scrappy is a member of the pdl gang, and that wong and garcia had met througfacebook pages. earlier that same evening, townsend also instructed his brother to find garcia in order to prevent garcia: [t]his is the most important thing in the world right now. you know what i mean? oh feel me, and [] look up that [] using 11 code words to refer to the ongoing trial and garciansend directed his brother to intimidate garcia not to testify against him at trial[w]ith that can holler at him, then you could, then the bike is gonna he explained his view that without garcia, him could not succeedthinking like this right? you need the victim there to say that he got robbed. because [] go any [] [] go onto deliberations without him these recorded conversations demonstrated townsend attempts to conceal his involvement in the charged crimes and revealed a consciousness of guilt that corroborated moreover, garcia proved factually and thus provided additional corroboration for her testimony. are both bloods on point gang members and that they had seen each other several hours before the crimes occurred, also corroborated . neglects to address why the substantial evidence detailed above was not sufficient ; instead, he argues that no evidence corroborated identification of him as the person who entered garciacar through the rear door. however, evidence need not corroborate testimony; the corroborating evidence need only tend to connect townsend with the crimes in such a way as to satisfy the jury that wong is telling the truth. (see santo, supra, 43 cal.2d at p. 327; people v. gonzales, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 304.) as discussed above, sufficient evidence corroborates ii. we remand the matter for the trial court to identify on the record the specific prior prison terms on which the trial court imposes one-year enhancements. the information alleged that townsend suffered three prior prison terms: a july 16, 2010 conviction for bringing contraband into a california youth authority facility; a december 6, 2011 conviction for possession of a controlled substance; and a 12 july 31, 2012 conviction for possession of a firearm by a felon. though the jury found three convictions, at sentencing, the trial court imposed enhancements for only everything, pursuant to penal code 667.5 subdivision (b), he is ordered to serve two consecutive one-the trial court failed to specify on the record on which of the three prior prison terms the trial court imposed the enhancements and on which of the three prior prison terms, if any, the trial court had stricken any enhancements. if the trial court did strike an enhancement, it failed to state its reasons for doing so. the penal code statute requires that, for non-violent felonies, a trial court must impose a one-year enhancement for each prior prison term, though the trial court does retain the authority to strike such enhancements in furtherance of justice. ( 667.5, subd. (b), 1385, subd. (a).) when a defendant has multiple prior prison terms but a trial court fails to indicate the disposition of each prior prison term, we must remand for the trial court to specify on the record whether it imposes or strikes the enhancement for each prior prison term. (people v. garcia (2008) 167 cal.app.4th 1550, 1553, 1561; people v. bradley (1998) 64 cal.app.4th 386, 390.) the people concede this point in their brief. therefore, we remand for the trial court to make the necessary on-the-record statements. as enhancement related to his july 16, 2010 conviction assumes that the trial court imposed one of the two sentencing enhancements for the prior prison term served pursuant to that conviction, we do not reach that issue because the accuracy of that assumption depends . iii. the trial court appropriately imposed punishments on both counts 1 and 4. at a hearing on this issue, the trial court explained its reasoning for imposing punishments on both count 1, kidnapping during the course of a carjacking, and count 4, robbery. it outlined the california supreme court law regarding how courts should apply section 654 and subsequently provided the following reasoning: to many of the counts here. but with regard to the carjacking and the kidnapping during the carjacking that complies with count 1[,] i think that that is a separate intent and 13 objective, than that of the robbery, which subsequently follows when the items are taken, other than the car from the victim in this case. and so that is why i do intend to sentence the defendant on count 1 and count 4. with respect to the other count 3 which i think gets completely dismissed, the other counts will be stayed pursuant to section 654. but i section 654 prohibits a trial court from imposing multiple punishments for the same act even though the same act violates multiple criminal statutes. ( 654, subd. (a).) [e]nsure that the te with his criminal liability.neal v. state (1960) 55 cal.2d 11, 20.) when section 654 precludes multiple punishments, objective and intent. (see people v. beamon (1973) 8 cal.3d 625, 638639.) when the defendant has multiple criminal objectives independent of each other, the course of conduct is divisible into separate acts such that the court may punish the defendant for each violation committed in pursuit of an independent criminal objective. (see id. at p. 639.) after stealing voiding detection and conviction of that crime could be a separate criminal objective from the preceding criminal objective of taking property from someone else. (people v. rodriguez (2015) 235 cal.app.4th 1000, 1006; people v. nichols (1994) 29 cal.app.4th 1651, 16571658.) for example, in rodriguez, a defendant had two separate criminal objectives: when he robbed a bank, he had the criminal objective of obtaining money; when he subsequently drove off with the police in pursuit, he had the criminal objective of avoiding detection and conviction for robbing the bank. (rodriguez, at p. 1006.) similarly, the defendant in nichols had two separate criminal objectives. (nichols, at pp. 16571658.) when he kidnapped a driver for two hours and stole loaded with music equipment, his criminal objective was hijacking the vehicle. when he subsequently threatened the driver not to yell for help, criminal objective became avoiding detection and conviction for 14 . in applying section 654, the trial court determines each case on its own factual circumstances. (people v. hutchins (2001) 90 cal.app.4th 1308, 1312.) as the trial court has broad latitude in making this factual determination, we do not reverse unless no substantial evidence supports (ibid.) townsend first intended to rob garcia of his personal items including his cash, his bank card, and his phone. after successfully taking garciapersonal items, townsend intended to avoid detection and conviction for the robbery by driving garciaaway from the crime scene and subsequently abandoning the vehicle after successfully achieving flight. t was therefore consistent with the purpose of was commensurate with his increased criminal liability. (see people v. rodriguez, supra, 235 cal.app.4th at p. 1006.) townsend emphasizes that the robbery and the kidnapping during the course of the ,but timing is not the definitive test for applying section 654. a defendant can have multiple criminal objectives simultaneously and be subject to punishment for each criminal objective. (people v. latimer (1993) 5 cal.4th 1203, 1212; people v. nichols, supra, 29 cal.app.4th at p. 1658.) further, while the robbery ended when townsend and johnson had from him, the kidnapping during the course of the carjacking continued while they drove a mile with garcia in the passenger seat and until they forced garcia out of his car. the robbery and the kidnapping during the course of the carjacking had overlapping timeframes, not identical ones. in addition, contrary to townsend that avoiding detection and conviction can never be a separate criminal objective from the preceding criminal objective of stealing property, as explained above, our precedent has rejected this view. having concluded that , we agree with the trial court that townsend was properly subject to punishment on both counts 1 and 4. 15 iv. substantial evidence supported the true findings on the gang sentence enhancement allegations. we requested the parties to submit supplemental briefing addressing the issue of true findings on the allegation that association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang me the applicable standard of review is well settled: in reviewing a challenge to the sufficiency of evidence to support an enhancement, the reviewing court must consider the evidence in the light most favorable to the judgment and presume the existence of every fact in support of the judgment the trier of fact could have reasonably deduced from the evidence. (people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 5960 (albillarcircumstances reasonably justify the trier of not warranted simply because the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with ibid.drawn different inferences, we are not permitted to reverse the judgment if the people v. perez (1992) 2 cal.4th 1117, 1126.) gang, we look at, for exampother in committing these crimes, but their common gang membership ensured that they benefit from committing albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at pp. 6162.) we the victim id. at p. 62.) in albillar, this reliance on the liid. at p. 61.) 16 when determining whether a defendant committed a crime reputation for viciousnealbillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 63.) thus, benefit to the gang may be established by expert opinion that come forward, assist law enforcement, testify in court, or even report crimes retaliated on by that gang. . . .people v. vazquez (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 347, 354.) as vazquez ibid.) similarly, in people v. hunt (2011) 196 cal.app.4th 811, the defendant and a fellow gang member drove to and robbed a restaurant; they admitted that they would use the proceeds of the robbery to pay for parking tickets. (id. at pp. 814815.) in affirming at robbery in the gang by committing robberies and assaults with deadly weapons. (id. at p. 821.) neighborhood about what they had done and it would get around the neighborhood and ibid.) here, tenhancement allegation. townsend and johnson were self-admitted members of the bloods on point gang; each had knowledge that the other was a fellow gang member; and each acted in ccode that the other would not cooperate with the police. as reflected in his recorded jailhouse telephone calls, townsend knew that wong associated with the pasadena denver lanes gang; as admitted to the police, wong similarly knew that johnson and townsend were members of the bloods on point gang. 17 there was also evidence that the bloods on point gang engaged in intimidation to prevent wong from testifying against townsend at trial. before the trial, wong reported to the police that bloods on point gang members had started fights with her boyfriend s. thereafter, during the trial, wong claimed amnesia and did not testify against townsend. such evidence supports the reasonable inference that the bloods on points gang sought to interfere with the prosecution against townsend because of his membership in the gang, and because townsend had committed the crime in affiliation with and for the benefit of the gang. , officer welle, opined that townsend committed the charged crimes for the benefit of and in association with a criminal street gang. the prosecution asked officer welle to consider a hypothetical scenario mirroring the evidence presented at trial and asked his opinion as to whether the person in that scenario committed the crimes for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a gang. in forming his opinion, officer welle specifically relied on the facts stated in the hypothetical that two members of the same gang committed the crimes in concert, that they received money from the robbery, and that they committed the crimes in a public location within the . officer welle further surmised that the robbers committed the crimes for the benefit of the gang because residents of the area who may have witnessed the crimes would associate the robbers with the gang who controlled that neighborhood, the residents would then know that the gang committed street robberies and carjackings in that area, and thus the residents would be fearful of that ganghowever, the record is devoid of evidence to support his conclusions. officer welle further opined that the funds from the robbery and that therefore the gang also received a financial benefit from the robbery. because the two gang members committed the crimes together and they both had active roles in 18 committing the crimes, officer welle also concluded that the two gang members committed the crimes in association with their gang.5 again, no evidence at trial supported these conclusions.6 s assertion, there is no requirement that a gang member call people v. galvez (2011) 195 cal.app.4th 1253, 1261.) such a requirement would provide an easy loophole for gang members to avoid the gang enhancement and effectively eviscerate the statutory requirement. this is particularly true when the defendant has visible tattoos, as johnson and townsend do. in galvez, after the defendant and three or four of his companions began attacking another group of men, an off-duty sheriff who witnessed the attack called 911 on his cellphone. (id. at p. 1257.) the group of attackers then began assaulting the off-duty sheriff and robbed him of his cellphone in order to stop him from reporting the crime. (id. at pp. 12571258.) defendant committed the offenses of robbery, attempting to dissuade the witness, and name, tcarpas gang members was obvious. appellant had the (id. at pp. 1256, 1261.) here, townsend and johnson have multiple gang tattoos in conspicuous places such as on the face and arms, and wong was well aware that townsend and johnson were members of the bloods on point gang. 5 h evidence alone is sufficient to support a conclusion that the gang members committed the crimes in association with their gang. 6 nsend and johnson committed these crimes enhancement would be well taken. however, as set forth herein, there is substantial, non-speculative evidence supporting the g 19 a gang member or that townsend and johnson did not commit the crime on rival gang territory, because gangs frequently commit crimes against innocent people on their own territory. (see, e.g., people v. acuna (2010) 182 cal.app.4th 866, 877.) membership, wong associated with a gang and knew that both townsend and johnson were members of a gang. a reasonable inference is that the increase to the reputation of the gang and the enhanced standing of townsend caused by the offense in this case would be spread to others in the community by wong, a member of the same community as the defendant. the pivotal point is not whether reasonable minds might find differently on the question of whether townsend acted in affiliation with a criminal street gang; the issue is albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at pp. 5960; people v. perez, supra, 2 cal.4th at p. 1126.) 20 disposition the matter is remanded to the superior court for resentencing in order for the superior prior prison term enhancements. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. johnson, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. lui, j. 