 filed 10/5/16 p. v. thomas ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. robert earl thomas iii, defendant and appellant. b258695 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba406843) appeal from a judgment of the los angeles superior court, kathleen kennedy, judge. affirmed. robert derham, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and stephanie a. miyoshi, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 introduction andre lowe was shot and killed during a fight outside a club in hollywood. video recordings made by people at the scene captured images of a man pointing a gun toward lowe at the time shots were fired, as well as the license plate of the car the same the video footage and other evidence, police identified robert earl thomas iii as the shooter. a jury convicted thomas of first degree murder and found true gang and firearm allegations. the trial court sentenced thomas to state prison for a term of 50 years to life. thomas appeals, arguing his counsel provided ineffective assistance by failing to object when a police officer, familiar with thoma, testified during cross-examination that she telling a detective investigating the lowe murder that she recognized the shooter as thomas, and by failing to seek a mistrial when the detective testified he contacted a parole agent after thomas became the focus of the investigation. because we conclude performance fell within the wide range of reasonable professional assistance, re reasonable strategic decisions, and that thomas cannot establish the strong potential for success of a mistrial motion, as is required, we affirm. factual and procedural background lowe and marrshawnn smith were leaving the empire club in hollywood shortly smith, the man asking the question stated that he was from carver,1 1 the carver park compton crips gang claims territory roughly framed by the 105 freeway to the north, wilmington avenue on the east, el segundo boulevard to the south and central avenue to the west. 3 and, according to smith, there was several people hit smith before he heard gunshots. his friend lowe was shot twice in the back of the head and died from his wounds. two tmz videographers stationed outside another club across the street filmed in addition, a parking valet (mohammed natshe), who was using his cell phone to videotape some of the fighting, heard gunshots and hid behind the nearest car (a porsche cayenne). natshe saw three men running towards the cayenne and believed they had been involved in the shooting. the person running toward the driver of the cayenne was holding a gun. natshe saw that individual get into the cayenne and drive the car over the person on the ground (lowe). natshe recorded the cayenne license plate and ran alongside the car to record the three occupants.2 that morning tmz posted a video of the shooting on its website, along with a on the still image, tmz had added a yellow arrow pointing to a man extending his arm at the time gunshots were heard and placed a red circle around the gun in hand. brand sweatshirt with a red, whitolphin i-shirt showing at the collar and bottom of the sweatshirtthe same clothing worn by the cayenne. after watching the tmz and natshe videos, los angeles police department (lapd) detectives identified the cayennes oden) and sent a surveillance team to look for the car. officers found the cayenne residence in south los angeles later that morning and impounded it. delores oden told a detective her grandson dion was the one who drove the car. however, said she had seen dion and the cayenne at the house the night before, but dion was in his 2 both smith and natshe spoke with police that night, and natshe provided the 4 a detective confirmed dion oden was a carver park gang member, but when he deos, he saw that the informed that juicy may have borrowed the cayenne, the detective then looked for carver park gang members associated with dion oden. he found that thomas was one such associate, and when the detective hairline, facial features and profile.3 the detective gathered additional video footage from other cameras in the area; using video footage from a nearby business (exhale), he , outside the coverage of the tmz cameras, as they moved through the crowd before driving away in the cayenne. omicide detective traci healy was investigating a different murder and had come into contact with thomas. d had the video footage on its website. detective healy watched the video and saw the still photo on her computer. she recognized the shooter to be thomas. an lapd detective investigating detective healy the same morning approximately one to two hours after detective healy had seen the video. detective healy informed the detective that she recognized thomas as the shooter. she had known thomas since 2009 and had seen thomas more than 20 times since that time. 3 detective believed he could hear a male voice say: the e door, 5 natshe was shown a six-pack p photograph in the sixth position. natshe chose the fourth and sixth photographs and signed the following looks like #4 or #6. more like #4 three days later, on january 16, 2013, thomas was arrested in las vegas. thomas was charged with first degree murder (pen. code,4  187, subd. (a)), with allegations he had personally and intentionally discharged a firearm which caused great bodily injury and death ( 12022.53, subd. (d)), and the murder was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, and in association with a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)). at trial, the people presented evidence of the facts summarized above.5 the jury viewed the tmz, natshe and exhale video footage as well as still images from these videos. testifying as the tmz video was played, one of the lead investigators (detective george bowens) pointed out where lowe could be seen in a fist fight just before the man in the dolphin sweatshirt (thomas) extended his right arm with a gun in his hand and , followed by the sound of gunshots (at 2:07 a.m. according to one of the videos bearing a timestamp). in addition, a cayenne, that print was located on the as a match with 6 wheel wells matched . 4 all statutory references are to this code. 5 an lasd gang expert opined the shooting outside carver park territory was committed in association with and for the benefit of the carver park compton crips. 6 cayen 6 empire club; as the tmz video played, he pointed out where a man wearing a blue and natshe video wore this type of clothing and hat. swabs of red stains on the back of the headrest facing the rear passenger matched the dna profiles of hale and another individual seen wearing a similar jacket and hat and flashing a carver park gang sign in a photograph. davis, with whom thomas was arrested in las vegas, resembled the seat passenger. -ullah) and a friend (victoria gregory), both of whom testified thomas wore a white hollister sweatsuit printed across the chest in blue to the club on the night of the shooting. thomas wore the same outfit in a photograph of thomas, najee-ullah and . during a conversation between najee-ullah and thomas recorded at the las vegas jail, najee-ullah told and that she and their friends had seen the tmz video. najee-ullah told thomas someone referred to the video as the and that people were .7 both najee-ullah and gregory admitted during cross-examination that the first time they told anyone else thomas was wearing different clothing from the shooter in the video was when the defense investigator contacted them 16 months later (in may 2014). najee-ullah testified she took photographs at the club that night and thomas may have been in some of them, but claimed she lost her phone seven months after the shooting. thomas testified in his own defense, acknowledging his carver park gang membership. he also acknowledged his prior convictions for possession of a stolen 7 gregory acknowledged she saw the tmz video on the morning of the shooting, and by the next day or so, she saw pictures of thomas posted to the website and knew thomas was being accused of the shooting. 7 vehicle in may 2009, and attempted first degree burglary in november 2009. he said he had not changed his clothes after his sonbirthday party before going to the empire club the night of the lowe shooting.8 house or in the cayenne on the day of the shooting and denied he had ever driven the car. he said he had gone to the club with mercedes benz and drove storey home in that car because storey was too drunk to drive. thomas claimed he could see himselfdriving seat and no one else in the car) in the exhale video. he denied hearing any gunshots that night, but claimed his cousin (vontaye davis) called him at 2:11 a.m. and told him someone had been shot at the club. thomas testified he did not know anyone was looking for him as the shooter until the police arrived at his aunt; he claimed he made no calls on his cell phone after the morning of the shooting because his battery died and he did not have a charger. -examination, the jury heard a recorded conversation between thomas and his father after thomas called from the las vegas jail, saying he sic . . . . . . . you supposed to be raising your son, man. when . . i know that, but i mean, they got your name all on the newsall ononthomas told his father that thomas needed to get in touch with his mother. over etting caught up with . . . [t]hem knucklehead ass niggas out there, boy. . . . i told you about thatthat damn shit already, bo. [y]ou being in rebuttal, detective bowens testified that, after receiving a photograph of andre storey taken the night of the shooting and reviewing the video evidence from that night, 8 he was wearing the same white hollister sweatshirt when he was arrested three days after the shooting (on january 16, 2013). 8 he had determined that the person driving car was wearing the same clothing storey wore that night, namely, else across the front) and a green jacket with a white fur collar. the man in this clothing could be seen in the video, standing on the street and then sitting the car, with one female passenger in the front seat and another in the back. the jury found thomas guilty of first degree murder ( 187, subd. (a)) and found true the firearm ( 12022.53, subd. (d)) and gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)) allegations. the trial court sentenced thomas to state prison for a term of 50 years to life (25 years to life for the murder count, plus 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement). thomas filed a timely appeal. discussion assistance in failing to object on the first occasion, and then failing to request a mistrial the second time a law enforc[his] criminal 9 res reversal. he is mistaken. a. controlling legal principle both the united states and california constitutions guarantee the criminal people v. vines (2011) 51 cal.4th 830, 875.) to establish a claim of ineffective assistance, a defendant must s representation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing profs deficient performance was 9 thomas acknowledges the failure to object forfeits such claims on appeal. (people v. carrasco y not argue on appeal people v. chatman (2006) 38 cal.4th 344, 368.) 9 prejudicial, i.e., there is a reasonable probability that, but for counsels failings, the result would have been more favorable to the defendant. [citation.] (people v. johnson (2015) 60 cal.4th 966, 980; accord, strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 694 [104 s.ct. 2052, 80 l.ed.2d 674].) a reviewing court must indulge a strong presumption that [defense] s conduct falls within the wide range of reasonable professional assistance. (strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 689.) s decisionmaking must be evaluated in the context of the available facts, and tactical errors are generally not deemed reversible. (id. at p. 690.) inherently tactical, and the failure to object will rarely establish ineffective assistance.people v. carrasco, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 985; accord, people v. castaneda (2011) 51 cal.4th 1292, 1335.) similarly, while a mistrial should be granted if the trial court is apprised of prejudice an admonition or instruction would not cure, w]hether a particular incident is incurably prejudicial is by its nature a speculative matter, and the trial court is vested with considerable discretion in ruling on mistrial motions. (people v. collins (2010) 49 cal.4th 175, 198; accord, people v. edwards (2013) 57 cal.4th 658, 703.) it would be a rare case in which the merits of a mistrial mos failure to make the motion would amount to ineffective assistance. (people v. jennings (1991) 53 cal.3d 334, 380.) nevertheless, a defendant could conceivably prove incompetence (1) if his s omission was shown to be grounded in ignorance or misapplication of the law rather than tactical considerations and (2) if the motion for mistrial bore strong potential for success. (people v. haskett (1982) 30 cal.3d 841, 854-855, fn. omitted; accord, people v. burnett (2003) 110 cal.app.4th 868, 883.) the defendant must satisfy both conditions. (haskett, supra, at pp. 854-855; burnett, supra, at p. 883.) on appeal to establish the inadequacy of trial counsel. (people v. vines, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 875.) a reviewing court will reverse a conviction on the ground of inadequate counsel only if the record on appeal affirmatively demonstrates trial counsel had no rational tactical purpose for his or her act or omission. 10 (id. at p. 876.) if the record on appeal fails to disclose why counsel acted or failed to act in the manner challenged, we must reject the claim and affirm the judgment, unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or unless there simply could be no satisfactory explanation. (ibid.) b. relevant proceedings the first instance of allegedly deficient performance occurred when defense counsel was cross-examining detective healy, after she testified she recognized thomas when she saw the tmz video and still image on the day of the shooting.10 defense counsel then asked detective healy . . . when you see somebody you recognize . . . or anyone else[;] . . . you wait on detective [herman] frettlohr [an lapd detective investigating detective healy out of context. you are taking it out of timeframe. what happened was, i saw the video; i checked to see if mr. thomas was still in custody; the detective called. at that point i at that point, defense counsel interrupted the witness and continued his cross-examination without objecting to her testimony.11 10 in a sidebar discussion before detective healy testified, the prosecutor told the trial court the witness that effect. . . . and i warned her that when defense asks her questions regarding that and she [does 11 thomas argues there could have been no tactical reason not to object to detective objecting at this point would only emphasize the reference to whethin custodyin a way that would not be helpful to the defense (see people v. harris (2008) 11 driving the cayenne the night of the shooting, the focus of the investigation shifted to thomas. detective defense counsel objected, and the trial court called counsel to confer at sidebar. leading way, but defense counsel objected, so she was forced to ask open-ended qu the trial court told the prosecutothe witness was a neophyte and that it was after admonishing the prosecutor, the trial court asked defenhat do you want me to do about 43 cal.4th 1269, 1290), whereas the ambiguity of the fleeting reference allowed for the ng trial counsel to allow the statement to pass without objection (see people v. padilla (1995) 11 cal.4th 891, 958 [the sensible one at that, taken so as not to draw the , overruled on another ground in people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 823). citing people v. asbury (1978) 173 cal.app.3d 362, 365, thomas observes that, in cases where counsel objects to evidence on one ground (unsuccessfully) but not another meritorious ground, the possibility the failure to object was a tactical decision is counsel objects on one occasion to a category of evidence, but fails to object on another conclude there was no need to object to a single ambiguous reference one day but conclude otherwise upon the repetition of similar testimony and in light of the circumstances five days later. (strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 690, a court deciding an actual ineffectiveness claim must judge the s challenged conduct on the facts of the particular case, viewed people v. jennings, supra, 53 cal.3d at p. 379.) 12 the court then s later, thomas testified in his own defense and admitted his two prior convictions for possession of a stolen vehicle and attempted residential burglary; he admitted he was sentenced to prison for the burglary. thomas also explained that the reason he did not want to talk to his father during the recorded conversation in the las vegas jail was that and ; ,to talk with his mother. then, iabout it, they are not playing fair. . . . a person has a constitutional right not to testify. they exercise that right for various reasons. one reason is, when you take the stand your credibility can be attacked by certain convictions that you have. not all convictions, but certain convictions. detectives know that you are not supposed to mention somebody being on parole because . . . it exposes defense counsel continued, stand in his own defense12 detective[,] is on parole. . . . he knows that. but he did it anyway. they are not playing fair . . . in this case. detective prejudices a person who is exercising his right. if he exercises his right not to testify, for whatever reason, it prejudices that person. you know he is on parole; you know he is in custody. they are not playing fair. and t 12 in fact, defense counsel began his opening statement speaking as thomas himself: as. i am 23 years old. and i would like to take this opportunity to tell you what the evidence in this case will show. the evidence in this case will show that i am not the person in this video. no matter how much the people, the prosecution would like you to believe that that is me, i am emphatically, without hesitation, telling you that 13 c. th ineffective assistance claim is meritless thomas argues defense counsel was ineffective in failing to seek a mistrial on the testifying thomas had been in custody and on parole. he contends an admonition could not have cured the harm caused by the misconduct, mistrial, and to a mistrial motion. there are several problems with this argument. first, to seeking a mistrial is flawed. when a mistrial is granted on the cardenas v. superior court s motion for a mistrial, where it is granted by the court, operates as a waiver of the claim of once in jeopardy. seeking a retrial.13 (people v. haskett, supra, [the defense counsel] concluded that his chances were positive, he may have refrained for fear that a second trial under less favorable circumstan moreover, t]he california supreme court has consistently found vague and fles past criminality to be curable by appropriate admonition to the jury. (people v. franklin (2016) 248 cal.app.4th 938, 955 [and cases cited therein], petn. for review pending, petn. filed aug. 2, 2016; people v. ledesma 13 a defendant may choose not to move for or consent to a mistrial for many reasons. he may be of the opinion that no error in fact occurred, or if it occurred, that it was not prejudicial. . . . indeed, even when a palpably prejudicial error has been committed a defendant may have valid personal reasons to prefer going ahead with the trial rather than beginning the entire process anew, such as a desire to minimize the embarrassment, expense, and anxiety mentioned above. these considerations are peculiarly within the knowledge of the defendant, not the judge, and the latter must avoid depriving the defendant of his constitutionally protected freedom of choice in the name of a paternalistic concern for his welfare. (stanley v. superior court (2012) 206 cal.app.4th 265, 291.) 14 we find no basis for concluding, on the present record, that the knowledge that [the] defendant previously had been convicted of murder and sentenced to death was incurably prejudicial.; see, e.g., people v. valdez (2004) 32 cal.4th 73, 123 [fleeting reference to jail was not so inherently prejudicial an admonition would not have cured it]; people v. bolden (2002) 29 cal.4th 515, 554 [answering a question aboucorrections parole office; denial of motion for mistrial affirmed].) in people v. jennings, supra, 53 cal.3d 334, for example, as a result of three volunteered, nonresponsive answers by witnesses, the jury learned the defendant had previously been arrested and been in prison. (id. at pp. 374-375.) following the admission of these statements, the trial court asked whether the defense counsel wanted the matter remedied by admonition, idrop it, (id. at from this statement,jennings court explained, we can infer that the trial court did not consider the three isolated incidents of blurted-out, nonresponsive answers incurably prejudicial. we agree with this implied assessment of the potential prejudice and conclude counsel was not remiss in failing to move for a miibid.) similarly, viewing the circumstances as they stood at the time of detective ,14 have reasonably concluded that, while objectionable, the two brief remarks, made five days apart, in the context of a lengthy trial, were insufficient to establish incurable prejudice. after unequivocally acknowledging the reference to a parole agent to supporting the inference that the trial court did not consider the incident incurably prejudicial. it follows 14 people v. jennings, supra, 53 cal.3d at p. 379; people v. ledesma (1987) 43 cal.3d 171, 216 [we 15 trial counsel was not remiss in failing to move for a mistrial. (people v. haskett, supra, 30 cal.3d at p. 855 [defense counsel may have assessed his chances of success as minimal and refrained from making a futile gesture]; see people v. navarrete a trial court can almost always cure the prejudice of an improperly volunteered statement by granting a motion to strike and charging the jury with an appropriate curative instruction fu trial strategy, he later established his criminal record and incarceration history through his own testimony (people v. stinson (1963) 214 cala defendant is free to balance the value of his own testimony against the possible disadvantage of jury knowledge of his criminal record.. in addition, thomas attempted to explain his failure to deny his involvement in the murder during the jail call with his father by saying that his father was disappointed thomas was thomas did not want to hear his father . (see people v. collins (2010) 49 cal.4th 175, 199 [as part of his trial strategy, the defendant admitted his recent incarceration and criminal history and chose to explain his conduct by acknowledging he was on parole and did not want to get caught with a gun].) citing people v. bowen (1971) 22 cal.app.3d 267, 291, among other cases, thomas concedes courts have held any prejudice from the erroneous mention of the is cured when the defendant testifies and admits his prior convictions, but [his] hand.15 the problem 15 people v. stinson, supra, 214 cal.app.2d 476 stinson, after a police officer testified he trial court struck the answer, instructed the jury to disregard it and reserved ruling on the motion. (id. at p. 479.) after the prosecution rested, the defense counsel renewed the mistrial, indicating the defendant would testify if the trial court denied the motion. (id. at pp. 479-480.) stating the matter would be considered upon a motion for new trial if necessary, the trial court denied the motion; the defendant went on to testify, admitting his prior convictions and parole status. (id. at p. 480.) under these circumstances, the stinson court held the defendant had not forfeited the argument on appeal that evidence 16 for thomas specifically thomas became the focus of the investigation thomas claims there is no way of knowing if this statement was true, or if counsel would have changed his mind if the testimony had not come in, and the de, not defense counsel. the point is that defense counsel expressly stated his decision was a tactical one (see strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 690 [tactical errors are generally not deemed reversible]), which defeats contrary speculation. (people v. vines, supra, 51 cal.4th at p. 876 [reviewing courts will reverse convictions on direct appeal raising ineffective assistance only if the record on appeal affirmatively discloses that counsel had no rational tactical purpose for [his or her] act or omission. s actions are usually based, quite properly, on informed strategic choices made by the defendant and on information supplied by the defendant. (strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 691.) as he correctly observes, a defendant has a constitutional right to testify on his own behalf (rock v. arkansas (1987) 483 u.s. 44, 51 [107 s.ct. 2704, 97 l.ed.2d 37]), and the ultimate decision whether to testify belongs to the defendant, not counsel (people v. bradford the defendant may exercise the right to testify over the objection of, and contrary to the advice of, [the] defense counsel.ibid.) whether thomas wished to testify in his own defense, as was his right, or defense counsel advised thomas to do so in light of the strength of the evidence against him (and the weakness of his defense to that point), the jury would have learned of his criminal history in either event, and there would have been id. at p. 481.) endant could not establish he was prejudiced as a result. (id. at p. 482; see also people v. collins, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. testimony, his argument he might have proceed 17 no reason to pursue a mistrial. (see people v. ledesma, supra, 39 cal.4th at p. 684, fn. 8 -guess the strategic decisions of [the] .) even without th that, as a matter of trial strategy, defense counsel purposefully chose not to take further action at the time detective frettlohr mentioned contacting a parole agent. defense counsel responded to question whether he wished to take further action by stating, left unsaid. defense counsel later highlighted in his closing argument both instances of the prosecution witnesses unfairly referring to criminal record as further evidence supporting the defense theme throughout the case that the prosecution witnesses and evidence could not be trusted. from his statements during the trial, it is apparent defense counsel was well aware of the applicable law and, in the context of compelling video and other identification evidence, addressed the improper statements in the manner he concluded best served the defense strategy.16 because thomas cannot show his on of the law rather than [based on] tactical considerations and cannot show that a mistrial motion bore strong potential for success, as is also required (people v. haskett, supra, 30 cal.3d at pp. 854-855; accord, people v. burnett, supra, 110 cal.app.4th at p. 883), his argument counsel was ineffective for failing to request a mistrial necessarily fails. (see people v. collins, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 198 chances of receiving a fair trial have been irreparably damaged]; people v. franklin, 16 his opening statement introduced the theme of doubting the evidence, telling the t was found inside, suggesting it had been planted. in his closing argument, he went on to argue the law enforcement witnesses had lied on the stand and told the jury not to put its faith in the video alone, inted out the prosecution did not have a single witness or receipt to prove thomas had a dolphin sweatshirt. 18 supra, 248 cal.app.4th at p. 955 [exceptional case that any prejudice from an improperly volunteered statement cannot be cured by appropriate admonition to the jury].) disposition the judgment is affirmed. garnett, j.* we concur: perluss, p. j. zelon, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 