filed 6/27/16 p. v. rangel ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jose rangel et al., defendants and appellants. b258940 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta127879) appeals from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, ricardo r. ocampo, judge. affirmed as modified. robert d bacon, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant jose rangel. brett harding duxbury, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant jesus hernandez. danalynn pritz, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant enrique hernandez. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and eric j. kohm, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________ 2 following a joint trial jose rangel and jesus hernandez were convicted of first degree murder by one jury, and enrique hernandez was convicted by a separate jury of second degree murder. both juries found true specially alleged firearm use and criminal street gang enhancements. on appeal rangel contends the trial court deprived him of his constitutional right to present a defense when it permitted only alibi witness to invoke his constitutional privilege against self-incrimination and refuse to testify; jesus1 asserts the trial court prejudicially erred in excluding under evidence code section 352 argues improper jury instructions and the cofailure to instruct on the lesser included offense of involuntary manslaughter constituted reversible error. enrique also insists the evidence is insufficient to support his murder conviction and true findings on the gang enhancement. we pronouncements at sentencing and, as modified, affirm. factual and procedural background 1. the information an information charged rangel, jesus and enrique with murder (pen. code,  187).2 it specially alleged each of them, or a principal, had personally used and intentionally discharged a firearm causing death ( 12022.53, subds. (b), (c), (d), (e)(1)). in addition, the information specially alleged the murder was committed to benefit a criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)).3 rangel, jesus and enrique pleaded not guilty and denied the special allegations. 1 because brothers jesus hernandez and enrique hernandez share the same surname, we refer to them by their first names to avoid confusion. 2 statutory references are to this code unless otherwise indicated. 3 for simplicity on occasion this opithe benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang members . . . people v. jones (2009) 47 cal.4th 566, 571, fn. 2.) 3 2. the shooting according to the evidence presented to both juries at trial, rangel, also known by his gang and jesus, also known by his moniker were members of unos sin verguenza (usv), a criminal street gang. on april 11, 2013 two members of the east side paramount (esp) gang, a rival of usv, beat up then 18-year-old jesus as he walked home from paramount high school with his girlfriend. jesus suffered a nosebleed in the attack. later that day jesus sent a text message to his friend, 18-year-old rangel, those cheese puffs right now. cheese puffs is a derogatory term for esp gang members. d . . . . rangel replied in his text the next afternoon rangel texted jesus at 1:20 p.m. to tell him he was one block away from paramount high school in esp territory. he stated, ienforcement was in the area, jesus replied in his text message, older brother and a usv gang member ,picked up jesus and rangel; and the three men drove to esp territory looking for esp gang members. they spotted jonathan sandoval crossing the street near downey avenue and monroe street. sandoval, kno was an esp gang member, though not one enrique stopped the car, and rangel jumped out with his arm outstretched pointing his gun at sandoval. he quickly fired four to five gunshots at sandoval, killing him. rangel immediately got back into the car, and the three men sped away. a short while, but stopped the chase after nearly colliding with another car. a short time after the shooting, jesus met his brother ricardo15-year-old friend, braiant mejia, understood meant they had killed someone. jesus gave mejia a gun wrapped in a shirt or fabric and asked him to hide it his house. mejia put the gun in a toolbox on the shelf in his garage. jesus borrowed 4 someone 3. the recorded custodial interviews with rangel and enrique a rangel did not testify. his custodial interview with police was played for his and only. (jesus had expressly agreed prior to trial to waive his constitutional and cross-examine him, that rangel had acted on his own.) in that interview rangel admitted he was a usv gang member and offered three different versions of events the day of the shooting: first, he told police he had spent the day at work and returned home in the afternoon to be with his girlfriend. then, when he learned jesus and enrique had spoken to police, he added new information. while at home with his girlfriend, jesus and enrique called and asked him to go with them to a marijuana dispensary. he agreed. when they picked him up, jesus showed him a gun. rangel touched the gun and then gave it back to jesus. after obtaining marijuana at the dispensary, the three men drove toward downey in esp territory. suddenly jesus pointed out a man he said had jumped him the previous day and shot sandoval and jumped back in the car. rangel was worried. he had a daughter. he did not want to be involved in this incident. rangel changed his story again after police suggested people had identified him as the shooter. rangel admitted he had shot and killed sandoval, but now claimed he had done so under duress, after an usv - homie, had demanded he kill an esp member to pay off a $15,000 drug debt he owed the gang. he explained that, when jesus and enrique had picked him up from his house, understood jesus was acting on behalf of the usv shot-caller, and the three of them were going to go search for esp gang members. when rangel saw sandoval, he did not want, 5 or intend, to kill him. he took the gun jesus had provided and shot sandoval without really looking directly at him, hoping that he would miss. rangel understood that he had to follow the shot-jesus. b. enrique did not testify. his recorded interview with police was played for his jury only. during that interview enrique denied he was a usv gang member but admitted he had been a member of the m2k tagging crew that associated with the usv gang. the day before the shooting jesus had called enrique and told him he had been jumped by three esp gang members. je concerned about his younger brother, enrique picked jesus up from school the day after the attack. he planned to find and talk to the individuals who had threatened jesus. he intended only to demonstrate a show of support for his brother and, perhaps, engage in a fistfight with ; he was not armed and did not intend to shoot anyone. while they were driving , jesus called rangel; and they went to pick him up. enrique did not know rangel. as the three were driving, rangel spotted sandoval and declared, u-turns and planned to stop the car and confront the men. suddenly, rangel said, shooting at sandoval. enrique was in shock. he explained he did not know rangel had a gun. later in the interview, however, he admitted he knew a couple of minutes before the shooting that rangel had a gun. at trial his counsel argued an emotionally exhausted enrique had merely agreed with his interrogators when he acknowledged knowing prior to the shooting rangel had had a gun. in fact, his counsel argued, enrique was telling the truth when he initially insisted in the interview he did not know rangel had been armed.4 4 during the interview enrique denied several times knowing rangel had a gun. later, after enrique admitted he knew a couple of minutes before the shooting that rangel had been armed, the investigating officer 6 4. gang expert hector gutierrez, a 24-year-veteran of the long beach police department with substantial experience in gang crimes, testified as an expert witness for the people. given a hypothetical resembling the facts of this case, gutierrez opined the shooting was conducted in retaliation for the earlier attack on jesus and committed to benefit the usv gang. he explained retaliation was necessary in gang culture to protect and enhance the detective gary sloan of the long beach police department investigated murder. he testified he had not been able to find the shot-caller rangel a person rangel described as a high-ranking member of usv. in addition, none of gang contacts had heard of him. sloan admitted that the expectation of the gang is that its members follow shot-he also acknowledged that rangel had received a text on his cell phone five days before the know what you worked out with my cuz, but i want my ally someone you would want to fuck with. you just get me my shit to me, but you stated that those texts were from an individual called soo-opined, based on his 24-low level gangs and narcotics, that the text messages to rangel from soo-woo involved - enrique the officer to put words in your mouth. . . . we want to know what he said. that almost sounds like . . . we want to know the 7 5. jesus testified in his own defense, and his testimony was admitted before both juries. jesus claimed he was a member of the m2k tagging crew and an associate, not a member, of usv. according to jesus, the day after he was assaulted, several esp members drove by him after school brandishing what appeared to be a weapon. jesus was frightened and called his older brother, enrique, to pick him up from school. they drove together for a while attempting to find the men who had assaulted him the previous day, but were unsuccessful and soon abandoned that effort. on the way home jesus saw rangel on the street near ; and he and enrique agreed to give him a ride to his with jesus and enrique, rangel made a phone call and then told enrique to drive to downey avenue. when rangel saw sandoval, enrique pulled over, and rangel got out of the car. suddenly jesus heard several gunshots. seconds later rangel hopped back in the car just as enrique swerved to avoid running over sandoval, who was lying bleeding in the street. jesus did not know rangel had been armed with a gun. he denied any plans with rangel to find esp members and retaliate for the attack on him the previous day. 6. the p theory and the defen theories the prosecutiontheory was that rangel, jesus and enrique planned the murder and were guilty of first degree premeditated murder either as direct perpetrators or as aiders and abettors. in addition to instructions on murder (calcrim no. 520) and first degree premeditated murder (calcrim no. 521), both juries were instructed on direct aiding and abetting principles (calcrim nos. 400, 401). the prosecutor also argued enrique had intended to commit an aggravated assault or a simple assault or a battery and murder was a natural and probable consequence of the target offense he intended to commit. his jury was instructed with a modified version of caljic no. 3.02 and specifically told that, if they found enrique guilty under that theory, the crime was second degree murder. 8 closing argument, was that he had not been present at the shooting. although he had confessed to the crime, his statement to police was the result of pressure he had felt from both jesus and his interrogators to take the blame for something he did not do. enriquedefense theory was that rangel had acted on his own in shooting sandoval. neither of them knew rangel had had a guncounsel argued enrique could not have reasonably reckless and murderous actions and thus was not guilty under a theory that murder was the natural and probable consequence of the assault or battery offense he had intended to commit. 7. the verdicts and sentences the jury found rangel and jesus guilty of first degree premeditated murder and found true the specially alleged firearm-use and gang enhancements. the court denied them to an aggregate state prison term of 50 years murder and found true the specially alleged firearm-use and gang enhancements. he was sentenced to an aggregate state prison term of 40 years to life. discussion 1. the trial court properly permitted invoke his fifth amendment privilege against self-incrimination during trial rangel attempted to call art renteria as an alibi witness. according counsel, renteria told a defense investigator several months earlier that he had been with rangel at another location at the time of the shooting. after giving that interview, renteria was arrested and charged with an unrelated homicide. (renteria had also been charged dismissed following a preliminary hearing.) renteria, represented by his counsel, appeared at . asked under oath about his prior inter the time of the shooting, renteria invoked his fifth amendment privilege against self-incrimination on the advice of counsel. the court provided all counsel with an 9 opportunity to question renteria further, and they declined. the court then held an in camera hearing with renteria and his counsel to determine whether renteria had a legitimate claim to self-incrimination and determined he did. rangel did not object to the in camera proceeding. rangel contends, as he did in his motion for new trial, the court erred in permitting renteria to invoke his fifth amendment privilege against self-incrimination without at least balancing privilege against his own constitutional right to present a defense. (see crane v. kentucky (1986) 476 u.s. 683, 690-691 [106 s.ct. 2142, 90 l.ed.2d 636] fourteenth amendment [citation] or in the compulsory process or confrontation clauses he argues this failure constituted prejudicial error because, had such a balancing test been conducted, the balance would have tipped in favor of rangel and renteria would have been compelled to testify. t is a bedrock principle of american (and california) law, embedded in various state and federal constitutional and statutory provisions, that witnesses may not be people v. seijas (2005) 36 cal.4th 291, 304; accord, hoffman v. united states (1951) 341 u.s. 479, 486 [71 s.ct. 814, 95 l.ed. nable cause to apprehend answering merely because he declares that in doing so he would incriminate himselfhis say-so does not of itself establish the hazard of incrquestion, in the setting in which it is asked, that a responsive answer to the question or an explanation of why it cannot be answered might be dangerous because injurious perfectly clear, from a careful consideration of all the circumstances in the 10 case, that the witness is mistaken, and that the answer[s] cannot possibly have such seijas, at p. 305; accord, people v. lucas (1995) 12 cal.4th 415, 454; people v. ford (1988) 45 cal.3d 431, 441-442; malloy v. hogan (1964) 378 u.s. 1, 12 [84 s.ct. 1489, 12 l.ed.2d 653].) no authority supports against self-incrimination t to present a defense. to the contrary, the only permissible inquiry for the court when a witness asserts his or her fifth amendment privilege is whether the compelled testimony might tend to incriminate the witness. if so, the privilege is properly invoked; and no basis exists for the court or a party to invade it. amendment rights in this case was improper. in any event, having conducted a rtion of the privilege was justified because criminal charges were pending against him involving criminal street gang allegations, the court did not err in permitting renteria to assert the privilege. 2. jesus was not deprived of his constitutional right to present a defense prior to trial jesus and enrique moved to sever their jesus withdrew his motion full custodial statement to be introduced at his trial because he believed it would support his defense that rangel had acted alone to satisfy a shot-not connected with jesus. the prosecutor and the court expressed concern that introducing statement at when rangel had asserted his right not to testify would violate mendment right to confront and cross-examine witnesses as articulated in crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36, 68 [124 s.ct. 1354, 158 l.ed.2d 177] (crawford), as well as the aranda/bruton rule.5 in response, jesus expressly agreed to 5 the aranda/bruton rule refers to people v. aranda (1965) 63 cal.2d 518 and bruton v. united states (1968) 391 u.s. 123 [88 s.ct. 1620, 20 l.ed.2d 476]. both crawford, recognize that a defendant is deprived of his or her sixth amendment right to confront witnesses when a facially incriminating statement of a nontestifying codefendant is introduced at their joint trial, even if the jury is instructed to consider the statement only against the declarant. in 11 waive any sixth amendment objection under crawford or the aranda/bruton rule. during trial outside the presence of the jury, the prosecutor submitted a transcript and advised the court she had redacted the portion in which rangel acknowledged he had witnessed, and to some extent participated in, other murders orchestrated or committed by the shot-caller . the prosecutor explained she had anticipated that rangel would object under evidence code section 352 that evidence of his participation in other crimes would be severely prejudicial. she also explained she had discussed her action, after-the-fact, counsel, and he had agreed to the redaction. jesus objected, arguing his agreement to a joint trial was based on the admission of statement. ruling the redacted was properly excluded as to rangel under evidence code section 352, twanted to retract his waiver of his sixth amendment confrontation declined, stating he wanted statement admitted in his trial even if partly redacted. jesus contends exclusion of statement the rules mid-deprived him of a fair trial. the redacted material, he argues, enhanced explanation that he had felt threatened by a shot-caller and had acted independently from jesus and enrique when he shot sandoval.6 we need not statement; for, even if the redacted material would have reinforced the credibility of claim that he had felt threatened by a shot-caller, rangel also stated that jesus had provided the gun and was acting together with the shot-caller to ensure that rangel carried out the shot--caller-made- this situation, the court must either grant separate trials, exclude the statement or excise all references to the nondeclarant defendant. (aranda, at pp. 530-531; people v. mitcham (1992) 1 cal.4th 1027, 1045.) 6 ent violated his sixth amendment rights. as discussed, he reaffirmed his waiver of his right to confront and cross-examine rangel before the redacted statement was admitted. 12 me-do-it version of the murder, unaffected by the redacted portion of the statement, was whatever the r unilateral , on this record any error in excluding the limited portion of rangewas harmless as to jesus under any standard of review. (see people v. watson (1956) 46 probable that a result more favorable to the appealing party would have been reached in chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 [87 s.ct. 824, 17 l.ed.2d 705] [conviction must be reversed for federal constitutional error unless error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt].) 3. the court had involuntary manslaughter in a criminal trial the court must instruct the jury on the general principles of law of the case. (people v. burney (2009) 47 cal.4th 203, 246.) this duty encompasses the obligation to instruct sua sponte not only on the crime with which the defendant is charged, but also on any lesser included offense that is supported by substantial evidence. (people v. gutierrez (2009) 45 cal.4th 789, 826; people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 154; see people v. cruz (2008) 44 cal.4th 636, 664 [court has sua sponte duty to instruct on lesser included offense when there is substantial evidence that, if believed, would permit a reasonable juror to find the defendant committed the lesser, but not the greater, offense]; burney, at p. evidence supporting the instruction must be substantialthat is, it must be evidence from which a jury . . . could conclude that the facts underlying the particular instruction enrique was charged with murder, which the prosecutor sought to prove under two alternative theories of accomplice liability: either enrique acted as a co-principal and aided a planned murder or he intended to aid an assault (simple or aggravated) or battery and murder was the reasonably foreseeable result of that target crime. (see people v. 13 prettyman (1996) 14 cal.4th 248, 254 [under the natural and probable consequences is liable not only for that crime (the target crime), but also for any other offense (nontarget crime) committed people v. chiu (2014) 59 cal.4th 155, 164-166.) under this natural and probable consequence intent to commit the nontarget homicide is immaterial. liability is established if a (murder) was a reasonably foreseeable consequence of the act he or she aided and abetted. (chiu, at pp. 164-165; see people v. medina (2009) 46 cal.4th 913, 922 involuntary manslaughter is a lesser included offense of murder. (people v. gutierrez, supra, 28 cal.4th at p. 1145.) it is defined by statute as the killing of a human or in the commission of a lawful act which might produce death, [accomplished] in an unlawful manner, (b).) an unintentional homicide committed in the course of a noninherently dangerous felony is also involuntary manslaughter (people v. burroughs (1984) 35 cal.3d 824, 835), as is a homicide committed without malice in the course of an inherently dangerous assaultive felony. (compare people v. hansen (1994) 9 cal.4th 300, 312 [killing during inherently dangerous assaultive felony committed without malice and not amounting to felony murder is some form of manslaughter], overruled on another ground in people v. chun (2009) 45 cal.4th 1172, 1199 with people v. bryant (2013) 56 cal.4th 959, 970 [homicide committed without malice during inherently dangerous assaultive felony cannot be voluntary manslaughter because that crime requires malice; that is, either an intent to kill or conscience disregard for human life]; see people v. brothers (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 24, 34 [if homicide committed during inherently dangerous assaultive felony without malice is manslaughter, and it is not voluntary manslaughter, then the 14 bryant and hansen is that the offense is involuntary manslaughter].)7 as enrique suggests, a defendant charged with murder under the natural and probable consequences theory would be entitled to an instruction on involuntary manslaughter as a lesser included offense if there was substantial evidence from which a reasonable juror could find the defendant intended to aid and abet only a misdemeanor (simple assault or battery) or an assaultive felony and could not conclude that murder was the natural and probable consequence of the target offensewas an unintended and unforeseeable result of the crime the defendant actually assisted. under those circumstances the defendant would have assisted in the commission of a homicide without express or implied malice and would be guilty as a co-principal of involuntary manslaughter as that crime is defined in section 192, subdivision (b), and in people v. burroughs, supra, 35 cal.3d 824 and people v. bryant, supra, 56 cal.4th 959. on involuntary manslaughter in this case.8 even if enhighly unlikely version of eventsthat he intended at most to aid and abet a simple assault or batterythe evidence was undisputed that enrique, jesus and rangel were hunting for esp gang members; enrique knew rangel had a gun; and he if the situation got out of hand. on this record there simply was no material issue whether murder was the natural and probable consequence of the target offense that enrique intended to aid and abet. (see people v. cook (2006) 39 cal.4th 566, 597 7 a homicide committed during an inherently dangerous felony not amounting to assault and therefore not subject to the ireland merger doctrine (see people v. ireland (1969) 70 cal.2d 522) is either first or second degree felony murder, depending on whether the felony is one of those enumerated in section 189. (people v. chun, supra, 45 cal.2d at p. 1182.) 8 we review independently whether instructions on the lesser included offense of involuntary manslaughter were required in the present case. (people v. souza (2012) 54 cal.4th 90, 113.) 15 [defendant not entitled to a sua sponte instruction on involuntary manslaughter in a prosecution for murder because the evidence did not raise a material issue whether the killing was committed with malice]; people v. woods (1992) 8 cal.app.4th 1570, 1593 evidence is such that the aider and abettor, if guilty at all, is guilty of something beyond that lesser offense, i.e., if the evidence establishes that a greater offense was a reasonably foreseeable consequence of the criminal act originally contemplated, and no evidence people v. brothers, supra, 236 cal.app.4th at p. 35.) 4. the error in the instruction on natural and probable consequences does not compel reversal because there is no reasonable likelihood the jury misunderstood or misapplied the instruction the trial court instructed the jury with caljic no. 3.02 on the natural and probable consequence doctrine. neither the parties nor the court noticed, however, that the instruction given, which had been modified to include the target crimes of battery, assault and assault with a deadly weapon, had inadvertently transposed those target crimes with the word murder, so that the instruction, given orally and in writing, improperly stated you must be satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt that . . . [] . . . [] . . . [t]he crimes of [b]attery, or [a]ssault or [a]ssault with a [d]eadly [w]eapon were a natural and probable consequence of the commission of the crime of [m] rather than correctly stating that it must find murder was the natural and probable consequence of the target crimes of battery, assault or assault with a deadly weapon. significantly, however, the very next sentence clarified that to find enrique guilty under this theory, it must find he abetted the commission of an identified and defined target crime [defined earlier in the instruction to include battery, assault and assault with a deadly weapon], and that the crime of [m]urder was a natural and probable consequence of the commission of that 9 9 who aids and abets another in the commission of a crime or crimes is not only guilty of that crime[/]those crimes, but is 16 enrique highlights the transposition error and claims it was prejudicial because it permitted the jury to find enrique guilty of murder under a theory that he aided one target crime and murder was the natural and probable consequence of a different target crime. the cited error permitted no such thing. read literally and in isolation, it permitted the jury to find enrique guilty of assault, battery or aggravated assault if it found one of those crimes a natural and probable consequence of murder. were that the end of the instruction, it not only would make no sense, but also would be wholly inconsistent with what the prosecutor and defense attorney had argued to the jury. in fact, any possible ambiguity was clarified in the next sentence in which the jury was told it could only find enrique guilty of murder under this theory if it found murder was the foreseeable result, that is, the natural and probable consequence, of the target crime enrique intended to aid and abet. this sentence both corrects the transposition error and fully negates contention the instruction permitted the jury to find him guilty of murder without also guilty of any other crime committed by a principal which is a natural and probable consequence of the crimes originally aided and abetted. [] in order to find the defendant guilty of the crime of murder under this theory, as charged in count 1, you must be satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt that: [] 1. the crime or crimes of battery, or assault, or assault with a deadly weapon was committed; [] 2. that the defendant aided and abetted those crimes; [] 3. that a co-principal in that crime committed the crime of murder; and [] 4. the crimes of battery or assault, or assault with a deadly weapon were a natural and probable consequence of the commission of the crime of mapply an objective test, based not on what the defendant actually intended, but on what a person of reasonable and ordinary prudence would have expected [was] likely to occur. the issue is to be decided in light of all the circumstances surrounding the incident. a reasonably expected to occuto happen. [] you are not required to unanimously agree as to which originally contemplated crime the defendant aided and abetted, so long as you are satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt and unanimously agree that the defendant aided and abetted the commission of an identified and defined target crime and that the crime of murder was a natural and probable consequence of the commission of that target crime. [] if you find the defendant guilty of murder under this theory, it is murder in the 2nd degree as a 17 determining whether murder was a natural and probable consequence of the specific crime he had intended to aid and abet. in sum, considered in context and with the instruction as a whole, there is no reasonable likelihood the jury misunderstood and misapplied the instruction. (see people v. hughes (2002) 27 cal.4th 287, 341 [an instruction can only be found to be misleading if, in the context of the entire charge, there is a reasonable likelihood the jury misconstrued or misapplied its words]; people v. campos (2007) 156 cal.app.4th 1228, 1237 [same]; see people v. carey (2007) 41 cal.4th 109, 130 presumed to be intelligent, capable of understanding 5. and the gang enhancement enrique contends his second degree murder conviction is not supported by substantial evidence.10 however, as discussed, there was ample evidence that he aided and abetted an aggravated assault and murder was the natural and probable consequence of that target crime: by his own admission, enrique intended to find an esp gang member and, if talking did not settle the matter, to attack him; he also knew rangel had a gun, creating the deadly situation that ultimately occurred. (people v. medina, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 925.) indeed, gang fights between rival criminal street gangs that escalate into brawls resulting in homicide are paradigmatic circumstances in which the 10 enhancement, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] we presume every fact in support of the judgment the trier of fact could have reasonably deduced from the evidence. [citation.] if the circumstances reasos findings, reversal of the judgment is not warranted simply because the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding. [citation.] reweighs evidence nor reevaluates a witness (people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 59-60; accord, people v. livingston (2012) 53 cal.4th 1145, 1170.) relevant facts must, however, meet the statutory requirements for a gang enhancement in (people v. garcia (2014) 224 cal.app.4th 519, 523.) 18 court has upheld natural and probable consequences liability. (see ibid.; people v. smith (2014) 60 cal.4th 603, 619-finding murders of rival gang members were natural and probable consequences of the target offenses of were a very foreseeable consequence of the jump out that the defendant had aided and ; see also people v. prettyman, supra, 14 cal.4th at pp. 262-263 [collecting cases].) as in those cases, there was substantial evidence in the instant matter to support degree murder finding.11 enriqueat the threshold, enrique argument there was insufficient evidence he was a gang member misses the mark. the applicability orather, it applies when a defendant has personally committed a gang-related felony with people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 67-68.) in any event, there was substantial evidence, offered without objection, that enrique was a usv gang member. moreover, apart from evidence of his usv membership, there was substantial evidence that enrique had participated in this crime in concert with usv gang membersrangel and jesuswith the intent to benefit that gang. detective gutierrez opined, based on hypothetical facts identical to the instant matter, the shooting was conducted in retaliation for the earlier attack on jesus and committed to benefit the usv gang. he explained retaliation was 11 enrique does not contend the court erred in instructing the jury on direct aiding and abetting principles. rather, he argues there is insufficient evidence to support the murder verdict is supported by substantial evidence that murder was the natural and probable consequence of the target crime enrique intended to commit, we need not reach the alternative argument that there was insufficient evidence of direct aiding and abetting people v. silva (2001) 25 cal.4th 345, 37count is submitted to a jury on alternative theories, and the evidence is insufficient as to one theory, we assume the jury rested its verdict on the theory adequately supported by people v. guiton (1993) 4 cal.4th 1116, 1127-1130.) 19 vital assaults. enrique argues on appeal, as he did to the jury, that his intent was to talk to the men who had attacked his brother and, at most, to get into a fist-fight. he insists he and his brother were members of the m2k tagging crew, not usv gang members; and his actions were personally motivated to protect his brother and were not intended to benefit the usv gang. the jury, however, was free to reject that explanation; and substantial evidence supports its finding that enrique engaged in conduct with usv gang members to avenge and bolster the reputation of the usv criminal street gang. 6. the minute orders and abstracts of judgment must be modified to accurately reflect the sentences imposed at sentencing hearing the court orally imposed a joint and several restitution award of $9,500 ($5,000 to the victim compensation board and $4,500 neither the minute orders nor the abstracts of judgment, however, reflect the joint and several nature of th restitution orders. accordingly, the judgments are modified to accurately reflect sentencing orders. (people v. farell (2002) 28 cal.4th 381, 384, fn. people v. mitchell (2001) 26 cal.4th 181, 185 [appellate court may order abstract of judgment corrected in order to accurately reflect the oral judgment of sentencing court].) 20 disposition the judgments are modified to accurately reflect the joint and several nature of the s. as modified the judgments are affirmed. the superior court is directed to prepare corrected abstracts of judgment and forward them to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. perluss, p. j. we concur: segal, j. blumenfeld, j. * * judge of the los angeles county superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 