 filed 1/22/16 p. v. aldana ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jesus antonio aldana, defendant and appellant. case no. b258749 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa072310) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, dalila c. lyons, judge. affirmed. california appellate project, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and nima razfar, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 defendant and appellant jesus antonio aldana was convicted of attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder (two counts), assault with a deadly weapon (three counts), burglary, and corporal injury to a cohabitant. he challenges the sufficiency of the evidence to support his conviction of one count of attempted premeditated murder. there was ample evidence of manner of attempted killing to prove premeditation and deliberation, and thus we affirm. background viewed in accordance with the usual rule of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), we find the evidence established the following: 1. trial evidence. defendant aldana and ana d. were in a relationship that lasted for three and a half years before it ended abruptly in august of 2011 when aldana attacked ana. at that time, ana and aldana shared a two-bedroom apartment with christian a., his girlfriend cynthia s., and their one-year-old son gabriel. when ana came home to the apartment on august 18, 2011, aldana grabbed her arm and pushed her into their bedroom, where he began to punch her in the head. christian heard the commotion and started knocking on their bedroom door while cynthia called the police. when aldana opened the door, christian told him he was no longer welcome in the apartment. aldana realized that the police were on their way and he fled. aldana did not return or contact anyone in the apartment until the night of the incident at issue. on december 28, 2011, at about 11:00 p.m., ana was sitting on the couch alone in the living room watching television when aldana walked in through the unlocked front door. christian, cynthia, and gabriel had already retired to their room for the night. ana testified that when aldana saw her, he down, and began stabbing her with a knife taped to his right hand. aldana told her, no one is going to help. at that point ana started to scream for christian. hearing his name, christian came out of his bedroom and walked into the living room where he saw aldana stabbing ana. christian grabbed aldana by the waist, 3 picked him up, and pushed him to the side. ana hit aldana on the head with a small fan and then ran to her bedroom. aldana then grabbed christian and threw him onto the couch, yelling at ana that she was going to die and telling christianhis happens to the dogs who fail me. aldana stabbed christian repeatedly. cynthia entered the living room in time to see christian pull aldana off ana and then attack christian. aldana held christian down with his left hand while he stabbed him repeatedly with his right hand. cynthia testified that aldana told christian in ana hit aldana over the head with a fan, but it did not stop the attack. cynthia then grabbed a stereo speaker and smashed it on top of after he was hit, alda aldana stood up and told christian, and turned to gabriel, who had walked out bedroom. when aldana took a few steps toward gabriel, christian grabbed aldana by his sweater and tried to pull aldana back towards him. as aldana removed the sweater, christian saw that aldana had a knife taped to his right hand. christian unsuccessfully attempted to grab the knife from aldana as they continued to fight. christian eventually succeeded in pushing aldana out of the apartment. ana was hospitalized from december 28th until january 5th. she had been stabbed four times in the back, puncturing her lungs, and had a seven to eight inch long cut on her arm. she required surgery on her lungs, hand, and arm, and was out of work for three months. christian had been stabbed more than ten times. he suffered stab wounds to his head, face, chest, and arms which required multiple staples and stitches, with about twenty stitches and staples in his arm alone. 2. verdict and judgment. aldana was tried and convicted of charges stemming from the incidents in both august and december 2011.1 with respect to ana, the jury found aldana guilty of attempted premeditated murder, corporal injury to a cohabitant, burglary, and assault with a deadly weapon. (pen. code,  664, 187, subd. (a), 273.5, subd. (a), 459, 245, 1 this appeals arises solely out of the events that occurred on december 28, 2011. 4 subd. (a)(1)).2 with respect to christian, the jury found aldana guilty of assault with a deadly weapon and attempted premeditated murder. ( 245, subd. (a)(1), 664, 187 subd. (a).) aldana was also convicted of assault with a deadly weapon against gabriel. ( 245, subd. (a)(1).) the jury also found to be true the alleged special enhancements for personal infliction of great bodily injury and personal use of a deadly weapon. ( 12022.7, subds. (a), (e), 12022, subd. (b)(1).) aldana was sentenced to a total term of life imprisonment plus fifteen years in state prison. contention aldana contends there was insufficient evidence to support his conviction for the attempted premeditated murder of christian. discussion aldana does not dispute that there was sufficient evidence to support his conviction of having attempted to murder christian. however, he contends there was insufficient evidence that this attempted murder was deliberate and premeditated. there is no merit to this claim. 1. applicable law. premeditated and deliberate murder involves consideration of the evidence presented and all logical inferences from that evidence in light of the legal definition of premeditation and deliberation . . . . settled principles of appellate review require [the court] to review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence which is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find that the defendant premeditated and deliberated beyond a reasonable doubt. [citations.] the standard of review is the same in cases such as this where the people rely primarily on circumstantial evidence. [citation.] 2 all subsequent undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 5 that circumstantial evidence is susceptible of two interpretations, one of which suggests guilt and the other innocence, it is the jury, not the appellate court which must be s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt. if the circumstances reasonably justify s findings, the opinion of the reviewing court that the circumstances might also be reasonably reconciled with a contrary finding does not (people v. perez (1992) 2 cal.4th 1117, 1124 (perez).) in people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15 (anderson), the california supreme court discussed the three categories of evidence that are sufficient to sustain a finding of premeditated and deliberate murder3: fendant did prior to the actual killing which show that the defendant was engaged in activity directed prior relationship and/or conduct with inference of motive, together with facts of type (1) or (3), would in turn support an e-ily citation]; (3) facts about the nature of the killing from which the jury could infer that the manner of killing was so particular and exacting that the defendant must type (1) or id. at pp. 26-27.) the court concluded that a verdict for deliberate or least extremely strong evidence of (1) [planning activity] or evidence of (2) [motive] in conjunction (id. at p. 27.) 3 murder for purposes of determining whether there is sufficient evidence of premeditation people v. herrera (1999) 70 cal.app.4th 1456, 1462, fn. 8, disapproved on other grounds by people v. mesa (2012) 54 cal.4th 191, 198-199.) 6 anderson did not purport to establish an exhaustive list that would exclude all other types and combinations of evidence that could support a finding of premeditation and people v. solomon (2010) 49 cal.4th 792, 812 (solomon) (people v. stitely (2005) 35 cal.4th 514, 543 (stitely), quoting people v. proctor (1992) 4 cal.4th 499, 529.) when evidence of all three categories is not present, appellate courts look for very strong evidence of planning or some evidence of motive in conjunction with planning or a deliberate manner of killing. (people v. raley (1992) 2 cal.4th 870, 887.) based on the foregoing framework, we discuss evidence of planning activity, motive, and manner of the attempted killing, and conclude that substantial evidence supports the conviction. 2. planning. though the evidence of prior planning of attempted murder is not as obvious with respect to christian as it is to ana, the evidence that does exist is strong. after christian pulled aldana off ana, aldana had the opportunity to escape the apartment through the front door, which he had left wide open. instead, he stayed and started a new attack that was essentially identical in fashion to his attempt on ana. a reasonable jury could infer, based on these evidentiary facts, that after christian intervened, aldana made a plan to kill him and attempted to immediately carry out that plan. to the extent that aldana asserts his decision to attack christian only arose once christian intervened, the law does not require aldana to have possessed the intent to kill christian from the moment he entered the apartment in order to support a finding of premeditation and deliberation. (see, e.g., people v. jackson (1989) 49 cal.3d 1170, 1200 (jackson) [ssibility of murder prior to his encounter with office wrede, the fact that defendant followed the retreating officer to the police car and exerted himself in order to obtain the shotgun at a time when the officer was merely using the radio, and then did use the gun against the people v. robertson 7 defendant formed the considered intent to kill both [victims] when each acted in a manner he immediately carried out his a core principle that has guided appellate courts in assessing the sufficiency of the evidence regarding [t]he true test is not the duration of time as much as it is the extent of reflection. [citations.] [appellate courts] have observed that [t]houghts may follow each other with great rapidity and cold, calculated judgment may be arrived solomon, supra, 49 cal.4th at pp. 812-813, quoting people v. thomas (1945) 25 cal.2d 880, 900.) despite the short time that passed between christian pulling aldana off ana and his actions in attacking ated judgment to kill christian. show his plan and premeditation. as in people v. felix (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 1618, 1626 (felix) from the perpe felix, the defendant threatened to kill a man about an hour before he drove to the m house and fired shots into the master bedroom, which he presumed the man was occupying. (id. at pp. 1625-1626.) in upholding the conviction for premeditated attempted murder, t weight to verbal expressions of malice made so (id. at p. relying on this explicit verbal expression of malice, the jury could properly infer that aldana had developed a plan to murder christian. circumstances in the present case are analogous to those in people v. jackson. in jackson, the court found the evidence suggested that the defendant was able to quickly form the required intent after the defendant decided to escalate the initial struggle between himself and the officer by employing a gun against the officer, whom he had already overpowered. e 8 (jackson, supra, 49 cal.3d at p. 1200.) similarly, the effort aldana put into attacking christiangrabbing and putting him into a vulnerable position and stabbing him continuously even after he had the upper handevidences a plan, no matter how impromptu it was. in other words, these actions indicate that not only did aldana have sufficient time to contemplate murdering christian, but also that he had made a conscious decision to do so. ends to show that his attempt to kill christian was not just a spontaneous explosion of violence. case law has established that the subsequent conduct of the defendant can be a strong indicator of premeditation. (see e.g., people v. mayfield (1997) 14 cal.4th 668, 767, abrogated on other grounds by people v. scott (2015) 61 cal.4th 363) [evidence of premeditation and deliberation ]; perez, supraafter the stabbing . . . would appear to be inconsistent with a state of mind that would have produced a rash, in this case, after having stabbed christian more than ten times, aldana turned his attention to gabriel, bedroom. christian testified that aldana bedrooms and he sees my little boy standing there. and he yells at me that he was going to kill my boy, because that was going to hurt me. aldana then moved toward the child. at that point, it was evident that attacking christian was much more than a knee-jerk reaction aldana just trying to get christian out of the way so he could harm ana, but instead he had focused all his malevolent intent on christian. not just the result of rash impulse, but a cold and calculated decision. 9 3. motive. because aldana attacked christian after christian intervened in the first stabbing by pulling aldana off ana, there was also considerable evidence of motive. the record discloses at least two plausible motives aldana might have had for attempting to murder christian: to eliminate christian as a potential witness, and to retaliate against christian ana. with respect to the first motive, the jury could have inferred that aldana tried to kill christian in order to silence him. elimination of a percipient witness is motivation enough in the premeditation and (people v. nazeri (2010) 187 cal.app.4th 1101, 1118 (nazeri).) in people v. pride (1992) 3 cal.4th 195 (pride), the court found that since a second victim apparently arrived on the scene and surprised the defendant while he was committing or cleaning up after his crimes against a first victim, a reasonable jury could infer that the defendant killed the second victim so that she could not be a witness against him. (id. at p. 248; see also nazeri, at p. 1118 [where husband stabbed his mother-in-law to death after killing his wife, the jury could reasonably infer a motive to prevent the mother-in-law from testifying against him].) here, the contrary, the evidence shows the same motive. argument on appeal is that he could not have reflected on murdering christian because he did not expect christian or anyone else to enter the living room while he was stabbing ana. thus, a rational trier of fact could reasonably infer that he intended not to be caught and that when christian interrupted unexpectedly, aldana decided to kill him.4 as to the second possible motive, the jury could infer that aldana was angry and wanted to kill christian because, once again, hurt anas first attack on ana in august. then, in december, christian again interfered as aldana was trying to murder 4 ana apprehension. when he realized that cynthia had called the police, he immediately ran out of the apartment and did not return until late december. 10 ana. aldana relies on hernandez v. mcgrath (e.d. cal. 2009) 595 f.supp.2d 1111, to about premeditation because it is equally indicative of an unpremeditated, reflexive scenario as opposed to a premeditated one. aldana omits that hernandez also states that when evidence of a aks the state of mind of [the defendant] to search out the victim and kill him, i.e. a (id. at p. 1132.) on these facts, a reasonable jury could infer that aldana had a grudge against christian that resurfaced when christian again interrupted his attack on ana. aldana attempts to distinguish the present case from pride to argue that he had no motive. however, pride tends to support, not undermine, pride, the california supreme court found persuasive evidence of premeditated murder where the defendant verbally threatened to retaliate against employees who had complained several days before two of the employees were murdered. pride illustrates that a threat, followed by subsequent conduct of the defendant in relation to that threat, bears powerfully on the issue of premeditation. (see pride, supra, 3 cal.4th at p. 236; see also id. athe jury could reasonably conclude that t an amazing coincidence, and that ) direct threat to kill, followed by unequivocal actions, provides a particularly strong set of circumstances . . . [tending to show motive]felix, supra, 172 cal.app.4th at p. 1625.) likewise, in the case at bar, the evidence strongly suggests aldana acted on his threat to kill christian. 4. manner of the attempted killing. it is well established that when a defendant uses a deadly weapon on a weaker or incapacitated victim, it is reasonable to infer that the defendant made a reasoned decision to kill. (see people v. lewis (2009) 46 cal.4th 1255, 1292-12the manner in which [the victim] was killed supported a finding of deliberation and premeditation, because [the victim] had been strangled to the point of unconsciousness and was not breathing vigorously before her throat was cut . . . . [and] even if the initial strangulation was 11 spontaneous, the additional act of slashing her to kill stitely, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 544 [testimony that lethal pressure had been for a long opportunity to consider the deadly people v. silva (2001) [t]consistent with a premed.) in other words, when a defendant uses deadly force that is unmatched by his victim, the reasonable conclusion is that the use of the deadly force was the result of a conscious decision to do so. in the same way, here, the manner in which aldana carried out the stabbing evidences reflection. the record showed that aldana had both a vulnerable victim in christian and time to contemplate his actions. ana testified that during the struggle between aldana and christian, [] him a lot of times, and wanted to keep similarly, cynthia testified to the relentless way in which aldana . . aldana kept stabbing christian, and stabbing him, and stabbing -inch blade, but aldana had secured that blade by taping it to his right hand so it could not be grabbed from him. even though christian fought to get out from underneath aldana, and ana and cynthia each hit aldana on the head with an object, aldana was able to hold christian down for the entire attack. based on the foregoing, the jury could reasonably infer that aldana was already resolute on the use of deadly force to kill christian, a defenseless victim. constitute substant if the evidence show[s] no more than the infliction of multiple acts of violence on the victim, it would not be sufficient to show that the killing was the result of careful thought and weighing of considerations. anderson, supra, 70 cal.2d at p. 24-25, quoting people v. caldwell (1965) 43 cal.2d 864, 869) here, however, the record tends to demonstrate that aldana carefully thought out both attacks. 12 in sum, there was sufficient evidence that aldana premeditated and deliberated his attempted murder of christian. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports edmon, p. j. we concur: aldrich, j. jones, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 