filed 3/9/16 p. v. compton ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. walter compton, defendant and appellant. b258536 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma062603) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, john murphy, judge. affirmed. joshua h. schraer, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and theresa a. patterson, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________________ 2 walter compton appeals his robbery conviction (pen. code,1  211) and the sufficiency of the evidence to support the trial federal convictions. we affirm. factual and procedural background compton was charged with second degree robbery of bank teller sharon iaeger. it was also alleged that he had suffered multiple prior convictions of serious and/or violent felonies for the purposes of three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d)); section 1170, subdivision (h)(3); and section 667, subdivision (a)(1). at trial, sharon iaeger testified that on march 12, 2014, while she was working as a bank teller at union bank in lancaster, she greeted a man who entered the bank wearing sunglasses, a khaki shirt, and khaki pants. the man, who had a distinctive walk with a lot of shoulder and hip movement, told her that he was there to make a withdrawal; she told him to come to her teller man covered his mouth with a handkerchief and he told iaeger, iaeger pushed the silent alarm button and emptied the top drawer. iaeger saw that she did not have hundreds or fifties in her drawer, so she showed the man the drawer and the man told her to give him the money, took it from her, and left the bank. jennifer bate, a department, testified that approximately one hour before the robbery she was near the union bank at a wells fargo automated teller machine. while at the wells fargo, bate had locked herself out of her vehicle and waited for assistance. as she stood by her truck waiting, she noticed a man walking toward her. he looked unusual: he wore a long-sleeved khaki shirt buttoned all the way to the top and buttoned at the wrist, and khaki pants. the man stopped and spoke to bate for a moment, 1 unless otherwise indicated, all further statutory references are to the penal code. 3 telling her that she was ed him. she bate demonstrated by lowering her shoulder from side to side. later that day, at work, the union bank and describing the suspect. bate recognized that the description of the suspect matched the man she had spoken with at the wells fargo earlier in the day. bate spoke with detective michael staley, the officer assigned to investigate the robbery, to report that she had spoken to someone who iption. staley showed her a surveillance photo of the robber at the teller window, but with his face obscured by a piece of paper, and bate identified the person in the photo as wearing the same clothing as the man she had spoken with at the wells fargo. staley and an agent from the federal bureau of investigation also shared the surveillance photograph of the robber with other law enforcement agencies. another federal agent recognized the man in the photo as compton from a previous bank robbery, and this ultimately led to other than like a runway model, one when compton was arrested, he was wearing sunglasses. a search of his home led to the discovery of a pair of long khaki pants. bate and iaeger identified the sunglasses and pants as being like the ones the man wore on the day of the robbery. hand had been visible in the surveillance video of the robbery. staley observed that the robber hhe 4 staley conducted photographic and live lineups for bate and iaeger. when shown a photographic lineup including compton, iaeger circled two photographsone of compton and one of another manbate selected a photograph of compton from a photographic array as the man she had spoken with outside the wells fargo on the day of the robbery. at the live lineup several weeks later, iaeger identified someone other than compton as the person who looked closest to what the robber had looked like. she later testified that she had instantly eliminated compton at the live lineup because his appearance was so different than it had been the day of the robbery, and she did not believe that someone could have lost that much weight and changed his appearance so drastically in that short a time. antly after his arrest. at the time of his arrest, compton was clean shaven and had a shaved head. by the time of the live lineup, compton had grown a white, full beard. his hair was significantly longer, and it was white. he looked much older. compton also did not walk in his distinctive manner at the live lineup. she identified compton as the robber, but on cross-examination stated that she could not definitively state that he was the person who had robbed her. at trial, iaeger identified compton as the man who had robbed her. she testified that compton had changed his appearance since the robbery. he had grown a full beard and had gray hair and sideburns. he had also gained weight since the lineup. also at trial, bate testified that the man she saw at the wells fargo was the man shown in the surveillance video still photograph, and she identified compton as that man. compton was convicted of second degree robbery. in a court trial concerning prior convictions, the trial court concluded that compton had suffered three prior federal bank robbery convictions, and that these prior convictions constituted serious or violent felonies under california law. the court sentenced compton to 25 years to life in state 5 prison under the three strikes law and imposed three five-year enhancements under section 667, subdivision (a)(1). compton appeals. discussion i. admission of evidence of prior bank robbery subdivision (a) of [evidence code] section 1101 prohibits admission of evidence s character, including evidence of character in the form of specific instances of uncharged misconduct, to prove the conduct of that person on a specified occasion. subdivision (b) of [evidence code] section 1101 clarifies, however, that this rule does not prohibit admission of evidence of uncharged misconduct when such evidence is relevant to establish some fact other than the pers character or disposition(people v. ewoldt (1994) 7 cal.4th 380, 393 (ewoldt), fn. omitted.) evidence of uncharged crimes is admissible to prove identity, common plan, and intent only if the charged and uncharged crimes are sufficiently similar on these issues. [citation.]people v. edwards (2013) 57 cal.4th 658, 711 (edwards).) the highest degree of similarity is required to prove identity. [citatioibid.) lesser degrees of similarity are required for evidence of prior uncharged acts to be admissible to prove intent or a common design or plan. (ewoldt, supra, 7 cal.4th at pp. 402-403.) here, the trial court admitted evidence, pursuant to evidence code section 1101, subdivision (b), of a 1998 bank robbery compton had committed. the court explained, robbery at a market. both robberies involve going to the teller, as opposed to [one] going to a teller and another going to a bank manager. the initial contact is fairly [innocuous]. one case, i want to cash a hundred and then he announces, this is a robbery. in the second instance, i want to withdraw money. nothing there to startle the teller until he then announces, as he did the first time, this is a robbery. [] he asked for specific denominations in this one instance, fifties and hundreds. he leaves. the other, he asks for twenties. he leaves. he operates alone. there were no facial disguises like hoodies 6 whether he, actually, handed a teller a note. according to the deputy district attorney, mr. lee, all of the instructions or demands were verbal. [] and so it seems to me that these common marks support a strong inference that the current crime bears a signature. (b) the victim of the 1998 bank robbery, michael contratto, then testified that on april 16, 1998, compton approached his teller window at the fidelity federal bank and asked for change for a $100 bill. contratto told compton that it was against bank policy to change bills for those who were not customers of the bank, but that he would accommodate him on this occasion. compton then leaned over and said that he was robbing contralto and that he had a gun. contratto opened his drawer, and compton instructed him to hand over all the $20 bills. contralto gave compton the money, and compton walked out of the bank. compton argues that the evidence was improperly admitted under evidence code section 1101, and also asserts that the error denied him the right to due process under the united states constitution. s determination for abuse of discretion, and view the evidence in the light mos ruling. edwards, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 711.) although the attorney general defends the admission of this evidence as tending to prove not only identity but also a common scheme or plan and to show intent, under the facts of this case, the evidence of the prior bank robbery could only properly have been admitted if it was relevant to prove identity. identity is admissible where it is conceded or assumed that the charged offense was committed by someone, in ewoldt, supra, 7 cal.4th at p. 394, fn. 2.) . . . is not used to prove identity but rather to prove that the defendant engaged in the conduct alleged to constitute the charged id. at p. 3fendant committed the act (id. at p. 394, fn. 2.) 7 evidence of intent is admissible to prove that if the defendant committed the alleged act, he or she did so with the intent that comprises an element of the charged offenseproving intent, the act is conceded or assumed; what is sought is the state of mind that ibid.) there was no question whether a robbery had been committed or what intent compton harbored during his interaction with the bank teller, such that evidence of a common design or plan or evidence of intent would have been properly admitted. instead, the question at trial was whether compton was the person who robbed the union bank, and the evidence of the prior robbery was admitted in order to prove that compton was the perpetrator here. for identity to be established, the uncharged misconduct and the charged offense must share common features that are sufficiently distinctive so as to support the inference that the same person committed both acts. [citation.] the pattern and characteristics of the crimes must be so unusual and distinctive as to be like a signature. [citation.] the strength of the inference in any case depends upon two factors: (1) the degree of distinctiveness of individual shared marks, and (2) the number of minimally distinctive shared mark the inference of identity, however, need not depend on one or more unique or nearly unique common features; features of substantial but lesser distinctiveness may yield a distinctive combination when considered together. edwards, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 711.) whether these two garden-variety bank robberies share common features that are sufficiently distinctive to support the inference that the same person committed both acts need not be resolved. even if the trial court erred in concluding that the acts were sufficiently similar to permit the admission of the evidence of the 1998 bank robbery, the error was harmless. it is not reasonably probable that compton would have obtained a more favorable result if the trial court had excluded the evidence of the 1998 bank robbery. (see people v. thomas (2011) 52 cal.4th 336, 356, fn. 20.) the other evidence committing the robbery, and that video was played at trial. although her ability to identify compton varied as his appearance changed, iaeger identified compton at trial as 8 the person who had robbed her. bate, moreover, consistently identified compton as the person she saw near the bank shortly before the robbery and as the person shown in the surveillance video of the robbery. both iaeger and bate recalled comptdistinctive clothing and walk. evidence violated his federal due process rights, the erroneous admission of evidence under state law results in a due process violation only if it renders the trial fundamentally unfair. (people v. partida (2005) 37 cal.4th 428, 439.) compton presented no argument to support his brief contention in a footnote that the trial was fundamentally unfair, and in our review of the record we identify no fundamental unfairness in the trial resulting from the admission of this limited testimony about a prior offense. ii. prior conviction allegations compton contends the trial court erred in finding his prior federal convictions for bank robbery in violation of title 18 of united states code section 2113(a) qualified as serious felonies for purposes of the three strikes law and sentence enhancements under section 667, subdivision (a)(1). he argues that title 18 of united states code section 2113(a) can be violated in a manner that would not qualify the crimes as serious felonies under california law, and there was no evidence as to the manner in which he had violated the federal statute. we disagree. upon a claim of insufficient evidence to support an enhancement, the appellate whether it is supported by substantial evidence. in other words, we determine whether a rational trier of fact could have found that the prosecution sustained its burden of proving (people v. miles (2008) 43 cal.4th 1074, 1083 (miles).) where the fact of conviction pursuant to a specific statute is inadequate to prove qualification as a serious felony, the court may look to the record of conviction in the prior proceeding. (id. at p. 1082.) certified 9 records from the federal bureau of prisons constitute admissible evidence to prove a strike allegation. ( 969b.) for the purposes of the three strikes law and the section 667, subdivision (a)(1) enhancement, serious felonies are listed in section 1192.7, subdivision (c). ( 667, subds. (a)(4) & (d)(1).) ,identified by section 1192.7, subdivision (c)(19) as a serious felony, take, by force or violence, or by intimidation from the person or presence of another any property or money or other thing of value belonging to, or in the care, custody, control, management, or possession of, any bank, credit union, or any savings and loan although the statute has been amended numerous times, at all times relevant to this case the federal bank robbery law, title 18 of united states code section 2113(a), has identified two distinct offenses. the first paragraph of title 18 of united states code section 2113(a) describes the offense of bank robbery, which qualifies as a serious felony. a violation of the second paragraph, which sets forth the offense of bank burglary, does not. (miles, supra, 43 cal.4th at pp. 1077, 1082-1083.) miles is instructive. in that case, to prove that a prior conviction for violation of title 18 of united states code section 2113(a) qualified as a strike, the people introduced the form the form (e), armed bank robbery and . . . kidnapping, as charged in the first count of the indictment. . . . (miles, at p. 1079.) the defendant challenged the sufficiency of the evidence that the federal conviction qualified as a strike. (id. at p. 1078.) our supreme court affirmed, reasonable inferences from the record presented. absent rebuttal evidence, the trier of fact may presume that an official government document, prepared contemporaneously as part of the judgment record and describing the prior conviction, is truthful and accurate. unless rebutted, such a document, standing alone, is sufficient evidence of the facts it recites about the nature and (id. at p. 1083.) 10 provision includes more than one form of offense, one may reasonably infer, absent contrary indicia, that the additional prose [in the judgment] is not mere surplusage, but an (id. at p. 1085.) moreover, the court al and common parlance corresponded only to the first paragraph of title 18 united states code section 2113(a), and not to the second paragraph, (id. at pp. 1085-1087.) the court in miles found this federal judges] notation describing the offense committed under [title 18 united states code] taking of the offense. . . . (id. at p. 1087.) providing further support to this conclusion (id. at p. 1088.) here, the people introduced the nd ase no. cr85-829(b)-wmb, signed by the federal judge, which showed that compton was convicted, among other offenses, bank in violation of 18 usc 2113(a) as charged in counts 2 and 3. to prove his 1999 bank robbery conviction, the people introduced the ase no. cr98-111-rjk. that document stated united states code 2113(a) as charged in the single count indictment.2 under the reasoning of miles, supra, 43 cal.4th 1074, we find the notations bank rs, in the absence of any rebuttal evidence, constitute substantial evidence that the convictions in case nos. cr85- 2 this bank robbery is the same robbery discussed earlier in our opinion, and contratto, the victim in that case, testified at trial. the trial court, however, was not hether the prior conviction qualified as a serious felony. (people v. reed (1996) 13 cal.4th 217, 226.) although the after the court had stated its ruling and described its reasoning; and the ruling and 11 829(b)-wmb and cr98-111-rjk qualified as serious felonies under california law for purposes of the three strikes law and the sentence enhancement in section 667, subd. (a)(1). iii. abstract of judgment in the course of our review of this matter, we observed that the abstract of judgment describes the five-year sentence enhancements that were imposed under section we may correct this clerical error on appeal. (people v. mitchell (2001) 26 cal.4th 181, 187.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. the superior court is ordered to prepare an amended abstract of judgment listing the three five-year sentence enhancements as being imposed under penal code section 667, subdivision (a)(1) and to forward a copy to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. zelon, acting p. j. we concur: segal, j. blumenfeld, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 