filed 3/28/16 p. v. camberos ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. horacio camberos, defendant and appellant. b258188 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na083670) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. mark c. kim, judge. affirmed. joanna mckim, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and ryan m. smith, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________________________ 2 defendant horacio camberos appeals from the judgment entered following a jury trial that resulted in his conviction of first degree murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a))1 and true findings on allegations of special circumstance of murder for financial gain ( 190.2, subd. (a)(1)) and of a principal armed with a firearm during the commission of the murder ( 12022, subd. (a)(1)). he was sentenced to prison to life without the possibility of parole, plus a consecutive one-year term for the firearm enhancement. errors, claiming the errors were prejudicial, individually or cumulatively. he assigns as error: (1) tbecause they were obtained in violation of his privilege against self-incrimination (u.s. const., 5th amend.; miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 (miranda); (2) tdenial of his mistrial motion, because his right to a fair trial (u.s. const., 14th amend.) stress of what happened; (3) tv, who hired the murder, had invoked his privilege against self-incrimination in a civil case, amend.) and his right to confront witnesses (u.s. const., 6th amend.); (4) texclusion of evidence that vassilev was arrested and then released from custody after (u.s. const., 14th amend.); (5) tety of the police interview of codefendant lucio pelayo2 and his statements made at his proffer session, tlimitation of defense cross-examination of pelayo regarding his understanding of his present a defense, and to cross-examine witnesses. 1 all further section references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 2 pelayo pleaded guilty to attempted murder. 3 that no miranda violation transpired. denial of the mistrial motion was not error, because the jury is presumed to have followed the trial court admonition to disregard in admitting evidence that vassilev invoked his privilege against self-incrimination in a separate, civil action based on the finding its probative value outweighed any prejudice from its admission. exclusion of evidence that vassilev was arrested and released in this case after invoking his fifth amendment privilege in the civil case was not an abuse of interview transcript and his proffer statements as prior consistent statements, because the motivated by his desire to avoid the death penalty. the court did not improperly curtail -examination of pelayo, because his understanding of the proffer agreement was not relevant in view of his stated understanding he could be prosecuted for perjury if he lied. further, in view of the absence of error, the cumulative effect of the assigned errors is nil. background the evidence established3 that on november 9, 2004, about 5:00 a.m., jose perez was targeted and shot dead, because he and three other employees of van elk, a welding company owned by vassilev, had sued van elk and vassilev4 in 2003 for labor fraud arising from alleged payment of wages substantially less than that to which they were entitled on a project involving public funds. the relief sought included estimated 3 we recount the evidence pursuant to the usual standard of review. (people v. elliott (2012) 53 cal.4th 535, 585.) 4 subsequently, vassilev was added as a doe defendant to avoid his escaping personal liability if van elk became bankrupt. on november 5, 2004, a copy of this doe amendment was faxed 4 damages of $800,000 to $900,000 and barring van elk from receiving future public works projects. vassilev, wanted perez and the other three killed before an upcoming court date. defendant asked pelayo, his brother-in-law and former employee of van elk, if he knew anyone who would commit murder for pay. esparza,5 whose mother lived down the street from pelayo. esparza and defendant agreed on $100,000 as the amount for the murders. a parking lot near the courthouse. defendant pointed to perez and another man as the targets and insisted the killings be done soon. a few days later, defendant provided information pelayo provided esparza. on november 9, 2004, while driving his green tahoe truck, pelayo picked up esparza. esparza placed a revolver under the seat and directed pelayo where to drive. pelayo pulled into a driveway to wait. esparza indicated a passing honda was the one and exited the truck with the revolver. about 30 seconds later, pelayo heard three or four gunshots, and esparza ran back to the truck. pelayo called defendant and gave the e job was done. esparza each got $50,000. pelayo gave defendant $5,000 after the latter asked for money because he would not be paid anything. pelayo used his share for a house down payment, furniture, items for his children, share to buy vehicles, a watercraft, and amount of cash. he explained the money was for doistreet, whom she knew drove a green tahoe. 5 5 arranging the murder, and tried to bully pelayo. while in custody after his arrest, he apologized to pelayo. when pelayo asked why he was protecting vassilev, defendant explained he was being paid as if he still worked for vassilev and vassilev was at statements as coerced through police lies and the physical setting. he also elicited evidence that the total civil settlement award was $350,000 and no deposits to discussion 1. miranda violation defendant contends the trial court erred in denying his pretrial suppression motion, because his interview statements to police were obtained in violation of miranda. that no miranda violation transpired, because defendant was not in custody at the time the incriminating statements were elicited and the statements were not the product of an impermissible two-step interview process. a. evidence presented at subject miranda hearing defendant made two miranda motions to suppress his statements to law enforcement. the first was made during the preliminary hearing. the court denied the motion, finding the police had been friendly; defendant was present voluntarily; and a reasonable person would have thought he was free to go. at the hearing on his pretrial second motion, transcripts of the relevant pre-miranda law enforcement proceedings were admitted,6 and testimony from the first motion hearing was incorporated into the record. 6 attached to the motion and opposition as exhibits a through d, respectively, are copies of the transcripts of the initial police in; the 6 at the first suppression motion hearing, los angeles police department detective david alvarez testified that in september 2009, he and his partner, detective david cortez, drove to the last known address for defendant, which was on the report of a 2006 robbery of defendant at a metal shop. at the time, alvarez was aware a robbery suspect murder. defendant was not home. alvarez asked wife to have defendant call. when defendant telephoned later that day, alvarez stated he had information on the robbery and related no one had interviewed him on the 2004 murder. defendant agreed to a meeting for october 20, 2009, at 2:00 p.m. at about 2:00 p.m., alvarez and cortez met defendant in the lobby of parker center.7 they introduced themselves and walked up to an interview room on the third floor.8 to you a little bit about the robbery, but most importantly, i need to talk to you about this wha . . . witnesses are saying that he , initial interview ended, and the three of them walked to the polygraph exam room on another floor, and cortez left. postexam interview between examiner robert chavez and defendant; and the postexam, pre-miranda defendant interview. 7 8 7 alvarez testified that during that interview, he never told defendant he was under arrest, and defendant was not in handcuffs. although the room door was closed, it was not locked.9 defendant did not ask to leave, nor did he ask for a lawyer.10 robert chavez testified he was a civilian polygraph examiner employed by the los angeles police department and the one who administered the polygraph exam on defendant. defendant was not handcuffed, and anyone could have left the room, which was not locked. beforehand, chavez conducted a pretest interview, which involved obtaining background information and discussing the exam procedure. he told defendant, numerous times during the pretest, [he] asked [defendant] if he needed water. [he also] asked him . . . present voluntarily, defendant responded that and a half hours. afterward, according to the routine procedure, chavez spoke with defendant about the exam results. he advised defendant that he had failed the exam murder. defendant never attempted to terminate the interview nor did he ask chavez to do so. he also never asked for an attorney. cortez testified that prior to the polygraph exam, he had no information about any han knowing a witness reported that, at one time, defendant approached perez and his wife and asked that the lawsuit against his employer be dropped and another witness reported defendant may be a weak link for urder. after the exam, he and alvarez interviewed defendant in the same room. this interview lasted one hour. defendant 9 10 regarding the initial interview, cortez testified defendant arrived about 2:05 p.m. and he, alvarez, and defendant were together for about half an hour before the polygraph exam. during that interview, defendant did not ask to leave or for cortez to exit the room so that he could leave. 8 acknowledged he was present voluntarily. defendant initially expressed his concern someone might harm his family. cortez assured him his family was safe. during this interview, defendant acknowledged cortez never told him he was under arrest. the room door was closed but not locked, and defendant was not in handcuffs. at no point during the interview did defendant ask for an attorney or ask to leave. defendant acknowledged he knew he was free to leave. cortez asked if defendant they treated him fairly and if he felt forced, defendant responded he felt they treated him about 50 minutes into the interview, defendant spoke about his involvement in e then asked what was going to happen to him. cortez advised he would be taken to harbor station and arrested. cortez read defendant his miranda advisements. defendant acknowledged he understood his rights and agreed to continue speaking, which he did for about 10 to 20 minutes more. defendant was arrested at 9:00 p.m. on october 20, 2009. b. hearing on second suppression motion defense counsel argued that, although defendant voluntarily agreed to speak to police, his interview turned into a custodial interrogation after the polygraph exam. chavez then told defendant he failed the exam and should come clean, at which point minutes. he urged that defendant should have been given his miranda advisements and therefore his statements to police in the second interview should be excluded. he added, are questions designed to elicit incriminating responses. and at that point there is no miranda. he pointed out there were two detectives in a small room. miranda advisements were given also must be excluded, because ttainted. 9 his cocounsel argued that with respect to the totality of the circumstances pointing to be questiopeby a table and two detectives in front of him, [and] he has got no access to the rest of the that miranda the prosecutor disagreed defendant was subjected to custodial interrogation prior to his miranda advisements. she argued that he preliminary hearing, chavez indicated typically he would ask the subject to leave the cell phone go off and interrupt the interview could . . . affect any type of results or that what happened ze, which was not - he was free to leave; and he never asked further argued, really all he says 10 tions regarding the murder: regarding the second police interview, the prosecutor noted defendant agreed the two detectives needed to talk with him about what happened and acknowledged he was present voluntarily. defendant denied being told he was under arrest, threatened, and pressured to speak in any way. he agreed the detectives had treated him fairly, adding, as did the polygraph examiner. he did not ask for a lawyer. she argued that after the interview became a custodial interrogation, defendant was given his miranda advisements, i.e., s clean and says, yeah, i set it all up. she noted after the advisements, defendant did not say he did not want to talk anymore; rather, he continued to speak with the detectives. defense cocounsel responded that the door was closed during the entire chavez never asked defendant directly what happened regarding the incident. he admitted this was the case. use of a ruse by police did not turn the interview into a custodial interrogation. at the conclusion of this hearing, the trial court denied the motion, finding that based on the totality of the circumstances, miranda had not been violated, because there c. mirandanterrogation threshold requirement s fifth amendment privilege against self-incrimination, the united states supreme court, in miranda, required law enforcement agencies to advise a suspect, before any custodial law enforcement against him in a court of law, that he has the right to the presence of an attorney, and that if he cannot afford an attorney one will be appointed for him prior to any questioning if 11 [citations.] if the suspect knowingly and intelligently waives these rights, law enforcement may interrogate, but if at any point in the interview he invokes the right to remain silent or the right t [citation.] (people v. martinez (2010) 47 cal.4th 911, 947.) custodial int such a restriction on a persons freedom [citation.] as [the united states supreme court has] the determination: first, what were the circumstances surrounding the interrogation; and second, given those circumstances, would a reasonable person have felt he or she was at liberty to terminate the interrogation and leave. once the scene is set and the players lines and actions are reconstructed, the court must apply an objective test to resolve the ultimate inquiry: was there a formal arrest or restraint on freedom of movement of the degree associated with [citations.] [] . . . rather than demarcate a limited set of relevant circumstances, [the court has] [citation.] the tes (j.d.b. v. north carolina (2011) 564 u.s. 261, ___ [131 s.ct. 2394, 2402].) courts have identified a variety of relevant circumstances. among them are whether contact with law enforcement was initiated by the police or the person interrogated, and if by the police, whether the person voluntarily agreed to an interview; whether the express purpose of the interview was to question the person as a witness or a suspect; where the interview took place; whether police informed the person that he or she was under arrest or in custody; whether they informed the person that he or she was 12 free to terminate the interview and leave at any time and/or whether the persons conduct indicated an awareness of such freedom; whether there were restrictions on the persons freedom of movement during the interview; how long the interrogation lasted; how many police officers participated; whether they dominated and controlled the course of the interrogation; whether they manifested a belief that the person was culpable and they had evidence to prove it; whether the police were aggressive, confrontational, and/or accusatory; whether the police used interrogation techniques to pressure the suspect; and whether the person was arrested at the end of the interrogation. [citations.] [] no one factor is dispositive. rather, we look at the interplay and combined effect of all the circumstances to determine whether on balance they created a coercive atmosphere such that a reasonable person would have experienced a restraint tantamount to an arrest. people v. aguilera (1996) 51 cal.app.4th 1151, 1162.) defendant was in custody for miranda purposes is a mixed question of law and fact. [citation.] when reviewing a trial courts determination that a defendant did not undergo to the trial courts factual findings regarding the circumstances surrounding the interrogation, and it must independently decide whether, given those s position would have felt free to end the questi (people v. leonard (2007) 40 cal.4th 1370, 1400.) d. denial of second miranda motion not error in view of the totality of the circumstances, we conclude that defendant was not subjected to custodial interrogation before his miranda advisements nor were his statements the product of an impermissible two-step interrogation procedure. the trial court therefore properly denied his second suppression motion. (1) no pre-miranda custodial interrogation of defendant the recmiranda advisements, he was in custody during the initial interview. his presence at the police station concerned both an armed robbery in which defendant was the victim and the perez 13 murder. when to undergo a polygraph exam. although chavez advised defendant he had failed the exam, he did not accuse defendant of murder, nor did he ask defendant any questions regarding his involvement. in the second interview, cortez asked defendant questions regarding the threatened and was treated fairly. defendant admitting giving pelayo information about peres work address and that after pelayo indicated perez had been killed, defendant relayed this information to vassilev. defendant stated vassilev wanted to kill perez in order to avoid paying him off. he admitted vassilev told him to find someone to kill yo and the shooter with the cash vassilev had given defendant. once defendant admitted ouse, cortez advised defendant he would read him his rights. with this latter admission, the interview focused on defendant as a participant in miranda advisements were triggered. after these advisements and in quiry, defendant admitted he was there voluntarily; he had been treated fairly; and he felt free to leave. defendant did not indicate he did not want to speak to the police and wanted an attorney, nor did he indicate by words or actions that he considered himself not free to leave. (2) no impermissible two-step interrogation procedure involved statements were the tainted product of a deliberate two-step interrogation process. the first interview involved alvarez providing defendant with descriptive information knowing who might want to kill the victim, whom he acknowledged knowing. when alvarez indicated witnesses were saying defendant might have been involved in the murder, defendant denied this was true. the interview ended when defendant agreed to take the polygraph exam. in contrast, the second interview was comprehensive and 14 involved specific questioning of defendant regarding the circumstances leading to and was murdered. once the interview focused on defendant as a suspect, however, he was given his miranda advisements. defendant does not point to any evidence that cortez intentionally withheld miranda advisements to obtain inculpatory statements; that cortez made threats or promises to elicit such statements; or that y was to interview first and provide miranda advisements afterward. (cf. people v. camino (2010) 188 cal.app.4th 1359, 1374-1376.) 2. mistrial motion properly denied defendant contends the trial court erred in denying his motion for a mistrial based on the prejudicial impact of the jury stress of what happened. the motion was properly denied, because the jury is presumed nts. what had happened. such comments were inadmissible as prejudicial. during trial, the excluded comments inadvertently were presented to the jury. defense cocounsel moved for a mistrial, identifying page 38 of the interview transcript as reflecting the miscarriage incident. the prosecutor stated she did not know the incident was in the transcript. the trial court noted the tape began with page 38, at line 2, of the comments were deleted from the tape. the transcripwife at the time was pregnant and after this happened, just the stress from it all, she lost her comments were unduly prejudicial and should be deleted. defense cocounsel argued that the jurors would have continued reading the transcript and cocounsel had heard the comments on the tape. the prosecutor stated the part with the comments was deleted as the court instructed but admitted she had not reviewed the tape before playing it. she explained that upon reading ahead and noting 15 what wa the trial court denied the mistrial motion. after indicating to counsel its belief that the part about the miscarriage comments was deleted from the tape, the court instructed the jury that the tape, not the transcript, was evidence. shortly thereafter, defendant requested the court to instruct the jury that the prosecution failed to , finding there was no evidence the prosecutor willfully disobeyed its order. renewed mistrial motion, the court suggested each juror be polled to determine if the juror was aware of the comments if the juror could still be impartial. defense cocounsel agreed. subsequently, the trial court announced it would ask each juror if the comments were heard or read; whether the juror was affected; and if the juror could follow the call hearing the remaining jurors promised to follow the comments. defense cocounsel again moved for a mistrial. the trial court denied the motion. some extensive time because [the court] wanted to make clear that we have exactly what, if anything, each of jurors heard. so we have that on the record. so we know which ones actually heard or read about it, about . . . wife. all of them indicated they can basically disregard it and form their conclusion based on evidence and the law. many of them indicated that it would have minimum impact on them. so based on their promise, [the court] will take their words at it, therefore, mistrial base s chances of receiving a fair trial h (people v. ayala (2000) 23 cal.4th 225, 283; accord, people v. avila (2006) 38 cal.4th 491, 573 (avila).) should be granted if the court is apprised of prejudice that it judges incurable by admonition or instruction. (people v. harris (1994) 22 cal.app.4th 1575, 16 1581evidence particularly where there is an absence of bad faith. [citations.] it is only in the . . . cannot be removed by the court [citation.] (people v. olivencia (1988) 204 cal.app.3d 1391, 1404.) curably prejudicial is by its nature a speculative matter, and the trial court is vested with (people v. haskett (1982) 30 cal.3d 841, 854.) nduct as the basis for [a mistrial] motion, a witnesss volunteered statement can also provide the basis for a finding of incurable prejudice. (harris, at p. 1581.) a trial courts ruling denying a mistrial is reviewed for an abuse of discretion. (ayala, at p. 283.) avila, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 574.) defendant contends that al court they would not follow the instructions, jurors sometimes do not follow admonitions by the trial court. it is sheer instruction. he offers no evidence to support his claim. (people v. dennis (1998) 17 3. -incrimination invocation not abuse defendant contends the trial court committed prejudicial error in admitting hearsay evidence that vassilev invoked his privilege against self-incrimination (u.s. const., error transpired. the prosecutor asked richard donahoo, an attorney for perez and the other three plaintiffs in the van elk civil lawsuit, if vassilev had been deposed in the civil action. donahoo testified vassilev appeared at the deposition but refused to testify under the 17 fifth amendment. defense counsel objected and moved to strike the testimony. the trial court overruled the objection.11 initially, we note that allowing s invocation of his or her fifth amendment privilege against self-incrimination may support a claim of evidentiary error but not necessarily of constitutional infirmity. (see namet v. united states (1963) 373 u.s. 179, 185, 187; see also carmell v. texas simply permitting evidence to be admitted at trial, [evidentiary rules] do not at all subvert the presumption of innocence, because they do not concern whether the admissible [a]n appellate court reviews any ruling by a trial court as to the admissibility of evidence for abuse of discretion. specifically, it scrutinizes a decision on a motion to bar the introduction of evidence as inadmissible hearsay for such abuse: it does so because it so examines the underlying determination whether the evidence was indeed hearsay. [citation.] it follows that it gives the same level of scrutiny for the same reason to the people v. alvarez trial court has broad discretion in determining the relevance of evidence [citations], but lacks discretion to admit irrelevant evidence. (people v. crittenden (1994) 9 cal.4th 83, 132 .) relevant evidence may be excluded under evidence code section 352 if it creates a substantial danger of undue consumption of time or of prejudicing, confusing, or misleading the jury. [citation.]avila, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 578.) in s rulings on relevance and the exclusion of evidence under evidence code section 352. (ibid.) no abuse transpired. we point out vassilev did not invoke his privilege against self-incrimination in this criminal case nor did he do so in front of a jury in the separate, civil case. (cf. people v. mincey (1992) 2 cal.4th 408, 442 [as to substance of witnesss anticipated testimony where invocation 11 the court also denied a motion for mistrial based on the evidence vassilev had invoked his fifth amendment privilege in the civil lawsuit. 18 before the jury].inception of his deposition in that civil case, and thus was isolated from the factual context of any questioning. (cf. people v. williams (2008) 43 cal.4th 584, 614 privilege is properly invoked whenever the witnesswould furnish a link in the chain of evidence needed to prosecute the witness for a criminal offenseevidence was presented in this case explaining why vassilev invoked his privilege to remain silent prior to any questioning in the civil action. accordingly, no reasonable criminal culpability. in contrast, that vassilev invoked his privilege against self-incrimination was relevant to motive, namely, to show vassilev had a motive to initiate the murder-for-hire 12 (see people v. daniels (1991) 52 cal.3d 815, e and intentand, indeed, . . . of such evidence did not, by itself, serve t13 additionally, such evidence was not hearsay, because it was admitted on the issue of motive, not for the truth of the matter asserted. (cf. evid. code,  1200 [hearsay defined made other than by a witness while testifying at the ].) 12 during a pretrial discussion, after noting the defense sought to exclude evidence of k, which vassilev owned, the trial court asked, , 13 the court instructed the jury on how to consider evidence of motive and absence of such evidence and admonished the jury not to speculate why a third party was prosecuted or would be prosecdetermine if the people had proved defendant guilty. 19 4. evidence of vassilev arrest and release after invocation irrelevant defendant contends the trial court committed prejudicial error and violated his right to present a defense (u.s. const., 14th amend.) by excluding evidence that vassilev amendment privilege in the civil case. no error transpired.14 during trial, defense counsel moved to introduce evidence that vassilev was arrested and released after his invocation of his fifth amendment privilege in the civil case. he argued such invocation left the jury with the improper impression that vassilev , other codefendants, that any relevant evidence that raises a reasonable doubt as to a defendants guilt, including evidence tending to show that a party other than the defendant committed the offense charged, is admissible. [citations.] but evidence of mere motive or opportunity to commit the crime in another person, without more, will not suffice to raise a reasonable doubt about a defendants guilt: there must be direct or circumstantial evidence linking the third person to the ac (avila, supra, 38 cal.4th 491, 577-578.) on the accuseds [constitutional] right to present a defense. courts retain . . . a traditional and intrinsic power to exercise discretion to control the admission of evidence in the interests of orderly procedure and the avoidance of prejudice. [citations.] . . . [t]his principle applies perforce to evidence of third-party culpability . . . . [citation.] [] it follows, for the most part, that the mere erroneous exercise of discretion under such 14 later, defense counsel moved for a mistrial, because the defense was not allowed to elicit testimony that vassilev was arrested but not charged court denied the motion. 20 people v. cudjo (1993) 6 cal.4th 585, 611.) nonetheless, the trial courts discretion is not without limits, particularly if it operates to hamper defense counsels ability to present evidence. people v. frye (1998) 18 cal.4th 894, 945, overruled on another ground in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22.) [w]hen a trial court misapplies evidence code section 352 to exclude defense evidence, including third-party-culpability evidence, the applicable standard of prejudice is that for state law error, as set forth in people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 (error harmless if it does not appear reasonably probable verdict was affected). [citations. (cudjo, at p. 611.) the trial court did not abuse its discretion in its ruling on the relevance of the offered evidence and in excluding the evidence under evidence code section 352. the s directive. defendant contends evidence that wrong; [vassilev] had nothing to do with the [murder] and thus [defendant] likely had no elief that vassilev was not guilty motivated vassile15 such belief would be unlikely in the face of vassile-incrimination in the civil case. further, at most, that vassespeculative inference, which is not evidence and cannot raise a reasonable doubt about avila, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 578; see also people v. mendoza (2000) 24 cal.4th 130, 174 [speculation not evidence]; people v. kraft is irrelevantin contrast, admission of such evidence would have been prejudicial, i.e., 15 during a pretrial discussion, the prosecutor indicated to the court and defense counsel that charges against [vassilev 21 undue consumption of time on a collateral issue and confusing the jury regarding the issues in this case. 5. pelayond proffer statements admissible defendant contends the trial court prejudicially erred in admitting the entirety of ents at the proffer session.16 there was no error. defense cocounsel objected to the jury interview on the day of his arrest on the grounds of hearsay and unreliability. he argued y as prior consistent statements; the statements were inadmissible under evidence code section 352; and admission of the statements would , 14th amend.). the prosecutor argued during cross-examination that the defense implied pelayo was coerced to give a statement and that his statements were motivated by his desire to avoid the death penalty, statements therefore were ad cortez testified that during the proffer session, pelayo stated defendant told pelayo that vassilev wanted two persons killed; he asked pelayo to find someone to do the job; and he to the murder and what happened on the day of the murder. defense counsel moved for a mistrial. he argued certain interview statements were hearsay and did not qualify as prior consistent statements, i.e., the statements in which cortez vouched for pelayo and told him he was being a man and taking responsibility. the trial court denied the motion, explaining the jury should know what pelayo said both when not promised anything and after the promise. defense counsel being pr 16 t 22 prior consistent statements. the trial court ruled the statements were admissible. that the testimony given is fabricated or biased, not just when a particular statement at people v. kennedy (2005) 36 cal.4th 595, 614, overruled on a different point in people v. williams (2010) 49 cal.4th 405, 458-459; evid. code,  791, subd. (b).) further, whe 356.) the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting pelainterview and his proffer agreement statements, because in cross-examining pelayo, the defense accused pelayo of fabricating his story in order to get a better deal and the evidence established pelayo had given his statements prior to his proffer session. (people v. jones (2003) 30 cal.4th 1084, 1106-1107 [consistent statement properly admitted fabrication or bias]; people v. gurule (2002) 28 cal.4th 557, 621 [prior consistent began. the record, however, discloses pelayo gave his police statement on october 21 and 22, 2009, well before htestimony and cooperation. at trial, pelayo testified he hoped to get a better deal than the 2011. 6. defense cross-examination of pelayo not improperly curtailed defendant contends his rights to a fair trial, to present a defense, and to confront witnesses were violated when the trial court prevented him from cross-examining pelayo about his understanding of the proffer agreement. exclusion of such evidence was not an abuse of discretion. 23 during cross-examination, defense counsel asked pelayo about the proffer agreement and if he understood the general concept that someone could be prosecuted for lyinquestion, the court sustained the same objection. the court also sustained the was the one who decided whether he would be prosecuted for perjury. when defense counsel asked about paragraph 4 of the agreement, a sidebar was held. the trial court inquired as to what he was trying to ask. he explained he sought testify in trial in his case and he testifies inconsistently, then what he had proffered, that particular statement can be used against him.point. to be relevant, evidtendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action. (evid. code,  210.) this definition includes evrelevant to the credibility of a (people v. contreras (2013) 58 cal.4th 123, 152collateral if it has no logical bearing on any material, disputed issue. [citation.] a fact may bear on the credibility of a witness and still be collateral to the case. [citatibidhe trial court has wide latitude . . . to exclude evidence offered for impeachment that is collateral and has no relevance to the action. [citations.] this exercise of discretion necessarily encompasses a determination that the probative substantially outweighedconfusing, or time-consuming nature. ibidas long as the excluded evidencsignf the witnesss credibility, the confrontation clause and related constitutional guarantees do not limit the trial courts discretion in this regard. ibid.) 24 the trial court did not abuse its discretion in precluding the defense from cross-examining pelayo about his understanding of the proffer agreement. such line of inquiry would be prejudicial as time consuming and confusing to the jury. pelayo already testified he understood he could be prosecuted for perjury if he lied during his testimony. -examination of pelayo. 7. cumulative effect of assigned errors nil defendant contends the cumulative effect of the assigned errors was prejudicial. the cumulative effect of his claimed errors, which are meritless, is nil. 17 (people v. bennett (2009) 45 cal.4th 577, 618; people v. samayoa (1997) 15 cal.4th 795, 849.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. boren, p.j. we concur: chavez, j. hoffstadt, j. 17 laims that an assigned error violated his rights to due process, a fair trial, and to confront witnesses also are unsuccessful. 