filed 3/23/15 in re davidson ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one in re joseph davidson, on habeas corpus. b258081 (los angeles county super. ct. nos. bh009646, ga032947) original proceedings; petition for writ of habeas corpus, william c. ryan, judge. petition denied. john p. olin for petitioner. kamala d. harris, attorney general, jennifer a. neill, senior assistant attorney general, jessica n. blonien, supervising deputy attorney general, and amber n. wipfler, deputy attorney general, for respondent. 2 petitioner joseph davidson challenges governor , reversal of a decision by the board of parole hearings (board) finding him suitable for release on parole. we conclude there was a modicum of evidence to support the governors conclusion that davidson was unsuitable for release because he posed an unreasonable risk to public safety. accordingly, we deny petition for a writ of habeas corpus. procedural background on december 16, 1998, a jury convicted davidson of second degree murder of his mother. davidson who 14 years old at the time of the crime, was tried and convicted as an adult. the trial court sentenced him to an indeterminate term of 19 years to life. on january 7, 2014, davidson appeared before the board for a youthful offender parole hearing. (pen. code,  3051, subd. (b)(2).)1 t, the board deemed davidson unsuitable for parole in a split decision. in 2014, the board found davidson suitable for parole, subject to review by the board sitting en banc and the (cal. const., art. v,  8;  3041, subd. (b), 3041.1.) corpus brought in the superior court, which was denied. he then petitioned this court for relief. we summarily denied his writ of habeas corpus. davidson filed a petition for review, arguing that the gos reversal was based on speculation and incorrectly applied newly enacted section 4801, subdivision (c) which great weight to the diminished capacity of juveniles as whether davidson is suitable for parole. ( 4801, transferred the matter back to us with directions to vacate our summary denial and issue an order to the secretary of the department of corrections and rehabilitation to show cause 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 [determination that [davidson is] . . . should not be in re shaputis (2011) 53 ca1.4th 192 (shaputis ii), in re lawrence (2008) 44 ca1.4th 1181 (lawrence) and sections 3051, subdivision (e), and 4801, subdpetition for a writ of habeas corpus. factual background preconviction history davidson was born in 1981. his biological mother was homeless, and abused drugs biological father is unknown. the newborn was placed in foster care 10 days after his birth, and remained there until the davidsons adopted him at age three. apart from some disruptive behavior and two suspensions from school for fighting with peers, history reflects no behavioral difficulties or contact with juvenile authorities prior to his life crime. davidson began drinking alcohol at age 11 and, by the time he was 13, was drinking alcohol and smoking marijuana on a weekly basis. he disavowed use of any other drugs, and has no history of psychiatric hospitalization or mental health treatment, and denied that he was intoxicated or under the influence of drugs the day he killed his mother. the commitment offense the governors indeterminate sentence parole release review (reversal) accurately summarizes the underlying facts regarding commitment offense, as follows: on august 16, 1996, tinann davidson and her 14-year-old son, joseph davidson, were preparing to move to las vegas and had gotten into minor arguments during the day. mr. davidson had retrieved his fathers .38 caliber handgun from his parentsbedroom and contemplated suicide. he decided not to kill himself because it went against his religious belief that he would go to hell if he did so and because a friend had once told him that it was better to kill the person who was the source of your problems than to kill yourself. deciding 4 against suicide, mr. davidson took the handgun downstairs intending to kill his mother. when he saw a wall plaque with the ten commandments, however, he decided against it. later that afternoon, mr. davidson told neighborhood friends that he was going to shoot his mother. that afternoon, mr. davidson went to a closet, retrieved a set of earplugs, and put them in to muffle the sound of gunshots. he walked downstairs to find his mother seated at the dining room table while dinner was cooking on the stove. he hid the gun behind his back and told his mother that he had a stomachache so that she would get close to him. mr. davidson then shot her in the head, killing her. he took off his shoes, turned off the stove, went back to his neighbors house, and told his friends what he had done. he then went to a payphone and called 911 to report his crime. mr. davidson was arrested that night. he asked officers, is she dead, god i hope so man i shot my mom i finally did it.he also stated, i had been meaning to kill that bitch all my life.when he was interviewed at the police station, mr. davidson said that he hated his mother and that he knew one day he would kill her. he noted that he had wanted to kill his mother for the last six years and that for five fucking years (thats a long ass time) every morning i woke up i thought about killing her. mr. davidson reported that at about eight [years old] i said fuck it i should go kill that bitch.he said that he discovered where his father hid the handgun when he was about 11 years old and that playing with the gun was exciting, like finding a damn treasure.he reported that he had taken the gun to school once in the 8th grade because he believed his mother was coming to school and wanted to kill her there, and that he had tried to kill her on another occasion by putting rubbing alcohol into a soda to poison her. mr. davidson said that he wished he had killed his mother sooner. criminal history and record while incarcerated when he was arrested, davidson was 14 years old with no criminal record. at the time of the 2014 parole hearing, davidson had been in juvenile hall and then prison for 18 years. he had a spotless disciplinary history and no record of violence or threats of violence in prison. he had earned his ged, had completed approximately 50 units of college course work, was working on a degree in business management, had completed a multitude of self- 5 help and therapeutic courses while incarcerated, and was deeply involved in religious programs and a protestant ministry. parole plans upon release davidson had completed vocational training in community and office services and consumer electronics, and had worked in prison in maintenance positions and as a clerk. he had no confirmed job offer, or firm plans for employment. he had also received on-line legal clerk training through palo verde college, and had completed some work toward the 2014 board found davidson was potentially employable in the fields of consumer electrics, installation of telecommunications and fiber electronics, or as a data entry clerk. davidson had offers of housing from friends or a relative to stay as long as necessary until space was available for him at a 12 to 24 month residential program into which he had been accepted. valuations and expressions of remorse and insight by the time of the 2014 parole hearing davidson had undergone three psychological evaluations which revealed the following information. a. september 2010 comprehensive risk assessment parole hearing, donna robinson, ph.d., reported davidson had been in foster care from the time he was a newborn until he was adopted by the davidsons. he was their only -lance set designer for movies, and his work frequently required the family to relocate. his mother did not work outside the home. davidson reported no violence or child abuse during his childhood, and neither of the home. she gave davidson verbal corrections, typically directed at poor academic performance or dirty clothes, and periodically struck (but did not injure) him with a belt, 6 discipline that typically coincided with quarterly school progress reports revealing his of one slightly older boy who lived dragged [him] out of the dson had no gang affiliations in the free community or in prison, and never held a job before his incarceration. davidson reported no history of psychiatric hospitalizations or medications. he began having recurring suicidal thoughts and fantasies at age 13; by the age of 14 he experienced them on a weekly basis. davidson participated in psychotherapy while in juvenile hall, but not in prison. davidson told dr. robinson that he began contemplating would die in an accident). by the remorse and insight are abstract concepts, which do not lend themselves to operationalized definitions or measurement. therefore, any opinions regarding remorse and insight are subjective in nature, and should be interpreted with . robinson noted that, although davidson insisted he felt remorse for the murder of his adopted mother, he any genuine emotions or dr. robinson observed that davidson lity and factors that contributed to his life crime, noting that overall risk assessment low-moderate boldface omitted.) 7 b. august 2013 comprehensive risk assessment an updated comprehensive risk assessment of davidson was conducted in july 2013, by c. clarizio, psy.d. addressing steps taken in behaviors were callous and impulsive in the past. the association between past and future criminal behavior tends to decrease as the value of the rewards for pro-social behavior increases. it appears that mr. davidson has come to recognize the inerrant rewards surrounding pro-social behaviors and associations and appeared to have worked diligently during his incarceration to understand himself in a more comprehensive when asked how his life might have turned out had he not gone to prison, davidson told dr. clarizio that he would either have committed suicide or tried to run away. he said that, although he had not planned to kill his mother on the day he did so, ave continued davidson accepted personal responsibility for the crime, expressed empathy for he expressed these sentiments without emotion or the noticeable changes in behavior or affect one would expect from someone reporting such feelings of guilt and remorse. notwithstanding his flat affect, dr. clarizio ared to have gained insight into his prior [stood] himself in a 14. dr. clarizio also observed that mr. . . . accept[ance] [of] mother. 8 c. november 2013 comprehensive risk assessment dr. clarizio conducted a second psychological assessment in november 2013, following the enactment of the youthful offender act (sen. bill no. 260) which requires that, in determining his suitability for parole, great weight be given to the fact that davidson was a juvenile when he committed his offense.2 (sen. bill no. 260 (20132014 reg. sess.)  15.) dr. clarizio observed that davidson, then 32 years old, had no history and displayed no evidence of mental illness or mood disorders. other than the murder of his mother, davidson had no history of serious, spontaneous violence or impulsivity either in the free community or in prison. she also observed, however, that topics that were being discussed. specifically, his affective expressions remained un-appeared to meet the ack of empathy, as evidenced by physical fights he engaged in while noted that davidson ponsibility for the life crime as well as voicing feelings of remorse and empathy for the victim. however, he did not express these feelings though behavioral observations (i.e., there were minimal fluctuations in his tone and no noticed changes in his affect or behavior when speaking about the victim or the crime as one would expect from someone reporting feelings of guilt and remorse), he made few statements reflecting his reported feelings of remorse and empathy for the 2 specifically, senate bill no. 260, now codified at new section 3051, and amended sections 3041, 3046 and 4801 of the penal code, provides in pertinent part that, a prisoner committed his or her controlling offense, as defined in subdivision (a) suitability for parole . . . , shall give great weight to the diminished culpability of juveniles as compared to adults, the hallmark features of youth, and any subsequent ( 4801, subd. (c).) we discuss senate bill no. 260 at length below. 9 victim and his statements often appeared rehearsed and superficial. hence, this ent evaluator as well as the 2010 evaluator both noted a significant lack of emotion. mr. davidson was asked when the last time he cried was. he [3] all things considered, it appeared that he does regret committing the life crime; however, these feelings of regret appear to have stemmed from his own loss, rather than the loss to the victim and her family. his consistent with her prior observations and those of dr. robinson, dr. clarizio peared to present with a general lack of concern for the negative consequences that his actions (criminal and non-he [did] not appear to be genuinely experiencing those emotions as his behavioral cues specific context of the senate bill no. ements, dr. clarizio observed: the undersigned considered the diminished culpability of juveniles compared to adults, the hallmark features of youth and any subsequent growth or increased maturity of mr. davidson since his commitment offense during his time in prison. controlling offense as a juvenile, he demonstrated immaturity, impulsiveness and 3 dr. clari-conducive to 10 recklessness. he appeared to have an underdeveloped sense of responsibility, a lessened ability to anticipate and appreciate consequences of his actions and an extreme susceptibility to negative peer influences. these characteristics alone (devoid the commitment offense) are not necessarily atypical of juveniles. he acted as a 14 year old counselors try to help me, but each time i refused. once i feared child protective services and of being displaced again. another time, i had a friend that was in the same situation, tion to his peers with he participated in self help groups, has received no recent disciplinary/behavioral reports and has presented with no documented violent behaviors since the life crime. he was able to relate an adequate understanding of the life crime and what factors he believed led him to that point. hence, a number of risk factors appear to have been ameliorated by growth and maturity; a personality characteristic which was clearly underdeveloped at the time of the controlling offense. all things considered, mr. davidson appeared to have psychologically matured during his incarceration. it is opined that if mr. davidson had the coping skills he developed as an adult, he may have chose [sic] a different option rather than murder. conversely, his narcissistic personality and lack of empathy after considering all the data, dr. clarizio ultimately concluded that davidson -moderate or slightly elevated risk of violence if released into the free (boldface and italics omitted.) that risk could be decreased further if, among other things, davidson developed better insight into aspects of his personality that 11 may have contributed to his concerned that the lack of insight, coupled with davidson [of recidivism] more significantly than any other factor . . . treatment. parole board hearings a. 2011 parole hearing -member panel in february 2011. in a split decision following that hearing, the majority acknowledged that davidson had an unblemished disciplinary history in prison, and had completed his high school education, as well as some college and vocational courses. he f in all kinds of substance abuse and self help programs, and taken just about every program . . . ] seen so many positive documents in a folder about post-evaluating the required criteria (cal. code regs., tit. 15,  2402), the majority determined davidson would pose an unreasonable risk of danger to society or a threat to public safety if released from prison, and was not yet suitable for parole. in reaching its conclusion, the majority noted that its greatest concern was with dr. aking about the life crime, ion . . . rehearsed and flat and void evidence just about every single element of suitability [for parole] that [the panel was] crime, the dissent believed his acts of contrition reflected his level of remorse, and the . . . , gnashing [his] teeth or ripping [his] 12 . . . . it was very difficult for [the commissioner] to understand how [he could] not consider [davidson] a different man today than [he was] when [he was] 14 years o unless ained vulnerable to experience similar dynamics in future relationships, which could increase -blooded killing of [his] own mother and the b. 2014 parole hearing accordance with senate bill no. 260. pursuant to that act, the board conducted its [e] great weight to the diminished culpability of juveniles as . . . compared to adults, the hallmark features of youth and any the board concluded that davidson posed no unreasonable risk of danger to society or threat to public safety, and was therefore eligible for parole. addressing the specific factors considered in reaching its conclusion, the board noted that as a 14 year unsophisticated reasoning ability, susceptibility to peer pressure, and stress as a result of his conflicts and difficult relationship with his mother contributed to his flawed decision to take her life. the board also noted that davidson, who was 34 at the time of the hearing, had no history of other crime or violence either before or during his 20 years in custody. in reaching its decision, the board said it applied great weight to several aspects of rebelliousness, the inability fully to appreciate the consequences of his crime, and his age, 13 isolation and emotional immaturity at the time of the crime. the board noted that mother with whom he had had experienced major and minor friction since age four. nature at age 14, the board concluded davidson had since developed the understanding and ability to respond more appropriately in a future relationship involving a similar dynamic. the board also noted that another particular hallmark of youth is the inability to of his mother, the 14-year-old davidson was unable to grasp the consequences of such a crime, not just in terms of his prosecution for murder, but also the impact on his father, the benefit of interactions with other individuals at various junctures which might have the board relied heavily on the evaluations performed by drs. robinson and clarizio to support its findings. in her december 2013 assessment, dr. clarizio n underdeveloped sense of responsibility, a lessened ability to anticipate and appreciate consequences of his actions and an extreme susceptibility to year old, davidson and, unlike them, unable to brush things off. 14 the panel also focused on the fact that during both parole hearings and in his . . . [was forthright in our discussion with him. during our deliberation, we discussed, as apparently previous panels and clinicians have as well, mr. davidwhich is somewhat unemotional. it was commented upon by several of his supporters today.[4] asked. we could, faced with an environment such as this hearing room with a father observing everything and subject matter which is sensitive and difficult and highly emotional, that order to effectively communicate that emotion and the material at hand. and in this case, later, focusing specifically on the issue of remorse, one commissioner stated: would also like to make a few comments about remorse. it came up as a topic during the course of the hearing. and i think remorse is an important factor, one that points towards doubt about it. and how i get to that conclusion, when i see somebody who is truly remorseful, i see it accompanied by true change. and you talked about your commitment to heading in a positive direction. you spent some time talking to me about that. and offense. and from that, you were led to this commitment you told me about. and more than just telling me about it, your actions evidence it clearly . . . . that was abundantly 4 show. and so far as his remorse for what he did, when he committed this crime and every sunday after church i would go to the juvenile hall to visit him, and we would sit down and talk and cry together. . . . and [davidson] just broke down and started crying. so he doeshe has shown remorse . . . 15 clear to me. and all of that together tells me you were truly committed to moving in a positive direction and as a direct result of the remorse you reversal addressed the task before him, stating: mr. davidson will pose a current danger to the public if released from prison. the circumstances of the crime can provide evidence of current dangerousness when the - or post-incarceration history, state, indicate that the circumstances of the crime remain probative of current dangerousness. (in re lawrence[, supra,] 44 cal.4th [at p.] juveniles as compared to adults, the hallmark features of youth, and any subsequent suitability for parole. (pen. code,  4801, subd. the governor affirmed the existence of most of the positive factors the board incarceration, lack of juvenile violent crime, stable social history while incarcerated, staff support, participation in self-help programs, positive social relationships in prison and in the community, lack of rules violations, and the significant stress in his life at the time of addressing the requirements of section 4801, subdivision (c), the governor went on to state: only 14 when he committed this crime. if he was less than a year younger when he committed the murder, he could not have been tried as an adult and would already be released from custody. his biological mother abused drugs and alcohol during her pregnancy and mr. davidson tested positive for drugs when he was born and had delayed development. for the first three years of his life, he lived in foster homes. he was finally adopted by tinann and william davidson when he was three years old. by mr. 16 somewhat smothering. she isolated him from others and did not draw appropriate boundaries. the two had frequent conflicts, which were apparently buffered by his leaving his father in los angeles. the prospect of living only with his mother made him feel trapped and hopeless. he was ill-equipped to deal with their difficult relationship because of his age and emotional immaturity and considered committing suicide to escape. ultimately, he decided to murder his mother. since he has been incarcerated, mr. davidson has done well. he has never been disciplined for any misconduct during his nearly 18 years of incarceration. he has participated in therapy and his father and other surviving family members have been supportive. mr. davidson has made progress on his educational and vocational training and receives positive work ratings. he participated in and facilitated many self-help groups. i commend him for making these diminished culpability, the challenges he attempted to resolve through this crime, and his negative factors on which he relied to find that davidson remained unsuitable for parole and would pose an unreasonable danger to society if released. specifically, the governor remained evidence the type of emotion that is consistent with empathy and remorse. he has had three psychological evaluations and has participated in two parole suitability hearings. emotion.5 these evaluations give me pause, especially in the context of 5 isible signs of regret, guilt, or emotion as he spoke 17 mr. so. many children experience similar conflicts with their parents and struggle with their inability to change their circumstances or escape the control of their parents. but it is extraordinarily rare for a child to seriously contemplate killing a parent as a solution and even more rare to carry out the murder. the 2013 psychologist opined that mr. scussing this crime . . discussion davidson contends that the reasons on which the governor relied in reversing the t dangerousness, and failed to accord great weight to his youth at the time of the murder. before we turn to these contentions, some legal background is necessary. 1. controlling legal principles. a. recent developments in law beginning with graham v. florida (2010) 560 u.s. 48 [130 s.ct. 2011, 176 l.ed.2d 825] (graham), followed by miller v. alabama (2012) 567 u.s. ___ [132 s.ct. 2455, 183 l.ed.2d 407] (miller), and concluding with people v. caballero (2012) 55 cal.4th 262 (caballero), the united states and california supreme courts have explored, in light of the constitutional prohibitions on cruel and/or unusual punishment, the limits graham, the united demeanor . . . d guilt and feelings of remorse for the life crime, he [did] not appear to be genuinely experiencing these emotions as his behavioral cues were incongruent after his 2014 emotional person . . . 18 states supreme court concluded that the constitution prohibits the imposition of an lwop sentence on a juvenile offender for any crime other than homicide. (graham, at p. 48.) thereafter, in miller, supra, 567 u.s. at p.___ [183 l.ed.2d 407], the supreme court, noting that a mandatory lwop sentence is the harshest penalty constitutionally available for juveniles, concluded that a sentencing court may only impose lwop on a children are different. (id. at pp. 424, 426.) specifically, the sentencing court must among them, immaturity, impetuosity, and failure to appreciate risks and consequencesthat are indicative of lesser culpability and greater capacity for change compared to adults. (id. at p. 423.) the court must consider, in an individualized way, the nature of the offender and mental and emotional development, and the possibility of rehabilitation). (id. at pp. 421423.)6 in caballero, supra, 55 cal.4th 262, the california supreme court summarized the miller holding children are different, and how those differences counsel against irrevocably sentencing 6 the miller courts summary of its holding explains the meaning of mandatory life without parole for a juvenile precludes consideration of his chronological age and its hallmark featuresamong them, immaturity, impetuosity, and failure to appreciate risks and consequences. it prevents taking into account the family and home environment that surrounds himand from which he cannot usually extricate himselfno matter how brutal or dysfunctional. it neglects the circumstances of the homicide offense, including the extent of his participation in the conduct and the way familial and peer pressures may have affected him. indeed, it ignores that he might have been charged and convicted of a lesser offense if not for incompetencies associated with youthfor example, his inability to deal with police officers or prosecutors (including on a plea agreement) or his incapacity to assist his own attorneys. [citations.] and finally, this mandatory punishment disregards the possibility o (miller, supra, 567 u.s. at p. ___ [183 l.ed.2d at pp. 422423].) 19 (miller, supra, 567 u.s. at p. ___ [132 s.ct. at p. 2469] (caballero, at p. 268, fn. 4.) caballero was not a homicide case. rather, it concluded that graham, supra, 560 u.s. 48 and miller applied to a de facto (functionally equivalent) lwop sentence of 110 years to life imposed on a 16yearold convicted of three counts of attempted murder. (caballero, at pp. 265, 268269.) the caballero cgrahams analysis does not focus on the precise sentence meted out. cted lifetime. (graham, supra, 560 u.s. at p. ___ [130 s.ct. at p. 2034 (caballero, at p. 268.eligibility mechanism that provides a defendant serving a de facto life sentence without possibility of parole for nonhomicide crimes that he or she committed as a juvenile with id. at p. 269, fn. 5.) by focusing on the differences between adult and juvenile offenders, graham, supra, 560 u.s. 48, miller, supra, 567 u.s.___ and caballero, supra, 55 cal.4th 262 stress the need for courts consider these differences when sentencing juvenile offenders. these cases tell us that a sentence that fails to afford a juvenile offender a meaningful opportunity to obtain release on parole within his or her lifetime constitutes cruel and unusual punishment under the eighth amendment. senate bill 260 was enacted as a direct response to those cases to provide an opportunity for a juvenile offender sentenced to prison for specific crimes to be released on parole irrespective of the sentence imposed by the trial court. (sen. bill no. 260 (20132014 reg. sess.)  4, p. 7; see  3051, subd. (h) [identifying exemptions from section].) senate bill no. 260 provides, in pertinent part, supreme court in miller[, supra, 567 u.s. ___] proportion of adolescents 20 brain in the legislature recognizes that youthfulness both lessens a juveniles moral culpability and enhances the prospect that, as a youth matures into an adult and neurological development occurs, these individuals can become contributing members of society. the purpose of this act is to establish a parole eligibility mechanism that provides a person serving a sentence for crimes that he or she committed as a juvenile the opportunity to obtain release when he or she has shown that he or she has been rehabilitated and gained maturity, in accordance with the decision of the california supreme court in [caballero, supra,] 55 cal.4th 262 and the decisions of the united states supreme court in [graham, supra,] 560 u.s. 48 and [miller, supra,] 183 l.ed.2d 407 (sen. bill no. 260 (20132014 reg. sess.)  1, pp. 23.) senate bill no. 260 provides an opportunity for a juvenile offender to be released on parole irrespective of the sentence imposed by the trial court by requiring the board to conduct to consider the release of juvenile offenders sentenced to prison for specified crimes. new section 3051 provides that juvenile offenders sentenced to life terms of less than 25 years to life shall receive a hearing during his or her 20th year of incarceration ( regulations and adopt new regulations regarding determinations of suitability made pursuant to this section, subdivision (c) of section 4801, and other related topics, consistent with relevant case law . . . ibid.) further, any psychological evaluations employed by the board and shall take into consideration the diminished culpability of juveniles as compared to that of adults, the hallmark features of youth, and any ( 3051, subd. (f)(1).) in conducting youthful offender parole hearings under section 3051, the board is required to t to the diminished culpability of juveniles as compared to adults, the 21 hallmark features of youth, and any subsequent growth and increased maturity of the the new procedures created by senate bill no. 260 ensure that prisoners such as davidson, who were juveniles at the time they committed their life crimes, get the benefit of the type of evaluation compelled by miller, supra, 567 u.s.___, graham, supra, 560 u.s. 48 and caballero, supra, 55 cal.4th 262 at a point in time that gives them a (graham, at p. 75.) b. parole determinations by the board and governor ng whether to grant parole is whether the inmate shaputis ii, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 220). whether a life prisoner may sid. at p. 215.) release on parole is the rule, rather than the exception. (lawrence, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 1204.) when determining whether an inmate is suitable for parole, the board considers a variety of regulatory factors, as well as any additional reliable and relevant information as guidelines 7 (shaputis ii, supra, 53 7 circumstances that tend to establish unsuitability for parole include that the prisoner (1) committed the offense in an especially heinous, atrocious, or cruel manner; (2) has a previous record of violence; (3) has an unstable social history; (4) has sexually assaulted another individual in a sadistic manner; (5) has a lengthy history of severe mental problems related to the offense; and (6) has engaged in serious misconduct while in prison or jail. (cal. code regs., tit. 15,  2402, subd. (c); lawrence, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 1202, fn. 7; in re rosenkrantz (2002) 29 cal.4th 616, 653654 (rosenkrantz).) circumstances tending to show suitability for parole include that the prisoner (1) does not have a juvenile record of assaulting others or committing crimes with the potential of personal harm to victims; (2) has a stable social history; (3) has shown signs of remorse; (4) committed the crime as the result of significant stress in his or her life, especially if the stress built up over a long period; (5) committed the crime as a result of battered woman syndrome; (6) lacks any significant history of violent crime; (7) is of an age that reduces the probability of recidivism; (8) has made realistic plans for release, or 22 cal.4th at pp. 218219; cal. code regs., tit. 15,  2402, subds. (c), (d); lawrence, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 1202, fn. 7.) in determining the suitability for parole of a youthful culpability of juveniles as compared to adults, the hallmark features of youth, and any subsequent growth and increased maturity of the prisoner in accordance with relevant only as general guidelines. (shaputis ii, at p. 218; cal. code regs., tit. 15,  2402, subds. (c.), (d).) [t]he importance attached to any circumstance or combination of circumstances in a particular case is left to the judgment of the panel.shaputis ii, at p. 218.) when the board determines an inmate convicted of murder is suitable for parole, the governor has the constitutional authority to conduct an independent review of the code,  3041.2; shaputis ii, supra, 53 cal.4th at pp. 215, 221; lawrence, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 1203.) the governor may affirm, modify, or reverse the decision based on the same factors which the board is required to consider. (cal. const., art. v,  8, subd. (b); see pen. code,  considered and balanced lies within the discretion of the governor . . . . [citation.] although board in rendering its parole decision [citation], the governor undertakes an has developed marketable skills that can be put to use upon release; and (9) has engaged in institutional activities suggesting an enhanced ability to function within the law upon release. (cal.code regs., tit. 15,  2402, subd. (d); lawrence, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 1203, fn. 8; rosenkrantz, supra, 29 cal.4th at p. 654.) 23 ]. thus, the governor has discretion to be more stringent or cautious in determining whether a defendant poses an unreasonable risk to public safety. (lawrence, supra, 44 cal.4th 1181, 1204.in re vicks (2013) 56 cal.4th 274, 297298, fn. omitted (vicks); in re shaputis (2008) 44 cal.4th 1241, 1258 (shaputis i); in re prather (2010) 50 cal.4th 238, 257, fn. 12 (prather).) c. appellate review scrutiny: a court decisions is public safety . . .e supports the decision of the board or the governor that the inmate constitutes a current threat to public safety, and not merely whether some evidence confirms the existence of citation]. and the weight to be given the evidence are matters within the authority of [the board or] the governor. . . . [t]he precise manner in which the specified factors relevant to parole suitability are considered and balanced lies within the discretion of [the board or] the governor . . . . vicks, supra, 56 cal.4th at pp. 298299.) the california supreme court has emphasizesome evidencestandard is extremely deferential. (shaputis ii, supra, 53 cal.4th at pp. 198199.) essential question in deciding whether to grant parole is whether the inmate currently (id. at p. 220.) the reviewing court must focus on whether there exists some evidence demonstrating the inmate poses a current threat to public safety, not just whether there is some evidence to support the suitability factors. (id. at p. 209; prather, supra, 50 cal.4th at pp. 251252; lawrence, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 1191.) shaputis ii, inmate serving an indeterminate sentence is a decision vested in the executive branch, 24 id. at pp. 198199, 215.) thsome evidenceprocess by guarding against arbitrary or capricious parole decisions without overriding or controlling the exercise of executive discretion. (id. at p. 199.) t] interpretation of the evidence must be upheld if it is reasonable, in the sense that it is not arbitrary, and reflects due consideration of the relevant factors. (id. at p. 212.) r]some evidencemore deferential than substantial id. at p. 210.) o]nly a modicum of evidence is required. (ibid.; rosenkrantz, supra, 29 cal.4th at p. 677; lawrence, at p. 1233.) although appellate review is extremely deferential, it is not toothless,must be sufficiently robust to reveal and remedy any evident deprivation of constitutional rights. (shaputis ii, at p. 215; lawrence, at p. 1210.) we do not ask whether the inmate is currently dangerous. that question is reserved for the executive branch. rather, the court considers whether there is a rational nexus between the evidence and the ultimate determination of current dangerousness. (shaputis ii, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 220.) the nexus to current dangerousness is critical. lawrence and shaputis i clarified that in evaluating a parole-suitability determination by either the board or the governor, a reviewing court focuses upon some evidence supporting the core statutory determination that a prisoner remains a current threat to public safetynot merely some evidence prather, supra, 50 cal.4th at pp. 251252or nonexistence of suitability or unsuitability factors that forms the crux of the parole decision; the significant circumstance is how those factors lawrence, supra, 44 cal.4th probative of the central issue of current dangerousness when considered in light of the prather, supra, 50 cal.4th at p. 255.) 25 it bears repeating that resolution of evidentiary conflicts and the weight the evidence is to be accorded are matters for the board or governor, not us. we must uphold the interpretation of the evidence if it is reasonable in the sense that it is not arbitrary, and reflects due consideration of the relevant factors. (shaputis ii, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 212.) it does not matter that we might conclude that the evidence tending to establish suitability outweighs contrary evidence. (id. at p. 210; rosenkrantz, supra, 29 cal.4th at p. 677; lawrence, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 1204.) it is leads to but one conclusion may a cou(shaputis ii, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 211, italics added.) with these standards in mind, we review the reversal and explain our conclusion n that davidson remains a current danger if released. 2. the governor considered the appropriate factors and his reversal is supported by at least a modicum of evidence. davidson argues the governor erred in concluding he currently poses an unreasonable conclusion is speculative, bears no relation to his current dangerousness and fails to accord great weight to the fact that he was 14 years old when he committed the offense. nd, notwithstanding his claim that he felt remorse, even 18 years after committing arents, and struggle against their inability to change their circumstances or escape parental contemplate killing a parent as a solution and even more rare to carry ou 26 recitation of the circumstances of the commitment offense, absent articulation of a rational nexus between those facts and current dangerousness, fails to provide the lawrence, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 1227.) however, as the governor correctly observed, the circumstances of the crime can provide evidence of current dangerousness when the record also establishes that - or postincarceration history, demeanor and mental state, indicate that the circumstances of the crime remain probative of current dangerousness. (id. at p. 1214.) the governor did not merely recount the details of the crime in concluding davidson remained too dangerous for release. on the . . . ity, the challenges concluded he continued to pose an unreasonable risk of danger to the public. the psychologistse killing as disingenuous and not credible. both drs. robinson and clarizio expressed consistent . noting that lack of insight is one of the predictors of poor outcomes, dr. robinson also cautioned that remorse and insight are abstract concepts, which do not lend themselves to operationalized definition remorse and insight are as the supreme court made clear in shaputis ii, supra, 53 cal.4th 192, s degree of insight is well within the scope of the parole consider the inmatesubd. (shaputis ii, at p. 218.) 27 between the inmate's dangerous past behavior and the ibid.) expressions of remorse. he pointed to three psychological evaluations in which failed to convey any genuine emotion or credible remorse. panel members from both display of emotion, with the 2011 panel concluding davidson demonstrated a complete the governor did acknowledge that h . . 8 the governor acknowledged the significant strides davidson made to improve himself during his incarceration, but found them outweighed by negative factors demonstrating he was not dr. other facand lack of emp g regulations involves 8 mmitted this crime and every sunday after church i would go to the juvenile hall to visit him, and we would sit down and talk and cry together. . . . and [davidson] just broke down and started crying. so he doeshe davidson himself told dr. clarizio in late 2013 that, although he had recently 28 an assessment of an inmates current (lawrence, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 1205.) the critical question for us is whether our review of the whole record reveals at least a modicum of evidencenot merely supposition or speculationto support the conveying true remorse demonstrate that he remains a threat to public safety. (id. at p. 1213.) as long as the . . . decision reflects due consideration of the specified factors as applied to the individual prisoner in accordance with applicable legal standards, [our] review is limited to ascertaining whether there is some evidence in the record that supports the . . . s.]shaputis ii, supra, 53 cal.4th at p. 210.) a. the record three risk assessments were conducted for davidson in conjunction with his 2011 and 2014 parole hearings. both reviewing psychologists agreed davidson was narcissistic, disingenuous in his presentation, and failed convincingly to demonstrate behaved in a self-was somewhat restricted and self- answer for virtually every question posed; however, his responses had a superficial, rote quality to them that was she observed that, nd remorse for his past choices . . . [he] failed to relate that quality in a credible manner. his empathy appeared to be more for himself thconcluded davidson would pose a low to moderate risk for violent recidivism if released. dr. clarizio voiced similar concern after her first evaluation of davidson in 2013. she noted that, al. . . -absorbed presentation. none 29 . . . emotional expressions was limited and incongruent with the topics that were being after her second evaluation of davidson, dr. clarizio concluded he presented a low to moderate danger of violent recidivism. explaining her conclusion, dr. clarizio his continued failure to show any remorse for having murdered his mother. dr. clarizio was also troubled by the fact that, although davidson had provided a comprehensive understanding. she believed davidson might be manipulativsignificant problem when applying for e consistent with prior evaluations, dr. clarizio noted that davidson continued to culty recognizing the desires, subjective stemmed from his own loss, rather tdr. the negative consequences that his actions (criminal and non-criminal) had on nd feelings of remorse for the life crime, he does not appear to be genuinely experiencing those emotions . . . and appeared indifferent to the feelings of dr. clarizio acknowledged that davidson was only 14 at the time of the murder, and noted tgrowth and 30 speaking about the murder of his mother. this factor alone appeared to raise his risk [of violent recidivism] more significantly than any other factor and should couple his treatme hearings remarked on his lack of emotion or remorse. in 2011, one majority panel the moreover, except when he spoke about his . . . [was] somewhat unemot n of the evidence and undertakes an independent, de novo review of whether an inmate is suitable for parole. (lawrence, supramore stringent or cautious in determining whether a defendant poses an unreasonable risk to (ibid.) the evidentiary record before us is one from which the governor reasonably could conclude either that davidson did or that he did not convey genuine . . . evidentin re shigemura (2012) 210 cal.app.4th 440, 457.) the pivotal question for us is whether the record contains at least a modicum of evidence tthat davidson posed a current danger to public safety. (shaputis ii, supra, 53 ca1.4th at p. 221.) it does. ion that he continued to pose an unreasonable risk of the commitment offense, absent articulation of a rational nexus between those facts and current dangerousness, 31 lawrence, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 1227.) here, however, the governor grisly details of her murder in concluding davidson remained too dangerous for release. rather, as the governor explained in accordance with lawrence, davidson remained - or postincarceration history, or in [his] current demeanor and mental state, indicate[d] that the circumstances of the crime remain[ed] probative the governor specifically pointed to lacked emotion, a concern shared by both board panels. the governor agreed that lack of emotion about the murder of his mother, and provide the requisite nexurecidivism.9 weight to the diminished culpability of juveniles as compared to adults, the hallmark features of youth, and any subsequent growth and increased maturity of the prisoner in shaputis ii, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 1258 [parole authorities, subject to the same standards, must give great weight to these factors]; see also rosenkrantz, supra, 29 cal.4th at p. 660.) resolve through 9 interpretation lacks merit. by their nature, parole decisions always involve some degree of subjective evaluation. (shaputis ii, suprave analysis whether the inmate will be able to live in society without committing additional 32 volatile relationship with his mother. he observed that, as a young teen, davidson was -equipped to deal with their difficult relationship because of his age and emotional however, the governor alsand struggle with their inability to change their circumstances or escape the control of and even [fewer] . . . . eighteen years after that event davidson had made impressive efforts to rehabilitate, but consistently failed to express genuine remorse for that crime or empathy for the victim or her family. the empathy and sharecidivism] more significantly than any other factor. emotional immaturity at the time of the crime, and the fact that his crime was not the result of youthful impetuosity, but a cold-blooded murder carried out after years of calculated planning. he also reviewed materials indicating that, as a child, davidson had failed to appreciate the consequences of his crime. (see miller, supra, 567 u.s. at p. ___ [183 l.ed.2d at p. 423].) davidson faults the governor for not acknowledginemotion would be . . . prison, an environment unconducive to the expression of emotion. this criticism is that davidson, who had been incarcerated for 18 years, had a history of not displaying emotion both before and during his incarceration. to the extent that davidson argues the governor should be 33 faulted for failing to acknowledge the specific connection between his lack of emotion and the nature of prison life, it is unclear how the governor would be aware of this explanation. davidson made no such claim during his parole hearings or to his evaluators. rather, when asked why he showed no emotion in discussing his crime, speculates that this is the case but, apart from dr. environment may be seen as nonconductive to showing emotion, the record contains no evidence linking the impact of years of life incarcerated disinclination or inability to express emotion. we cannot ascertain on this cold record that the prison environment, person.10 the governor focused squarely and appropriately on whether davidson demonstrated rehabilitation, the effect of his consistently unempathic flat affect and lack public safety if paroled. (lawrence, supra, 44 cal.4th at p. 1220, fn. 19 [parole statutes litation as an integral element of a enate bill no. 260, the legislature shaputis ii, supra,] 53 cal.4th 192, [lawrence, supra,] 44 cal.4th 1181, and 2014 reg. sess.)  1.) senate bill no. record contains evidence a prisoner continues to pose an unreasonable risk of danger to the public. in compliance with senate bill no. 260, the governor acknowledged and 10 diminished by prison life. in 2010 and 2013, respectively, davidson described his mood [ied] 34 hallmark features of youth. notwithstanding those considerations, the governor concluded davidson was not yet sufficiently rehabilitated to justify his release from prison. davidson has failed to demonstrate entitlement to habeas relief. accordingly, his petition is denied. disposition the petition for writ of habeas corpus is denied. not to be published. johnson, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. bendix, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 