filed 2/5/16 p. v. andrews ca2/6 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. steven shane andrews, defendant and appellant. b258671 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka095723) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, mike camacho, judge. affirmed. verna wefald, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and david e. madeo, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ____________________________________ 2 a jury convicted defendant and appellant steven andrews, a middle school teacher, of more than a dozen sex offenses involving a 14-year-old female student. the trial court sentenced andrews to an aggregate term of 15 years and 8 months in state prison. we trial court erred in (1) denying his motion to recuse the entire ; (2) deciding not to discharge a seated juror for bias; and (3) giving a flight instruction. the judgment is affirmed. facts background andrews taught history and served as the director of the associated student body (asb) programs at lorbeer middle school in pomona. he turned 40 years old early in the 2010-2011 school year. the victim, antonia doe, turned 14 years old in april 2011 and was nearing the end of eighth grade. she had taken history with andrews in seventh grade, and, during the second semester of seventh grade and in eighth grade, also participated in his asb class. throughout the same time frame, antonia felt emotionally confused and insecure because her parents were having marital problems, and she and her mother had moved out of the family home. antonia trusted andrews, and started discussing her personal life with him. eventually, the relationship moved onto kissing and touching. about may 2011, andrews and antonia started a sexual relationship that continued over the next several months and which is described in more detail below. counts 12 through 17 (sexual penetration by foreign object and lewd acts upon a child occurring during may 2011)1 a few weeks after her birthday in april 2011, andrews asked antonia if their relationship . initially, andrews kissed antonia briefly, but then the physical touching progressed, with antonia allowing andrews to 1 we identify the counts as numbered in the information and the abstract of judgment, serially beginning with count 2. the counts were numbered slightly differently on the verdict forms submitted to the jury (serially beginning with count 1, rather than, as noted, beginning with count 2). the numbering of the counts on the jury verdict forms appears to have been for sake of clarity for the jury at trial. 3 touch her breasts over her clothing. they started having physical contact a few times a week in his classroom and the gym. then, sometime around mid-may, andrews and antonia met behind a curtain in the gym during the lunch break. the gym was locked at lunchtime, but andrews had the key. on this occasion, andrews kissed antonia more intensely, and put his hands up her shirt and down the front of her pants. on another occasion around mid-may, when they were in his classroom during lunch, andrews asked antonia if she wanted to touch his erection. he unbuckled his pants and led her hand down to his penis. antonia pulled down her shorts and underwear, and he rubbed his penis over her vagina.2 after the occasion in his classroom noted immediately above, andrews and antonia started a continuing relationship involving sexual conduct. they would meet in the gym, either at lunchtime or after school. during this time, andrews put his fingers inside on several occasions. as the sexual relationship developed, antonia thought she loved andrews and thought of him as her boyfriend. he told her that he was going to divorce his wife and marry her after she finished high school. andrews wrote antonia a letter for her eighth-grade graduation. he wrote that he loved her and wanted to be with her. he also gave her a shirt, a sweatshirt, and a necklace.3 count 11 (unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor under the age of 16 years) during the course of the events summarized above, andrews and antonia began talking about having sexual intercourse. andrews told antonia that he did not want her to lose her virginity in his classroom. 2 at trial, antonia descrshe testified that he was not from dermatitis on his face and genitals. 3 an investigation, antonia gave the gifts she had received from andrews to deputies. 4 on may 26, 2011, andrews and antonia made arrangements to go to his house to have sex. the plan was for her to be dropped at school by her mother, but not to go to her classes, and he would meet her and drive her to his house in his truck. the plan fell apart when andrews got delayed with work. andrews told antonia to go to her early classes, then leave and go to his truck in the school parking lot. at around 11:00 a.m., antonia went to truck and hid in the backseat so she would not be seen. andrews showed up about five minutes later, and drove antonia to his house, where they had sexual intercourse.4 andrews told antonia that he loved her. as andrews was driving antonia back to school, lorbeerprincipal, krystana walks-harper, called andrews and asked if he knew where antonia was. andrews said that he did not know and that he had not seen her recently. about 10 minutes later, andrews called walks-harper and said that he had located antonia and had convinced her to go back to school. andrews dropped antonia off at a park near the school, and he drove to the school and met up with walks-harper. meanwhile, antonia walked back to the school where she met up with walks-harper and andrews who were waiting at a corner of the school grounds. they andrews asked to remain with antonia while walks-harper spoke to her about her absence. antonia said she left school because she was getting bullied by ting her. after andrews stepped out, antonia told walks-harper that everything was fine. walks-harper excused antonia to go back to her classes.5 4 on this occasion and others, andrews ejaculated inside antonia; he told her that she did not need to worry about getting pregnant because he had a vasectomy. during his trial testimony, andrews testified that he had, in fact, had a vasectomy; the testimony was given when he explained that it had caused a problem with his testicle which caused him pain during sex. 5 andrews later told antonia that walks-harper had subsequently asked him if he and antonia were doing anything, and that he had said no. 5 following the sexual intercourse offense on may 26, 2011, antonia and andrews had phone sex about once a week. further, she began to write down in a journal the remember the days that [they] did it counts 8, 9 and 10 (oral copulation, sexual penetration by foreign object and unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor under the age of 16 years) on june 20, 2011, graduation field trip to disneyland. antonia and andrews made plans to go to a hotel room on the day of the field trip. before antonia got on the bus, andrews gave her a cell phone so that they could communicate without anyone knowing. after spending time with her classmates, antonia had free time without a chaperone. andrews texted antonia that he would meet her in an hour. he picked her up outside the disneyland gate, and took her to the alpine inn near the park where they had sexual intercourse.6 andrews put his tongue and his finger inside her vagina. afterward, andrews took antonia back to disneyland and she rejoined her classmates. counts 6 and 7 (unlawful sexual intercourse and sexual penetration by foreign object with a minor under the age of 16 years) on july 26, 2011, around noon, andrews called antonia and asked her to meet him at decker park. she walked to the park and met andrews at his parked truck. they had sexual intercourse in his truck and he put his finger inside her vagina. counts 4 and 5 (unlawful sexual intercourse and oral copulation with a minor under the age of 16 years) on august 5, 2011, andrews and antonia arranged another meeting. she told her andrews picked her up near her house. they drove to a best western hotel in diamond bar where they had sexual intercourse 6 andrews made a reservation for a room at the alpine inn in person on june 6, 2011, two weeks before the disneyland field trip. he pre-paid for a room with a cash deposit. he checked into the hotel at about 1:30 p.m. on june 20, 2011. 6 and she put her mouth on his penis.7 afterward, andrews drove antonia back to her street near her house. count 3 (unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor under the age of 16 years) on august 17, 2011, andrews drove to location near house at about 5:30 a.m., picked her up and drove to decker park where they parked. they talked for a few minutes, and then andrews said that he was they had sexual intercourse in his truck. count 2 (unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor under the age of 16 years) in september 2011, antonia started ninth grade year at diamond ranch high school, but remained in contact with andrews. on september 10, 2011, antonia called andrews and told him that she would be alone at her house for a couple of hours. at about noon, andrews parked across the street, and antonia let him in. they had sex in her bedroom. after having sex, they talked about whether they were going to continue their relationship with antonia being at another school. andrews told antonia that he was not going anywhere. antonia told andrews that it would probably be she was going to high school and would be busy with school activities, and needed to move on. she said their relationship was difficult because she had to hide it. he got mad and asked her why she did not text him during the day anymore. she began to feel ashamed and disgusted about the relationship. count 19 (possession of material depicting minors in sexual conduct) after andrews was arrested, police officials recovered his laptop computer. los detective thomas fortier examined the contents of 7 andrews pre-paid for the room with cash the day before. the front desk supervisor, mayur jatwani, who lived at the hotel, checked in andrews alone, on august immediately turned around and left quickly in the opposite direction. antonia ancestry is filipino and mexican. 7 the computer. it did not contain any photographs of antonia, but did contain six thumbnail photographs depicting female minors engaged in sexual activity. the investigation and other evidence the door was locked. he opened it with his key and found andrews and antonia inside, sitting together at a table. hutchinson became concerned and told andrews he should not be in a locked room with a student. hutchinson reported this incident to principal walks-harper. on the last day of the school year for teachers in june 2011, andrews told hutchinson that he (andrews) was cheating on his wife. during the same general time frame, andrews talked to hutchinson about wanting to transfer to diamond ranch high school. sometime around september 2011, andrewstold hutchinson that she was concerned about text messages that she hutchinson told principal walks-harper that he was concerned that andrews was texting antonia. hutchinson also asked his wife, who worked as a vice principal at another school, to speak to the student resource officer at her school, san bernardino county sheriff department deputy mary jean higgins, about the situation. because lorbeer is in los angeles county, deputy higgins relayed information about the concerns with andrews to the department (lasd). on september 28, 2011, lasd deputy talked to antonia in the office at diamond ranch high school. deputy thorn asked antonia if rumors that she and andrews were having a relationship were true. because she was scared and wanted to protect andrews, antonia said they were not true. after talking with the deputy, antonia left the office, went to a bathroom, and called andrews. she said that someone knew about their relationship and asked if he had told anyone. she said that a 8 deputy was going to his school. andrews had been at the lorbeer school early in the day; by the time deputy thorn arrived, he was not there. antonia went back to class, but after thinking that this was her opportunity to tell the truth, she went back to the office and asked a school official to call the deputy back. deputy thorn returned and asked antonia if she was ready to tell the truth, and she said yes. later during the day on september 28, 2011, andrews called hutchinson at the lorbeer school and asked if the police were looking for him. then, at around 6:30 p.m., andrews called hutchinson again and asked him to retrieve his laptop computer from his classroom so that it would not be stolen. hutchinson called deputy thorn, who asked hutchinson to hold computer for the deputies. on the evening of september 28, 2011, lasd special victims bureau detective interviewed antonia at her home. asked antonia to text and call andrews to see if he would admit that they had sex. starting at about 11:38 p.m., antonia and andrews had a text conversation that included the exchanges summarized here: antonia: u awake? andrews: somewhat. antonia: andrews: antonia: the cops came to school, d, hfrom them since, are u ok? andrews: ya, ive got to go into the district tomorrow and have a talking to as well, w. antonia: dad asking questions, but nothing serious. . . . andrews: ok i should find out tomorrow then who came after me with this. . . . 9 antonia: ok was it her, the o[?8] . . . andrews: no. i . . . not sure where this came from but somebody somewhere said something to someone and [they] had to check it out. antonia: hmm, like im still wondering who would even tipped someone? have you like told your attorney that weve made love? andrews: i talk with u . . . [] . . . just explain how nothings happened and its all rumors. antonia: friday anymore but we can talk on the phone? andrews: yes, but need some of the dust to settle here. find out tomorrow wtf was said about me and from whom. . . . [] . . . im gonna be extremely cautious tomorrow. u b too. antonia: babe . . . listen okay? i love you, i miss you. im sorry things are the way they are right now. i anything serious itll blow over like before . . . forever and a day?<? [] . . . [] andrews: . . . just this is serious with the district and the cops right now. i have to let them know nothing happened. i think the fact that u still have ur phone and i just more rumors. antonia: haha yes you being arrested is no bueno. . . ugh baby im tired :( can we talk real quick before i go to bed? andrews: ya call me.9 8 during their relationship, andrews used antonia. 9 the text messages summarized here were not presented at trial in a time-sequence order. 10 antonia then called andrews. their phone conversation was recorded and played for the jury at trial, and a transcript was provided to the jurors. the phone conversation included the exchanges summarized here: [antonia]: are you going to work tomorrow? [andrews]: [antonia]: oh. [andrews]en asking asking some questions and i want to find out said something that was they had to follow up on. [antonia]: oh, do you think someone like followed us to the motel? [andrews]: uhn-uhn. [] . . . [] [antonia]anything? [andrews]: no. no. [antonia]hy why now? like this is really random. [andrews]hool and you go and, who knows? [] . . . [] [antonia]f something happens? [andrews]you know, if --- if --- [antonia] anand stuff nothing happened. [] . . . [] 11 [andrews]: . . . i have to be at the district at 8 a.m. i have to talk to the head of personnel. . . . [l]ike --- you know, somebody said something something to district. that heard this about a teacher and [antonia]: yeah. [] . . . [] [andrews]: remember what we said about the patience. [antonia]: mmnh-mmnh [] . . . [] [antonia]: this too shall pass. [andrews]: all things do. just give me tomorrow and stuff like --- know what exactly what happened and stuff. okay? [antonia]: okay. [andrews]: and, uh, if anybody asks, keep your mouth shut, you know. [] . . . [] [antonia]: . . . are we ever going to meet up again? [andrews]: after after this thing is over and stuff, --- [] . . . [] [antonia]: . . . i still need you . . . [andrews]: i know. [] . . . [] [antonia]: will we ever be together again, though? [andrews]: and hang out and everything? of course. [antonia]: no, will we ever make love again? [andrews]: asking for one day. [] . . . [] [antonia]: i think, now love was just a game to you. [andrews]: no. 12 [antonia]: [andrews]: no. listen to me. okay. everything, everything has just come to this head. and just let me explain for a second, please. this is not a --- . . . [] . . . [] [antonia]: was the love we made just sex for you? [andrews] [antonia] [andrews]: no. [] . . . [] [antonia]: and i love you. but, i just, i need some kind of reassurance that it was just sex to you. [] . . . [] [andrews]for me. [antonia]: i need you inside of me, again, baby. [andrews]: [] . . . [] [antonia]: will you still make love to me? [andrews]: say it again. [antonia] you still make love to me? [andrews] andrews and antonia then had phone sex. during their exchanges, antonia asked, and andrews answered, oh, i need to touch when antonia asked, andrews answered that something new. . . . i want you to go down on me, they continued having phone sex as andrews masturbated. as the phone sex ended, antonia told andrews, really like the way you came on my stomach. . . . 13 and andrews said, after the phone sex, antonia asked andrews, and andrews responded, oh as noted above, antonia kept a written journal andrews. she recorded five of the six sexual intercourse offenses with andrews; the final incident on september 10, 2011 was not recorded because it occurred during one of the times she was moving in and out of the family home and the journal was boxed away. antonia, she gave the writing to the detective. antonia also handed over the phone that andrews had given her. detective thomas fortier examined andrews there were no photographs of antonia, but there were six thumbnail photographs depicting female minors engaged in sexual activity. the computer operating system was installed in february 2011, so the photographs had to have been installed between that date and the date when the computer was taken during the police search. the criminal proceedings in february 2012, the people filed an information charging andrews with the following crimes, listed respectively: unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor under the age of 16 years (count 2; pen. code,  261.5, subd. (d));10 unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor under the age of 16 years (count 3;  261.5, subd. (d)); unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor under the age of 16 years (count 4;  261.5, subd. (d)); oral copulation of a minor under the age of 16 years (count 5;  288a, subd. (b)(2); unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor under the age of 16 years (count 6;  261.5, subd. (d)); sexual penetration by foreign object of a minor under the age of 16 years (count 7;  289, subd. (i)); oral copulation of a minor under the age of 16 years (count 8;  288a, subd. (b)(2)); sexual penetration by foreign object of a minor under the age of 16 years (count 9;  289, subd. (i)); unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor under the age of 16 years (count 10;  261.5, subd. (d)); unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor under the age of 10 all further undesignated section references are to the penal code. we have renumbered the counts to conform with the jury verdict sheets and abstract of judgment. 14 16 years (count 11;  261.5, subd. (d)); sexual penetration by foreign object of a minor under the age of 16 years (count 12;  289, subd. (i)); lewd act upon a child (count 13;  288, subd. (c)(1); sexual penetration by foreign object of a minor under the age of 16 years (count 14;  289, subd. (i)); lewd act upon a child (count 15;  288, subd. (c)(1)); sexual penetration by foreign object of a minor under the age of 16 years (count 16;  289, subd. (i)); lewd act upon a child (count 17;  288, subd. (c)(1)); and possession of matter depicting a minor engaged in sexual conduct (count 19;  311.11, subd. (a)).11 the charges were tried to a jury in february and march 2014, at which time the prosecution presented evidence establishing the facts summarized above. andrews testified in his own defense. he admitted that he had a personal relationship with antonia, but denied that they ever engaged in any sexual activity. he denied ever phone sex with antonia, explaining that he had phone sex with a person using the name jennifer who used a phone number that he did not recognize. on cross-examination, he admitted that he had phone sex with antonia during their phone call on september 28, 2011. he gave the following explanation for why had to the fact that i could not get ahold of law enforcement and that my fear was that antonia, in her fit of anger, was going to accuse me of actual real sex events, and, so, by engaging in the phone sex, fake, real, whatever you want to believe, was to prove that she could not point out any specific dates, times, or instances that we actually engaged in sex and the fact that, if at any time during that call that she implied that my penis had entered her vagina, she would not be able to explain my dermatitis nor would she understand that i was getting prepped for surgery for 11 initially, the information further alleged a count 18 for first degree residential burglary ( 459) on the theory that andrews had entered 10, 2011 with the intent to commit a felony. count 18 was dismissed before the case was submitted to the jury. 15 the jury returned verdicts finding andrews guilty of all of the counts identified above. on august 28, 2014, the trial court sentenced andrews to a total aggregate term of 15 years and 8 months in state prison as follows: on count 2, unlawful sexual intercourse with a minor under the age of 16 years, the court imposed the upper term of four years. the court added consecutive one-year terms (1/3 the mid-term) on counts 3, 4, 6, 10, and 11, plus consecutive 8-month terms (1/3 the mid-term) on counts 5, 7, 8, 9, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, and 17. on count 19, the court imposed a concurrent one-year term. andrews filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion i. recusal andrews contends the judgment must be reversed because the trial court erred in , in its entirety, from prosecuting the charges against him. we disagree. section 1424 establishes the procedures governing disqualification of prosecuting attorneys. section 1424, subdivision (a)(1), provides that a motion to disqualify a district attorney exists that would render it unlikely that the defendant would receivand see also haraguchi v. superior court (2008) 43 cal.4th 706, 711 (haraguchi); and hollywood v. superior court (2008) 43 cal.4th 721, 727 (hollywood).) the statute contemplates a two-part test. in the first step, the trial court must determine whether the evidence shows there is a conflict of interest, meaning whether the evidence demonstrates there is a reasonable possibility that the [] office may not exercise its discretionary function in an evenhanded manner. the second step, the court must determine whether the conflict so grave as to render it unlikely that [the] defendant will receive fair treatment during all portio (haraguchi, supra, 43 cal.4th at pp. 711-713; and see also hollywood, supra, 43 cal.4th at pp. 727-728.) 16 a motion to recuse is directed to the sound discretion of the trial court, and its decision either to grant or deny the motion is reviewed for abuse or discretion. (haraguchi, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 711; hollywood, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 728.) on review of a ruling on a motion to recuse, findings of historical fact are reviewed under a substantial evidence standard of review, its conclusions of law are reviewed de novo, and its application of the law to the facts as determination is reversible only where the party challenging the ruling demonstrates that it amounted to an abuse of judicial discretion. (haraguchi, supra, 43 cal.4th at pp. 711-712.) the recusal of an entire prosecuting agency, as opposed to a particular, individual prosecutor, is an extreme stepwhich requires a showing that the recusal of the entire flict (spaccia v. superior court (2012) 209 cal.app.4th 93, 106-107.) the motion setting here, andrews filed a motion to recuse the los angeles county district some seven months after the people filed the information. in toto was based on three principle claims. first, he claimed . as . . . appears to be pursuing public justice through an even-handed and fair application of the laws, consistent with the brady12 discovery obligations to the investigating stated that the an offer to settle his case in 12 brady v. maryland (1963) 373 u.s. 83 17 13 that of cases reported in offered, disproportionately harsh punishment demonstrated that the district attochosen to pursue a prosecution to satisfy one of the andrews supported his claim of disproportionality between his case and other similar cases by offering news articles concerning three cases involving defendants who pled guilty to sex crimes with children.14 the attorney general filed opposition the district . the opposition argued that andrews had failed to make a showing that the assigned pr, could not exercise its prosecutorial functions in a fair manner. in other words, he did not point to any actual unfair activity. the opposition argued that the prosecuting deputy district attorney had turned odiscovery hearing, attended by representatives of the agencies in possession of the documfurther, the assigned prosecutor at the time, deputy district attorney deborah scott, submitted a declaration in which she stated that she never met antonia or her father, and had no personal or vested interest in the case.15 13 motion stated that . . r a 10-year prison term. 14 to recuse . further, in nies for having a sexual relationship with a 14-year-in the second case is not stated in the news story about the case. in the third case, the defendant pled guilty to four counts of lewd acts with a child under the age of 14. 15 deputy district attorney scott did not try case. deputy district attorney lisa coen acted as trial prosecutor. at no point after the trial court denied -trial motion to recuse the entire districdid andrews renew his recusal motion as to coen. 18 three cases proffered by andrews to show his plea offer was unreasonably high could not be meaningfully comparbecause the strength of the evidence in each of the cases was not known from the news stories. the prosecutor explained that treated any differently than any other defendant. the trial court denied the motion to recuse . . . . [a]n offer of ten years analysis it cannot be said for a number of reasons that the trial court abused its discretion in evidence did not support a conclusion that there was a reasonable possibility the prosecutors might not exercise their argely group-bias speculation which failed to establish a true disabling conflict of interest. indeed, the attorney deborah scott, submitted a declaration in which she attested that she had never that she had no personal or vested interest in the case, and to her that she should prosecute the case differently than she would any other matter. the trial court accepted this representation, and we will not reassess its credibility determination on appeal. further, we note that andrews never asserted in the trial court, and has not asserted on appeal, that either deputy district attorney scott or coen, were actually biased. 19 we also does not support his assertion on appeal. andrews was charged with 17 counts of sex crimes against an emotionally vulnerable minor over whom he held a position of trust. he faced a maximum prison term of 17 years in state prison. we agree with the trial court that there is nothing extraordinary to see settle the case for sentence of less than the 10 years offered. a decision not to make a plea offer that is as low as a defendant believes is appropriate is not evidence establishing that the prosecutor is acting out of a conflict of interest. indeed, a prosecutor has no legal obligation to make any plea offer at all as there is no constitutional right to a plea bargain. (people v. trejo (2011) 199 cal.app.4th 646, 655 (trejo), citing weatherford v. bursey (1977) 429 u.s. 545, 561.) absent a showing of vindictiveness poisoning the criminal proceedings, plea issues do not establish a conflict justifying recusal of a prosecutor for trial. (trejo, supra, 199 cal.app.4th at p. 656.) moreover, the news stories about three cases submitted by andrews to show what an should have been did not involve cases that were prosecuted in los angeles county, and were not developed with a showing of the relative strength and weaknesses of those cases as compared to the three cases traditional pattern of settling such cases in the adjacent countiesnot supported by the underlying showing. finally, even assuming the trial court erred in denying recusal motion, he cannot prevail on appeal on his claim of recusal error in the absence of a showing that he was prejudice(see people v. vasquez (2006) 39 cal.4th 47, 67-71 (vasquez).) filed by the people, reply brief does not address the issue. in short, he has failed to establish that any error with respect to the presence 20 in his case actually prejudiced his case. for this reason, his claim of recusal error must be rejected.16 ii. the juror discharge claim andrews contends the judgment must be reversed because the trial court erred in denying his request to discharge a juror during trial. andrews argues the record shows that the juror in question was biased in favor of prosecution, and that keeping her on his case resulted in a violation of his due process right to a fair and impartial jury. we disagree. the trial setting the following exchange took place at the opening of the morning proceedings on before the jury had entered the courtroom. the prosecutor, deputy district attorney lisa coen, told the court that it was brought to her attention after she had returned to her office at the end of the previous court day that a the prosecutor the prosecutor then added y trivial . . . in the interest -entered the courtroom for the afternoon proceedings on the day before, with the judge holding open one door and the prosecutor holding op, juror no. 12, 16 to the extent andrews argues the denial of his recusal motion resulted in a violation of his right to due process, we reject any such claim for reasons similar to those expressed in vasquez, supra, 39 cal.4th at pages 58-66. here, even if we assume the existence of some measureable quantum of prosecutorial self-regarded as creating so substantial a conflict as to deprive the defendant of fundamental id. at p. 63.) as we discussed above, andrews has failed to show any specific prosecutorial actions taken as a result of a conflict that deprived his of a fundamentally fair proceeding. 21 the court then stated it recalled personally opening the doors to invite the jurors in, that ms. coen was on the opposite side of the doorway holding open the door, and t er said he had been seated down the hallway, not anywhere near the courtroom. the father stated then reminded him that he had been seated in the audience in the courtroom. based on was asked to speak to the court, after the father was excused. the occurdetective he when asked if there was a reason why he chose to talk to that person in particular, juror no. 9 replied no, except he believed the person was a detective because juror no. 9 had seen ven saying -- juror no. 9 stated that he had not expressed any similar concern to anyone else, including not to any other juror. 22 after that, over the course of discussions with counsel both before and after the court questioned juror no. 12, the court stated five times it did not believe juror no. 9 was being honest and forthcoming. the court stated it found juror no. 9 to be . further, the court stated that it at all when he attempted to minimize his conductnally, the court expressed the view, in addition to mistrusting juror no. 9, the court stated it found juror no. 9 had detective on the case . . . which means that, on his own volition, he wanted to express an excused juror no. 9, and ordered an alternate juror to replace him. the court then dealt with an unrelated matter. when proceedings resumed, the court took up the matter involving the other juror. the court stated its view that the comment was but the court deferred to defense counsel and questioned juror no. 12 outside the presence of other jurors. the court asked her if when she entered the courtroom the previous day she g no. 23 after juror no. 12 left the courtroom, the court told counsel its view that juror no. for her impressions. defense counsel asked the court to excuse juror no. 12, and the prosecutor said the court explained it was reluctant to excuse juror no. 12 based on a comment about the case made in passing. the court contrasted juror no. 12 with juror no. 9, who ess in the case, and made a statement about the case. this juror was being invited into the courtroom by court order, quite frankly, and just walked past ms. coen and said a then 12 forthcoming. 9, the court the governing law a defendant in a criminal case has a constitutionally guaranteed right to trial by impartial jurors. (u.s. const., 6th and 14th amends.; cal. const., art. i,  16; irvin v. dowd (1961) 366 u.s. 717, 722; in re hitchings (1993) 6 cal.4th 97, 110.) an impartial evidence. . . . people v. nesler (1997) 16 cal.4th 561, 581, italics omitted, quoting smith v. phillips (1982) 455 u.s. 209, 217.) the constitutional right to trial by impartial jurors is protected in part under section 1089. if at any time, whether before or after the final submission of the case to the jury, a juror . . . upon . . . good cause shown to the court is found to be unable to perform his or her duty, . . . the court may order the juror to 24 be discharged and draw the name of an alternate, who shall then take a place in the jury box, and be subject to the same rules and regulations as though the alternate juror had been selected as one of the original jurors.who refuses to follow the trial 1089. (people v. williams (2001) 25 cal.4th 441, 448.) the decision whether or not to discharge a juror for good cause shown is a matter for the discretion of the trial court, and, its decision either way is reviewed for abuse of discretion. (people v. cleveland (2001) 25 cal.4th 466ge decision will be upheld on appeal unless it falls outside the bounds of reason. (people v. earp (1999) 20 cal.4th 826, 892.) analysis we find the trial court did not abuse its discretion in declining to discharge juror no. 12, while discharging juror no. 9. the trial court at all times was patient, solicited the views of counsel and responded to their concerns. the court clearly had a strong sense that juror no. 9 could not be trusted to fulfill his duty as a juror, and an equally strong sense that juror no. 12 could be trusted. reading a cold transcript, blind and without the benefit of the myriad nonverbal cues that inform the trial court who observes firsthand, it could be read into the comment of juror no. 12 that she had an intent to tell the prosecutor she was favorably impressed with the prosecution case. but it would seem odd that juror no. 12 would do that while entering the courtroom alongside the other jurors, with the judge standing right there holding open one of the doors. more to the point, the trial court clearly explained the reasons he did not believe having juror no. 12 us as reasonable. we will not reinterpret what happened. a reviewing findings on questions of historical fact in the context of a question about to perform his or appellate court if supported by substantial evidence. (people v. cleveland, supra, 25 cal.4th at p. 474.) the trial court heard from both juror no. 9 and juror no. 12. based 25 on the questioning, it found juror no. 9 should be excused but juror no. 12 should remain on the jury. decision not to discharge juror no. 12 does not rise to the level of an abuse of discretion because the court satisfied itself, after an appropriate inquiry, that juror no. 12 could decide the case solely on the evidence. iii. the flight instruction andrews contends the judgment must be reversed because the trial court erred in giving the standard instruction pursuant to calcrim no. 372 concerning flight after being accused of committing a crime. he argues the instructional error resulted in a violation of his constitutional right to due process, and cannot be shown to have been harmless under the standard of chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18. we disagree. tructed the jury as follows: conduct may show that he was aware of his guilt. if you conclude that the defendant fled or tried to flee, it is up to you to decide the meaning and importance of that conduct. that there was evidence that andrews left the school upon learning that a deputy was a trial court properly may give a flight instruction whenever evidence of the circumstances of . . . his usual environs . . . logically permits people v. turner (1990) 50 cal.3d 668, 694.) under the plain language of the instruction, whether a be given to such flight, if found, are questions for the jury. (people v. silva (1988) 45 cal.3d 604, 628.) here, the trial court correctly determined there was sufficient evidence to support giving the flight instruction. the evidence showed that a deputy spoke to antonia at her school on september 28, 2011 about rumors of a sexual relationship between her and andrews, and that, immediately thereafter, antonia telephoned andrews at lorbeer and told him that the deputy was going to lorbeer. before the deputy arrived at lorbeer, 26 andrews left the school. after leaving, andrews called his fellow teacher at lorbeer, hutchinson, asking if the police were looking for him. dora. this evidence was sufficient to permit a reasonable , and then leaving his own residence, was for the purpose of avoiding being arrested, thus supporting the flight instruction. (people v. bradford (1997) 14 cal.4th 1005, 1055.) finally, assuming the trial court erred by instructing on flight with calcrim no. 372, we would find the error harmless. an instructional error may only result in reversal if it causes a miscarriage of justice. (cal. const., [a] miscarriage of justice should be declared only when the court, after an examination of the entire cause, including the evidence, is of the that it is reasonably probable that a result more favorable to the appealing party would have been reached in the absence of the (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836; see people v. turner, supra, 50 cal.3d at p. 695 [applying watson standard of prejudice to claim of erroneous reading of caljic no. 2.52, the former flight instruction].) the overwhelming when the evidence account. antonia testified that she and andrews had a sexual relationship from may through september 2011, and that they had sexual intercourse on six separate occasions. hutchinson, who personally observed a close, unprofessional relationship between andrews and antonia, and by evidence that andrews reserved hotel rooms and stayed in the rooms at the time antonia testified she had sex with him. at the best western hotel, an employee saw andrews and a young asian female leave himself admitted that he stayed at both these hotels on these dates. in addition antonia kept a contemporaneous journal in which she detailed her sexual encounters with texts, and his comments during a phone call, on september 28, 2011, as detailed above, included comments tantamount to an admission of a sexual relationship with antonia. areasonable. his denial of phone sex was refuted by the recorded phone sex on september 27 28, 2011, and his explanation that he was trying to show false accusation by antonia did not make sense. we see no probability that the verdicts might have been different had a flight instruction not been given, even if the chapman standard is applied. iv. cumulative error andrews contends he is entitled to a new trial due to the cumulative effect of the errors we have addressed above. because we have found no error, and we have found any assumed error to be harmless even under the heighted chapman standard, we find no basis for granting a disposition the judgment is affirmed. bigelow, p.j. i concur: grimes, j. rubin, j. concurring office) and iii (flight instruction). i also agree with the conclusion in part ii (juror misconduct) that there was no error. i do have concerns about the proceedings involving juror no. 12 only. before i address those concerns, i step back to put into historical and jurisprudential context the importance of the issue presented by the asserted misconduct of juror no. 12. i start with comments by united states supreme court justice tom clark, writing in irvin v. dowd (1961) 366 u.s. 717, 722-723: england, from whom the western world has largely taken its concepts of individual liberty and of the dignity and worth of every man, has bequeathed to us safeguards for their preservation, the most priceless of which is that of trial by jury. this right has become as much american as it was once the most english. . . . in essence, the right to jury trial guarantees to the criminally accused a fair trial by a panel of impartial, indifferent jurors. the failure to accord an accused a fair hearing violates even the minimal standards of due process. . . . in the ultimate analysis, only the jury can strip a man of his liberty or his life. in the language of lord coke, a juror must be as indifferent as he stands unsworne. the case before us goes to the heart of this right of ours to a jury, a right described majority opinion is whether defendant was afforded a jury trial by an unbiased jury. more pointedly, did the remarks that juror no. 12 made to the prosecutor during a recess evince a form of bias based on her having prejudged the case? as this very court recently if a juror were to make a statement showing he or she had prejudged the case, that woua statement of bias is misconduct because bias is misconduct people v. dokins (2015) 241 cal.app.4th 1179, 1199.) in such a case, if it appears substantially likely that a juror is actually biased, we must set aside the 2 verdict, no matter how convinced we might be that an unbiased jury would have reached the same verdict. (in re carpenter (1995) 9 cal.4th 634, 654.) to recap the relevant proceedings briefly: on the second day of the victitestimony, the district attorney advised the court about incidents with two jurors, nos. 9 courtroom, although the juror told the court that she thought the person was a detective. after a hearing with counsel at which juror 9 was present and examined, juror 9 was the court then turned to the other incident that the district attorney had reported. on the previous day, as the jurors were returning to the courtroom following the afternoon recess, the courtroom doors were being held open by the judge and the at a hearing with counsel, outside the presence of the jury and before juror 12 was remark about opening the door. instead, the following occurred: now again, i know that was a harmless comment but technically if you look at it3 had had the opportunity to argue the point. the court concluded the hearing shortly afterwards. defense counsel asked the court to excuse juror 12. the district attorney did not argue one way or the other, gh the court acknowledged that the court refused to excuse juror 12. when the trial resumed, the court admonished all the anyone. the law is well settled that jurors may not discuss the case even among themselves before they begin deliberations. (people v. polk (2010) 190 cal.app.4th 1183, 1201.) discussion with a nonjuror prior to rendering a ibid.) however, the rule prohibiting such communications is primarily designed to preclude the juror from receiving information about the case that was not presented at trial. (id. at pp. 1201-1202.) here juror 12 did not receive any information but instead made a brief comment to the prosecutor. the juror had prejudged the case. was the inference to be drawn from the remark that the children ever again? in determining whether prejudicial misconduct has occurred, we people v. bryant (2011) 191 cal.app.4th 1457, 1457.) certainly the trial court is in a better position than the appellate court to jucase. this is especially so when court has questioned the juror in the presence of counsel. on this record i conclude the trial court did not abuse its discretion in concluding that the juror had not prejudged the case: the comment by juror 12 was brief, was 4 could be reasonably understood as only that it is important to prosecute alleged child moles what concerns me the most is that the trial court did not go further in its inquiry by directly asking juror 12 whether her comment reflected that she had in fact prejudged the case, or was leaning one way or the other. in people v. mcneal (1979) 90 cal.app.3d 830 [mcneal], the court of appeal reversed a conviction based on juror misconduct. the he courts cursory questioning of juror exline did not justify its conclusion that she could properly perform her duties as a jurorid. at p. 839.) mcneal involved a juror who had personal knowledge of the facts and had discussed that knowledge with other jurors. although mcneal may have involved more egregious facts, the point of mcneal and other cases is that once the record reveals potential misconduct, the trial court has a duty to inquire and to inquire fully. (see people v. burgener (1986) 41 cal.3d 505, 520-521, disapproved on another point in people v. reyes (1998) 19 cal.4th 743, 756; people v. bryant, supra, 191 cal.app.4th 1457; people v. castorena, (1996) 47 cal.app.4th 1051; people v. perez (1992) 4 cal.app.4th 893, 905-906.) the final poask the court to conduct a further inquiry. although counsel asked the court to excuse juror 12, counsel was apparently satisfied with the record of alleged misconduct because counsel did not ask the court to inquire further or request that counsel be permitted to question the juror. given the record as developed and considering the reasonableness of cord, i cannot say that the court erred as matter of law in not asking additional questions. nevertheless, i suggest that further questioning, which might have produced express statements by the juror that she remained fair and impartial and had not prejudged the case, or the opposite, would have been preferable. rubin, j. 