filed 2/10/16 p. v. mateo ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. milton mateo et. al., defendants and appellants. b258333 (los angeles county super. ct. no.ba414092) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, laura f. priver, judge. affirmed. law offices of james koester, james koester, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant milton mateo. edward j. horowitz, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant gunni scroggins. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr. and daniel c. chang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant milton mateo initiated a fistfight with rival gang member edwin cuatlacuatl outside a los angeles grocery store. companion and fellow gang member, entered the fray and stabbed cuatlacuatl twice in the neck before fleeing the scene with mateo. a jury found both mateo and scroggins guilty of attempted premeditated murder, the only offense charged. both defendants now contend their convictions are legally invalid and must be reversed. mateo argues his conviction as an aider and abettor cannot stand because the jury did not find that attempted premeditated murder was a reasonably foreseeable consequence of the fistfight. he acknowledges that people v. favor (2012) 54 cal.4th 868 (favor) forecloses this argument, but contends favor alleyne v. united states (2013) __ u.s. __, 133 s. ct. 2151 (alleyne) and people v. chiu (2014) 59 cal.4th 155 (chiu). scroggins contends his conviction must be reversed because the evidence presented at trial permitted the reasonable conclusion that he intended only to assault rather than kill cuatlacuatl. argument, and presented insufficient evidence of premeditation. procedural history in an information dated september 10, 2013, the district attorney of the county count of attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder (pen. code  187, subd. (a), 664, subd. (a)),1 in connection with the cuatlacuatl altercation. the people further alleged defendants committed the offense for the benefit of, at the direction of, and in association with a criminal street gang with the specific intent to promote, further, and assist in criminal conduct by gang members ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)). the people also alleged defendant 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 scroggins personally used a deadly or dangerous weapon ( 12022, subd. (b)(1)) and personally inflicted great bodily injury upon cuatlacuatl ( 12022.7, subd. (a)). defendants proceeded to a joint jury trial in july 2014. the jury found both defendants guilty of attempted murder; found true the allegation that the attempted murder was willful, deliberate, and premeditated; found true the gang allegation; and found true the weapons and bodily injury allegations against scroggins. the court sentenced mateo to 15 years to life, and sentenced scroggins to 19 years to life. both defendants timely appealed. factual background on march 6, 2013, mateo and scroggins went to the food 4 less grocery store federico salanga. the food 4 less was within territory claimed by the 18th street gang but was less than half a block from territory claimed by a rival gang, rockwood. both mateo and scroggins were members of the colombia little cycos clique of the 18th street gang. both defendants had tattoos signifying their affiliation with 18th street. salanga went into the food 4 less around 11:20 a.m. mateo and scroggins remained outside, standing together near the entrance. meanwhile, cuatlacuatl and mary morales approached the food 4 less on foot. cuatlacuatl was a member of the rockwood gang. mateo made eye contact with cuatlacuatl, lifted the lakers jersey he was wearing face.2 cuatlacuatl defended himself by fighting back. 2 mateo and scroggins both assert that mateo took off his glasses and jacket and handed them to scroggins before charging at cuatlacuatl. mateo argued the same point repeatedly during his opening and closing statements, and scroggins mentioned it during closing as well. none of the record evidence they cite in their briefs supports the assertion, however. the surveillance video from the food 4 less, which appears to be 4 while mateo and cuatlacuatl were exchanging blows, scroggins pulled out a knife and began stabbing cuatlacuatl. neck. fell to the ground. knand ultimately succeeded in extracting him from the fray. morales thought scroggins might stab her at that point, but he and mateo ran away instead. morales walked cuatlacuatl to good samaritan hospital, which was about two blocks from the food 4 less. at the hospital, medical personnel stitched the wounds on cuatlacuatl was left with two scars on his neck. the first, on the left side of his neck, was an inch-and-a-half in length; the other, on the back of his neck, was about two inches long. cuatlacuatl also had a two-and-a-half- or three-inch scar on his left forearm and a half-inch scar on the inside of his right thumb. he was discharged from the hospital after a couple of hours and did not sustain any lasting injuries aside from the scars. los angeles police department officers ernesto carbajal and john melendez separately interviewed cuatlacuatl while he was at the hospital. both officers testified that cuatlacuatl told them he had been stabbed during a fight with two men. according to the officers, cuatlacuatl described one of the men as a hispanic who wore a lakers jersey and the other as an african-american who wore dark-colored clothing and did the actual stabbing. cuatlacuatl told melendez he recognized both assailants as members of 18th street and believed he was attacked because of his gang affiliation. cuatlacuatl refused to identify any photographs in the array melendez showed him. morales later identified a photograph of mateo as the hispanic male who initiated the fight with cuatlacuatl and identified a photograph of scroggins as thinner but similarly complected was in evidence at trial but was not included in the record on appeal. 5 to the african-american male who stabbed cuatlacuatl. two other police officers familiar with the 18th street gang identified mateo and scroggins as the assailants after watching a surveillance video from the food 4 less. gang expert. villafana testified that gangs commit crimes including murders, attempted murders, assaults with deadly weapons, robbery, grand theft auto, and extortion. gang gang members who commit violent crimes move up more quickly. in addition to improving their stature within the gang, members who commit violent crimes instill more fear in their rivals and in the community in general. gangs as a whole benefit from such behavior. rival gangs that fear and respect the gang are less likely to enter its territory and attack, and community members who fear the gang are less likely to report crimes committed by the gang. are from and engaging them in violent altercations like assaults, shootings, and stabbings when they reveal their allegiances. members of rival gangs by entering and painting graffiti in their territory, assaulting atory term for the rockwood gang. often, gang members retaliate or commit crimes in ganother. gang members who stand by and do nothing when one of their brethren is villafana testified that the 18th street gang adhered to these gang norms. villafana personally had investigated attempted murders, robberies, and assaults with a deadly weapon during the course of her work with the colombia little cycos clique or subdivision of the 18th street gang. the primary activities of the 18th street gang, which had 7,000 to 9,000 members in los angeles and 30,000 to 50,000 nationwide, included 6 murders, attempted murders, and assaults with deadly weapons. two members of the los angeles 18th street gang previously had been convicted of assault with a deadly weapon and attempted robbery. individuals signified their membership in the18th street gang by wearing dark-colored clothing, belt buckles with the letters d or e on them, and tattoos depicting the number 18, the spanish word for 18 (dieciocho), the roman numeral for 18, or 666 (which adds to 18). abbreviations for their respective cliques. based on their self-admissions, social associations, and tattoos, villafana opined that mateo and scroggins were active members of the 18th street gang. villafana further opined that cuatlacuatl was an active member of the rockwood gang. when given a hypothetical mirroring the facts of the case, villafana opined that the attack on cuatlacuatl was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang. villafana testified that such an attack would sic] one she further testified that committing the attack in broad daylight at a grocery store after yelling out community as a whole, this is their territory, takes to display control over the villafana opined that the attack was in association with a criminal street gang now when another gang member has a weapon whether it be a gun, a knife, you know whatever they interloping rival to have a weapon. if the gang members encountered such an interloper, the gang members within their territory 7 es it can be a fist discussion i. a direct perpetrator of an assault upon cuatlacuatl and became an aider and abettor to stabbed cuatlacuatl. he contends, however, that because the prosecution relied on the natural and probable consequences doctrine, the jury should have had to make an additional finding that willful, deliberate, and premeditated attempted murder as opposed to unpremeditated attempted murder was a reasonably foreseeable consequence of his assault of cuatlacuatl. he further argues that his foresight of an attempted premeditated murder was a necessary element of the crime that rendered the mateo recognizes that these arguments are foreclosed by favor, supra, 54 cal.4th 868, but urges alleyne, supra, 133 s. ct. 2151 and chiu, supra, s with the favor ccast doubt upon the continuing viability of the favor contentions are cogent, we conclude that we are compelled to follow the teachings of favor unless and until it is overruled by our supreme court or the united states supreme court. a. the natural and probable consequences doctrine 1. general legal principles committed on the policy [that] . . . aiders and abettors should be responsible for the criminal harms (chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 164.) (italics in original.) the natural and probable consequences doctrine 8 (people v. medina (2009) 46 cal.4th 913, 920.) whether a consequence was (favor, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 874; see also people v. medina, supra, 46 cal.4th at p. 920.) 2. use in this case the people invoked the natural and probable consequences doctrine in their case against mateo. during closing argument, the prosecutor argued that mateo was guilty under both direct aiding and abetting principles and the natural and probable consequences doctrine. the prosecutor also told the jurors that they did not have to agree on the theory under which mateo was guilty: defendant mateo is guilty as an aider and abettor it doesnaided. he was an aider and abettor and he knew it was going to happen or he was an aider and abettor under natural and probable consequence. the evidence in this case shows that he aided and abetted mr. scroggins in the attempted murder and they are both guilty of that crime as long as you all agree he aided and abetted scroggins of that was wilfull [sic], deliberate and premeditated defendant mateo is also guilty. the this explanation was consistent -deliberation and premeditation (pen. code,  21a, calcrim no. 403 was constitutionally deficient under chiu because it did not require 9 the people to prove all elements of attempted premeditated murder as to mateo.3 the court told mateo it understood and appreciated his argument, but ultimately concluded b. analysis 1. favor e trial court referred was established in favor, supra, 54 cal.4th 868. there, the supreme court considered an issue virtually identical to that mateo presents here: whether an aider and abettor who knew of and intended to facilitate the target offense of robbery could be convicted of attempted premeditated murder under the natural and probable consequences doctrine where the jury was instructed only that attempted murder was a natural and probable consequence of the robbery. the court concluded such a cojury need not be instructed that a premeditated attempt to murder must have been a (favor, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 872.) t that an aider and abettor reasonably foresee an attempted premeditated murder as the natural and probable consequence of the target offense. it is sufficient that attempted murder is a reasonably foreseeable consequence of the crime aided and abetted, and the attempted murder itself was committed willfully, (id. at p. 880.) the cdecision largely rested upon its conclusion that attempted premeditated murder and attempted unpremeditated murder are not separate offenses. (see favor, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 876.) the csection 664, subdivision (a), imposing a greater punishment for an attempt to commit a e a greater degree of attempted murder but, rather, constitutes a penalty provision that prescribes an increase in ([people v.] 3 in lig. 403 on the very grounds he argues here, we are not persuaded by respondenthis appellate claims are forfeited. 10 bright [(1996)] 12 cal.4th [652] at pp. 656-4 (favor, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 877.) (ibid.) the court reached this conclusion notwithstanding people v. seel (2004) 34 cal.4th 535, which disapproved of people v. bright and held that the increased penalty provision for attempted premeditated murder in section 664, (favor, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 877, fn. 2, citing people v. seel, supra, 34 cal.4th at pp. 547-548 and apprendi v. new jersey (2000) 530 u.s. 466, 494, fn. 19.) the favor court also relied upon people v. lee (2003) 31 cal.4th 613, 616 (lee), in which it held that the premeditation penalty provision set forth in section 664, subdwillful, deliberate, and premeditated, but not to require that an attempted murderer personally acted willfully and with deliberation and premeditation, even if he or she is gui in lee, the court reasoned that section 664, subdivision not 4 section 664, subdivision (a) provides: imprisonment in the state prison, or by imprisonment pursuant to subdivision (h) of section 1170, the person guilty of the attempt shall be punished by imprisonment in the state prison or in a county jail, respectively, for one-half the term of imprisonment prescribed upon a conviction of the offense attempted. however, if the crime attempted is willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder, as defined in section 189, the person guilty of that attempt shall be punished by imprisonment in the state prison for life with the possibility of parole. if the crime attempted is any other one in which the maximum sentence is life imprisonment or death, the person guilty of the attempt shall be punished by imprisonment in the state prison for five, seven, or nine years. the additional term provided in this section for attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder shall not be imposed unless the fact that the attempted murder was willful, deliberate, and premeditated is charged in the accusatory pleading and admitted or found to be true by 11 (lee, supra, 31 cal.4th at p. 623.) it accordingly concluded that premeditation is not a required (favor, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 877.) although the defendant in lee was tried as a direct aider and abettor, the court recognized that an aider and abettor convicted under the natural and probable consequences doctrine have been irrational for the legislature to limit section 664(a) only to those attempted murderers who personally acted willfully and with deli (lee, supra, 31 cal.4th at pp. 624-625.) the c (id. at p. 625.) the court reiterated these observations in favor, (favor, supra, 54 cal.4th at pp. 877-878), and further noted that the legislature had modified other portions of section 664, including portions of subdivision (a), but left the penalty provision unchanged (id. at p. 879). the favor court supported its conclusion with one additional rationale: does not decide the truth of the penalty premeditation allegation until it first has reached a (favor, supra, 54 cal.4th at p. 879.) the cgs means that not attempted premeditated murderqualifies as the nontarget offense (ibid.) 2. alleyne and chiu mateo contends the rationales underlying the ruling in favor thoroalleyne and chiu. in alleyne, supra, 133 s. ct. 2151, 2155, 2156, the u.s. supreme court held that the sixth amendment requires any fact that increases the mandatory minimum penalty for a crime to be treated as areasonable doubt. this holding was based upon and followed from the cdecision in apprendi v. new jersey, supra, 530 u.s. 466, which held that any fact which 12 increases the maximum penalty for a crime is an element of the offense that a jury must find true beyond a reasonable doubt. approximately one year after the decision in alleyne, our supreme court held in chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th at pp. 158-aider and abettor may not be convicted of first degree premeditated murder under the natural and probable consequences doctrine. rather, his or her liability for that crime must be based on direct aiding and abetting the chiu court reasoned that the mental state underlying premeditated impose aider and abettor liability for first degree murder under the natural and probable (chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 166.) the chiu court discussed favor at length. chiu court did consider its earlier holding in favor, and specifically did not disapprove its favor chiu court found favor chiu. (chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 163.) the court explained: favor, the issue in [chiu] does not involve the determination of legislative intent as to whom a statute applies. also, unlike favor, which involved the determination of premeditation as a requirement for a statutory penalty provision, premeditation and deliberation as it relates to murder is an element of first degree murder. in reaching our result in favor, we expressly distinguished the penalty provision at issue there from the substantive crime of first degree premeditated murder on the ground that the latter statute involved a different degree of the offense. [citation.] finally, the consequence of imposing liability for the penalty provision in favor is considerably less severe than in imposing liability for first degree murder under the natural and probable consequences doctrine. section 664(a) provides that a defendant convicted of attempted murder is subject to a determinate term of five, seven, or nine years. if the jury finds the premeditation allegation true, the defendant is subject to a sentence of life with the possibility of parole. [citation.] with that life sentence, a defendant is eligible for parole after serving a term of at least seven years. ( 3046, subd. 13 (a)(1).) on the other hand, a defendant convicted of first degree murder must serve a sentence of 25 years to life. ( 190, subd. (a).) he or she must serve a minimum term of 25 years before parole eligibility. ( 3046, subd. (a)(2).) a defendant convicted of second degree murder must serve a sentence of 15 years to life, with a minimum term of 15 years before parole eligibility. ibid.) mateo contends that the reasons the chiu court used to distinguish favor are, like favor alleyne. this contention is a reasonably plausible one. alleyne held that a fact that increases the minimum punishment associated with an reasonable doubt by a jury (alleyne, supra, 133 s. ct. at p. 2158), and chiu continued to characterize section 664, subdivision (a), which increases the minimum punishment for (chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 163.) however, our supreme court offered additional state law bases in support of the continued vitality of favor (and its predecessor case lee, supra, subdivision (a). (see chiu, 59 cal.4th at pp. 162-163.) moreover, nothing in chiu indicates our supreme court was unaware of or incorrectly understood federal constitutional law. although chiu did not rely upon or even cite alleyne (see generally chiu, supra, 59 cal.4th 155), we presume the supreme court was aware of alleyne. (see people v. harden (2003) 110 cal.app.4th 848, 865.) the court previously noted alleyne in two cases, people v. nunez (2013) 57 cal.4th 1, 39, fn. 6 and people v. harris (2013) 57 cal.4th 804, 880 (conc. opn. of kennard, j.). notwithstanding alleyne, our supreme court in chiu elected to leave favor and lee intact, and maintain a distinction between first degree murder and attempted premeditated murder for purposes of the natural and probable consequences doctrine. ising inferior jurisdiction are required to follow decisions of (auto equity sales, inc. v. superior court of santa clara county (1962) 57 cal.2d 450, 455.) overrule decisionibid.) and we conclude we may not do so here. 14 alleynemandate of stare decisis (people v. saez (2015) 237 cal.app.4th 1177, 1207), and we are not persuaded that the application of a two-year-old case previously noted by our supreme court presents a matter of first impression appropriate for our review of controlling supreme court precedent (people v. johnson (2012) 53 cal.4th 519, 527-528). we accordingly follow favor , though we encourage mateo to pursue them before our supreme court. ii. defendant scroggins challenges his conviction on three bases. first, in a twist on the traditional insufficiency of the evidence argument, he contends his conviction must be (1) scroggins intended to kill cuatlacuatl; (2) scroggins intended no more than to assault and inf reasonable conclusions from the circumstantial evidence, and one of those reasonable conclusions points to innocence and another to guilt, you must accept the one that points conclusion that he premeditated was not the only reasonable conclusion from the misstated the and undermining his defense. none of these arguments is persuasive. a. sufficiency of the evidence 1. standard of review scroggins contends that our review of his calcrim no. 224 argument should be were not disputed and because the applicable law is a fundamental principle in criminal we disagree. as the supreme court explained when discussing caljic no. 15 2.01, the predecessor to calcrim no. 224, the instruction does not lessen the . . . does no more than to instruct the jury that if a reasonable doubt is created in their minds for any reason they must acquit the defendant. but where the jury rejects the hypothesis pointing to innocence by its verdict, and there is evidence to support the implied finding of guilt as the more reasonable of the two hypotheses, this court is bound (people v. towler (1982) 31 cal.3d 105, 118.) might reasonably be reconciled with the (ibid.) in other words, we do not conduct a de novo review. any trier of fact could have foun(ibid.) it was for the jury to decide whether scroggins intended to kill or merely assault and injure cuatlacuatl, and it is not our role to reweigh this evidence on appeal. 2. intent to kill scroggi we agree and accordingly affirm his conviction. the evidence at trial showed that scroggins entered and escalated a fistfight by pulling a knife. scroggins stabbed rival gang member cuatlacuatl at least four times while mateo continued to pummel him. two of the stab wounds, which resulted in long of t (people v. moore (2002) 96 cal.app.4th 1105, 1114; see people v. nazeri (2010) 187 cal.app.4th 1101, 1118.) scroggins continued his attack until morales lik a jury reasonably could infer from this evidence that scroggins intended to kill rather than merely injure cuatlacuatl. confrontations with rivals does not compel a different conclusion. the evidence supported the inference that scroggins intended to kill in this particular case. likewise, 16 hospital were fortuitous; they are n 3. premeditation several different responses [sic alternatively, he contends that there was insufficient evidence to support the inference that he acted with premeditation and deliberation. we reject both contentions. our supreme court has identified three broad categories of evidence sufficient to sustain a finding of premeditation and deliberation. (see people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15, 26-27 (anderson).) prior to the actual killing which show that the defendant was engaged in activity directed toward, and explicable as intended to result in, the killingwhat may be characterized as planning prior relationship and/or conduct with the victim from which the jury could reasonably infer a motive to kill the victim, which inference of motive, together with facts of type (1) or (3), would in turn support an inference that the killing was the result of a pre-existing reflection and careful thought and weighing of considerations executed [citation]; (3) facts about the nature of the killing from which the jury could infer that the manner of killing was so particular and exacting that the defendant must have intentionally killed according to a preconceived design n a particular way for a reason which the jury can reasonably infer from facts of type (1) or (ibid.anderson does not require that these factors be present in some special combination or that they be accorded a particular weight, nor is the list people v. pride (1992) 3 cal.4th 195, 247; see also people v. gonzalez (2012) 54 cal.4th 643, 663-664.) we disagree with scroggins that none of the anderson factors is present here. to the contrary, all of them are. the evidence reasonably indicated planning activity; specifically, prior to the attempted murder, scroggins armed himself with a knife for a morning trip to the grocery store. he waited until mateo engaged cuatlacuatl in a 17 fistfight before pulling the knife and using it to stab cuatlacuatl. although scroggins had no prior personal relationship with cuatlacuatl in particular, the evidence showed that scroggins and cuatlacuatl belonged to rival gangs and were aware of their divergent allegiances at the time of the stabbing. villafana testified that gang members have incentives to commit violent crimes, and that a gang member who stood idly by during an attack on a rival would be perceived as weak. a jury reasonably could conclude from this evidence that scroggins had a motive to kill cuatlcuatl and considered his options before attempting to do so. multiple stab wounds to the neck, while cuatlacuatl was occupied with defending himself against also suand deliberation. doubt that scroggins acted with premeditation and deliberation. moreover, we presume the juconclusion. (people v. carey (2007) 41 cal.4th 109, 130.) we affirm conviction for lack of sufficient evidence. b. prosecutorial error scroggins argues that consider only whether the evidence was sufficient to support the elements of attempted murder, which, of course, inc he points specifically to the [the court] just read you the assault and i showed you the assault instructions. [] so my point is this when counsel stands up and says he is guilty of one crime you can be guilty of multiple crimes, ladies and gentlemen. the charge here for you to consider is scroggins further contends this argument and other similar statements by the prosecutor misstated the law because a person may be guilty of murder without necessarily being guilty of assault or attempted murder. 18 1. forfeiture respondent contends because he failed to object on the basis of prosecutorial error below. to preserve a claim specific objection to the alleged misconduct and request the jury be admonished to disregard it (people v. seumanu (2015) 61 cal.4th 1293, 1339.) scroggins satisfied that requirement here as to his contention that the prosecutor misstated the law. he objected, twice, that the prosecutor misstated the law by asserting that someone who commits murder also is guilty of attempted murder. the court overruled his objections, but, by making them, scroggins preserved his appellate argument. we agree, however, that scroggins forfeited his contention that the prosecutor erred by telling the jury that tscroggins did not object to this comment on any basis and therefore may not do so now. 5 the only charge before the jury in fact was attempted murder; the information did not allege either defendant committed assault or any other crimes. no reasonable juror would have, or the burden on the prosecutor to prove the intent element of attempted murder beyond a 2. analysis particularly to attempt to absolve the prosecution from its prima facie obligation to (people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 829.) a misstatement of the law does not necessarily require reversal, however. federal constitution 5 during her closing one crime she also argued that scroggins was at most guilty of the uncharged crime of assault rather than the charged crime of attempted murder. 19 (people v. coffman (2004) 34 cal.4th 1, 119.) conduct that does not render the trial fundamentally unfair violates california law only if it involves the use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to persuade the jury or court. (ibid.) of murder is not necessarily guilty of attempted murder, such as where the murder is a we need not decide whether scroggins is correct because he has not individuals who murder a victim necessarily attempted to do so and assaulted the victim as well. unfairness or deprive scroggins of due process; nor were they reprehensible. they were at he was at most guilty of assault rather than the charged crime of attempted murder and did not, as scroggins suggests, lighten the moreover, the court instructed the jury that it had to you, even if you disagree with it. if you believe the we presume the jury followed this instruction. (people v. boyette (2002) 29 cal.4th 381, 436.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: willhite, acting p. j. manella, j. 