filed 4/13/17 p. v. phillips ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. alonzo clayton phillips, defendant and appellant. b259008 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba405048) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, monica bachner, judge. affirmed. donna l. harris, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, michael r. johnson and wyatt e. bloomfield, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 introduction alonzo clayton phillips appeals from the judgment after a jury convicted him of attempted premeditated murder (pen. code  664, 187, subd. (a))1 with related gang and firearm enhancements ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c), 12022.53, subds. (b), (c), (d)). he argues the trial court violated his constitutional rights to due process, to present a defense, and to a fair jury trial by permitting the prosecutor to redact certain statements from a videotaped, jail-cell conversation between phillips and a confidential informant that referenced how much time in custody phillips might receive as a sentence if he were convicted. phillips argues the redacted statements showed the pressure phillips was under during his conversation with the confidential informant. phillips also argues that the court abused its discretion under evidence code section 352 by admitting bsites. because the trial court did not abuse its discretion in allowing the redactions or in admitting the gang evidence, we affirm. factual and procedural background a. courtney cooks, dushawne smith, and tyler w. are shot on a crowded street in hollywood at approximately 10:00 p.m. on october 31, 2012, more than 100 people were celebrating halloween on hollywood boulevard near the intersection with cherokee. officers edwin marron and patrick farrell were patrolling the area. they saw a 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 fight break out in a group of more than 40 people. officer marron heard gunshots. three people were shotcourtney cooks, dushawne smith, and 14-year-old tyler w. cooks was shot seven times (in the right torso, right arm, and right thigh) and spent almost a month in the hospital. smith was shot once in the left buttock. tyler w. was shot once in the foot. a police firearms analyst determined the same gun fired the eight cartridge casings recovered from the area. both the prosecution and the defense theorized that there was just one shooter. at the hospital, cooks told detective bill wilson, the lead investigator on the case, that the shooter was from the nickerson gardens housing project in watts and was affiliated with the bounty hunter bloods criminal street gang. the main rival of the bounty hunter bloods is the grape street crips criminal street gang, which claims territory in the area around the jordan downs housing project in watts. cooks was from the jordan downs housing project. although cooks denied any gang affiliation, he told detective wilson that the bounty hunter cooks told detective wilson that, after he had been shot and had fallen to the ground, the shooter stood over him and continued to fire shots at him. cooks described the shooter as a black man with short hair, 18 to 21 years old, 5 feet 9 inches to 5 feet 11 inches tall, and wearing all black clothing. phillips was a black man with short hair, 18 years old at the time, 5 feet 9 inches to 5 feet 10 inches tall, and appeared on surveillance video wearing a black jacket and red shirt. the following day, detective wilson showed cooks a six-pack photographic lineup that included a picture of phillips. cooks 4 immediately identified phillips as the shooter. he said he was mentioned in police reports and he would not testify in court.2 cooks ultimately did testify at trial, but said he did so only because the people threatened to have him arrested if he did not testify. he stated he was on morphine at the hospital that left him dizzy and drowsy. he denied making many of the statements about the shooting that detective wilson attributed to him, denied giving a description of the shooter, denied he knew who shot him, and denied identifying phillips in the photographic lineup. like cooks, smith was from the jordan downs housing project. he was also interviewed by detective wilson at the hospital. he said that the shooter was a 16- or 17-year-old black male who was 5 feet one or 5 feet two inches tall, wore a gray and red sweater, . although smith did not express any reluctance or fear about identifying the shooter at the hospital, at trial he denied providing detective wilson with a description of the shooter or of the gun and said he did not see who shot him. smith testified he has been a member of the grape street crips since he was a and, right after he was shot, he displayed a grape street hand sign to . at the crime scene, tyler w. was not what had happened. he testified he heard a fight break out on the opposite side of the street from where he was standing, he 2 in gang culture, testifying against any gang member, even 5 heard some,he heard a gunshot. he testified that he did not see who shot him. b. phillips talks to a confidential informant in jail detective nathan khouri arranged to place a confidential infinvestigating an unrelated murder casethe shooting of a grape street gang member in watts on november 6, 2012. khouri hoped phillips would know something about the murder case he was investigating becalthough he had no information linking phillips to the murder, in order to stimulate conversation with the confidential informant detective khouri told phillips his name had come up in connection with the case. the police recorded the conversation between phillips and the confidential informant, and the prosecution played the video at trial. during the conversation, phillips consistently denied having any knowledge about or involvement in the murder detective khouri was investigating. but phillips did make some potentially incriminating statements related to the hollywood shootings. he told the confidential informantw who that is. . . . . . . you street gang members. when the confidential informant asked if the hollywood h. when the confidential informant asked if phillips told anyone about the hollywood crime, phillips said, later, the confidential informant asked whether the 6 phillips answered, phillips also (gun) c. the prosecutor redacts certain statements from the conversation between phillips and the confidential informant the prosecutor redacted certain statements from the transcript of the conversation between phillips and the confidential informant. phillips objected to the redaction of four statements by the confidential informant: (1) like 20 years, 20 years, 25, (2) those sentences would be ivesaround and, and give you like, give you 20 more years for that other thing, maybe 25 years for that other thing too,like when you like woke up this morning [you] never thought youd be fighting for the rest of your life,and (4) trying to get the prosecutor argued the court should approve these redactions because the four statements punishment for this type of charge. it is not relevant, and it is also prejudicial, because it points the jury directly to the very probative value that would outweigh what i think would be, for counsel for phillips argued the references to potentially long sentences lot of stress in the hopes that he would make incriminatory he confidential informant is using these numbers of potential sentences to really rev up the stress that mr. phillips was feeling so that he could then come in, 7 is] 45 minutes long is because that informant is using pressure techniques like indicating to mr. phillips how high his bail is, the time, and those are things that i need to address to the jury in my closing argument about the reason why mr. phillips ends up making incriminat the trial court initially indicated it was not inclined to allow the redactions, but would give a limiting instruction, punishment is after listening to the entire conversation, however, the court determined the statements were way . . . coercive because to know what the possible sentence is, and those portions are overly suggestive in the court ruled value [of the redacted statements] is outweighed by the prejudicial effect. d. the trial court admits social media and other gang evidence the prosecution introduced what phillips admits was xtensive aevidence of membership in the bounty hunter bloods and the bounty one of the gang experts, detective daniel pearce, testified that the gang members. another gang expert, officer francis coughlin, testified that is the grape street crips,the war between the bounty 8 hunters and grape street obably taken more lives than any other feud in the watts area. officer coughlin also testified about musical group comprised of bounty hunter blood gang members who were writing songs . . . relly nat there had been a truce between the bounty hunter bloods and the grape street crips during the year before the encourage[ed] youngsters specifically to t and 3 phillips posted on a social media site a pho on the day nigh at times, phillips used on his social media sites the names hunter bloods. phillips also posted a picture of himself on his social media site rrrderrrrr4 another one of s social media names 3 in fact, cooks told detective wilson he had seen relly nation rap videos posted on the internet, and the videos were part of the feud between the bounty hunter bloods and the grape street crips. 4 . . . allegiance to the 9 on october 21, 2012, less than two weeks before the shooting, on his social media site always going to be fuck fake street and everything you all stand for. period. ck, gkrogatory name for , on january 6, 2012, two months after the shooting, social media the people also introducedobjections that the evidence was more prejudicial than probative, not relevant, and cumulativefive pieces of evidence from social media that form the basis for ph. first, in october and november 2011 (one year before the shooting) phillips posted on his social media site statements the people argued related to farm. phillips am from duceline bounty hunnas. we yo clothin. hunnas go hard, make sure mah knots swollen, fuck it with the fakes phillips wrote a private message to 10 kill them niggahs. i ka5 second, the day of the shooting, three social media statuses posted by other users. these postings read, hoever is going to hollywood tomorrow, you all be safe. i just heard some shit, and i just want to warn you all to be careful. real shit ; and third, phillips and another social media user with the rivate, written conversation on november 2, 2012 (just after the shooting). freakooricoo began, aye, you popped the homies. weird stupid rellyk ass niggah. as a matter of fact, it [] even matter. just know you all got scary ass out of my in-freakoobeezy gang bitch pulled up on wayne and had his fa officer coughlin testified that wayne was a bounty hunter bloods gang member who was shot 5 trial counsel for phillips argued it was not clear that the berry farm incident on october 31, 2011. the court overruled ivate message, but ] [the message] back es to the 11 in the face by a grape street crips gang member about a decade ago. before the jury heard the phillips-freakooricoo exchange, the court admonished the regarding the communications that appear to be authored by freakooricoo, those are not offered fourth, phillips had a written conversation on a social media site with his girlfriend on november 3, 2012 (also just [they need to] momma to spend the night at nene house. my boys coming over. wrong. finally, the court admitted a redacted version of a relly nation rap video posted on the internet.6 in the video, phillips and other gang members dance and flash gang signs as the bitch.point in the video, other gang members (but not phillips) appear with their faces covered in ski masks with the eyes cut out, while kash simulates shooting with a rifle. at another point, phillips 6 the references against women . . . is not re 12 -t officer coughlin testified that one way to show allegiance to a that the relly nation video was an example of this. phillips posted a link to the video on one of his social media accounts. officer coughlin also testified that the video was an example of bounty hunter bloods gang members [blackhawks] in the video, phillips wore a red blackhawks jacket and hat. counsel for time of the recording. we can do that with one still photograph. and i believe that the gang officer will be able to establish everything else that the district attorney is going to say and what the prosecutor argued the video was elf in a position where he can point his hand at the screen in the motion of a gun while a narrator, who is a fellow gang member, is talking about them committing violence in the context of gang mple the probative value outweighs the prejudicial effects and e. the jury convicts phillips of the attempted premeditated murder of courtney cooks the people tried phillips for the attempted premeditated murders of smith, tyler w., and cooks. at the first trial the jury 13 found phillips not guilty of the attempted premeditated murders of smith and tyler w., and could not reach a verdict on the count of attempted premeditated murder of cooks. at the second trial, which gives rise to this appeal, the jury found phillips guilty of the attempted premeditated murder of cooks, and found true the allegation he committed the crime for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang. the trial court sentenced phillips to 40 years to life. phillips filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion a. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in allowing redaction of sentence-related statements from the conversation between phillips and the confidential informant interview between [phillips] and the confidential informant was erroneous because the evidence of the circumstances surrounding made many statements with the goal of increasing [level of stress, including repeated statements about the many, because, according to phillips, the statements were relevant and more probative than prejudicial, their exclusion violated phill the people argue the excluded statements about potential punishment were not relevant to whether the confidential informant caused phillips to make his arguably damaging 14 admissions because many of those admissions came before the first redacted statement about possible sentences. thus, the is belied by the conversation that, even if the redacted statements were relevant, they were more prejudicial than probative because the jury may not consider sentencing at the guilt phase. and, the people argue, the court did not violate people v. clark (2016) 63 cal.4th 522, 597; see evid. code,  350.) relevant disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination of the act,  210; see people v. cowan (2010) 50 cal.4th 401, 4[t]he test of relevance is intent, or motivedetermine the relevance of evidence [citation], and we will not people v. jones (2013) 57 cal.4th 899, 947.) many of s admissions occurred before the confidential informant made any of the statements about possible punishment that the prosecutor redacted. thus, the redacted statements were not relevant to whether the confidential informant pressured phillips into making these admissions because phillips made the admissions before the confidential informant made any statements about possible sentences. for 15 example, pfirst redacted statement, phillips had already said t see nothing [in the surveillance video] but what i had on, that nobody had seen him commit the crime, he had committed the crime alone, nothing the confidential informant said in the redacted portion of the transcript had any effect on phillips in making these statements. notably, phillips does not address this flaw in his argument. phillips did make some admissions after some of the statements by the confidential informant that the court redacted. for example, phillips ame was being run acrosssocial media in connection with the halloween shooting, people were saying on social media . . . is alright, if [he] . . . kill you, and the redacted statements by the confidential informant could have been of mind when he made these admissions. the trial court, however, did not abuse its discretion in excluding pre-admission statements by the confidential informant under evidence code section 352. (cf. people v. brooks (mar. 20, 2017, s099274) ___ cal.5th ___, ___ [2017 wl 1046456, p. 19] [completely lacking in relevance, the court did not abuse its discretion in excluding it under evidence code section 352].) under evidence code s[t]he court in its discretion may exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will . . . create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury. (see people v. lee (2011) 51 cal.4th 620, 16 643 [even relevant evidence may be excluded under evidence code section 352].) code section 352 will be affirmed unless it was arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd and the ruling resulted in a people v. winbush (2017) 2 cal.5th 402, 469.) the court found the probative value of the redacted statements was minimal because, after listening to the recording, the court concluded the conversation did not appear in any way . . . coercivenon-coercive. phillips does not challenge this finding. instead, phillips argues the statements were probative because they the record supports the trial couin addition to the fact that phillips made several of the admissions prior to did not cause phillips to make his admissions and therefore had minimal probative value), there were many the prosecutor did not redact. even on the subject of potential sentencing, the prosecutor did not redact the p, man. yeah that shit . . . life for that shit, man . . . nor did the statement to the confidential informant that the police had arrested him informant also made statements that were not redacted regarding the seriousness of the charges phillips was facing. he told phillips he 17 becaulater, the confidential informant mewas set at $1.4 million. thus, even with the redactions, there was plenty of evidence from which phillips could argue to the jury evel, which caused him to make unreliable admissions. (see, e.g., people v. hendrix (2013) 214 cal.app.4th 216, 244 [where evidence is cumulative, the probative value of that evidence is diminished; people v. holford (2012) 203 cal.app.4th 155, 178, fn. 14 cumulative of other evidence [citations] and there is a substantial danger of confusing or misleading the jury or a substantial ].) in addition, while the probative value of the redacted statements was small, the court was properly concerned about the substantial danger of undue prejudice, confusion of the issues, and consumption of time. nt is not a proper matter for jury people v. martinez (2010) 47 cal.4th 911, 958; see shannon v. united states (1994) 512 u.s. 573, 579 matters that are not within their province, distracts them from their factfinding responsibilities, and creates a strong possibility ].) although the trial court could have instructed the potential sentences for their truth but rather solely for their effect on phillips (see, e.g., people v. foster (2010) 50 cal.4th 1301, 1332), the court did not abuse its discretion by instead 18 redacting those statements from the transcript. (see, e.g., people v. hendrix, supra, 214 cal.app.4th at p. 248 [limiting instruction did not cure the prejudice from cumulative, inflammatory evidence]). . (see people v. thompson (2016) 1 cal.5; people v. blacksher (2011) 52 cal.4th 769, 821 [rejecting federal constitutional right to present a defense prevails over s because the court did not abuse its discretion in approving the portions of the phillips-confidential informant transcriptconstitutional rights to due process, to present a defense, and to a fair jury trial. (see people v. peoples (2016) 62 cal.4th 718, 742 on the issue actually before that court necessarily leads to rejection 7 7 rules of evidence . . . does not impermissibly infringe on a value of the evidence the defendant seeks to present is significant. (people v. cunningham (2001) 25 cal.4th 926, 998-may impair his or her right to due process of law, the exclusion of defense evidence on a minor or subsidiary point does not interfere id. at p. 999; see people v. loker (2008) 44 cal.4th 691, 730 [the exclusion of cumulative and 19 b. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting social media gang evidence d by admitting into evidence a relly nation rap video[,] and [certain] posts, messages and photographs from [ social media] accounts that [were] specifically, he argues that, e establishing hunters harbored toward grape street was overwhelming and [social media] posts were cumulative to that evidence and their language and content evidence was highly relevant to show the gang motive for the shooting, the truth of the gang allegation, and to explain the ses of evidence code section 352 means evidence that tends to evoke an emotional bias against the defendant with very little effect on issues, not evidence that is people v. valdez (2012) 55 cal.4th 82, 133.) when ng evidence [is] central to [a] case involving gang members committing gang murders for gang motives, broad admissibility of gang evidence [is] (people v. samaniego (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 1148, 1169; see id. at p. 1168 [[b]ecause a motive is ordinarily the incentive for criminal behavior, its probative value generally exceeds its prejudicial effect, and wide latitude is permitted in admitting tangential evidence does not deny a defendant due process of law].) as noted, the probative value of the redacted statements was not significant. 20 evidence of its existence].) admissible when the very reason for the underlying crime, that is people v. franklin (2016) 248 cal.app.4th 938, 953.) establish the disputed matters with other evidence [does not] render the gang evidence irrelpeople v. valdez, at p. 134.) evidence, is relevant, not unduly prejudicial and thus admissible, people v. albarran (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 214, 224-225.) some of the gang-related evidence may have been cumulative. defendant has a criminal disposition and is therefore guilty of the people v. melendez (2016) 2 cal.5th 1, 28-29; see people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 193), the trial court probably should have excluded some of the gang evidence in this case. nevertheless, the trial court painstakingly scrutinized each objection to that evidence, and we cannot say the trial courtevidentiary rulings amounted to an abuse of discretion. phillsocial media grape street members the shooting, was probative on the issue of to and participation in the feud the prosecution argued was the motive for the 2012 halloween shooting. the private message, , ,owed, as the prosecutor argued, that phillips was a 21 dedicated gang member liking social media statuses on the day of the shooting was also relevant to 8 the freakooricoo exchange was relevant because, after freakooricoo accused him of being the shooter, phillips did not deny his involvement in the shooting, and any potential undue prejudice was cured (see people v. capistrano (2014) 59 cal.4th 830, 869 [is] that juries are presumed to fothe conversation between phillips and his girlfriend showed he was preparing for retaliation soon after the shooting. none of this he plethora of gang evidence to which phillips did not object. (see people v. valdez, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 134 iven the extensive other evidence . . . -related exhibits he within the meaning of evidence code section 352 . . . is the relly nation video, even in its redacted form, created the greatest risk of undue prejudice, and, in light of all the other gang evidence, the prosecution did not need it to prove gang 8 phillips did not object to the admission of a third status posted by another user and liked by phillips the day of the shooting that read: people v. jackson (2016) 1 cal.5th 269, 328.) 22 affiliation or motivewas within the trial court. in people v. zepeda (2008) 167 cal.app.4th 25, a case that also involved the shooting of a rival gang member, the trial court admitted two songs from a gangster rap cd the defendant wrote. (id. at p. 28.) the court held the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the se lyrics, coupled with the other evidence of state of mind, his motives and intentions, and his fealty to id. at p. 35.) the same rationale applies here. phillips contends zepeda is distinguishable because nation] video and there was no evidence elicited to establish that the court in zepeda, however, did not rely on the fact that zepeda authored the lyrics. to the contrary, the court people v. zepeda, supra, 167 cal.app.4th at p. 35.gang expert . . . testified that gangs communicate through and criminal intent, as well as his membership in a criminal ibid.) the gang expert in this case similarly testified that relly nation was a musical group as well as a clique of the bounty hunter bloods, and that the bounty hunter bloods used the relly nation videos to inflame the rivalry with the grape street crips. phillips admits h the bounty hunters, [and] was visible in the background dancing and 23 although phillips did not simulate holding a gun while wearing a ski mask, his appearance in the video making a gun hand motion and displaying gang signs supports the inference that he stood behind the violent message. therefore, the evidence did not unfairly prejudice phillips. (see people v. cortez (2016) 63 cal.4th 101, 128-129 [is not prejudicial under evidence code section 352 unless it is prejudicial.) disposition the judgment is affirmed. segal, j. we concur: zelon, acting p. j. small, j.* *judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 