filed 7/1/15 p. v. teate ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. kevin l. teate, jr., defendant and appellant. b259203 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma062991) appeal from the judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. charles a. chung, judge. affirmed. ______ trenton c. packer, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, timothy m. weiner and michael katz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ______ 2 a jury convicted defendant kevin teate, jr., of burglary and the trial court sentenced him to two years in prison. he contends that the prosecutor committed prejudicial misconduct during closing argument by arguing facts not in evidence to vouch for the credibility of a prosecution witness. we hold that teate forfeited this argument by factual summary 1. summary of evidence at trial on the morning of may 12, 2014, someone broke house while she was away. around 10:50 that morning, paul veronica observed a black wminutes and ,s if she was eventually, the woman walked to a car parked nearby. veronica then noticed two black not identify them at trial. around the same time, neighbors rogelio and leslie villegas drove by house. from a distance of 20 or 30 feet rogelio1 observed two unfamiliar black males standing on the corner waving their hands, and a woman in a black car nearby. a couple of minutes later, the villegases drove past the same spot and rogelio noticed that the two men were gone and the woman was still in the car. they became suspicious and called the police. rogelio made a u-turn and drove back to the corner. he then saw the two men on the other was wearing black and red pants. the man in shorts ran across the street, about 20 to 40 car, and into the desert. the man wearing black and red pants ran to the black car and got in the front passenger seat. rogelio did not get 1 for clarity, and without intending any disrespect, we will refer to rogelio and leslie villegas by their first names. 3 ran to the car. as the car drove away, it passed the villegases, then turned off the road and into plate number. the villegases watched as the car and the man in shorts headed toward each other. just then, the villegases flagged down los angeles county sherideputy joshua epstein and told him what they saw. deputy epstein saw a man in shorts walking eastbound toward a black car. he drove southbound on a dirt road toward the man and the car. the man in shorts then turned and walked northbound, away from the black car started driving southbound. deputy epstein drove past the man in shorts and followed the car. at the closest point, the deputy was 10 yards from the man in shorts. he stopped the black car and detained the male passenger and the female driver. he was able to identify the male passenger as tafari williams, co-defendant. williams was wearing dark pants. the person man had disappeared. the villagases made in-field identifications of the man in the car. rogelio identified the man as the person he saw running to and getting into the car. leslie [she] the next day, at the lancaster station jail, deputy epstein identified teate as the 2 he also identified him at the preliminary hearing and at trial. 2 the circumstances surrounding apprehension are not disclosed in the record. 4 teate and williams were tried together before separate juries. rogelio identified the defendants in court as the two men he saw on the street cornnot certain which defendant got into the car and which ran into the desert. at one point, who got into the passenger seat of the car, but he was leslie identified williams in court as the man who ran into the desert, but said she could not be certain. she did not recognize teate, but testified that teate and williams resembled the two men weight, and complexions. jeffrey leonard tesattended a dance appreciation class at antelope valley college that began at 9:00 in the morning on may 12, 2014. the class may have ended at any time between 9:30 a.m. and 11:00 a.m. after the class, he and teate went to therapy for about 10 minutes and, at 2:00 in the afternoon, were together at football practice. at some point between therapy and football practice, leonard saw teate b during cross-examination, however, leonard admitted that he did not know what days of the week the dance appreciation class met and was not sure of the date he saw teate in the class. 2. counsel] will probably talk mostly about identity. there is quite a bit of facts in this case that lead to show that mr. teate was the person running through the desert that day. first and foremost you heard deputy epstein come in here, take an oath and testify to you that he saw mr. teate as the person who was initially walking through the desert and changed direction when the police car came into view. and as he drove past him, he had a clear, unobstructed view. mr. teate walked directly past the police car about ten yards away facing forward. a couple of things about that. [] deputy epsteinthat is what he does. he is a police officer. he encounters stressful situations on a 5 daily entified both defendants but they were unsure as to who did what. [mr.] teate was the one running in the desert or the one getting in the car or whether williams was the one in things like that could cost him his life. if he is chasing a dangerous suspect, he needs to mistakes. he was very clear that the person sitting in court here today, mr. teate, is the person walking in the desert from that home and changed directions as soon as the police in the defense closing argument, counsel placed some emphasis on the theory of - consider in -asked to identify a particular individual of another race or ethnicity. this is such a ned in your jury instructions. . . . this is not a defense tactic to try to cloud the issue because there are definite cross- talked about cross-racial i.d. of deputy epstein as to [teate]. . . . [q]uite frankly, some people may be better at identifying people of a different race and some people may not be. it really depends on the individual. it depen . . . [deputy epstein] does deal with a large number of the public. probably more than most le in an office. in that sense he probably does have more contact with people of different races, caucasian, african american, hispanic, asian, than the average person just because a police officer deals with such a 6 large number of the public. if you look at it that way, he probably has a better position defendant did not object or seek a curative admonition as to any of the discussion teate contends that the identification of teate constituted prejudicial misconduct. in particular, he points to the things like that could general argues that teate has forfeited this claim and, if not forfeited, it lacks merit. in generarequest a jury admonition has forfeited any claim concerning the statements on appeal. (see people v. gamache (2010) 48 cal.4th 347, 371.) this rule applies to cases in which the prosecutor is accused of vouching for the credibility of prosecution witnesses. (see, e.g., people v. redd (2010) 48 cal.4th 691, 741; people v. riggs (2008) 44 cal.4th 248, 302; people v. fernandez (2013) 216 cal.app.4th 540, 561.) because teate failed to assert an objection, he forfeited the argument that the comments constituted misconduct. teate relies on our decision in people v. alvarado (2006) 141 cal.app.4th 1577, 1586 (alvarado), to support his misconduct claim as well as to counter the att in alvarado, the prosecutor began her rebuttal argument by stating: i have a duty and i have taken an oath as a deputy [d]istrict [a]ttorney not to prosecute a case if i have any doubt that that crime occurred. [] the defendant charged is the person who did it. (alvarado, supra, invited the jury to convict alvarado based on her opinion that he was guilty and on the prestige of her officeid. at p. 1585.) in addition, the prosecutor made numerous improper comments, such as vouching for the credibility of the sole eyewitness in the 7 po(id. at pp. 1585-the challenged comments were so prejudicial that an admonition would not have (ibid.) we are guided by well-settled principles. s . . . intemperate egregious that it infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial [citations.] conduct by a prosecutor that does not render a criminal trial fundamentally unfair is prosecutorial misconduct under state law only if it involves methods to attempt to persuade either the court (people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 819.) the prosecutor otherwise bolstering the veracity of their testimony by referring to evidence outside the record. [citations.] . . . hs assurances regarding the record and the inferences reasonably drawn therefrom, rather than any purported personal (people v. frye (1998) 18 cal.4th 894, 971.) here, unlike alvarador. 8 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. rothschild, p. j. we concur: johnson, j. bendix, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 