filed 12/21/15 p. v. dunbar ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jaqwan glen dunbar, defendant and appellant. b259122 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta130397) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, kelvin d. filer, judge. affirmed in part and reversed in part with directions. j. kahn, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey, supervising deputy attorney general, and robert m. snider, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 jaqwan glen dunbar (dunbar) appeals his conviction by jury for the murder of willie singleton (singleton) and the attempted murder of joseph kelly (kelly). dunbar contends that the trial court made the following prejudicial errors: (1) it admitted into evidence of conversation with a jailhouse confidential informant; (2) it -examination of two police officers; (3) it restricted his allowed the imposition of a gang enhancement despite the lack of sufficient supporting evidence. in principal part, we disagree with dunbar, finding that the trial court properly admitted evidence of the jailhouse conversation with the informant and properly limited the cross-examination of the police officers and kelly. however, we agree with dunbar that the gang enhancement was not supported by sufficient evidence. background i. the murder of singleton and the attempted murder of kelly at approximately 5:40 p.m. on august 4, 2013, singleton and kelly were walking southbound down wilmington avenue, between 109th and 110th streets, in los angeles. singleton and kelly were members of a gang called the ten line gangster crips (ten line crips or ten line). that section of wilmington avenue is considered to be part of t as the two men were walking on the sidewalk along the east side of wilmington avenue someone fuck ten line.followed by a volley of four to five pistol shots. according to an eyewitness, a lone gunman fired at singleton and kelly from the west side of wilmington avenue near 109th place. as singleton and kelly ran away from the shooter, singleton was struck by a single bullet. one and damaging a major artery, before exiting out the front of his chest. the damage to the major artery was fatal. despite treatment from first responders, singleton died at the scene. 3 ii. on october 10, 2013, dunbar was arrested and taken into custody. while being in fact, he even told the detectives that he was in another city (palmdale, california) at the time of the shootinga statement that was false. shortly after midnight on october 11, 2013, following his interview with the investigating detectives, dunbar was placed in a small holding cell with a confidential informant posing as another prisoner also arrested for murder. the informant was civilian clothes and displaying a tattoo associated with another los angeles gang, the rolling 60s. the holding cell was wired for sound-recording and video observation; in addition, the informant was wired for sound and video recording. dunbar immediately identified himself to the informant as a gang member, a member of the bad ass gangsta grips (bad ass crips), who goes by the name of he wound up shooting a ten line crip with a burner, a .357-caliber revolver. busted, or fired, five times from across the street. dunbar said he was surprised he had hit even one of the two men as he was firing from a distance. when the informant inquired about the gun, dunbar told him that someone in louisiana now had the gun. the informant urged dunbar to claim that he was in palmdale with his sister at the time of the murder and that he was only trying to enroll in trade school. in response, dunbar said he had told that false story when interviewed by the detectives and that he would hold to it. iii. on february 11, 2014, dunbar pleaded not guilty to one count of murder (pen. code,1  187, subd. (a); count 1), one count of attempted murder ( 664, 187, subd. (a); count 2), and denied the special allegations with regard to the use of a firearm 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 4 ( 12022.53, subds. (b), (c), (d)) and committing a crime for the benefit of criminal street gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)). the jury trial began on july 14, 2014. in support of case, the prosecution called several eyewitnesses, the first police officer to arrive at the scene, the officers who later arrested dunbar and executed a search warrant for the home of team and the detective leading the investigation itestified as an expert on los angeles street gangs. the confidential informant did not testify, but the video and audio recordings of the conversation between dunbar and the confidential informant were admitted into evidence and shown to the jury and a transcript of the audio tape was provided to the jury. only one witness testified for the defense: dunbar. among other things, dunbar testified that he lied to the police about being in palmdale on the day of the shooting because he had never been arrested before and his mother had sent him to palmdale so that he could stay out of trouble. with regard to his incriminating statements made to the informant, dunbar testified that he was merely trying to hat he would not get raped or assaulted. as related to the informant, he was simply repeating what he had heard about the crime from friends and [d]udes around some of whom were also members of the bad ass crips. on july 23, 2014, after an eight-day trial and less than a day of deliberation, the jury found dunbar guilty on both counts and also found true the criminal street gang and firearm enhancements. on september 17, 2014, the trial court sentenced dunbar to a total term of 50 years to life in state prison. the sentence consisted of 25 years to life on count 1, the principal term, and consecutively, 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement ( 12022.53, subd. (d)). the gang enhancement was stayed with respect to count 1. concurrently, the court imposed a total term of 35 years to life as to count 2, consisting 5 of 15 years to life on the attempted murder and an additional 20 years for the firearm enhancement ( 12022.53, subd. (c)). with regard to the gang enhancement for count 2, the court ordered that dunbar on that same day, dunbar filed a timely notice of appeal from the judgment. discussion i. the confrontation clause was not implicated by the holding cell conversation between dunbar and the confidential informant prosecutions, the accused shall enjoy the right . . . to be confronted with the witnesses (u.s. const., 6th amend.) dunbar claims that the admission into evidence, over his objection, of audiotape, videotape, and transcript of his conversation with the confidential informant violated his sixth amendment right to confrontation because the prosecution did not produce the informant as a witness. the trial court ruled informant were admissions and, as such, did not implicate the confrontation clause. to the extent that the trial court ruled that they did not violate the confrontation clause, because they were nontestimonialthat is, statements were not made in a formal, solemn, structured manner for prosecutorial use. as discussed in more detail below, we find that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in admitting evidence of the holding cell conversation. (people v. lawley (2002) 27 cal.4th 102, 153.) a. e confidential informant were admissible as admissions against penal interest to be admissible, an out-of-court statement must be trustworthy and against the s penal interest. (people v. leach (1975) 15 cal.3d 419, 441442.) rule of leach(e.g., one which admits some complicity but places the major responsibility on others) 6 (people v. duarte (2000) 24 cal.4th 603, 612.) facially incriminating statements implicating himself in the murder of singleton and the attempted murder of kelly were in no way exculpatory. although the conversation was a question and answer session, dunbar statements were (people v. samuels (2005) 36 cal.4th 96, 121.) such specificity, including identifying the victims as ten line crips, the type of gun used, and the distance from which singleton was shot, shows an inherent trustworthiness. the trial court did not err in finding that statements to the confidential informant were admissions against penal interest. b. statements by the confidential informant were nontestimonial and, as such, admissible in crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36 [124 s.ct. 1354, 158 l.ed.2d 177] (crawford), the united states supreme court held that the sixth amendment prohibits admission of out-of-court testimonial statements against a criminal defendant unless the declarant is unavailable as a witness and the defendant had a prior opportunity to cross-examine him or her, or the declarant appears at trial. (people v. jennings (2010) 50 cal.4th 616, 651; davis v. washington (2006) 547 u.s. 813, 821 [126 s.ct. 2266, 165 l.ed.2d 224] (davis).) in other words, only testimonial statements cause the declarant to be a witness within the meaning of the confrontation clause. (davis, at p. 821.) thus, under crawford, the crucial question is whether an out-of-court statement is testimonial or not. (arcy (2010) 48 cal.4th 257, 290.) although the court in crawford, supra, 541 u.s. 36 did not explicitly define a set forth three formulations of the (1) ex parte in-court testimony or its functional equivalentthat is, material such as affidavits, custodial examinations, prior testimony that the defendant was unable to cross-examine, or similar pretrial statements that declarants would reasonably expect to be used prosecutorially; extrajudicial statements . . . contained in formalized testimonial materials, such as affidavits, 7 depositions, prior testimony, or confessions; and (3) ere made under circumstances which would lead an objective witness reasonably to believe that the statement would be available for use at a later trial. (id. at pp. 5152 & fn. 3.) the court distinguished these types of testimonial statements from a casual remarkone acquaintance to another. (id. at p. 51.) ibid.) this point was subsequently affirmed in davis, supra, 547 u.s. 813, where the court observed in dicta that statements made unwittingly to a [g]overnment informant (id. at p. 825.) in people v. cage (2007) 40 cal.4th 965, our supreme court used crawford, supra, 541 u.s. 36, and davis, supra, 547 u.s. 813, to derive certain basic principles to define statements as , including the followingfirst, . . . the confrontation clause is concerned solely with hearsay statements that are testimonial, in that they are out-of-court analogs, in purpose and form, of the testimony given by witnesses at trial. second, though a statement need not be sworn under oath to be testimonial, it must have occurred under circumstances that imparted, to some degree, the formality and solemnity characteristic of testimony. third, the statement must have been given and taken primarily for the purpose ascribed to testimonyto establish or prove some past fact for possible use in a criminal trial. fourth, the primary purpose for which a statement was (cage, at p. 984, fns. omitted.) here, the conversation between dunbar and the confidential informant was not a solemn, formal out-of-court analog. rather, the relatively brief conversation lasting less than an hour was casual, often profane and it was seemingly made for a variety of purposes wholly unrelated to establishing a fact at trial; in fact, dunbar implored the older, more worldly-] that is, to provide the younger, less experienced dunbar with advice on how to avoid conviction and incarceration. moreover, the conversation between dunbar and the informant was not 8 conducted under circumstances that would lead an objective participant to reasonably expect that his or her statements might be used in future judicial proceedings. there was, in other words, no structured, self-evident police interrogation. as a fallback position, dunbar argues that because the conversation in the holding cell was without merit, as illustrated by people v. arauz (2012) 210 cal.app.4th 1394, 14011402, which affirmed the admission of secretly recorded statements by a codefendant to a confidential jailhouse informant. moreover, a long line of federal cases have held that secretly recording a conversation with a confidential informant does not render that conversation testimonial. unwittingly made to a confidential informant and recorded by the government is not (united states v. watson (7th cir. 2008) 525 f.3d 583, 589; see brown v. epps (5th cir. 2012) 686 f.3d 281, 287288 [secretly recorded statements to confidential informant prior to arrest are nontestimonial]; united states v. dale (8th cir. 2010) 614 f.3d 942, 956 [secretly recorded statements to another prisoner are nontestimonial]; united states v. smalls (10th cir. 2010) 605 f.3d 765, 778 [secretly recorded statements to confidential informant/inmate was .) ii. confrontation was not abridged by limits placed on his cross-examination of two police officers -examine two police officersofficer james shannon (shannon), who arrested dunbar and executed (carias), one of the lead investigators into the murder of singletonabout prior unrelated events in their careers constituted (capitalization and boldface omitted.) we disagree. with regard to shannon, dunbar wished to cross-examine him about a civil lawsuit regarding a vehicle crash that involved crips gang members. the accident, bad ass crips, but another crip 9 set, the rolling 40s, which operated in a different part of the city. moreover, the accident and resulting lawsuit, which happened approximately 15 years before the singleton shooting, did not result in any disciplinary action begin taken against shannon or any other officers or detectives involved in the singleton shooting investigation. the trial court on this issue, ruling that there was an as for carias, dunbar wished to impeach the detective on a fatal shooting in the imperial courts housing projects that he was purported involved in and which allegedly led to the detective being barred from reentering counsel, the proposed impeachment might show that carias imperial courts incident was the same person as the detective investigating the singleton murder. s request on grounds of relevance, finding the imperial courts housing project was not near the instant not affiliated with either of the two gangs inve instant case did not involve carias using or firing his weapon. because the proposed impeachment evidence did not implicate tigation of the [instant] court also found that the proposed ed to carias. the confrontation clause of the sixth amendment guarantees the right of an (u.s. const., 6th amend.) to secure for the opponent the opportunity of cross-examination (davis v. alaska (1974) 415 u.s. 308, 315316 [94 s.ct. 1105, 39 l.ed.2d 347].) in particular, the u.s. recognized that the exposure of a witness motivation in testifying is 10 a proper and important function of the constitutionally protected right of cross- (id. at p. 316.) however, it does not follow from this recognition that the confrontation clause prevents a trial court from imposing any limits on defense on the contrary, as the u.s. supreme court has made clear, trial judges retain wide latitude insofar as the confrontation clause is concerned to impose reasonable limits on such cross-examination based on concerns about, among other things, harassment, prejudice, confusion of the issues, the witnes(delaware v. van arsdall (1986) 475 u.s. 673, 679 [106 s.ct. 1431, 89 l.ed.2d 674].) in other words, opportunity for effective cross-examination, not cross-examination that is effective in whatever way, and to whatever (delaware v. fensterer (1985) 474 u.s. 15, 20 [106 s.ct. 292, 88 l.ed.2d 15].) the opportunity for cross-examination under california law is limited by relevance, as only relevant evidence is admissible. (evid. code,  350.) to be relevant, (evid. code,  210.) this ibid.; see evid. code,  780 [the fact finder may consider matters relevant to the truthfulness of the or irrelevant if it has no logical bearing on any material, disputed issue. (people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 9.) in other words, a fact may bear on the credibility of a witness and still be collateral to the case and therefore inadmissible. in short, our trial courts have wide latitude to exclude evidence offered for impeachment that is collateral and has no relevance to the pending action. (people v. rodriguez, supra, 20 cal.4th at pp. 910.) this exercise of discretion necessarily encompas-consuming nature. (evid. code,  352; see people v. lewis (2001) 26 cal.4th 334, 374375 [evid. code,  352 gives trial 11 colated people v. dement (2011) explained in people v. harris (2008) 43 cal.4th 1269, clause, the trial court retains wide latitude in restricting cross-examination that is repetitive, prejudicial, confusing of the issues, or of marginal here, although the proposed impeachment in each instance was arguably related to the credibility of shannon and carias as witnesses, the proposed line of questioning was collateral to the issues in dispute in this case. to borrow from the trial court, the proposed impeachments were simply because the proposed impeachments were collateral, their admission would have been unduly prejudicial to the prosecution and/or confusing for the jury. accordingly, the trial court did not abuse its discretion in excluding the proposed impeachments. iii. dunbar was not unduly prejudiced by a limitation placed on his cross-examination of kelly dunbar contends that the trial court committed reversible error when it limited his prosecution witness because he provided a motive for the crime. specifically, dunbar sought to impeach unlawful taking or driving of motor vehicle (veh. code,  10851). the trial court allowed kelly to be impeached with respect to two felony convictions (rape and negligent discharge of a firearm), but disallowed any cross-examination with respect to the misdemeanor vehicle code conviction. the trial court justified its decision on the grounds that the vehicle theft-taking conviction was not a crime involving moral turpitude. dunbar contends that vehicle theft-taking is an offense involving moral turpitude. (see people v. lang (1989) 12 it is reasonably more probable that a more favorable result would have ens if he had been allowed to impeach kelly on the misdemeanor conviction. we disagree. first, as a preliminary matter, kelly was not a witness whose testimony was either generally or with regard to motivation. as to the shooting itself, kellytestified that he did not see the shooter. with regard to the gang-related motivation for the crime, the key testimony on this issue was provided by other witnesses besides kelly, including dunbar himself. for example, dunbar identified himself to the jailhouse informant as a member of the bad ass grips and told the informant that he had been arrested for murdering a ten line crip. in addition, it was carias, not kelly, who relatively new gang, the bad ass grips, and the more established gang to which singleton belonged, the ten line crips and the increase in status that would inure to long-time member of ten line, such as singleton, was killed within own territory. second, even if kelly was essential to establishing a gang-related motivation for the shooting, he could not have been cross-examined on the fact of his misdemeanor conviction. a misdemeanor conviction hearsay when offered as people v. wheeler (1992) 4 cal.4th 284, 297.) although the facts underlying the misdemeanor conviction might have been used to impeach kelly, dunbar never sought to do so. third, the fact that the trial court was confused about whether vehicle theft-taking is a crime involving moral turpitude is beside the point. what matters is whether the trial court abused its discretion in excluding all cross examination about the vehicle theft-taking (both the conviction and the facts underlying that conviction). a trial court has exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury. (people v. lewis (2001) 26 cal.4th 334, 13 372, fn. 7.) this discretion gives the trial court broad power to control the presentation of nitpicking wars of attrition over collateral c (id. at pp. 374375.) a must not be disturbed on appeal except on a showing that the court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage of justice. (people v. rodrigues (1994) 8 cal.4th 1060, 1124.) here, the trial court did not act in an arbitrary, capricious or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriage of justiceit allowed kelly to be cross-examined on two felony convictions, while merely excluding a misdemeanor conviction. or any other conduct not amounting to a felonyis a less forceful indicator of immoral character or dishonesty than is a felony. moreover, impeachment evidence other than felony convictions entails problems of proof, unfair surprise, and moral turpitude evaluation which felony convictions do not present. hence, courts may and should consider with particular care whether the admission of such evidence might involve undue time, confusion, or prejudice which outweighs its probative value. (wheeler, supra, 4 cal.4th at pp. 296auto theft or joyridingdoes not strongly demonstrate morapeople v. castro (1985) 38 cal.3d 301, 315), and, accordingly, would not have provided the jury noted above, kelly was not essential in establishing a gang-related motive for the shooting. as a resultconviction was both reasoned and reasonable. iv. there was insufficient evidence supporting the imposition of a gang enhancement dunbar makes two arguments with respect to the imposition of a gang enhancement on his sentence. first, he argues that there was insufficient evidence to show a pattern of gang activity by the members of the bad ass crips. second, even if 14 there was sufficient evidence of a pattern of gang activity, the prosecution failed to the [bad ass crips] comprised the commission of the enumerated we are unconvinced with regard to the pattern of gang activity requirement. prong to be persuasive. a. standard of review he law regarding appellate review of claims challenging the sufficiency of the evidence in the context of gang enhancements is the same as that governing review of people v. leon (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 149, 161.) assessing the sufficiency of the evidence, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value such that a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reas (people v. steele (2002) 27 cal.4th 1230, 1249.) we presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact that could reasonably be deduced from the evidence. (people v. kraft (2000) 23 cal.4th 978, 1053.) we may reverse for lac (people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 331.) s]ubstantial evidence,however, is not synonymous . imust be of ponderable legal significance. . . . it must be reasonable . . . credible, and of solid value; it must actually be substantial proof of the essentials which the law requires in a particular case. (people v. bassett (1968) 69 cal.2d 122, 138139.) seize any evidence in support of the respondent in order to affirm the judgment. the court of appeal . . . merely to echo the determinations of the trial court. a decision supported by a mere scintilla of evidence ne(kuhn v. department of general services (1994) 22 cal.app.4th 1627, 1633.) 15 b. requirements for imposition of a gang enhancement the street terrorism enforcement and prevention act, also known as the step act, enacted by the legislature in 1988. ( 186.20 et seq.) underlying the step act was the legislaturecaused by violent street gangs whose members threaten, terrorize, and commit a multitude of crimes against the peaceful citizens of their neighborhoods. (ibid.) to subject a defendant to the penal consequences of the step act, the prosecution for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1).) in addition, the prosecution must prove that the gang (1) is an ongoing association of three or more persons with a common name or common identifying sign or symbol; (2) has as one of its primary activities the commission of one or more of the criminal acts enumerated in the statute; and (3) pattern of criminal gang activitytwo or more of the enumerated offenses (the so-statutorily defined period. ( 186.22, subds. (e), (f).) c. there was sufficient evidence to find a pattern of gang activity pattern of criminal gang activitysolicitation of, sustained juvenile petition for, or conviction of t ( 186.22, subd. (e); people v. gardeley, 14 cal.4th 605, 617.) the predicate offenses must have been committed on separate occasions, or by two or more persons. ( 186.22, subd. (e); people v. loeun (1997) 17 cal.4th 1, 910.) the charged crime may serve as a predicate offense. (gardeley, at p. 625.) 16 here, the prosecution relied upon the singleton shooting as one of the predicate offenses and, for the other, evidence that a minor named dwayne d., a bad ass crip possessing a firearm. although the prosecution prong was by no means overwhelming, it met the bare minimum, and, as such, was sufficient. (people v. duran (2002) 97 cal.app.4th 1448, 1458.) d. there was insufficient evidence to find that the primary activity of primary activities, as used in the gang statute, implies that the commission of one or more of the statutorily enumeratechiefprincipal occupations.people v. sengpadychith (2001) 26 cal.4th 316, 323.) the occasional commission of those crimes ibid.) section 186.22 . . . requires that one of the primary activities of the group or association itself be the commission of [specified] crime[s]. . . (sengpadychith, at p. 324.) ufficient proof of the consistently and repeatedly have committed criminal activity listed in the gang statute.ibid.) is often used. where such testimony has a reliable foundation, it is sufficient to establish primary activities. for example, in people v. gardeley, supra, 14 cal.4th 605, the testimony supporting a gang enhancement was provided by a detective who not only had extensive experience with gangs, gang members, and gang-related crimes generally, but also knew the defendants, and had had conversations with them and with other members of the gang prior to the commission of the crime at issue. (id. at p. 620.) the court found that this was a sufficient evidentiary foundation. (ibid.) similarly, in people v. martinez (2008) 158 cal.app.4th 1324, a gang expert from los angeles county department was able to provide sufficient evidence for a gang enhancement finding, . . . including investigations and id. at p. 1330.) in in re 17 i. m. (2005) 125 cal.app.4th 1195, 12071208, relied on a combination of his personal knowledge of the defendant and on a series of police reports. however, where a reliable foundation is lacking, then that expert testimony is insufficient to establish a gang enhancement. for example, in in re nathaniel c. (1991) 228 cal.app.3d 990, the court found that the expert evidence offered by a police officer to establish a gang enhancement was insufficient, because the expert was merely repeating what other officers had told him: constitute substantial evidence that the required predicate offense by a gang member (id. at p. 1003.) similarly in in re leland d. (1990) 223 cal.app.3d 251, the court held that the expert testimony was insufficient to prove a gang enhancement because the expert did not provide any details of the crimes he attributed to the gang and rom unidentified gang members and information pertaining to arrests of purported gang members . . . . (id. at p. 259.) the s testimony was the only evidence offered to prove the gang enhancement, and the gang crimes were committed. (id. at pp. 259260.) because this testimony provided no more than conclusory and generas primary purpose of committing gang crimes, the appellate s testimony insufficient as a matter of law to prove the gang enhancement. (ibid.) gang enhancement is inappropriate. (in re alexander l. (2007) 149 cal.app.4th 605, 612.) in alexander l., the s primary activities and he simply responded that he knew the gang had been involved in murders, auto thefts, auto/vehicle burglaries, felony graffiti, and narcotic violations. (id. at p. 611.) however, at no time did the expert explain what information he relied on in forming his opinion. (id. at p. 612.) because the testimony lacked proper foundation, the court in alexander l. held that the experts conclusory testimony could not constitute substantial evidence as to the gangs primary activities. (ibid.) 18 here, ty gang, the bad ass crips, was provided by carias, the lead detective investigating the shooting, who also testified as an expert on los angeles street gangs. experience with street gangs was extensive. he had been a prison guard who had interacted with gang members for four years. later, on the police force, he served as an enforcement officer in gang-occupied housing projects, as a gang officer assigned to monitor the project watts crips and, significantly, ten line crips exclusively, as a member of a federal gang task force, and as a gang homicide investigator. by the time of trial, carias hagang schools, written and served numerous gang warrants, made contact with hundreds of gang members, and testified as a gang expert about two dozen times. according to carias, the primary activities of the bad ass crips were burglaries, the basis for opinion was his long experience with gangs generally. because the bad ass crips were a new and relatively small gang, carias had only known about them since 2012. although carias did not have a long history of investigating the bad ass crips directly, he had a long history of dealing with their principal rival, the ten line crips. in fact, carias testified that he had talked to singleton, a longtime member of the ten line crips, on territory claimed by the bad ass crips, their member count, and their identifying signs and graffiti. carias, however, did not explain how he knew that the primary activities of the bad ass crips were burglaries, possession of loaded weapons, shootings and murder. other than the lone juvenile petition for possessing a firearm and the instant crime, no other evidence was offered establishing that possession of loaded guns was a primary activity of the 10 to15 members of the bad ass crips. similarly, other than the singleton murder, there was no evidence offered that killings or even shootings was an activity that the bad ass crips engaged in on consistent and repeated basis. and no evidence 19 gang. furthermore, no testimony was offered establishing that carias had spoken with any member of the bad ass crips on any occasion prior to the singleton shooting. not surprisingly, carias did not provide any testimony about the organization and leadership structure of the bad ass crips. in sum, carias about the primary activities of the bad ass crips was not of ponderable legal significance. he provided no foundational specificity as to by whom, when, where and under what circumstances the gang purported crimes were committed. in a word, cbecause there s opinion about the primary activities of the bad ass crips, the gang enhancement findings are reversed. disposition the street gang enhancements are reversed. because the abstract of judgment fails to indicate that the sentence for attempted murder was to run concurrently with the sentence for murder, we direct the trial court to correct the abstract to reflect the trial and forward the amended abstract of judgment to the california department of corrections and rehabilitation. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. johnson, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. lui, j. 