filed 3/2/16 p. v. esparza ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. oscar ceballos esparza, defendant and appellant. b259578 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na092367) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, gary j. ferrari, judge. affirmed as modified. mark yanis, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr. and stacy s. schwartz, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 appellant oscar ceballos esparza was convicted of first degree murder for hire and sentenced to life without the possibility of parole, plus 25 years to life for a weapons enhancement. on appeal, he contends the trial court committed reversible error by admitting portions of an audiotaped jailhouse conversation between appellant and his girlfriend in which they discussed the possibility of a plea deal. acknowledging that trial counsel not only failed to object to the introduction of the pertinent portions of the audiotape, but opposed the y be redacted, appellant contends their admission rendered his trial fundamentally unfair, and asks us to address the issue of admissibility with. in the alternative, he seeks a finding of ineffective assistance of counsel. appellant also contends the trial court erred in imposing a parole revocation fine. respondent agrees the parole revocation fine should be stricken. finding no error in the admission of the audiotaped conversation and no evidence of ineffective assistance of counsel, we affirm, but strike the parole revocation fine. factual and procedural background a. information appellant was charged by information with murder. (pen. code,  187, subd, (a).)1 it was further alleged that appellant personally and intentionally discharged a handgun within the meaning of section 12022.53, subdivision (b) through (d), and that he committed the murder by means of lying in wait within the meaning of section 190.2, subdivision (a)(15) and for financial gain within the meaning of section 190.2, subdivision (a)(1). 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 3 b. evidence at trial2 1. witness testimony jose perez was one of the plaintiffs in a lawsuit against his former employer, the van elk company. emil vassilev was the owner of the van elk company. in the early morning hours of november 9, 2004, perez was shot and killed while sitting in his car, having just arrived at his workplace -- b.f. steel in harbor city. the chief prosecution witness was lucio pelayo who, along with his brother-in-law horacio camberos, had worked for the van elk company. pelayo testified that [ed] [perez and the othesolicited appellant, who lived near him, to commit the murders. the two met with camberos to discuss payment, agreeing on $100,000. camberos gave pelayo several addresses where perez might be found s car, and also accompanied pelayo and appellant to a courthouse to identify perez for them. on the day of the shooting, pelayo picked up appellant and drove him to place. pelayo was driving a green suv; appellant was wearing a sweater with a hood and carrying a gun. when they arrived at their destination, near b.f. steel, appellant got out and stood behind the suv for a brief period. he got back in and instructed pelayo to follow a passing car. pelayo drove a short distance and parked again. appellant took his gun and got out. pelayo heard multiple gunshots. appellant ran back to the car and instructed pelayo to drive away. instructed him to call camberos to get the money. later that day, camberos met pelayo and gave him $100,000 in cash, which pelayo and appellant split. 2 all the evidence at trial was presented by the prosecution. the defense did not put on a case. 4 -girlfriend, recalled seeing appellant with a shoebox containing a large amount of money sometime in 2004. appellant said he got the monesome shitguy down the street.appellant bought a truck, an off-road vehicle and a motorcycle. prosecution witness michael tracey described seeing a greenish blue suv with distinctive rims parked near b.f. steel at approximately 5:00 a.m. on got into the passenger seat, and tracey observed the car drive around a nearby building. he then heard multiple gunshots. tracey walked toward b.f. steel and saw perez in his car, shot and bleeding to death.3 2. s with investigators after his arrest in 2009, appellant was interviewed by detectives on two occasions, days apart. the interview tapes were played to the jury. at the first interview, appellant denied ever being in harbor city and initially denied knowing pelayo or camberos. appellant eventually admitted knowing pelayo and camberos, but continued to deny any involvement in the shooting. at his second interview, appellant admitted going to the courthouse to see the faces of the men suing the van elk company and going to with pelayo the day perez was shot, but claimed to have accompanied pelayo under the impression they were going to ,and said that pelayo surprised him by shooting perez. appellant denied receiving any money after the shooting. 3 tracey identified suv from a photograph shown him in court, but was unable to identify the hoodie-wearing man or the driver. 5 3. the prosecutor played an audiotape of a phone conversation between appellant and his girlfriend, vanessa campos, incarceration. the two talked about their children and other family members prior to campos asking appellant what was going to happen with his case. the following conversation took placeafter twenty five years you could go out for--u -- campos: u ility -- k so. i t the possibility of parole, so after twenty five years i can g the couple talked about their children and appellant spoke with their youngest child. campos then asked-- first they gotta drop the death a few minutes later, first they gotta drop the death penalty. if i fucking want a speedy trial or whatever, it leads to fucking prison. i mean to the death penalty. so first i gotta see if they campos asked: what did everybody : asked-- you are the um, gunman or something? appellant responded-- ..[] . . . [] rat [th]em out. [] . . . [] and the rest of them testified against me. [] . . . [].so, . [] . . . [] -- -- the death campos asked how he felt a6 in the remainder of their conversation, they discussed campos and the care of c. verdict and sentencing the jury found appellant guilty and found the special allegations true. the court sentenced appellant to life in prison without the possibility of parole, plus 25 years to life for the use of a handgun. the court imposed a number of fines and assessments, including a $10,0000 parole revocation fine. discussion a. admissibility of the discussions of a possible plea deal 1. background when the prosecutor offered into evidence the audiotape of the telephone conversation between appellant and vanessa campos, she requested that it be significantly redacted. she pointed out that appellant and campos had talked about a number of superfluous things, and stated she wished to play only the portion where appellant referred to the sentences received by pelayo and camberos and to their having testified against [him] ratted [him] out. objected to admission of any part of the audiotape, contending that none of the conversation was sufficiently relevant under evidence code section 352, and that . counsel observed stated that it was the [the audiotape] played if the court ruled in 7 favor of playing the portion requested by the prosecutor.4 defense counsel request that the whole thing be played, the court ruled that the audiotape would be played in its entirety. prior to introducing the audiotape into evidence the following day, the prosecutor reiterated that she did not believe the entire audiotape should be played, and that she would prefer to play a redacted version that did not include . . . things of that nature that were not relevant to the understanding the portion of the conversation pertinent to the prosecution. with respect to the references to a deal, she noted, [t]ruth be told there was never any deal offered to this defendant at all. [] . . . [] a deal is clearly not pertinent information because there was in fact nevthe reference would defense counsel again objected to playing a redacted verssections those excerpts . . . . they talk about . . . . [t]hey talk about his case throughout. . . . [t]he context is important as well [as] about the way they are talking re-stated its ruling that the audiotape would be played in its entirety. 4 . . conversation . . . is given in evidence by one party, the whole of the same subject may be inquired into by an adverse party . . . and when a . . . conversation . . . is given in evidence, any other . . . conversation . . . which is necessary to make it understood may also be given in people v. harris (2005) 37 cal.4th 310, 335 [jury is entitled to know context in which statements were made]. 8 the entire tape be played, his conviction should be reversed because his reference was should have been excluded. he further d ineffective assistance. although defense counsel invited any error by insisting the entire audiotape be played, thereby relinquishing see people v. harrison (2005) 35 cal.4th 208, 235-238), we address the merits. we conclude that the portions to which appellant now objects were not rendered inadmissible by california law or fundamental fairness, and that counsel likely had strategic reasons for asking that the entire tape be admitted. 2. analysis as explained in people v. wilson (1963) 60 cal.2d 139, 155, in the absence of statute, offer to plead guilty would be admissible at trial as probative evidence of guilt. california statutes have, however, long precluded the admission of such evidence. evidence code section 1153, enacted in 1965, preclwithdrawn, or of an offer to plead guilty to the crime charged or to any other crime, made by the defendant in a criminal action . . . .section 1192.4, enacted a decade earlier, similarly provides: . . . is not accepted by the prosecuting attorney and approved by the court, the plea shall be deemed withdrawn and the defendant may then enter such plea or pleas as would otherwise have been available. the plea so withdrawn may not be received in evidence in any criminal, civil, or special action or proceeding of any nature . . . . by enacting these provisions, the legislature expressed its determination that excluding rejected guilty pleas or offers to plea from evidence public interest by encouraging the settlement of criminal cases without the 9 people v. sirhan (1972) 7 cal.3d 710, 745, overruled on another point in hawkins v. superior court (1978) 22 cal.3d 584; people v. wilson, supra, 60 cal.2d at p. 156.) the exclusion applies not only to pleas and offers to pleadadmissions made in the course of plea negotiationsexclusion of such evidence is equally important to the proper functioning of the criminal justice system,ailure to exclude such admissions would not only hamper efforts to reach an agreement but also, by discouraging plain speaking, would perpetuate the deviousness in the plea negotiation procedure . . . . (people v. tanner (1975) 45 cal.app.3d 345, 351.) the statutory exclusion does not, however, people v. magana (1993) 17 cal.app.4th 1371, 1376 (magana).) clude statements made to the trial court and to the prosecuting attorney because those are the participants in a plea bargain. [citation.] on the other hand, bona fide plea negotiations do not include statements to transporting police officers [see people v. posten (1980) 108 cal.app.3d 633, 648] or statements made in anger to the trial court [see people v. sirhan, supra, 7 cal.3d at pp. 745-magana, supra, 17 cal.app.4th at p. 1377.) by the same token, reference to a possible deal, communicated to a third party who has no connection to the plea process, including [s] contained in a letter to a fellow gang member, that he would accept a good deal if it were offered [to him]annot be construed as taking place in the context of a bona fide plea negotiation. (magana, supra, 17 cal.app.4th at p. 1377.) as this court explained in magana: the prohibition . . . on the use of offers to plead guilty and statements made attendant thereto helps to implement the sound public policy of encouraging settlement of criminal cases by encouraging candor in plea negotiations. [citation.] the accused and defense counsel are assured that 10 anything said will not be used against them if the negotiations are unsuccessful. however, there ithe bargaining process made to third persons uninvolved and unnecessary to the ibid.) as we observed in magana, the claim that his statements should have been excluded was further undermined by the fact that he was not involved in actual plea negotiations when he told his compatriot he would be willing to accept a deal, and his comments in the letter did not refer to an offer he had made, was considering making, or had received from the prosecutor. (ibid.) here, the record is similarly devoid of evidence that appellant was involved in any actual plea negotiations with the prosecutor or had any realistic expectation of being offered a plea deal. appellantmention of a nonexistent deal to his girlfriend did nothing to advance the legislative goals of promoting settlement of criminal cases or encouraging candor during plea negotiations. under the principles set forth in the authorities cited above, the evidence was not rendered inadmissible by the statutory exclusions. appellant professes to disavow reliance on these statutory provisions, contending the evidence was unduly prejudicial and should have been excluded under evidence code section 352, which gives the trial court discretion to exclude evidence if its probative value admitting it will unduly prolong the proceeding, prejudice the opposing party, confuse the issue or mislead the jury. o preserve a claim that a trial court abused its discretion in not excluding evidence under evidence code section 352, party must make a timely and specific objection when the evidence is offered(people v. harrison, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 230.) appellanlimited portion of the audiotape the prosecutor wished to play to the jury on evidence code section 352 grounds; he did not object to introduction of the 11 portions referencing a 5 to the contrary, he insisted that the entire tape be playedportions of the audiotape the prosecutor wish to redact were important to the defense . e cannot hold the trial court abused its discretion [under evidence code section 352] in rejecting a claim that was never madepeople v. valdez (2004) 32 cal.4th 73, 109.) appellant cites a number of non-california authorities, contending that the introduction of any evidence that a defendant is contemplating a plea bargain represents a fundamental flaw in the trial proceedings, violative of must be addressed on appeal notwithstanding trial failure to object. the cases cited are not on point. in u.s. v. galindo (9th cir. 1990) 913 f.2d 777 (galindo) and blue v. state (tex. crim. app. 2000) 41 s.w.3d 129 (blue), jurors were improperly advised of abandoned plea negotiations by the trial judges, who brought up the topic to explain delays occurring during the course of the trials. the appellate references to inadmissible plea negotiations represented requiring consideration of the issue on appeal despite the failure to object at trial (blue, supra, 41 s.w.3d. at p. 131), and error of ,entitling the defendants to a new trial (galindo, supra, 913 f.2d at p. 779.) here, there were no bona fide plea negotiations with appellant requiring 5 the portion of the audiotape the prosecutor wished the jury to hear -- hem -- were probative of guilt because the words appellant used indicated he had been involved in criminal activity with those men, as opposed to having been wrongfully accused. the trial court did not abuse its discretion in rejecting defense counseevidence code section 352 objection. 12 the exclusion of the evidence. moreover, were not through judicial comments which might inadvertently have conveyed the impression the judge thought the defendant was guilty and should have accepted a plea.6 appellant also cites state v. abel (1928) 320 mo. 445 [8 s.w.2d 55] and people v. friedman (1980) 79 ill.2d 341 [403 n.e.2d 229], in which convictions were reversed because the trial courts permitted prosecution investigators to testify that the defendants asked them to convey offers to plead guilty to the prosecutors, and state v. simonson (idaho app. 1987) 732 p.2d 689, where the conviction was reversed because a witness accidentally referred to a guilty plea the defendant had withdrawn prior to trial. these decisions involved actual guilty pleas or bona fide plea negotiations. they do not address the issue presented here and in magana, viz., whether discussions of possible plea deals with friends, family and other third parties who have no connection with the process must be excluded. finally, appellant cites state v. mccrory [87 p.3d 275], which involved the admission of testimony over defense objection that the defendant told a cellmate he [d] that he could get the charges [against him] reduced to manslaughter.id. at **277.) the prosecutor argued that the . . . a reduced offense r was of guilt. (id. at **281.) the hawaii supreme court found the introduction of the did not violate hawai 6 in galindo, the ninth circuit affirmed the conviction, finding the error harmless in inference of any kind for or against (galindo, supra, 913 f.2d at pp. 778, 779-780.) in blue, the texas court reached a contrary conclusion because the judge suggested ] blue, supra, 41 s.w.3d at p. 132.) 13 version of evidence code section 1153, but held the testimony should have been excluded as unduly prejudicial, with minimal probative value, as the defendantstatement was vague and he may expressed the desire to have the charges reduced .87 p.3d 275, at **281.) here, defense counsel failed to preserve any objection by insisting the entire audiotape be played. the prosecutor did not seek to use the statements as ; indeed she did not refer to them at all in her arguments to the jury. guilt passing reference to a deal was probative of guilt, we can find no basis to conclude that the evidence influenced the jury. in short, we constitutional rights. b. competence of counsel as discussed, once the trial court indicated it would grant tunsel insisted the entire recording be played. competence. we disagree. defendant claiming ineffective representation must show both that his counsels performance was deficient when measured against the standard of a reasonably competent attorney and that counsels deficient performance resulted in prejudice to defendant in the sense that it so undermined the proper functioning of the adversarial process that the trial cannot be relied on as having produced a just (people v. mendoza (2000) 24 cal.4th 130, 158, quoting people v. kipp (1998) 18 cal.4th because after a conviction it is all too easy to criticize defense counsel and claim ineffective assistance, a court must eliminate the distorting effects of hindsight by indulging a strong presumption that 14 counsels conduct falls within the wide range of reasonable professional assistance; that is, the defendant must overcome the presumption that, under the circumstances, the challenged action might be considered sound trial strategy. [citations.] (people v. mendoza, supra, at p. 158, quoting strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 689.) on why counsel acted or failed to act in the manner challenged[,] . . . unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or unless there people v. mendoza tello (1997) 15 cal.4th 264, 266, quoting people v. wilson (1992) 3 cal.4th 926, 936.) there was ample reason for trial counsel to conclude that playing the audiotape in its entiretmuch of the conversation between appellant and campos involved family and personal matters. they discussed his children and their care, and appellant spoke with his youngest child, whose voice is heard on the tape. this tended to humanize appellant (who did not testify), and could have engendered sympathy for him from the jurors. moreover, pelayo and camberos received support argument that they had made appellant a scapegoat.7 in view of the likelihood that counsel had tactical reasons for urging the court to play the brief audiotape in its entirety, we cannot find that appellant received ineffective assistance of counsel. (see people v. williams (1988) 44 cal.3d 883, 936 [to obtain reversal on appeal for ineffective assistance, appellant must show that counss or omissions were not attributable to a tactical 7 in closing, defense counsel argued that pelayo was the shooter, that pelayo and 15 decision which a reasonably competent, experienced criminal defense attorney would make c. parole revocation fine appellant contends he should not have been assessed a parole revocation fine because he was sentenced to life without the possibility of parole. (people v. oganesyan (1999) 70 cal.app.4th 1178, 1185-1186; see people v. brasure (2008) 42 cal.4th 1037, 1075.) respondent agrees. accordingly, the $10,000 fine imposed by the court must be stricken. 16 disposition the $10,000 parole revocation fine is stricken. in all other respects the judgment is affirmed. the clerk of the superior court is directed upon issuance of the remittitur to prepare a corrected abstract of judgment omitting the parole revocation fine, and to forward it to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published in the official reports manella, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. willhite, j. 