filed 2/2916 p. v. velasco ca2/2 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division two the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. ulises carbajal velasco, defendant and appellant. b259756 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va131846) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. john a. torribio, judge. affirmed. gail harper, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, michael r. johnsen and arlene m. games, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________________________ 2 ulises carbajal velasco was convicted of murdering his cousin, sergio lopez. he challenges (1) the constitutionality of the lying-in-wait special circumstance, and (2) the sufficiency of the evidence showing that he killed the victim by lying in wait. we reject facts in the summer of 2013, defendant velasco asked eduardo delarosa to help him obtain divorce papers.1 eduardo has known defendant and sergio lopez since they were children. defendant believed that his wife, dama, was having an affair with lopez. t defendant speak to lopez. weeks later, eduardo would say anything to save himself. -long friend of defendant and the victim. mario saw lopez nearly every day. during the summer of 2013, mario saw (but could not hear) a lengthy argument between defendant and lopez. after the argument, defendant no longer visited lopez, though he was a frequent visitor in the past. mario spent the evening with lopez on september 11, 2013. they drove to picking up defendant, the three men continued to a dead-end street to smoke. fifteen to 20 minutes later, lopez drove defendant home and gave him some marijuana in a baggie. 1 the opinion refers to delarosa family members by their first names, for the sake of clarity. 3 side soon after, mario heard three or four gunshots. after hesitating a minute or two, mario went to check on lopez. he found lopez lying partly in the open back door of his suv and partly on the ground, gasping for air. lopez sustained three gunshot wounds, all of which took an upward trajectory. one bullet entered the back of the neck behind the right ear and exited through the mouth. two fatal bullets entered the right back, striking the liver, heart, and left lung. rachael delarosa is the wife of eduardo and sister-in-law of mario, and a friend of the victim and defendant. around 1:00 a.m. on september 12, 2013, she and eduardo learned of the shooting. rachael telephoned defendant, who was awake but sounded was at the shooting site. defendant approached a deputy and said that he was the studying by a window on the night of september 11-12, 2013. he saw an interior car light illuminate. at the same time, a car door opened and a person walked over to the vehicle with the interior illumination. he heard gunshots and saw the same person run away. the eyewitness was unable to see the incident lasted between 30 seconds to one minute. there were no other people in sight. was in bed. she heard four gunshots in rapid succession, and went to the front window in time to see a white pickup truck with a dark stripe pulling away abruptly from the curb across the street, without headlights on. soon after, law enforcement officers arrived. around 2:00 a.m., the witness noticed that the 4 detained a person who was walking away from the truck. the white pickup truck is registered to leticia velasco at the same address in norwalk where defendant resided, less than five miles from the shooting scene. officers detained defendant at the scene, took him to jail, interviewed him, and removed two cell and defendant. on the night of september 10, 2013, defendant indicate that defendant and lopez made a plan to meet, once lopez obtained marijuana. investigators obtained a surveillance tape of the area near the shooting scene. the tape shows that at 12:58 p.m., a vehicle pulls up and the lights go out. a person runs up away. at 2:23 a.m., the same vehicle pulls up in the same spot: defendant emerges and approaches the shooting scene. he was intercepted off camera by deputies. the video time stamp was about two minutes slower than actual time. jail visitors. on september 28, 2013, defendant was visited by joanna solis. defendant was recorded discussing a search warrant that was executed at his home following his arrest. solis let you know where you could get it and probably take it you know, it was 5 s when his father plans to pour cement, and then defendant would let his parents know gators searched the loaded .38 caliber revolver, a holster, and a box of bullets. the microscopic characteristics of a test round fired from the revolver matched an expended bullet found on the running board of the right rear passenger door of the escalade, where lopez fell, trial that she saw defendant with a revolver months before the shooting. a jury found defendant guilty of first degree murder and of being a felon with a prior conviction in possession of a firearm. (pen. code,  187, 29800, subd. (a)(1).) it found true the special circumstance that defendant killed the victim by means of lying in wait (pen. code,  190.2, subd. (a)(15)); it also found that he personally used a firearm (pen. code,  2022.53, subds. (b), (c) & (d)). he was sentenced to life imprisonment without the possibility of parole for murder, plus a consecutive term of 25 years to life. discussion 1. constitutionality of the lying-in-wait special circumstance -in-wait special circumstance is unconstitutional because it fails to perform the narrowing function required by the eighth amendment and fails to ensure that there is a meaningful basis for distinguishing those cases in which the challenges that the lying-in-wait special circumstance fails to narrow the class of persons eligible for death or distinguish the cases in which the death penalty is imposed from the cases in which it is not imposed. (people v. nakahara (2003) 30 cal.4th 705, 721. see, e.g., people v. morales (1989) 48 cal.3d 527, 557-558; people v. roberts (1992) 2 cal.4th 271, 322-323; people v. carasi (2008) 44 cal.4th 1263, 1310; people v. 6 crittenden (1994) 9 cal.4th 83, 154-156, and people v. edelbacher (1989) 47 cal.3d 983, 1023 [the lying-in-wait special circumstance does not violate the eighth amendment]; people v. cage (2015) 62 cal.4th 256, 281 [declining to reconsider the constitutionality of the lying-in-wait special circumstance].) in people v. gutierrez (2002) 28 cal.4th 1083, the defendant argued that the special circumstance of lying in wait is unconstitutional because there is no significant distinction between first degree murder by lying in wait, and the special circumstance of lying in wait, thereby failing to meaningfully narrow the penalty. the court wrote that murder by means of lying in wait requires only a wanton and reckless intent to inflict injury likely to cause death. however, when the evidence establishes an intentional murder involving (1) a concealment of purpose; (2) a period of watching and waiting for an opportune time to act; and (3) a surprise attack on the unsuspecting victim from a premeditated murder and justify the most severe penalty. (id. at pp. 1148-1149, citing people v. morales, supra, detection, defeats self-defense, and may betray at least some level of trust, making it more blameworthy people v. stevens (2007) 41 cal.4th 182, 204.) 2. sufficiency of the evidence as noted above, the elements peculiar to the special circumstance are a concealed d a surprise attack upon an unsuspecting victim, either people v. sims (1993) 5 cal.4th 405, take him or her by surprise.people v. streeter (2012) 54 cal.4th 205, 247.) -in-wait special circumstance requires no fixed, quantitative minimum time, but the lying in wait must continue for long enough to premeditate and deliberate, people v. bonilla (2007) 41 cal.4th 313, 333.) the special circumstance may be found true if 7 (people v. morales, supra, 48 cal.3d at p. 558.) we view the evidence in the light most favorable to the judgment, presuming the existence of every reasonable inference that may be derived from the evidence. (people v. gutierrez, supra, 28 cal.4th at p. 1149; people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206.) the evidence in this case amply supports the special circumstance of lying in wait. defendant texted lopez, ostensibly to obtain marijuana. when they met, defendant was play. later that night, defendant moved forward with his plot, when he claimed to have victim outside at 1:00 a.m., when no witnesses were likely to be present, defendant lay in recorded vehicle entering the area beforehand. when he arrived, defendant had an opportunity to deliberate. he could have rethought the entire idea of shooting a close relative in cold blood. he could have restarted his truck and driven away. he did not do so. making a threat or disclosing his true, murderous intentions, defendant sent lopez on an errand that would remove him from the safety of his house and leave him defenseless to an attack from behind. though hidden , defendant could see when the victim left the house. actual physical concealment from view is not required for the lying-in-wait special circumstance. (people v. coombs (2004) 34 cal.4th 821, 853.) nonetheless, defendant was literally hidden from view when lopez walked out of the house and into the trap. (compare richards v. superior court (1983) 146 cal.app.3d 306, 314-316, in which the victim willingly accompanied the defendants into a garage, where they killed him. richards was disapproved because it required an actual physical concealment as a element of lying in wait, in people v. morales, supra, 48 cal.3d at pp. 556-557.) defendant waited for an opportune moment to attack, when his unsuspecting cousin opened the car door to check for a baggie of marijuana. a neighbor saw the 8 defendant to walk over and approach the open car door on the dark street. as lopez leaned over the backseat, looking for defenambushed. from behind, a position of advantage, defendant shot lopez multiple times, in a surprise attack. the upward trajectory of the bullets described by the coroner indicates that the victim was bent downward when he was shot in the back. there was one continuous flow from the time defendant sent a text message to lure the victim outside to the time that he left his truck, walked over, and shot the victim in the back. both the surveillance tape and a neighbor who was awakened by gunshots caught exact spot about an hour later. the jury could reasonably deduce that lopez never saw his attacker approach from behind, and never had a chance to plead for his life. for his part, defendant never had to look his cousin in the face before killing him, and was safe from being identified as the shooter had the victim survived the attack.2 the special circumstance of murder by means of lying in wait was warranted by the evidence. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports. boren, p.j. we concur: chavez, j. hoffstadt, j. 2 richards v. superior court, supra, 146 cal.app.3d at p. 314, fn. 5.) 