filed 12/12/16 p. v. pan ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. christopher pan, defendant and appellant. b259666 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka103037) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, juan carlos dominguez, judge. reversed. jasmine patel, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., allison h. chung, and esther kim, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 introduction defendant christopher pan appeals from a judgment of conviction entered after a jury found him guilty of second degree commercial burglary (pen. code,1  459) and identity theft ( 530.5, subd. (a)). as to both counts, the trial court suspended imposition of sentence and placed defendant on probation for a period of three years, conditioned on service of 365 days in county jail. defendant appeals, raising claims of a discovery violation, evidentiary error, prosecutorial misconduct, and sentencing error. we reverse. facts the following evidence was introduced during the trial of defendant. on august 30, 2013, jeffrey bertoli received an email from marriott, from whom he had a marriott rewards visa card. the email confirmed courtyard by marriott in hacienda heights near home. bertoli did not know defendant, had not made the reservation for defendant, and had not given defendant or anyone else permission to make the reservation using his rewards points. earlier that month, bertoli had noticed that he was receiving less mail than usual in his mailbox. bertoli telephoned the courtyard by marriott in hacienda heights and notified the general manager, maritza mejia, that his identity had recently been stolen, he had not made the reservation, and if someone tried to check into the hotel using the reservation, she should notify the police. at about 3:00 p.m., shortly after bertoli spoke to mejia, defendant walked up to the front desk and attempted to check in using the reservation.2 defendant gave mejia his identification and a visa card bearing his name. visa cards 1 statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise stated. 2 although mejia testified that defendant walked into the hotel through the front doors, hotel surveillance video showed defendant walking to the front desk from another direction. 3 start with the number 4, and the card defendant gave mejia started with the number 5, alerting mejia that it might be fraudulent. when she swiped the card, it came back as invalid. she asked for a different form of payment, and defendant handed her another visa card. although the number looked proper, it too came back as invalid. when mejia told defendant that she was unable to get authorization for payment on the card, he responded that the reservation had already been paid for. mejia told defendant that she still needed a credit card as a deposit. mejia testified, [s]o specifically it happened when i turned away the second form of payment, he said, his when i said, i understand; however, i still need a form of payment as a deposit to cover defendant walked away from the front desk and walked toward the interior of the hotel rather than the front doors. saira sauceda, the operations supervisor for the marriott, followed defendant. defendant walked up the stairs to the second floor and went to room 224. he knocked on the door and was admitted by an occupant. about five minutes later, he came out of the room and left by an exit stairway. sauceda radioed the front desk and determined that defendant had not returned there. sauceda returned to immediately called law enforcement. at the hotel at about 4:00 p.m., and mejia directed them to room 224. when they entered from checks, coming from the bathroom. there was a plate that smelled of acetone in the bathroom, a pair of tweezers on the plate, and a check in the toilet. the ink was beginning to fade, which an officer testified was consistent with the check . inside the hotel room, the deputies found a bottle of acetone, a printer/scanner that had a birth certificate laying face down on the glass of the printer/scanner, computer equipment, unopened packages of expensive cellular telephones, other birth certificates, 4 passports, and other documents containing identifying information for various s name with an address that was different from the address on based on the items found than one person involved in its operation. the deputies arrested aaron gomez and joseph lopez, who were present in room 224 when officers arrivedidentifying information. a second reservation also had been made for lopez using address. no one tried to check in using that reservation. bertoli did not know lopez and had not given lopez permission to use his rewards points. discussion as one of his claims of error on appeal, defendant contends that several statements made by the prosecutor during closing argument constituted misconduct, violating federal due process rights. while we do not conclude the challenged statements constitute a pattern federal due process rights, we do conclude the statements were deceptive and that there is a reasonable likelihood the statements may have been applied by the jury in an erroneous manner. a. proceedings below closing argument, the prosecutor went over the elements of each charge, then argued the following to the jury: now we come to the burden of proof. my burden is beyond a reasonable doubt. . . . the reasonable doubt proof is that proof that leaves you with an abiding 5 using your common sense and all the faculties that the evidence, you take everything together, and then you decide if looking at this again today, tomorrow, or the next day, finished. if you believe that the defendant is guilty after looking at all the evidence and thinking about it logically with co at this point, defense counsel objected, asserting as the ground misstatement of the law. the trial court overruled the objection. later in her argument, the prosecutor stated, ladies and gentlemen, you will have an ample opportunity to look at all of the exhibits that have been marked into evidence. after you reviewed everything and had an opportunity to discuss with each other and deliberate, able doubt. remember, if you think that any possible doubt can eradicate a verdict of guilt, take a know that these things information, using cards that return invalid, knowing their way around a hotel that they defendant did not object to these statements. nt[] has the burden of proof. not 51 percent, beyond a reasonable doubt. and in that mstantial evidence, two reasonable interpretations, one pointing to innocence, one pointing to guilt, my point is, is it reasonable that aaron gomez or joseph lopez made this reservation, 6 check in. is testimony and as counsel testifying. the trial court overruled the objection. in her rebuttal closing argument, the prosecutor argued that the logical thing to do when two credit cards are rejected for a room reserved by another person is to call the person making the reservation. , ] obligated to present any evidence he has that would help his client. think that if somebody else invited him to the hotel, that that person would have come before you to say, i invi when defendant objected to these statements as improper argument, the trial court overruled the objection. the prosecution reasonable thing. and reasonable is the standard you need to hold me to. being paid for. . . . who acts that way, ladies and gentlemen? if someone gifts you a not reasonable. my standard is reasonable. you have to hold me to a reasonable doubt. reasonabl you have to use everything that was given to you and your common sense and make sure that any inference you make is reasonable. if there were people to say, i invited [defendant] to the hotel, rest assured that [defense counsel] in his competent and diligent representation would have made sure they made it before you to speak and have you 7 defense counsel objected. at sidebar, the court questioned the prosecutor whether she was referring to gomez and lopez when raising the failure to call logical witnesses and concluded that both witnesses had fifth amendment rights against self-incrimination, which prevented the defense from being able to call them. the trial court have certain rights, including fifth amendment rights, therefore they are out of the reach of [defense counsel]. he could not have brought them into court. the court just offers that as an explanation or as a clarification of the objection that was made by [defense b. applicable law counsel during closing argument are given significant leeway to discuss the legal and factual merits of a case. (people v. centeno (2014) 60 cal.4th 659, 666.) prosecutor may fairly comment on and argue any reasonable inferences from the people v. woods (2006) 146 cal.app.4th 106, 112.) a prosecutor also may ence or on the failure of the defense to introduce people v. lewis (2009) 46 cal.4th 1255, 1304, quoting people v. vargas (1973) 9 cal.3d 470, 475). while a comment on the deself-incrimination is prohibited (see griffin v. california (1965) 380 u.s. 609, 614 [85 s.ct. 1229, 14 l.ed.2d 106]failure to call a logical witness who holds such a privilege, such as an accomplice. (see people v. ford (1988) 45 cal.3d 431, 447.)3 it is also permissible for a prosecutor to 3 recognizing, however, that certain applications of the rule permitting comment on the failure to call logical witnesses could be criticized where the reason for such failure is ambigpeople v. ford, supra, 45 cal.3d at p. 447.) 8 of all of the evidence presented during trial, consistent with their role under the law as factfinders. (people v. venegas their own common sense and good judgment in evaluating the weight of the evidence prespeople v. rich (1988) 45 cal.3d 1036, 1091 [no misconduct where whether t however, it is improper for counsel to misstate the law and, in particular, for a prosecutor to attempt to absolve the prosecution of its burden at trial of proving each element of an offense beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. cortez (2016) 63 cal.4th 101, 130; see also in re winship (1970) 397 u.s. 358, 364 [90 s.ct. 1068, 25 l.ed.2d 368].) it is also improper to shift the burden of proof or persuasion to the defense by asserting people v. woods, supra, 146 cal.app.4th at p. 113.) constitute a pattern of conduct so egregious that it infects the trial with such unfairness as to make the conviction a denial of due processpeople v. cortez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 130.) under state law if they involve use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to attempt to ibid.) o establish misconduct, a defendant need not show that the prosecutor acted in bad faith. (people v. cortez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 130.) instead, when the defendant challenges statements made by the prosecutor before the jury, the defendant must show a reasonable likelihood the jury understood or applied the complained-of comments in an improper or erroneous manner. . . . (people v. centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 667.) ijuror to state or imply nothing harmful, [then] they obviously cannot be deemed [citation.]cortez, supra, at p. 130.) in conducting this inquiry, we 9 do not lightly infer that the jury drew the most damaging rather than the least damaging [citation.] [citation.] (centeno, supra, at p. 667.) c. defendant has not forfeited his claims of prosecutorial misconduct as an initial matter, the people contend that defendant forfeited certain of his claims of prosecutorial misconduct on appeal by failing to contemporaneously object in the trial court to such statements and request an admonition or curative instruction. from our review of the record, we disagree. generally, a defendant may not complain of prosecutorial misconduct on appeal unless the defendant raised a timely objection in the trial court on that ground and requested that the jury be admonished to disregard the impropriety. (people v. centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 674; people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 820.) the failure to request ththe court immediately overrules an objection to alleged prosecutorial misconduct [and as a consequence] the defendant has no opportunity to make such a request[citations.(people v. seumanu (2015) 61 cal.4th 1293, 1328-1329.) and request an admonition also will be excused if such an objection would have been futile or the admonition would not have cured the harm. (ibid.) here, as discussed below, concerning her burden of proof and persuasion, we conclude the defense timely objected. the trial court, able to request the jury be admonished or that a curative instruction be given. we will d. the prosecutor committed misconduct in this case, we conclude the prosecutor committed misconduct in making statements that for example, the prosecutor stated in closing argument that thif they 10 [d] that the defendant was guilty after looking at all the evidence and thinking about it logically with common sense . . . . the prosecutor also think that any possible doubt can eradicate a verdict of guilt, take a step back and just use your common sense. although it is true that the jurors may rely on their common sense and experience in evaluating the evidence, the prosecutors statements substantially lessened the reasonable doubt standard urden of proof. moreover, when the defense immediately initial statement equating their common sense with the reasonable doubt standard, the court overruled the objection, was a correct statement of the law. we also find misconduct in the prosecutor concerning obligation to produce the witness or witnesses who purportedly invited defendant to the hotel. defense counsel is] obligated to present invited him to the hotel, that that person would have come before you to say, i invited defense cis statement was overruled. alogical witnesses,4 it was error for the prosecutor to argue that the defense counsel was obligated to present any evidence. 4 the trial court determined the logical witnesses referred to by the prosecutor were lopez and gomez, the two individuals located in room 224, but that they could not be -incrimination. as recognized in ford, however, alleged accomplices and could have claimed the privilege against self-incrimination did not necessarily preclude them from being called as witnesses. (see people v. ford, supra, 45 cal.3d at p. 447 [holding that it was constitutionally permissible for the codefendant witnesses who had not actually exercised their privilege against self-incrimination].) 11 in people v. woods, supra, 146 cal.app.4th 106, the prosecutor, in response to the that defense had not called any witnesses to testify that the officer was doing his job obligated to put the evidence on from that witness stand.and stated that she was not obligated to do anything, the court overruled the objection. (id. at p. advised the jury that [the defendant] bore some burden of proof or (id. at p. 113.) obligationld understand this uncorrected, implicitly approved statement to mean anything other than [the defendant] carried a burden of proof ibid.) did not simply comment on the ll logical witnesses. instead, the prosecutor erroneously advised the jury that the defense was obligated to present evidence, which, in proof was satisfied if the defense failed to produce sufficient evidence. because the statement impermissibly shifted the burden of proof to the defense , it was misconduct. (see people v. centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 673 . . error to state that a defendant has a duty or burden to produce evidence, or a duty or burden to prove his or ; see also people v. hill, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 831 [holding the prosecuto[t]here has to be some could reasonably be interpreted as suggesting to the jury she did not have the burden of proving every element of the crimes charged beyond a , italics omitted.) moreover, the error was compounded by the trial court overruling which 12 precluded misstatvalid. (see people v. woods, supra, 146 cal.app.4th at p. 113.) thereafterthe prosecutor repeatedly stated to the jury that the applicable standard to which the people should be held and its burden of proof is . the high court has stressed, however, that merely specifically, in people v. centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th 659, the supreme court addressed a similar claim of prosecutorial misconduct where the was people v. centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 664.) supreme court impossible or unreasonable interpretations of the evidence and to so characterize a id. at p. 672.) it explained, deems worthy of consideration. it determines just what that evidence establishes and how much confidence it has in that determination. the standard of proof is a measure of the jury's level of confidence. it is not sufficient that the jury simply believe that a conclusion is reasonable. it must be convinced that all necessary facts have been proven beyond a (ibid.) the supreme court with the impression that the prosecution could meet its burden so long as its interpretation of the evidence was reasonable. (people v. centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 672.) the evidence satisfieibid 13 the concept of rejecting unreasonable inferences with the standard of proof beyond a reasonable doubt. she repeatedly suggested that the jury could find defendant guilty id. at p. 673.) the court found it reasonably likely that this and other proof and the way in which the jury should approach its task. (id. at p. 674.) in the instant centeno. e the prosecutor repeatedly stated during her rebuttal argument that the standard and burden of proof jurors that they could find defendant guilty simply if they believed it was reasonable that he committed the crime, rather than requiring them to be convinced that the prosecution had proven all necessary facts beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 673.) although, viewed in the context of the whole argument, we do not conclude that the various misstatements constituted a pattern of conduct so egregious as to violate , we do note that the instances of erroneous statements were not isolated or brief and were deceptive. (compare people v. hill, supra, 17 cal.4th at p. 818 [that the combined prejudicial effect of the misconduct and other errors violated the defendright to a fair trial].) e. the errors were not harmless viewing the challenged statements in the context of the whole argument and the we conclude there was a reasonable likelihood the jury was misled about the applicable burden of proof. 14 in centeno, in assessing prejudice,5 the supreme court correctly instructed the jury on the presumption of innocence, reasonable doubt, and the people v. centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 676.) the court further less weight with a jury than do instructions from the courtruns counter to instructions given a jury, we will ordinarily conclude that the jury followed the latter and disregarded the former . . . ibid.) however, the court on a lesser standard than proof beyond a reid. at p. 677.) the court thus reversed the convictions. (ibid.) here, as in centeno, the record reflects the trial court properly instructed the jury on reasonable doubt before closing arguments.6 however, thereafter the prosecution repeatedly misstated the law moreover, when the 5 the supreme court assessed the in the context of failure to object (people v. centeno, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 676.) 6 regarding reasonable doubt, the court read the following instruction in pertinent requires that the people prove the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. whenever i tell you the people must prove something, i mean they must prove it beyond a reasonable doubt unless i specifically tell you otherwise. proof beyond a reasonable doubt is proof that leaves you with an abiding conviction that the charge is true. the evidence need not eliminate all possible doubt because everything in life is open to some possible or imaginary doubt. in deciding whether the people have proved their case beyond a reasonable doubt, you must impartially compare and consider all of the evidence that was received throughout the entire trial. unless the evidence proves the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt, he is entitled to an acquittal and you must 15 objections. therefore, the prosecutors misstatements in her closing and rebuttal arguments were the last explanations of the burden of proof that the jury heard prior to beginning deliberations. further, because the court overruled objections and consequently did not admonish the jury that it should follow the couconflicting statements of the law advanced by the attorneys, the trial court effectively validated the roneous statements regarding the burden of proof. (see people v. woods, supra, 146 cal.app.4th at p. 118.) we therefore cannot presume that misstatements of the law. additionally, as in the centeno case, this was a close case. although there was substantial evidence th identity had been stolen and there was a substantial amount of evidence of identity theft located in room 224 of the hotel, the evidence of not overwhelming. to demonstrate knowledge and intent, the prosecution relied primarily on defendants act of attempting to check in to the hotel room and the testimony of the hotel front desk manager, mejia, who testified for the first time during the trial that defendant essentially told her that he had made the reservation for the hotel room. this testimony, however, preliminary hearing. further, mejia testified that she never told anyone but the prosecutor what defendant had said, and the prosecutor failed to disclose this information to the defense prior to mejia testifying during the trial. there was also evidence presented to the jury that lopez and gomez were in the hotel room at the time defendant attempted to check in and that a second reservation had been made under . defense counsel argued that one of the other individuals could have made the fraudulent reservation and invited defendant to the hotel room. it was thus left to the jury to evaluate the evidence, determine the credibility of the and determine whether the people had satisfied their burden of proof. 16 we conclude that there is a reasonable likelihood that the jurors understood or applied the statements in an improper or erroneous manner to improperly proof.7 disposition the judgment is reversed. garnett, j.* we concur: zelon, acting p. j. segal, j. 7 given our conclusion, we need not address the rearguments on appeal. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 