 filed 3/28/16 p. v. toriz ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. garrick neil toriz, defendant and appellant. _____________________________________ b259405 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka105451) in re garrick neil toriz, on habeas corpus. b266790 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, robert m. martinez, judge. convictions affirmed. habeas corpus petition denied. remanded for resentencing. maggie shrout, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and andrew s. pruitt, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant and appellant garrick neil toriz raises a contention of prosecutorial misconduct following his convictions of unlawful taking or driving of a vehicle, and willfully evading a police officer, with prior prison term findings. the people raise a contention of sentencing error. in an accompanying habeas corpus petition, toriz contends his trial counsel rendered ineffective assistance by failing to object to the alleged prosecutorial misconduct. for the reasons discussed below, the convictions are affirmed, the habeas corpus petition is denied, and the matter is remanded to the trial court for resentencing. background viewed in accordance with the usual rules of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established the following. 1. prosecution evidence. a. the traffic stop. on january 20, 2014,1 camry was stolen from his driveway. perez pursued in another car, but the camry got away. perez could not give the police a description of the thief. on january 23, at approximately 11:00 p.m., officer matt bowman of the west covina police department spotted a black toyota camry without a license plate and pulled the car over. as bowman exited his vehicle, the camry sped off. bowman jumped back into his patrol car and pursued, with his overhead lights and siren engaged. the camry ran a stop sign and sped through a residential area. the camry entered a cul-de-sac, where it slowed down, began to coast at about 10 miles per hour, and then hit a tree. just before the collision, the male driver and a female passenger hopped out of the still-moving camry and fled down an alleyway. bowman pursued on foot. he could see that the driver was a hispanic man, about five feet five inches to five feet seven inches tall, with very short hair. the driver eluded bowman by jumping over a wall, but 1 all further date references are to the year 2014, unless otherwise specified. 3 bowman apprehended the passenger. bowman found two open beer cans center console, the passenger identified herself as brenda l. and said she lived at 532 mangate in la puente. brenda told bowman that the man driving the camry was her boyfriend, jason martinez. brenda was taken into custody. b. jailhouse phone conversations. while in custody on january 23 and 24, brenda made a series of telephone calls to her sister lisa and to her mother. it appears from these conversations that brenda lied to bowman about who had been driving the camry. during one phone call on january 23, brenda asked: . . name, no?,january 23 call brenda saidbut (unintelligible) asked me if he has tattoos on his face. and i told them no, but he a call on january 24 contained this exchange: . . w but brenda listen. in another exchange, lisa herself referred to threats: [h]e use sleeps. when lisa saidbrenda replied, brenda told if i give them the name? and then they go, they get him, and they find out i gave him the 4 in another exchange, lisa asked: [toriz]? hey garrick, by the way, brenda snitched on you? well let me tell you. mom already called . . . the police saying hey this in another call, brenda spoke to her mother: name. [b]ecause i said so. . . jason. . even know who that is. in another : o tell them anything more. 5 c. about who was driving the camry. on january 25, the day following these telephone conversations, brenda told officer bowman that it was her boyfriend, garrick toriz, who had been driving the camry. brenda said she invented the name jason martinez because she was afraid a local gang might try to punish her for fingering toriz. at trial, however, brenda reversed herself again, testifying that although she had that day, it was jason martinez not toriz who had been driving the camry when bowman made the traffic stop. brenda testified that at about 12:30 p.m. on january 23, toriz picked her up from they stopped at a store to purchase two beers when they got to his house, brenda gave the two unopened beer cans to toriz, who put them in the refrigerator. later, brenda and toriz argued about the possibility that he was going to have a baby with another woman. brenda stormed out of house at about 7:30 or 8:00 p.m., taking the two beer cans with her. she began walking home. while she was walking, she got a phone call from jason martinez (who had been calling her all day) and she asked him to give her a ride. martinez picked brenda up in a black toyota camry and they drove around drinking the two beers until bowman made the traffic stop. brenda testified she had known martinez for a couple of months, but that she did not know where he lived, his phone number, or what he did for a living. brenda claimed she had met martinez through her friend britney, and that she used to go over to e two or three times a month. however, brenda did not know phone number, her last name, or her address. brenda testified the only reason she named toriz as the driver was because she had been pressured by the police. in exchange for naming toriz, officer bowman promised that he would try to lessen her charge and not have her sent to county jail. 2. defense evidence. lisa testified that officer bowman called and texted her several times, asking her to convince brenda to name toriz as the driver. lisa testified it was 6 driver then the police would let her go home. lisa testified that during the jailhouse phone calls she had been lying to brenda about toriz making threats against their family, and that this had just been a ploy to convince brenda to name toriz as the driver: then maybe she would be convinced to say his name. also, i thought if i could anger her lisa testified that, despite this ploy, brenda told her it was jason martinez who had been driving the camry. 3. prosecution rebuttal evidence. officer bowman testified the police had been informed that someone made threats against the occupants of 532 that he was assigned to interview a witness about this. the witness referred bowman to lisa, who . . 532 mangate and was making possible threats to the family members there, and then she had gotten on the telephone and talked to mr. toriz while he was at the 532 wman that toriz had testified he told lisa that he believed brenda was lying about jason martinez having been the driver, but bowman denied trying to get lisa to pressure brenda to incriminate toriz. 4. trial outcome. toriz was convicted of unlawful driving or taking of a vehicle with a prior (veh. code,  10851, pen. code,  666.5)2 and driving in willful or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property while fleeing from a police officer (veh. code,  2800.2). in addition, he was found to have served two prior prison terms within the meaning of section 667.5. 2 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise specified. 7 contentions toriz contends his convictions must be reversed because the prosecutor committed prejudicial misconduct during closing argument. the attorney general contends the trial court committed sentencing error because, although a section 667.5 prior prison term enhancement allegation had been found true, it was neither imposed nor stricken. discussion 1. any prosecutorial misconduct amounted at most to only harmless error. toriz contends his convictions must be reversed because, during closing argument, the prosecutor personallare not persuaded there was prosecutorial misconduct; in any event, any error was harmless and would not warrant the reversal s. a. legal principles. prosecutorial misconduct can violate either federal or state law. such a degree of unfairness as to render the subsequent conviction a denial of due that falls short of rendering the trial fundamentally unfair may still constitute misconduct under state law if it involves the use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to persuade federal constitutional violation warrants reversal only if it is reasonably probable the trial outcome was affected. [citations.] (people v. shazier (2014) 60 cal.4th 109, 127.) ifornia law, a prosecutor commits reversible misconduct if he or she the trial court or the jury, and it is reasonably probable that without such misconduct, an outcome more favorable to the defendant would have resulted. [citation.] under the federal constitution, conduct by a prosecutor that does not result in the denial of the invocation of the right to remain silent but is otherwise worthy of condemnation, is not 8 (people v. riggs (2008) 44 cal.4th 248, 298.) the defendant must show a reasonable likelihood the jury understood or applied the complained-of comments in an improper or erroneous manner. [citations.] in people v. frye (1998) 18 cal.4th 894, 970, disapproved on another ground in people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 421, fn. 22.) guilt. belief in the statement as meaning that the belief is based on information or evidence outside the ot improper if the prosecutor makes clear that the belief is based on the evidence before the jury people v. mayfield (1997) 14 cal.4th 668, 781-782, disapproved on other grounds in people v. scott (2015) 61 cal.4th 363, 390, fn. 2.) is always improper for a prosecutor to suggest that a defendant is guilty merely because he is being prosecuted underlying factual predicate of a crime must be true due to the fact of indictment or washington v. hofbauer (6th cir. 2000) 228 f.3d 689, 701-702.) as our supreme court has explained: prosecuting attorney, not based upon legitimate inferences from the evidence, to the effect that he has personal knowledge of the defendants guilt and that he would not conduct the prosecution unless he believed the defendant to be guilty are misconduct. ation.] the classic expression of the rule appears in this oft-quoted statement in people v. edgar, 34 cal.app. 459, 468 . . . prosecute any man he did not believe to be guilty he thereby wrongfully placed his 9 personal opinion of the guilt of the defendant in evidence in the case. he was privileged to argue to the jury that it was his opinion formed from deductions made from the evidence adduced at the trial that the defendant was guilty of the crime charged [citation]; but his declaration to the jury that he would not prosecute any man whom he did not believe to be guilty was tantamount to an assertion that he believed in the guilt of the defendant at the very inception of the prosecution; and necessarily such belief must have been founded upon the s original and independent investigation of the charge, and therefore in all likelihood was based, in part at least, upon facts which did not appear and which perhaps co (people v. kirkes (1952) 39 cal.2d 719, 723-724.) b. discussion. the prosecutor impermissibly voiced her personal belief in tori by telling the below, however, we conclude that when viewed in context the disputed statements did not amount to improper vouching and, even assuming arguendo that they did, there was no resulting prejudice. (1) background. trial strategy was to counter all the evidence tending to show that he had been driving the camry (i.e., his fingerprints on the beer can, statement naming him as the driver, the incriminating jailhouse phone calls between brenda and her family) by constructing an alternative narrative to the effect that jason martinez actually existed and that he had been the driver. one element of this defense strategy was to persuade the jury that toriz had been the victim of a police cover-up designed to shield officers (particularly officer bowman) from the lies they told during the investigation and at trial. two key aspects of this purported cover-up were: (1) an allegation that, although bowman initially described the camry driver as being in his 10 mid-40s (whereas toriz was actually in his early 20s), bowman subsequently lied about this and claimed he had always described the driver as being in his 20s; and, (2) an allegation that bowman had pressured lisa to persuade brenda to incriminate toriz. , lisa, testified for the defense that she did not actually know whether toriz had been driving the camry, and that based on her communications with bowman she falsely told brenda that toriz had threatened their family. lisa testified she became concerned to get in trouble for something that he never did during closing argument, defense counsel argued that the police gave false ion of the camry driveri am going to suggest to you the officers are lying to cover up for each other discussing contradictions in the police testimony, defense counsel asked, and argued that the police witnesses were engaged an attempt to make the truth be what they want it to defense counsel told the juryand i suggest to you that the officers are covering for officer bowman it was in response to these assertions that, during rebuttal argument, the prosecutor said: shortly thereafter, the prosecutor ll of p i am also asking you not to punish officers for doing their jobs. then, after pointing to specific testimony from bowman and another officer, 11 (2) there was no prosecutorial misconduct. for several reasons, we are unpersuaded that there was prosecutorial misconduct here. first, the prosecutor did not explicitly say she knew toriz was guilty even before the trial started. (compare people v. kirkes, supra, 39 cal.2d at p. 722 [prosecutor improperly told jury: particular prosecution . . .) and toriz himself, at one point, characterized the disputed comments as the jury that she would not be arguing to it if mr. which is different from saying that toriz had only been prosecuted because he was guilty. (italics added.) drew the most damaging rather than the least . (people v. frye, supra, 18 cal.4th at p. 970.) second, immediately after making the disputed comments, the prosecutor cited specific trial testimony from two of the testifying police officers, and then argued: this tended to show that the prosecutor meant to be understood as commenting on the evidence. xpressions of belief is based on the evidence before the jury [citation]. (people v. mayfield, supra, 14 cal.4th at pp. 781-782.) rgument and do not people v. hill (1967) 66 cal.2d 536, 562; see, e.g., people v. rosoto (1962) 58 cal.2d 304, 367, disapproved on another ground in people v. haston ntitled to repudiate 12 fat bar did not involve the use of deceptive or reprehensible methods to persuade (see people v. shazier, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 127), but was a fair response to defense coun(id. at p. 150 [to determine if prosecutor committed misconduct by attacking defense fashion].) we conclude the prosecutor did not personally vouch (3) any prosecutorial misconduct was harmless. even assuming, arguendo, that the disputed comments amounted to improper evaluated under chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18 [87 s.ct. 824,] to the extent federal constitutional rights are implicated, and people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818 . . , if only state law issues were involved. [citation.] chapman is implicated if the violated. [citations.] watson ap people v. fernandez (2013) 216 cal.app.4th 540, 564.) here, the disputed comments were so brief and fleeting that we do not believe they could the fundamental fairness of the trial and contribute[d] to a united states v. young (1985) 470 u.s. 1, 16, fn. omitted.) as the supreme court held in young: vis remarks cannot be read as implying that the prosecutor had access to evidence outside the record. the jury surely understood the comment for what it was a defense of his decision and his integrity in bringing criminal charges on the basis of the very evidence the jury had heard during the trial.13 (id. at p. 19.) here, too, we do not read the prosknew toriz was guilty because of some extra-judicial evidence the jury was not going to see. rather, the context of her comments made it clear that she was merely defending her integrity. in addition, we have no doubt that the verdict was unaffected by the . the disputed suspect description and other assertions of police misconduct were almost entirely beside the point. the crucial issue was simply which of the jury believed: that the driver had been toriz, or that the driver had been someone named jason martinez. the evidence overwhelmingly demonstrated that brenda had invented jason martinez in order to protect toriz. there is no other rational explanation for the recorded jailhouse conversations between brenda and her family, conversations which demonstrate that brenda upset at learning that her family told the police toriz had been driving the camry feared she would face retaliation as a imony that she invented the family as a way of persuading brenda to cooperate with the police was entirely lacking in credibility. there is no reason to think that the outcome of the trial would have changed had the alleged prosecutorial misconduct not occurred. (see people v. medina (1995) 11 evidence linking defendant to the . . people v. sanchez (1995) 12 cal.4th 1, 66, disapproved on other grounds in people v. doolin, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 421, fn. roper advocacy, any misconduct that did occur could not have contributed to the verdict and people v. fields (1983) 35 cal.3d 329, 363 [improper watson because . there was 14 in sum, we conclude there was no prosecutorial misconduct in this case but, even if there had been, any error was necessarily harmless given the overwhelming evidence of 3 2. trial court must either impose or strike prior prison term enhancement finding. as the attorney general points out, although it was determined that toriz had served two prior prison terms within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b), at sentencing the trial court imposed only one enhancement. the trial court said nothing whatsoever about the second prior prison term finding. trial courts must either impose or strike sentence enhancements. impose or strike an enhancement is a legally unauthorized sentence subject to correction for the first time on appeal. (people v. bradley (1998) 64 cal.app.4th 386, 391 [regarding prior prison term enhancement]; accord people v. flores (2005) 129 cal.app.4th 174, 187-188 [regarding term is found true within the meaning of section 667.5(b), the trial court may not stay the one-year enhancement, which is mandatory unlepeople v. langston (2004) 33 cal.4th 1237, 1241.) we will order the matter remanded to the trial court for resentencing, at which time the trial court will either impose the second prior prison term enhancement finding or strike it. 3 given this determination, we need not address the chabeas corpus petition to the effect that his trial attorney was incompetent for failing to for advancing a claim of prosecutorial misconduct, the defendant is required to have people v. shazier, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 127.) however, in the interests of judicial economy and to avert potential ineffective assistance of counsel claims, we have addressed the merits of this issue. (see people v. yarbrough (2008) 169 cal.app.4th 303, 310.) 15 disposition the convictions are affirmed and the habeas corpus petition is denied. the matter is remanded to the trial court for resentencing in conformance with this opinion. not to be published in the official reports edmon, p. j. we concur: aldrich, j. lavin, j. 