filed 7/2/15 p. v. brooks ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. dontae deshawn brooks, defendant and appellant. b259841 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta131437) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, michael j. schultz, judge. affirmed as modified. john j. uribe, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________ 2 a jury convicted defendant and appellant dontae deshawn brooks of burglary and bribing a police officer. (pen. code,  459; 67.)1 the trial court found that brooks suffered two prior strike convictions which also qualified as prior serious felony convictions. ( 667, subds. (b)-(i); 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d); 667, subd. (a)(1).) the trial court granted a motion to strike one of the two prior strikes, and then sentenced brooks to state prison for a aggregate term of 24 years, 8 months.2 brooks filed a timely notice of appeal and we appointed counsel to represent him. appointed counsel filed an opening brief pursuant to people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436 (wende). brooks filed a letter brief asserting various claims of error. we affirm the judgment as modified. facts the crimes early in the afternoon of december 30, 2013, los angeles county sheriff department (lasd) deputies tony franklin and eddie retamoza were on patrol in full uniform in a marked police vehicle when they noticed a van in the parking lot of the two black males were by the van, one later identified as brooks standing next to the open of the van and the other later identified as marvin randolph standing near the rear of van. as the deputies drove closer to the van, randolph started to walk away from the scene. 1 all further undesignated section references are to the penal code. 2 sentence was calculated as follows: as to count 1, the upper term of six years, doubled to 12 years for one prior strike, plus a consecutive term of one-third the midterm or one year, four months on count 2, doubled for one prior strike, for an additional two years, eight months. the court further imposed two 5-year terms for the two prior serious felony convictions, for an additional 10 years. the term on count 2 is an illegal sentence. the midterm for a conviction of section 67 is three years, so one-third the midterm should have been one year. ( 67.) doubling that, because of the prior strike, should have resulted in a two year term, not two years and eight months. because the sentence is unauthorized, it may be corrected at any time. (people v. scott (1994) 9 cal.4th 331, 354-355.) we direct the trial court to correct the sentence to reflect a two year term on count 2. 3 the deputies decided to investigate, and detained brooks and randolph. during a search of brooks, the officers found $5,800 in hundred dollar bills along with three pieces of gold jewelry in his front left and right pants pockets. during a search of randolph, the deputies found a cell phone, black latex gloves, and some marijuana. meanwhile, as the deputies were talking to brooks, a female india brown exited the van; brown said she owned the van. the deputies searched the van and found more latex gloves, as well as a large plastic bag of miscellaneous jewelry comprised of gold pendants, necklaces, and rings. deputy franklin advised brooks of his miranda rights,3 and brooks said he understood his rights.4 when questioned about the items the deputies found during the searches, brooks provided several explanations and stories which he changed a number of times. during the questioning, deputy retmoza powered on the cell phone found on randolph older white peoplephotos of brooks or randolph. finding a contacts list, deputy retmoza called a . , robert had left her house in orange county earlier that morning. robert got on the phone and identified the cell phone as his, and stated that he had left it at house to charge, before leaving with carol. when the deputies told brooks that they had found the owner of the cell phone, brooks confessed tha a house and that the jewelry was stolen. the deputies asked carol return home and call them when she got there, which she did about 10 to 15 minutes later. ms. orien told the deputies that rooms in her house had been ransacked and that her jewelry was missing. later, the went to the century station and identified her jewelry and the cell phone. 3 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 (miranda). 4 the record shows no objection to the admission of, or motion to suppress, the admissi 4 while deputy franklin was booking brooks after his arrest, he repeatedlytold the deputy to take the $5,800 that was found on him in exchange for letting him go. deputy franklin rejected the offer. the criminal case the people filed an information charging brooks, randolph and brown5 with first degree residential burglary (count 1;  459), and charging brooks with bribing a police officer (count 2;  67). the information further alleged that brooks had suffered two prior strike convictions (a 2011 first degree burglary conviction and a 2013 first degree burglary conviction), and two prior serious felony convictions (the same prior convictions). ( 667, subd. (a); 667, subds. (b)-(i); 1170.12, subds. (a)-(d).) the information also alleged one of the prior burglary convictions as a prior felony conviction with a prison term. ( 667.5, subd. (b).) tpitchess motion.6 following an in camera review, the court ordered disclosure of discovery of a number of matters regarding the two arresting officers. before trial, the court grantmotion to bifurcate the prior conviction allegations. ry trial, and a venire of prospective jurors was called to the courtroom for voir dire. before the continuation of voir dire, brooks asked to speak directly to the trial court,7 and then being tried in los angeles county when the alleged burglary occurred home in orange county. after both the prosecutor and defense counsel explained to the trial court that venue was proper in either orange county or in los angeles county because materials stolen during the orange county crime had been taken into los angeles county where brooks was arrested, the court advised brooks that he had his answer. during the afternoon trial session, brooks, again speaking on his own, expressed 5 only brooks is involved in the current appeal. 6 pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531 (pitchess). 7 brooks was represented at trial by a deputy public defender. 5 concern that , he did not know if he should accept an offered plea deal of 22 years. the court responded that brooks had been in custody for more than five months, and that the jury was ready, and that trial was not going to be delayed. during , even if i was to represent myself, ythe trial would not be delayed, then offered that brooks would have time to decide what to do as there was other business for the court and the lawyers to handle, and for brooks to consult with his lawyer, before the actual calling of witnesses began. four witnesses testified for the prosecution: the two arresting sheriff deputies, and the prosecution witnesses established the facts summarized above. in addition, deputy franklin testified that he had investigated hundreds of burglary cases and explained that the compton fashion center mall and surrounding area had a large number of burglaries, and that there is a swap meet across the street from the mall which was a popular place for people selling stolen gold and jewelry. he had made several arrests of people for receiving stolen property at this location in the past. deputy franklin explained that it is common that criminals to use gloves in burglaries, including latex gloves, mechanics gloves, or even their own socks, to avoid leaving fingerprints. further, deputy franklin explained that it was common for criminals who commit burglaries to use getaway cars. the prosecution rested after the four witnesses noted above. the trial court denied a defense motion for acquittal. ( 1118.1.) when the trial court asked if the defense was counsel replied: spoken earlier about the possibility of calling either india brown or marvin randolph as a witness. at present, i ms. brown. earlier this morning, [mr. brooks] told me he did not want to testify. i would ask the court that i reserve the possibility of calling mr. randolph on monday morning or, in the alternative, resting monday the court then excused the jurors until monday, june 9, 2014. 6 at the start of the trial ocounsel advised the trial court that the defense had decided not to call randolph and rested without presenting any defense evidence. the court then began instructing the jury. during a break, after the jurors had exited the courtroom, brooks again spoke on his own behalf to voice an objection to the court that his defense counsel was not calling witnesses. the court told brooks that his brooks that he would be removed from the courtro after discussion of further jury instructions, brooks again interjected to the trial court: at that point, the trial court stated: brooks, no. your request to go pro per is denied. in response, brooks stated: witnesses on my behalf. the court responded: the jury found brooks guilty as charged. the trial court found, based on the evidence it heard in his trial, that brooks violated probation in another pending case. brooks waived his right to a jury trial on the priors, and the trial court found all the alleged prior convictions true. at the sentencing hearing, private attorney kevin donahue substituted in as counsel of record in place of the public defender. the court then continued the sentencing hearing. br attorney filed a motion for new trial on the ground of new evidence and ineffective assistance of counsel. at argument on the motion, india brown and marvin randolph appeared and represented that they would testify that brooks had he trial court motion for new trial, finding it was not reasonably probable that the result of trial would have been any different. the comotion to strike one of his two prior strike convictions. the court then sentenced brooks as noted above in this opinion. 7 brooks filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion we appointed counsel to represent brooks on appeal. appointed counsel filed a brief pursuant to wende, supra, 25 cal.3d 436, requesting independent review of the record on appeal for arguable issues. we then notified brooks by letter that he could submit any claim, argument or issues that he wished our court to review. brooks filed a letter brief, which we discuss below. the prosecution at his trial. essentially, brooks states that he received a phone call from meet with randolph. he claims that shortly after he arrived, the police pulled up and sicevesic to be more accurate, new assertions or theoriesmisunderstanding of the role of an appellate court. it is the exclusive function of the trier of fact to assess the evidence presented at trial, and to determine the facts based on the evidence; a reviewing court does not retry the case on appeal. rather, it reviews the substantial evidence. (people v. sanchez (2003) 113 cal.app.4th 325, 330.) brooks next assertre monday ready to testify before [his] attorney rested the case before closing arguments. th[ere] was no reason not to let them testify . . . we understand brooks to be making a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel. we reject claim because it is based on matters outside the record on appealprocedural path other than an appeal, supported by a proper showing. (see, e.g., 8 people v. mendoza tello (1997) 15 cal.4th 264, 267 [an ineffective assistance claim may be better suited to a petition for writ of habeas corpus].) brooks further claims apparently, brooks is arguing that he should have been granted a continuance of trial. generally, a continuance may be granted only on a showing of good cause. ( 1050, subd. (e).) to obtain a continuance, defendant must show he exercised due diligence and all reasonable efforts to prepare for trial . . . . (people v. grant (1988) 45 cal.3d 829, 844.) a court has broad discretion to deny a motion for a continuance. (ibid.) conclusory argument to be insufficient to establish that the trial court abused its discretion in not continuing trial, and insufficient to show tha our discussion as to this claim is the same as we explained above concerning a continuance. we also that he was judged by his past, as the record demonstrates that the prior conviction allegations were bifurcated and evidence of his past was not presented to the jury. only been [sic] to prison one time. the second one was county time so that should be a in so far as brooks is arguing that the evidence does not support , we are not persuaded. the information alleged that brooks suffered a prior conviction for first degree burglary in 2011 in case no. ba378904, and that he suffered a prior conviction for first degree burglary in 2013 in case no. ta126454. at the trial of the prior conviction allegations, the court reviewed documentary records showing that both prior conviction allegations were true in case no. ba378904 the court reviewed documents showing the conviction; in case no. ta126454 the court still had its court file of the conviction as it was before the court as the foundation for a probation violation 9 proceedings. we are satisfied that the evidence supports the tribrooks had two prior serious felony convictions. last, sic] a strike and still used the court did not use a prior strike that had been stricken. the record shows that brooks had two prior strike convictions, and that the court granted a motion to strike one of the strikes. brooks was sentenced as a second, not third strike offender. his term was doubled, as is required for a defendant who has on prior qualifying strike. ( 667(e)(1), 1170.12(c)(1).) a third strike offender is sentenced to an indeterminate term of life. ( 667(e)(2), 1170.12(c)(2).) however, the same prior convictions were used, as is required, to add two five-year enhancements to his sentence. ( 667(a).) though the court struck one prior for purposes of the three strikes law, it is not permitted to strike a prior serious conviction for purposes of enhancement. (people v. murillo (1995) 39 cal.app.4th 1298.) we have independently reviewed the record on appeal, and find that appointed counsel has fulfilled his duty, and that no arguable issues exist. (wende, supra, 25 cal.3d 436, people v. kelly (2006) 40 cal.4th 106.) disposition the judgment is ordered modified to reflect a two-year term on count 2, and, as modified, is affirmed. the trial court is directed to prepare a new abstract of judgment. bigelow, p. j. we concur: rubin, j. flier, j. 