filed 8/7/15 p. v. brown ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. anthony craig brown, defendant and appellant. b259313 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta133481) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, arthur m. lew, judge. affirmed. alex coolman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven e. mercer, deputy attorney general, and marc a. kohm, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________________ 2 the jury convicted defendant and appellant anthony craig brown of assault with a deadly weapon, in violation of penal code section 245, subdivision (a)(1).1 the trial court sentenced defendant to the middle term of three years in state prison. defendant contends the judgment must be reversed due to insufficient evidence, ineffective assistance of counsel, and prosecutorial misconduct. we affirm. facts prosecution on may 26, 2014, princeton pearson and damian neal were working as security guards at an apartment complex. at approximately 12:30 a.m., defendant came to the gate and told the guards he was there to visit his brother. as a policy, nonresidents were not admitted after 10:00 p.m., but the guards allowed defendant into the complex. defendant went to a nearby apartment and banged on the door for several minutes. when no one answered, defendant walked past the guards to a second unit. pearson approached h defendant asked the security guards if they lived in the complex, to which they responded they did not. defendant knocked on the door of the second apartment for about five minutes. both guards politely asked him to leave. defendant kept saying his speech was slurred and he appeared intoxicated. defendant continued to knock on the door, so pearson called the police on his cell phone. defendant pulled out a pocketknife and pointed it toward neal, who was about five feet away. pearson was about five feet behind neal, still talking with the police on 1 all further references are to the penal code, unless stated otherwise. 3 his phone. moved within two feet of neal. going to cut him, so he used pepper spray against defendant. defendant dropped the knife and was handcuffed by the guards. los angeles police department officer salvador sanchez responded to the scene. he observed defendant yelling profanities at the guards. one of the guards gave officer neal told the officer he deployed pepper spray because he believed defendant was going to stab him. the officer took defendant into custody. in front of officer sanchez, defendant threatened the guards that he would be released by the next day, and that he intended to return to the apartment complex. defense for gas money. she did not have money, so she told him to ask his father. defendant was not acting violent or angry at the time. place, testified that he had several phone conversations with defendant that night. in their first conversation, he told defendant to come to his house and ask his girlfriend for gas money. house to see if she was there. defendant seemed normal during their conversations. complex, testified that she heard someone knocking on her apartment door on the night of the incident. she opened the door, saw defendant, and smelled tear gas. other than the knocking, she did not notice any commotion. 4 discussion sufficiency of the evidence assault with a deadly weapon while holding the knife was insufficient to support the assault conviction, because defendant never did anything with the knife that was likely to injure neal. this contention lacks merit. entire record in the light most favorable to the prosecution to determine whether it contains evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value, from which a rational (people v. davis credibility issues, but rather presume in support of the judgment the existence of every people v. alvarez (2009) 178 cal.app.4th 999, 1004.) t has attained the means and location to injury on the present occasion. numerous california cases establish that an assault may be committed even if the defendant is several steps away from actually inflicting injury, strictest sense of thapeople v. chance (2008) 44 cal.4th 1164, 1168, fn. omitted (chancethat is determinative, not whether injury will necessarily be the instantaneous result of the id. at p. 1171.) 5 in the context of assault with a knife or similar weapon a strike with the weapon is not necessary to complete the offensnecessary that the prosecution introduce evidence to show that the appellant actually people v. mccoy (1944) 25 cal.2d 177, 189, italics omitted; see also people v. vorbach (1984) 151 cal.app.3d 425, 429 (vorbach) [holding testimony that the defendant held a knife in threatening manner and demanded money is sufficient to support assault conviction].) nor must the defendant be close enough to strike the victim in order to be guilty of assault. in chance, supra, 44 cal.4th at page 1174, our supreme court considered a with a raised hatchet, but the victim escaped injury by running to the next room and locking the door. [the defendant] committed assault, even though he never closed the defendant reargues the evidence. he insists the evidence is insufficient because he made no attempt to stab at neal; instead, he simply held a knife and took a step toward manner. defendant neglects to mention that he was shouting profanities at the guards, and that his speech was slurred as if he was intoxicated. his angry reaction was in response to neal asking him politely to leave the apartment complex. defendant states that he was five feet away from neal, but neal testified that defendant was as close as two feet away from him after stepping toward him with the knife. neal also testified that forward.2 neal testified that he believed defendant intended to harm him with the knife. finding. evidence was presented that defendant had the present ability to commit 2 neal is belied by the record. at trial, counsel asked neal he responded in the affirmative. 6 violence on neal. he attained the means and location to strike immediately pointing a knife toward neal from a distance of only two feet. it was not necessary that defendant attempt to stab or cut neal, the action of pulling out the knife and moving close to neal was sufficient. (see vorbach, supra, 151 cal.app.3d at p. 429.) a jury could reasonably find that these actions constituted an assault. ineffective assistance of counsel closing argument defen ish a violation of the constitutional right to effective assistance of measured against the standard of a reasonably competent attorney and that this deficient performancof the adversarial process that the trial cannot be relied on as having produced a just counsel were prejudicial, a reviewing court may reject the claim on that ground without people v. kipp (2001) 26 cal.4th 1100, 1122-1123.) instrument, or weapon that is used in such a manner as to be capable of producing and explained section 245 contemplates two categories of deadly weapons: in the first character as such. [citation.] other objects, while not deadly per se, may be used, under [citations.] for example, a bottle or a pencil, while not deadly per se, may be a deadly 7 weapon within the meaning of section 245, subdivision (a)(1), when used in a manner capable of producing and likely to produce great bodily injury. [citations.] [] great bodily injury, as used in section 245, means significant or substantial injury. [citation.] because the statute speaks to the capability of inflicting significant injury, neither (people v. brown (2012) 210 cal.app.4th 1, 6-7 (brown).) in his summation, defense counsel stated: instrument, or weapon that is inherently dangerous for use in such a way that it is capable of causing and likely to cause great prong of your analysis [is,] is it an inherent[ly] . . . dangerous weapon? [] the answer an inherently dangerous weapon. it has a myriad of legitimate utilitarian uses. an inherently dgreat bodily injury, that is to say this knife is not a deadly weapon under the law. the law specifically defines what a deadly weapon is. this is not an inherently deadly weapon inherently dangerous weapon. you have to look at the manner in which it was used in holding the knife or even in taking a step toward somebody with a knife even though i contend that did not happen here in rebuttal, the prosecuto and this is the jury instruction an he because see, that word at the end, right here, this word okay he and he stopped, right, because he r that word 8 any object, instrument, or weapon that is inherently deadly or one that is used in such a defendant relies on brown, supra, 210 cal.app.4th 1 to support his position that defense counsel missthe brown court held it is error for the trial court to instruct a jury that it may convict a defendant of assault with a deadly weapon if it finds the weapon employed was erousid. at p. 11.) brown shot two other men with a bb gun from a distance of approximately five to six feet, hitting one man in the foot and the other in the back, just after telling them to get out of his neighborhood. in his closing argument, browas not used in a way that was likely to cause great bodily injury. it was used in a way that would only cause minor or moderate harm . . . (id. at the weapon would have caused serious injury if the victims had been hit in the eye or some other vulnerable spot on their bodies . . . .(ibid.) the court held that although the trial court erred in instructing the jury, the error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt because there was ample evidence the bb gun had been used in a manner capable of inflicting and likely to inflict great bodily injury, and that the evidence, along with the arguments of counsel, left no doubt that the jury had convicted on that basis. as noted above, the court emphasized that great bodily injury under section 245 means significant or substantial injury and there is no requirement of physical contact nor actual injury. (id. at pp. 6-7.) their arguments on the manner in which defendant used the pocketknife. defense counsel ant] [defendant] attempt[ed] to stab someone with it, nothing [wa]s going to happen. this is defendant concedes that the prosecutor also focused on the 9 manner in which the knife was used, rather than its inherent deadliness. the prosecutor the point that a weapon may be deadly through its manner of use and capability, and not just its inherently deadly nature. he did not argue that the knife was inherently deadly. there was abundant evidence at trial that defendant used the knife in such a way as to be capable of causing and likely to cause death or great bodily injury. defendant was not using the knife for a lawful and innocent purpose; there is no evidence that a leave the apartment complex and yelling obscenities at the guards. he came within a few feet of neal while pointing a knife toward him. it is irrelevant that defendant failed to harm neal. defendant did not retreat of his own accord. he dropped the knife because neal incapacitated him with pepper spray. there was overwhelming evidence that defendant was using the knife in a way that was capable of causing and likely to cause great bodily injury or death if uninterrupted. the evidence, along with the arguments of counsel, leave no doubt that the jury convicted defendant on the basis of his use of the unlike brown, in this case, the jury was properly instructed by the trial court. the erro interpretations of the law are not the instructions you must follow. you must follow the the prosecutor read the correct instruction to the jury in rebuttal, arguing that defense counsel had not read from the instruction precisely because even an object that is not inherently deadly may be a deadly weapon when used in a manner capable of causing and likely to cause great bodily injury or death the theory of liability the prosecution espoused. we conclude that, beyond a reasonable did not contribute to the verdict. defendant has not carried his burden of establishing prejudice, so his ineffective assistance of counsel claim necessarily fails. (cal. const., art. vi,  13.) 10 prosecutorial misconduct arguments in rebuttal defendant contends that the prosecutor committed misconduct in rebuttal, imagine their child as the victim, and invoking his own professional credibility in support of his argument that defendant could only be convicted of assault with a deadly weapon and not a lesser included offense. the attorney general argues that defendant forfeited the claims by failing to object on misconduct grounds or to request that the jury be admonished to disregard the alleged improprieties, and that the contentions lack merit. the attorney general is correct. d your child came home and said, mom, somebody pulled a knife on me today. really? what did you what happened? did you pulled a knife on me. how where was he? he was like four feet away from me. what did he do? he took a step toward me, but i was able to get away and, you know, i was really scared. did you call the police? [] well, according to [defense counsel], no, you know. just think about that. that would not be a crime? that would not fit the defense counsel obj later, the simple as 11 if i have never done this before in my career ause you ding there defense counsel did not object. who uses deceptive or reprehensible methods to persuade the jury commits misconduct, and such actions require reversal under the federal constitution when they infect the trial [citations.] under state law, a prosecutor who uses such methods commits misconduct even when those actions do not result in a fundamentally unfair trial. [citation.] in order to preserve a claim of misconduct, a defendant must make a timely objection and request an admonition; only if an admonition would not have cured the harm is the claim of misconduct preserved for review. (people v. parson (2008) 44 cal.4th 332, 359.) defendant forfeited his argument that the prosecutor committed misconduct in both instances. with prejudice, counsel objected on the basis that there were other crimes with which defendant could have been charged but was not. he did not object on the basis that the ent rose to the level of misconduct, nor did he request an admonition. defense counsel did not object at all. neither issue was preserved for review. (see people v. alfaro (2007) 41 cal.4th 1277, 1328.) 12 defendant seeks to avoid the rule of forfeiture by arguing that, to the extent his counsel failed to object or to object on grounds of prosecutorial misconduct, he was deprived of effective assistance of counsel. his ineffective assistance of counsel contention fails for several reasons. manner challenged, an appellate claim of ineffective assistance of counsel must be rejected unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or there simply could be no satisfactory explanation. (people v. mendoza tello (1997) 15 cal.4th 264, 266.) otherwise, the claim is more appropriately raised in a petition for writ of hpeople v. carter people v. gray failure to object on the grounds asserted for the first time on appeal. it is conceivable that had overcharged the case. as to the second point, counsel could have reasonably concluded there was no misconduct, or that the isolated comment was so trivial that it would have served no purpose to object. accordingly, the issue is more appropriately raised in a petition for writ of habeas corpus. defendant also has not established that the trial was rendered fundamentally unfair or that an admonition would not have cured the alleged errors, and has necessarily failed to carry his burden of establishing prejudice. defendant first contends that the prosecutor such appeals to the sympathy or passion of the jury are misconduct at the guilt phase of trial.(people v. pensinger (1991) 52 cal.3d 1210, 1250 (pensinger).) however, we see no reasonable probability that a result more favorable to defendant would have been reached if the court had admonished the jury. (people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 (watson).) defendant cites to pensinger, supra, at page 1250, in which the defendant was charged with murdering, kidnapping, and sexually assaulting a five-month-old child. during closing argument, the prosecutor s] kid this had happened to one of your 13 children.people v. jones (1970) 7 cal.app.3d 358, 363 (jones), also cited by defendant, the defendant made an unprovoked attack on innocent victims, striking one of them with an iron bar. the prosecutor appealed to the fears and emotions of the jurors by stating that the sons of the jurors and their girlfriends should not dare to ride motorcycles into id. at pp. 361-362.) the courts in both pensinger and jones held that the prosecutor statements were misconduct, but that the misconduct was not prejudicial, because there was no reasonable probability that either defendant would have obtained a more favorable result had the jury been admonished by the trial court. (pensinger, supra, at pp. 1250-1251; jones, supra, at pp. 363-364.) the comments of the prosecutor in this case do not rise to the level of misconduct set forth in the above-cited cases. the comments made in the present case were less egregious and less likely to incite passions or prejudices, as was the crime. but even if misconduct was assumed in this case, it cannot be said that it is reasonably probable that a different result would have been reached in the absence of the challenged remarks. (watson, supra, 46 cal.2d at p. 836; jones, supra, 7 cal.app.3d at p. 365.) the jury was instructed let bias, sympathy, prejudice, or public opinion influence [its] comments concalcrim no. 200. the court also instructed the jurors that the prosecution was required to prove the charges beyond a reasonable doubt under calcrim no. 220, and that nothing the attorneys said was evidence under calcrim no. 222. these instructions would have been sufficient to prevent the jury from convicting defendant s comments. the jury is presumed to have understood and applied the instructions. (people v. lewis (2001) 26 cal.4th 334, 390.) s remarks were brief, purely argumentative, and clearly not evidence. (see pensinger, supra, 52 cal.3d at p. 1250.) overwhelming. it was undisputed that defendant produced a knife while standing a few feet away from neal, and the evidence presented indicated that defendant used the knife 14 in question in a manner capable of causing and likely to cause great bodily injury or death. it is not reasonably probable that the jury would have reached a result more favorable to s alleged misconduct. (see people v. fields (1983) 35 cal.3d 329, 363.) the general rule is that improper vouching for the involves an attempt to bolster a witness by reference [citation.] thus, it is misconduct for prosecutors to vouch for the strength of their cases by invoking their personal prestige, reputation, or depth of experience, or the prestige or reputation of their office, in support of it. [citations.] s reference to his or her own experience, comparing a s case negatively to others the prosecutor knows about or has tried, is improper. [citation.] nor may prosecutors offer their personal opinions when they are based solely on their experience or on other facts outside the record. (people v. huggins (2006) 38 cal.4th 175, 206-207 (huggins).) ly a statement that, under the unique facts of this case, defendant would not be guilty of any crime if his use of the knife was not itself an assault. the only actions that could qualify view that the case was unusual, and clarified which actions he believed the jury needed to it is not . . . misconduct to ask the jury to believe the s version of events as drawn from the evidence. closing argument in a criminal trial is nothing more than a request . . . to believs interpretation, proved or logically inferred from the evidence, of the events that led to the trial.(huggins, supra, 38 cal.4th at p. 207.) here, the prosecutor gave the jury his view of the case. he did not act improperly. 15 even if we were to conclude that the prosecutor committed misconduct, however, argumentative nature of the comments, and the overwhelming evidence of defendanguilt, lead us to conclude that it is not reasonably probable defendant would have established prejudice, so his ineffective assistance of counsel claim necessarily fails as well. disposition the judgment is affirmed. kriegler, j. we concur: turner, p. j. mosk, j. 