 filed 8/8/16 p. v. means ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jeffrey means, defendant and appellant. b259605 (los angeles county super. ct. no. na077121) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, gary j. ferrari, judge. reversed in part; otherwise affirmed. david andreasen, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and daniel c. chang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ 2 in this appeal from convictions for the 1996 and 2007 murders of two victims, jeffrey means contends with respect to one conviction that evidence was improperly admitted in violation of his rights under the confrontation clause of the federal constitution and the rules barring the use of hearsay; and with respect to the other conviction that the jury was left with insufficient evidence and insufficient guidance from the trial court to support its finding of premeditation. we reverse the first of these convictions, and affirm the second. background i. the hal shaw murder a. shaw is found dead. in 1996, hal shaw, a tall and thin 48-year-old, lived in a home in a densely populated whittier neighborhoodwould drink day and night, and often pass out with frequent visitorsincluding means. shaw left a voicemail sometime before 11:00 p.m. on june 11. about 7:25 a.m. on june 12, another neighbor noticed as she left for work in her area gate was closed and a blue dodge colt was on jack stands in the carport. sometime between 9:00 a.m. and noon on june 12, 1996, a cable installer arrived to install a tv box. he discovered shaw on the floor, and the kitchen floor smeared with blood and a yellowish liquid. he called 911. when the police arrived the gate was open, the carport was empty, and body was lying on the floor, with blood on his head, spattered on the walls, ceiling, and couch, and bloody rags and a flannel shirt that appeared to have been used to wipe the floor. there were no signs of forced entry, and the house had not been ransacked. a yellow gelatinous liquid was on the floor, an empty dish soap container was in the trash can, and a partially used dish soap bottle was on the counter. a car jack riser and a piece of petrified wood, with blood on them, were on a chair near 3 the autopsy report indicated that shaw had suffered 34 fatal blunt trauma wounds, mainly to his head, along with nonfatal incise wounds, including defensive wounds to his head and arms. he had a blood-alcohol level of 0.13 when he died. b. police investigation. sometime around noon on june 12, a teenage neighbor was with means as he known also to meansapproached them saying that someone had a lie or a joke. means went back to working on the car. about 2:00 p.m., house the night before and wanted to clear his name with the police. in two recorded interviews at the whittier police station, means said he had worked on house when he was done. he told the police that he and shaw had spent the night of june 11 drinking and calling phone-sex lines until 3:30 or 4:00 a.m., then slept until means left sometime between 6:00 and 8:00 a.m. (the same time he saw a neighbor leave in her black nissan sentra). shaw had been alive when he left the house, and his car was in the carport. means came out and closed his gate at the same time. according to means, he had spent the morning walking around, or going to the market, until shortly before he approached the police.1 sometime after his interviews with means, detective mehelic saw what appeared to be a spot of blood on the heel of s left shoe, and yellow streaks apparently matching the liquid found booked the shoes into evidence. at his request the shoes were passed on to criminalist kenneth sewell of the los angeles , where they were examined by criminalist valorie scherr. 1 during their interviews with means, the police confronted him with a number of apparent inconsistencies (actual and apparent) that conflicted with his description of events. they noted his apparent inconsistencies, and that he had become angry and 4 scherr did not testify.2 sewell, her supervisor, testified to scherr examination of the shoes and the results of her analysis, referring to her diagrams, the contents of her notes, and her report. diagrams, notes, and report were admitted into evidences objections on hearsay and confrontation clause groundsas exhibit 54. documentation of other crime lab results were used to but objections to their admission into evidence were sustained. sewell testified that s and report stated that she found stains she identified as blood s left shoe, and the right side of his right shoe, and found some yellow stains on the shoes. scherr sent blood samples from the shoes, along with other clothing items and comparison blood samples from both means and the victim, to a private serological laboratory (serological research institute, or seri) for dna testing. they were initially tested in 1996; in 2000, seri conducted further dna testing at the sheriffdna testing technology had become available. thomas fedor, a forensic serologist at seri, testified that in the 1996 tests it was determined that the blood sample fs left shoe could have come from shaw, and could not have come from means; and under the tests conducted in 2000, the seri lab confirmed those conclusions to an extremely high degree of possibility. he also testified that even the tiniest contamination of the tested samples from other genetic material (including contamination introduced by mishandling before the samples were sent to the testing laboratory) might be undetectable, and could compromise the outcome. c. conviction for murder of shaw. means was charged in an amended informat (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)), alleging also his personal use of a deadly weapon (an automobile jack stand) in the offense (pen. code,  12022, subd. (b)(1)), causing the offence to be a serious felony (pen. code,  1192.7, subd. (c)); that he had two prior convictions for 2 scherr retired in 2000, according to sewell, her then-supervisor. 5 serious or violent felonies (pen. code,  667, subd. (c)); and that the offence was a special circumstance under penal code section 190.2, subdivision (a)(3). a jury found means guilty of the june 12, 1996 murder of shaw, in the second degree; and found true the allegation that he had used a deadly weapon in the commission of the offense. ii. the ronald henry murder a. henry is found dead. in 2007, ronald henry (who was 67 at the time) periodically employed means, and others including andrea phillips, a long-time close friend of means, to help with catering jobs he ran from his long beach apartment, serving weddings, birthday parties and local festivals. s ouse, s younger brother juanan burdette and various nieces and nephews. on monday, december 17, all day and into the early morning hours the next day, henry, means, and phillips were drinking while they prepared for ered during the evening, about s messing up the kitchen and . neighbors later reported having heard . henry, phillips, that night (phillips and means on couch and chairs), and worked at the catering job until early evening the next day. after paying phillips and means for their work, henry left in his red impala. means told phillips he was taking apartment. phillips received a call from henry sometime in the early evening of december 18, upset, saying he did not have his keys to get into his apartment. phillips recalled means saying he had keys, so she called means, who said he would take the keys, the van, and the leftover food, to henry apartment. she spoke with henry a number of times that evening, about his continuing need to reach means for his keys and the van. the last time she spoke with henry was late that night, december 18, after which she went to sleep. 6 on the evening of december 18, s brother, burdette, in the van, to go shopping for christmas presents. while they were shopping at walmart, about the need to return the van to henry. they left walmart about 9:30 p.m., and means dropped burdette off, saying he was going to return the van. in the mid-afternoon of the next day, december 19, phillips reached means on the was. about 5:00 p.m. that afternoon, after having tried to reach henry throughout the dayment. he found the door ajar and some disorder insideunlike henryso she went to get burdette before going inside. they found henry lying on the bed, bloody, and called the police after concluding he was dead. henry had suffered 36 wounds from a knife or other sharp object, many of which were apparently defensive, and one of whichto his neckwas fatal. the murder weapon was not found, but a knife block in the kitchen had one empty slot for a large knife. a apartment, and his red impala was also missing. the time of his death was estimated to be between 11:00 p.m. on december 18, and 3:00 a.m. on december 19. impala was later found parked about three blocks and where means often stayed. b. police interviews and other evidence. a number of voicemail messages with the police he was interviewed at the long beach police station in the mid-afternoon on december 20, and again on january 27, 2008. in his first interview, means gave the police an account of his movements during told the police (with many apparent memory gaps) that after leaving the catering job on december 18, he had unloaded the rented van gone shopping at walmart with burdette; he had received 7 his apartment, then left about 3:00 a.m. on december 19 to buy beer at the food-4-less store0 or 4:00 a.m.; henry invited he left the apartment about 6:00 or 7:00 a.m., and had spent the day riding around with a friend. he had called the police after he ied death, or knowing who killed him. in his second police interview, on january 17, 2008, means repeated that he had dropped burdette off after his walmart shopping tripgave henry his keys. dope and to cash-in coins, and perhaps buy beer. after , about 3:00 or 4:00, to cash coins. after sia.m. issing, and denied having taken the change. a surveillance video showed that means arrived at the food-4-less store in the reexchange $43.21 in change for cash, then left the store. at 2:49 a.m., means returned to the store in the rented van and exchanged an additional $6.68 in coins, then left. dna examination showed that a dna profile showing henry as the major contributor, and means as a possible henryalso excluded means as a contributor. s impala, they found the seat at an appropriate distance from the steering will for a driver ms height (about 5 feet 6 about 6 feet 1 inch tall. 8 c. conviction for murder of henry. ,  187, subd. (a)), alleging also his personal use of a deadly weapon (a knife) in the offense (pen. code,  12022, subd. (b)(1)), causing the offence to be a serious felony (pen. code,  1192.7, subd. (c)); and that he had two prior convictions for serious or violent felonies (pen. code,  667, subd. (c)). a jury found means guilty of the december 19, 2007 murder of henry in the first degree; and found true the allegation that he had used a deadly weapon in the commission of the offense, and the special circumstance that he had been convicted of at least one crime of murder. (pen. code,  190.2, subd. (a)(3).) discussion with respect to murder, means contends that the documents prepared by a nontestifying criminalist, scherr, and testimony by sewell about those documents, violated his rights under the confrontation clause of the united states constitution, as well as constituting inadmissible hearsay under evidence code section 1200 et. seq., which errors require reversal . with respect to his first degree murder conviction for murder, means contends that there is insufficient evidence that the murder was premeditated and deliberate; and that the trial court erred prejudicially by failing to respond to a question from the jury about premeditation, which errors require reversal of . i. the hal shaw murder a. the use of testimonial evidence from a non-testifying declarant onal right to confront witnesses. the sixth amendment to the united states constitution gives a criminal defendant the right to confront and cross-examine adverse witnesses. in crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36, the united states supreme court overruled earlier 9 out-of-court statements unless the witness is unavailable to testify and the defendant had a prior opportunity for cross-id. at p. 59; people v. lopez (2012) 55 cal.4th 569, 576.) means contends that the admission of exhibit 54 at trial, and the use of other exhibits in connection with the testimony of various witnesses, violated the rule set forth in crawford v. washington, and that it constituted illegal use of hearsay evidence. 1. evidence from non-s shoes. sewell, a supervising criminalscientific services bureau crime lab) was responsible both for field investigation of the work done by criminalists (such as crime-site collection and documentation of evidence), as well as the laboratory analysis of the evidence collected. sewell testified that the s-service laboratory services to 50 or more police agencies that are active in los angeles county; that each investigation is identified by file number, and includes notes, work sheets and diagrams prepared at or near the time a criminalist performs the reported task; that as supervising criminalist, he had access to these files; and that the files are detailed enough that he, and any qualified criminalist, could determine whether the work done was reliable. the documents and business. sewell testified that from the laboratory files, including notes, work sheets, and diagrams prepared by criminalists under his supervision at or near the time of their examination of the subject evidence, he (or any other qualified criminalist) could determine whether the work performed was reliable. in june 1996, valorie scherr (since retired) and manuel munoz were criminalists sion. on june 14, 1996, sewell and munoz had gone to at the request of detective mehelic of the whittier police department, to assist in the collection and interpretation of evidence following murder. at that time they received (and documented the lvarious items from the 10 whittier police, among them a pair of white tennis shoes purportedly obtained from means. sewell identified exhibit 53, comprised of three pages of black-and-white copies of various photographic views of the white athletic shoes sewell and munoz had received from the whittier police department (identified by their laboratory receipt numbers and identification of exhibit 53, or to its display to the jury. he explained that the crime lab wrote notes, and prepared a report of her analyses of the shoes and other items of the shoes, which were marked as exhibit 54 for identification. the three-page report signed by sewell and munoz, of their june 14, 1996 field investigation and the items , was marked as exhibit 55 for identification. and epreliminary screening and testing of various materials.3 after identifying these exhibits, sewell testified that exhibit 55 reflects his and particular of yellow gelatinous liquid on the floor. in doing so he quoted from exhibit 55 (without objection), floor adjacent to a yellow gelatinous material on the kitchen floor. an apparent cleanup was performed at this l 3 according to exhibit 55the items submitted to them by the whittier police, in addition to the white athletic shoes whittier jail. 11 eesimmediately interrupted with n as well as a confrontation cconstitutions. the objection was overruled, but the trial court confirmed that it would be understood as a continuing objection. questions by the prosecution concerning exhibit diagrams and facts then continued for another nine transcript pages, direct-examination. 2. the absence of any objection to testimony concerning exhibits 53, 55, s appeal based on the use of these exhibits. means contends on appeal that the trial court erred, and he was prejudiced, by the use of exhibits 53, 54, 55, , and by the admission of exhibit 54 into evidence. but the record reflects no objection to the use of exhibits 53, 55, and 56 and these exhibits were not admitted into evidence, s appeal on these grounds. (evid. code,  353; people v. geier (2007) 41 cal.4th 555, 611.) means contends that the target of his trial court objection was not only exhibit 54, the subject of the question that his objection interrupted. he contends that because the objection came documents pexhibit 54, but also with respect to exhibits 53, 55, and 56.4 the record does not support this contention. the objection came after sewell had testified, without objection, to significant portions of the contents of exhibit 55; it was ecourt overruled the objection to that question concerning the contents of exhibit 54, sewell continued his direct-examination testimony about exhibit 54 at some length, 4 these exhibits to exhibits 54 and 56 12 without again mentioning exhibits 53, 55, or 56. the record reflects no trial court objection to testimony about the contents of exhibits 53, 55, or 56; the objection came only when sewell was asked about the contents of exhibit 54. counsel for means renewed his hearsay and confrontation clause objections to exhibit 54 at the close of the prosecutionexhibit 54 should be excluded from evidence, because in that document author was not present to be cross-examined. the court overruled these objections and ordered exhibit 54 admitted into evidence. s counsel also objected at that time to the admission of exhibits 55 and 56 into evidence (without mentioning exhibit 53). the objection to e enarrative on here beyond what was testified to. i believe mr. sewell . . . used it basically to say on direct and on cross, which items were tested and . . . what in fact was tested. but the exhibit itself goes far beyond it. there is . . . 4 paragraphs of lead-in before you es while objecting to the admission of exhibits 55 and 56 into evidence, however, counsel did not indicate that there had been any earlier objection to the use of those testimony had been error. counsel expressly conceded that their use testimony was appropriatethat ection but argued that nevertheless the court 13 apparently agreed, for it sustained the objections, and exhibits 55 and 56 were not admitted into evidence.5 exhibits 53, 55, and 56 had been presented without objection, and the court was not requested at any time to exclude or strike any portion of it. on this record, evidence code section 353, subdivision (a), precludes this court from granting the relief sought by ms appealreversal of the judgmenteven if we were to conclude that the testimony might have been excluded had an objection or motion been made.6 these exhibits, and there was no motion to exclude or strike that testimony, or to instruct the jury to disregard it. means citation of people v. holmes (2012) 212 cal.app.4th 431, 435-436, for the exhibit 54 preserved his right to challenge the use of testimony about contents of other exhibits, is inapposite. that confrontation cthe court and opposing counsel were aware that the confrontation clause was the basis of the hearsay id. at pp. 435-436.) here (as in people v. holmes), the objection plainly was intended and understood to encompass both hearsay and confrontation clause grounds; but the record discloses no intention or understanding that the objection was to anything other than eentitled to use the exhibits to refresh his recollection refutes any such intention. 5 minute order identifies the exhibits excluded and withdrawn after the close of evidenceapparently including exhibit 53 6 evidence cshall not be set aside, nor shall the judgment or decision based thereon be reversed, by reason of the erroneous admission of evidence unless: [] (a) there appears of record an objection to or a motion to exclude or to strike the evidence that was timely made and so 14 exhibits 53, 55, or 56, or to move to strike the testimony and to instruct the jury to disregard it, waives any appeal from the admission of unchallenged evidence. (evid. code,  353; melendez-diaz v. massachusetts (2009) 557 u.s. 305, 313-314, fn. 3 [claim of error forfeited by failure to object at trial based on confrontation clause]; people v. redd (2010) 48 cal.4th 691, 730; people v. geier, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 611.) 3. the admission and use of exhibit 54 at trial violated s constitutional right to confront and cross-examine witnesses against him. the extent to which witnesses may testify in criminal trials about the results of scientific testing that they did not personally perform is an issue that has vexed federal and state courts since the united states supreme court decided crawford v. washington, supra, 541 u.s. 36, in 2004. crawford v. washington held that the admission of -of-court stunless the out-of-court declarant is unavailable to testify and the defendant had a prior opportunity for cross-examination (id. at p. 68). in people v. geier, supra, the california supreme court explained that crawford, the crucial determination about whether the admission of an out-of-court statement violates the confrontation clause is whether the out-of- (41 cal.4th at p. 597.) in people v. leon (2015) 61 cal.4th 569, our supreme court provided additional -of-court statement must meet two requirements: (1) it (id. at pp. 602-603.)7 a confrontation crecites portions of a report prepared by someone else, or when such a report is itself 7 the court supported these propositions primarily by reference to its own decisions in people v. lopez (2012) 55 cal.4th 569, 581, 582, and people v. dungo (2012) 55 cal.4th 608, 619. (people v. leon, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 603.) 15 confrontation clause is violated only if the report was created with sufficient formality and with the primary purpose of supporting a criminal pid. at p. 603; people v. lopez, supra, 55 cal.4th at pp. 581-582; people v. dungo, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 619.) the majority opinion in michigan v. bryant (2011) 562 u.s. 344, explained however that f the confrontation clause analysis (id. at p. 366), because the formality or lack of formality in which the challenged hether formal or informal, out-of-court statements can evade the basic objective of the confrontation clause, which is to prevent the accused from being deprived of the opportunity to cross-examine the declarant about statements taken for use (id. at p. 358.)8 the admission of such hearsay violates the confrontation clause if the report was created with sufficient formality, and its primary purpose pertains to a criminal prosecution. (people v. lopez, supra, 55 cal.4th at p. 582.) here, scherr, a sst, was directed by sewell, her supervisor, to murder victim, shaw; exhibit 54 constitutes her report of the results of that assignmenta testimonial statement containing swith an evidentiary purpose pertaining to a potential criminal prosecution of means, under circumstances that would lead an objective witness reasonably to believe it would be available for use at a later trial. (melendez-diaz v. massachusetts, supra, 557 u.s. at pp. 310-311.) sewell identified exhibit 54 as the five-page document containing the diagrams, notes, and report prepared by scherr in connection with her assignment by sewell to examine and report on the shoes and various items of clothing that sewell and munoz 8 means argues forcefully that the cited california supreme court decisions with are not entirely consistent with the analysis of the united states supreme court in the controlling decisions of ohio v. clark (2015) __ u.s. ___, 135 s.ct. 2173 and michigan v. bryant, supra, 562 u.s. 344. we reach our decision without being required to address this contention. 16 had been given by the whittier police department for examination. it apparently was prepared s of identifying the shoes received from the whittier police, and to memorialize the characteristics, and the locations from which samples of stains were taken from them; it was initialed by scherr, the analyst who performed the examination and analyses; and it was prepared as a part of the investigation of a crimeand of means as a potential suspect in that crime. whatever the degree of formality with which in exhibit 54 (to which sewell was permitted to testify over objection) are characterized, they must be classified as when scherr prepared exhibit 54, sewell and munoz (exhibit 55) had already stated that means was the subject the crime scene was covered with blood and a yellow gelatinous liquid, which was collected for crime lab analysis. her preliminary tests indicated that s left shoe were blood; and that she had sent samples from these stains to the seri lab for dna testing. specifically, sewell testified that exhibit 54 shows that scherr identified a very small stain on the left edge of the left side as blood; that she also found some blood on the right side of the right shoe, as shown on her diagram; and that she found some yellow staining on the shoes, that she was not able to identify. samples were collected from the stains identified as blood, and were sent to an outside laboratory for testing. for his own expert analysis of the location or contents of ths shoes, but (see people v. leon, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 603 [confrontation clause problem may arise 17 epared by someone else, or when such 9 s objections, exhibit 54 was admitted into evidence, and sewell was permitted to recite its contents, containing her observations and the manner in which she had collected and transmitted the blood samples to the testing laboratory. these facts wnoteswas not produced to testify to the accuracy of her diagrams regarding the sources of the samples collected and sent for laboratory analysis, or of her report of the procedures she -examination would have revealed any facts further significance; but the record provides us with no basis on which to conclude they would not. 4. the error in the admission and use of exhibit 54 requires reversal of s conviction for the murder of shaw. the error in admitting es cont harmless beyond a reasonable doubtthe applicable standard for error of constitutional proportions. (chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 constitutional error can be held harmless, the court must be able to declare . . . that it was ].) the contents of etestimony about them, showed that scherr had preliminarily determined that some samples s shoes were blood, and that they were collected and sent to an outside laboratory for further dna testing. that evidence did not itself show that samples taken from meanss dna; but nevertheless was important evides 9 although the briefs discuss the claimed errors in terms of cases involving the to identify the source of the samples that were tested by the seri lab. the results of from fedor, the seri lab analyst. 18 -examination identification and testimony concerning exhibits 55 and 56, without objection, the questioning turned to exhibit 54prompting confrontation clause s counsel; and then questioning concerning each page of exhibit 54 after the objections were overruled.10 sewell identified edescriptions of the itemsthe shoesshe had received from sewell and munoz, along with the identifying evidence numbers for each item. the second page of exhibit 54 he identified as diagram of the left side of the left shoe, showing where she found a small stain, which her preliminary testing indicated was blood. the third page sewell she identified the location of certain sti; sewell testified that this tests for blood [sicfourth pareas in greater detail. sewell testified that scherr tested for blood in a number of stained areas, some of which tests were negative, some were positive. the last page of exhibit 54 areas in which she found dark stains and obtained positive results on her preliminary tests for blood. sewell compared certain of the stains shown on the diagrams on the last page of exhibit 54 with exhibit 49 (the shoes), testifying that scherr had been unable to identify the yellow stains she had found on the shoes. finally, sewell testified that scherr had collected samples of certain of the stains she had identified as blood that were too small 10 sewell-examination identified e-page document signed by valorie scherr dated juand he quoted various portions of econcerning the blood and yellow liquid he and munoz had observed and collected from the crime scene, all without objection. 19 that she had sent those samples for testing by seri, a private serological laboratory.11 the the dna results s shoe, to which fedor testifiedtherefore rests in large measure of the probity transmission of the samples s shoes, as set forth in exhibit 54the rsto which sewell testified. scherr, a s was directed by sewell, her supervisor, to examine the shoes for evidence that would connect the owner, means, with the murder victim, shaw. exhibit 54 constitutes her report of the results of that assignmentwould lead an objective witness to reasonably believe they would be available for use at a later trial. (melendez-diaz v. massachusetts, supra, 557 u.s. at pp. 310-311.) without that report, the trial record would contain nothing to show that the samples received by the seri lab contained blood, or the chain of custody of the samples (collected from the stains on s shoes and blood), with the results of the dna tests conducted by the seri lab. s murder. but no evidence provides such powerful proof as to compel the conclusion that his conviction was inevitable beyond a reasonable doubt. for that reason, the confrontation clause error requires reversal of the conviction for the murder of shaw. (chapman v. california, supra, 386 u.s. at p. 24 [ 11 -examination also included some testimony about facts referenced in exhibit 53 (photocopies of the white shoes), exhibit 55 (the sewell/munoz field investigative report), and e. he was questioned about the small size of a stain shown in exhibit 53; he had no knowledge about the nail scrapings, whose collection is shown in exhibit 55; and he confirmed that s clothing (socks, t-shirt, sweat pants, boxer shorts) showed no dna originating from shaw. 20 can be held harmless, the court must be able to declare . . . that it was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt].) ii. the ronald henry murder a. g that the murder of henry was deliberate and premeditated. means argues that the evidence was insufficient to show beyond a reasonable doubt that his murder of henry was deliberate and premeditated. we find that substantial evidence supports his convictmurder in the first degree. (pen. code,  187, subd. (a).) first degree murder is any willful, deliberate, and (pen. code,  189.) in evaluating the sufficiency of the evidence we must review the entire record, and drawing all reasonable inferences in favor of [the judgment], . . . determine whether a rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.]people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 576.) we may not substitute oufindings, the reviewing court may not reverse the judgment merely because it believes people v. ceja (1993) 4 cal.4th 1134, 1139.) judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the (people v. avila (2009) 46 cal.4th 680, 701.) this standard of review therefore requires there sufficienpeople v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 331.) in people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15, 26-27, the supreme court identified three categories of evidence that can show premeditation and deliberation: planning activity, motive, and manner of killing. but the court also later explained that this list is not exhaustive, nor are these factors exclusive. (people v. pride (1992) 3 cal.4th 195, 247.) anderson does not require that these factors be present in some special 21 combination or that they be accorded a particular weight, nor is the list exhaustive. anderson was simply intended to guide an appellate courts assessment whether the evidence supports an inference that the killing occurred as the result of preexisting reflection rather than unconsidered or rash impulse. [citation.] thus, while premeditation and deliberation must result from careful thought and weighing of considerationspeople v. anderson, supra, 70 cal.2d at p. 27], we continue to apply the principle that t]he process of premeditation and deliberation does not require any extended period of time. the true test is not the duration of time as much as it is the extent of the reflection. thoughts may follow each other with great rapidity and cold, calculated judgment may be arrived at quickly . . . . [citations.] (people v. bolin, supra, 18 cal.4th at p. 332.) s challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence of premeditation and deliberation argues that total lack of planning, and lack of any motive sufficient to justify the murder; and that the manner in which the murder was committed provides no basis on which to infer premeditation. we disagree, and conclude that henry was killed in the bedroom of his house. his autopsy revealed that he had 36 injuries of three categories, all inflicted by a sharpened tool such as a knife. he suffered three stab wounds, 32 incise wounds, and one poke wound. only one of the wounds was fatal: an incise wound that severed the veins and arteries on the left side of its infliction. and backs of his hands, and to his arms, such as would be suffered from trying to grab an the autopsy indicated that it took henry a few minutes to die, during which he incurred wounds while trying to defend himself. the medical officer who performed the autopsy estimated the :00 p.m. on december 18 and about 3:00 to 4:00 a.m. on december 19, 2007. the murder weapon was not recovered. but 22 () a knife block in the kitchen - from this evidence the jury could reasonably infer that before going to the bedroom to attack henry, his attacker had first gone to the kitchen to remove a knife from the kitchen knife blockshowing deliberation and premeditation. (people v. steele (2002) 27 cal.4th 1230, 1250 [evidence defendant took fatal weapon into victims home makes it reasonable to infer he had considered possibility of homicide]; people v. wharton (1991) 53 cal.3d 522, 547 [planning for homicide can be inferred from evidence that defendant removed fatal weapon from another location before murder]; see people v. nazeri (2010) 187 cal.app.4th 1101, 1115 [sufficient evidence of premeditation and deliberation found in people v. perez (1992) 2 cal.4th 1117, where ak knife from a kitchen was held properly indicative of planning activity, even where knife attack was brutal and frenzied].) there was also evidence that henry carried, and often flashed, large amounts of cash for his catering business in his front pants pocketspolice. in addition, henry had for many years kept a large bottle of loose change in his living room, which was missing from his apartment after his death. security surveillance videos from a local food store showed that in the early hours of december 19, 2007means twice arrived at the store in the rented u-about $50 in loose change into cash. although far from overwhelming evidence of a clear motive to kill, this nevertheless provides substantial evidence from which the jury could reasonably conclude that means acted during his early morning drinking binge with henry, with deliberation and premeditation (though obviously not good judgment). the jury could reasonably conclude (for example) that, beguiled by what seemed to be available cash, means obtained a knife from the kitchen before proceeding to henryto attack henry, and to continue the attack from which henry perished; that he obtained the cash 23 and that he then attempted to clean up the apartment, and to add to his booty the modest amount of additional cash from coin collection. finding that there is people v. bolin, supra, 18 cal.4th at p. 331.) b. the trial court did not err in declining to provide the jury with further instruction on the issue of premeditation. the jury was instructed with respect to deliberation and premeditation (in part) as preceded and accompanied by a clear, deliberate intent on the part of the defendant to kill, which was the result of deliberation and premeditation, so that it must have been formed upon pre-existing reflection and not under a sudden heat of passion or other condition precluding the ideal of deliberation, it is killing, the slayer must weigh and consider the question of killing and the reasons for and as far as the record shows, the defendant had no objection to this instruction, and made no request for any different or additional instruction on the subject. during its deliberations, the jury sent a message to the courtnecessarily precede only the initial violent action, or can it also precede each subsequent blow/str counsel were notified; and that shortly before 11:00 in a post-trial hearing to settle the record on appeal, the trial court held that the the court recited that it had read the my recollection is that there was no way i was going to 24 12 the record reflects no objection by counsel, and no request that any other response be provided to the jury in the trial court. according to the trial court (without disagrees appellate counsel responded on the post-trial record, the finding that no response had been given inquiryconsistenon the jury-question form means contends on appeal that the failure to respond duty under penal code section 1138. section 1138 of the penal code thato apply. (people v. solis does not mean the court must always elaborate on the standard instructions. where the original instructions are themselves full and complete, the court has discretion under section 1138 to determine what additional explanations are sufficient to satisfy the jurys request for information. (ibid.) by characterizing the error as a failure by the trial court to perform its mandatory forfeited by his failure to interpose any objection in the trial court. for this argument means offers athe instruction. n identified instruction, as it was in people v. brothers (there, to instruct the jury on a lesser included offense shown by the evidence). here, the duty is only to exercise discretion to determine 12 telephone. 25 whether an unidentified instruction should be provided. and heremuch as when counsel objects to evidence without informing the court of the nature of the objectionnature of the response he believed was called for by the ju it is unquestionably true that trial courts have a duty to consider how best to aid the jury in response to an inquiry. (people v. beardslee (1991) 53 cal.3d 68, 97.) but nothing in the record shows that the trial court failed in this case to fulfill that duty. true, the court stated (in the post-trial hearing concerning the record on appeal) its recollection but the record also shows that the court convened a hearing to inform and its intended response, to which neither counsel objectedmuch less suggested any response that could have, or should have, been given instead. s opening brief identify any response that should have been given reply bprosecution needed to prove means premeditated before striking the fatal blow. but the instruction that the jury had initially receivedand on which it ultimately rested its verdictstated essentially the same thing: clear, deliberate intent on the part of the defendant to kill, which was the result of deliberation and premeditation, so that it must have been formed upon pre-existing reflection and not under a sudden heat of passion or other condition precluding the ideal 13 13 establish deliberation and premeditation, and that a murder is of the second degree where the evidence is insufficient to prove that it was done with deliberation and premeditation, were the subjects of other instructions. 26 jury must be presumed to has accompanied by a clear, deliberate intent on the part of the defendant to kill, which was concludedas means argues it mustthat premeditation must have occurred before he was fully justified, and resulted in no prejudice. disposition the judgment of conviction for the murder of hal shaw is reversed. in all other respects the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. chaney, acting p. j. we concur: johnson, j. lui, j. 