filed 2/16/16 p. v. robinson ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. travis robinson, defendant and appellant. b259873 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba403160) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. kathleen powell-kennedy, judge. affirmed. jin h. kim, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews and david e. madeo, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 stabbing her with a knife 59 times in the face, neck, chest, legs and hands, including through a the first , randall hillsibley had provoked him by slapping him and then attacking him with a knife after he confronted her about her relationship with hill, which he had discovered through social media postings. robinson contended stabbing sibley and argued he was guilty only of voluntary manslaughter (or, perhaps, second degree murder) because he had acted while provoked or in the heat of passion. the jury heard evidence of three prior incidents in which sibley had violently attacked robinson following arguments about her relationships with other men. robinson testified in his own defense about the events immediately prior to the death of sibley, explaining, after he confronted sibley and she cut him with the knife, he got ose prior incidents when sibley had attacked him. the jury convicted robinson of first degree murder, and he was sentenced to an aggregate indeterminate state prison term of 26 years to life, including a one-year enhancement for use of a deadly or dangerous weapon, a knife, to commit the crime. on appeal robinson contends his counsel was constitutionally ineffective because she failed to introduce evidence of additional episodes of factual and procedural background 1. robinson and sibley had an off-and-on intimate relationship for nearly 20 years. they had two children together (sibley also had other children) and lived with each other on three different occasions. they last shared a home from early 2012 to august 2012. sibley began dating hill in may 2012. she moved in with hill in august 2012. sibley told one of her adult daughters that she had informed robinson she was happy with hill and wanted robinson to leave her alone. to that end, sibley did not give 3 communicate with him. sibley name. on the evening of september 24, 2012 sibley was with keyana yarber, another adult daughter, when robinson called. sibley put the call on speaker; and yarber heard robinson say that he was still crazy about sibley, that he wanted to commit suicide and that, if he could not have sibley, nobody else could. yarber believed robinson was serious, but described sibley as having laughed it off and assured robinson she loved him. over the next several days robinson left sibley a number of voicemail messages turning his calls. in one of his messages robinson also said he wanted to meet sibley and had $500 to give told yarber she was going to meet robinson later that day so he could give her the money. at some point shortly before september 26, 2012 robinson and his close friend damien wilson were together with another individual who showed robinson herself with hill, whom the men printed several of the photographs, and robinson took them with him when he went to meet sibley on september 26. sibley and robinson met in an alley near slauson avenue. sibley arrived in her truck; robinson by bus. they had sex, as they had previously done in that location, and then argued. robinson stabbed sibley repeatedly, placed her body in the back seat of her near the intersection of main street and east washington boulevard. in a statement to the police following his arrest, robinson said sibley had cheated on him numerous times over the years and she had become violent on several occasions 4 when they argued about itrunning over his legs with her car on one occasion, chasing him in her car and shooting at him on another, and attacking him with knives and ice picks on others. on september 26, 2012 sibley had with her two knives that robinson had given her for her protection. after they had sex, sibley said she loved robinson and denied being unfaithful. robinson then confronted sibley with the photographs of her and hill. according to robinson, sibley was outraged and attacked him with one of the knives. robinson blocked robinson then lost control, picking up the knife and stabbing her repeatedly. robinson t my mind started thinking about all he believed he had stabbed sibley six or seven times and admitted he may have also hit her in the face. yarber and iliana became concerned when they could not reach sibley throughout the day and evening of september 26, 2012. around 11:00 p.m. iliana called robinson and asked if he had seen sibley. robinson said he had not and was going to look for her. when iliana and robinson spoke an hour later, robinson repeated that he had not seen sibley that day. the detectives who interviewed robinson observed a small cut on his nose but no other injuries. when they went to the alley where robinson said the killing had occurred, the detectives found no blood, no knife and no signs of a struggle. no knife was found in re it was found; there was blood inside and outside the vehicle. according to yarber, robinson had given sibley only one knife, which she kept in her purse. yarber saw the purse with the knife in it at killed. in a recorded interview with detectives two days after the killing, played for the jury after wilson testified he did not recall what he had said to them, wilson said robinson had driven to his house the night of september 26, 2012 and asked to use robinson was outside for about 15 minutes. when he returned, robinson kept saying, 5 fronted sibley using the social media photographs and also said that during their argument (stabbed) sibley. the following morning robinson called wilson and told him he had parked in the early morning of september 27, 2012 wilson showed the photographs to other commuters on the bus he regularly rode a retired police officer on the bus, who in turn reported the incident to los angeles police sibley died from blood loss. she had been stabbed 59 times: 13 stab wounds on her face; 16 to the right side of her neck; seven to the left side of her neck; six to the back of her neck; and 12 to her chest, legs and handstattoo on her leg and five defensive wounds to her left hand. sibley also sustained blunt force trauma to her face and head. the people also introduced evidence that robinson had two domestic violence convictions (in 1997 and 1999) involving a former girlfriend and testimony from yarber concerning an incident in 2010 in which robinson had choked sibley, who was pregnant children. 2. robinson, testifying in his own defense, said he and sibley became engaged in 2011 and were still engaged (and dating) in september 2012. sibley had never told him she was engaged to hill. when she moved out in august 2012, sibley told robinson she and the childr robinson described three occasions when sibley had attacked him. before 2010 he and sibley had argued about her infidelity. she hit him in the face with something sharp. the wound became infected, and robinson went to the hospital for treatment. in 6 2010 robinson and sibley again argued about her infidelity. robinson told sibley he was not going to continue to help her financially. as he was walking away, sibley ran him over with the car and backed the car up and over his leg. robinson said his leg had been broken, but the prosecutor and defense counsel stipulated he was treated only for knee sprain, ankle sprain and abrasions to his leg. finally, in 2011 two men with guns ca. robinson called sibley and asked her to bring him a gun. sibley arrived after the men left; robinson and sibley argued; sibley shot at robinson while chasing after him in her car. robinson denied he had choked sibley while she was pregnant or that he had ever been physically abusive with her. largely consistent with the statement he gave to detectives after his arrest. according to robinson, following sex in the alley, he told sibley he wanted to end their engagement and showed her the photographs of her with hill. she became angry and started acting crazy. sibley tried to grab robinson and slap him; robinson pushed her back; she then retrieved a knife from the truck and attacked him, cutting him on his nose, wrist and side. me, stabbed me in the face before. . . . all this stuff was in my mind. and she was trying robinson testified he grabbed the knife from sibley and lground; and he realized he had gone too far. he said he threw the knife on the ground, picked up sibley and placed her in the backseat of her truck. robinson explained he had intended at this point to turn himself in to an officer he knew, only to remember as he drove toward the police station that the officer had retired. he panicked, fearing other officers would shoot him. he then to . robinson ad been taken accidentally when he was 7 3. prior to trial defense counsel advised the court she intended to introduce evidence of the three prior incidents in which sibley had reacted with violence toward robinson when the two argued about her infidelity he stabbed sibley on september 26, 2012. the prosecutor objected, arguing the events, which were all at least two years old, were too remote to constitute provocation for purposes of voluntary manslaughter and the testimony of individuals who had not witnessed the episodes would be inadmissible hearsay. the trial court allowed the evidence. in the same pretrial conference the prosecutor moved to exclude evidence of several additional incidents of violence reflected in witness statements the parties had exchanged. in 2005 an individual named chris miguel saw sibley kick robinson out and and slap robinson. in 2006, while in jail, sibley and got into a fighting stance when confronted; she was placed in confinement after spitting on another inmate. the prosecutor argued the incidents were not relevant, and the evidence was proffered simply as an attempt to further damage the reputation of the victim. the court indicated its tentative agreement the events were unrelated to on because of the passage of time between them and the defense counsel did not object to the exclusion of this evidence, stating it was no longer relevant because robinson was not asserting he had acted in self-defense. during trial robinson on two occasions complained to the court that evidence of at the first in camera hearing, conducted -in-chief as a request to replace counsel pursuant to people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118, robinson discussed on her mother in 2012 during which she kicked in a bedroom door while wielding a knife 8 and potential testimony from correctional officers that sibley had attacked other inmates while in prison. he expressed his concern that sibley was being portrayed at trial as an innocent victim, while he was being painted as a monster. in response the court explained it had already ruled it would allow evidence of prior violent incidents that had occurred between sibley and robinson in which sibley t had a responsibility to limit the scope of the trial: maybe you have ever done to anybody in the history of your life, i am also not going to let every bad act that [sibley] has done to you or anybody to come in during this trial. otherwise, we would probably be here until the year 2020 just hearing evidence because i think there is a lot of stuff that could, you know, be brought in. we need to have the jury focus basically on the issues of really what happened on the date when [sibley] died. but i am going to allow that context in, of the prior violence that was perpetrated allegedly by her against you. so the jury is not going to have this view, sir, of [sibley] being some kind of an angel or saint or something.the court added the evidence of not appear directly relevant to the issue presented; its probative value was outweighed by its prejudicial impact; and it was, in addition, largely cumulative given the evidence the court had ruled could be introduced. during the second marsden-type hearing, held toward the conclusion of the trial, robinson reported he had talked to two lawyers and a police officer from el segundo who all while in prison, should be permitted at the trial. he again questioned the failure of defense counsel to introduce that evidence. the court explained the individuals advising him, as opposed to his own counsel, 9 4. murder and voluntary manslaughter the trial court instructed the jury on the principles of murder and voluntary manslaughter pursuant to calcrim nos. 520, 521, 522, 570 and 571, specifically including an instruction that provocation may reduce a murder from first degree to second degree and may reduce a murder to manslaughter, as well as instructions on heat-of-passion/sudden quarrel voluntary manslaughter andalthough not the defense theoryon imperfect self-defense as a form of voluntary manslaughter.1 the court reasonable doubt that he did not kill as a result of a sudden quarrel or in the heat of in any way incomplete or incorrect. discussion 1. governing law a. heat-of-passion/sudden quarrel voluntary manslaughter an intentional unlawful homicide is a voluntary manslaughter stemming from a sudden quarrel or heat of passion if the defendant acted through strong passion aroused by a provocation sufficient to cause an ordinary person to act without due deliberation and reflection. (people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 163.) this form of voluntary manslaughter has both an objective and a subjective component. under the subjective component the defendant must actually have killed under the immediate influence of the provocation. under the objective component the circumstances giving rise to the act must be objectively sufficient to provoke an ordinarily reasonable person to act rashly and without deliberation. (people v. enraca (2012) 53 cal.4th 735, 759.) no specific type of provocation is necessary; the passion can be anger, rage or any violent or 1 robinson doesibley in self-defense after she attacked him with a knife or that he had actually, albeit unreasonably, believed that the immediate use of deadly force was necessary to defend against the imminent danger he would be killed by her or would suffer great bodily injury. 10 be adequate, the provocation must be one that would cause an emotion so intense that an ordinary person would simply react, without reflection. . . reaction bypassed his thought process to such an extent that judgment could not and did people v. beltran (2013) 56 cal.4th 935, 949; see people v. thomas (2013) 218 mitigated by imperfect self-defense, . . . they may also show that [defendant] was guilty only of voluntary manslaughter because when he shot [the victim] his passion was the victim, not the defendant, must have initiated the provocation that incited the killing. (breverman, at p. 163; people v. carasi (2008) 44 cal.4th 1263, 1306.) b. the right to effective counsel the right to counsel guaranteed by both the sixth amendment to the united states constitution and article i, spresumes, the right to effective counsel. . . people v. blair (2005) 36 cal.4th 686, , a defendant must show that (1) resentation fell below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms, and (2) ormance was prejudicial, i.e., there is beepeople v. johnson (2015) 60 cal.4th 966, 979-980; accord, in re crew (2011) 52 cal.4th 126, 150; see strickland v. washington (1984) 466 charge of inadequate or ineffective representation is upon the defendant. the proof . . . people v. karis (1988) 46 cal.3d 612, 656; accord, people v. vines (2011) 51 cal.4th 830, 875.) there strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 689; accord, people v. gamache (2010) 48 cal.4th 347, 391; people v. 11 carter (2003) 30 cal.4th 1166, 1211.) n reviewing a claim of ineffective people v. johnson, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 980.) in addition, on a direct appeal a conviction will be reversed for ineffective assistance of counsel only when the record demonstrates there (gamache, at p. 391; people v. anderson (2001) 25 cal.4th 543, 569; people v. lucas (1995) 12 cal.4th 415, 442.) finally, in considering a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel, it is not the prejudice suffered by the defendant as a result of the alleged deficiencies. if it is easier to dispose of an ineffectiveness claim on the ground of lack of sufficient prejudice, people v. carrasco (2014) 59 cal.4th 924, 982, quoting strickland v. washington, supra, 466 u.s. at p. 697.) 2. evidence of additional acts of violence committed by sibley robinson contends the excluded or violent conduct would have tended to prove the objective component of the provocation/heat-of-passion element of voluntary manslaughterinitiated the physical confrontation leading to her death by grabbing the knife from her truck and attacking him. he also asserts it was relevant to the subjective componenthis my-mind-blanked, out-of-control response to the attackbecause, even if he was unaware of those episodes of violence, they lent credibility to the accounts of the three earlier physical attacks on him by sibley that were permitted. pretrial motion to exclude portions of it, robinson argues, constituted ineffective assistance, falling well below an objective standard of reasonableness under prevailing professional norms. he further argues there is a reasonable probability he would have obtained a more favorable resulta voluntary manslaughter or second degree murder convictionhad the evidence been admitted. 12 we agree in part : evidence other violent episodes had some marginal probative value notwithstanding his counskilled sibley in self-defense. that is, this evidence had some tendency in reason to prove that sibley initially assaulted robinson with a knife and that robinson was provoked into killing her in response to that attack, which were material disputed facts. (see evid. code,  in conformity with her violent character, under evidence code section 1103, subdivision (a)(1), that evidence was not made inadmissible by evidence code section 1101. although the excluded or omitted evidence of violent conduct was not irrelevant or inadmissible character evidence, robinson did not have an unfettered right to present it at trial. to the contrary, the trial court repeatedly expressed its intention to limit testimony concerning , which were the events that robinson said flashed through his mind when sibley once again attacked him on september 26, 2012; and it had broad discretion under evidence code section 352 to exclude additional evidence it deemed collateral, cumulative or unduly time consuming. (see people v. pride (1992) 3 cal.4th 195, trial court has broad discretion to exclude evidence it deems irrelevant, cumulative, or unduly prejudicial or time-people v. mincey (1992) 2 cal.4th 408, 439 [cumulative evidence may be excluded under evidence code  352]; see also people v. shoemaker (1982) 135 cal.app.3d 442, 450 [in homicide case where self-character as cumulative did not constitute an abuse of discretion].) pretrial hearing at which it first considered, and on this record the decision not to oppose xclude testimony concerning additional episodes of violence 13 appears to have been a reasonable tactical decision. moreover, nothing in the record decision to exclude the evidence, a discretion under evidence code section 352. (see people v. solomon (2010) 49 cal.4th , people v. memro does not require counsel h similarly, when during trial robinson again raised questions about the admissibility of additional incidents of violence by sibley, the court reiterated its intention to limit such evidence and not to permit marginally relevant, cumulative or time-. the three specific prior occasions when sibley allegedly attacked robinson while they argued about her infidelity, past, was an appropriate trial strategy and was, moreover, one the trial court would have imposed if not voluntarily elected. the decision not to seek admission of all this evidence did not constitute the ineffective assistance of counsel. disposition the judgment is affirmed. perluss, p. j. we concur: segal, j. blumenfeld, j.* * judge of the los angeles county superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 