filed 11/17/16 p. v. escobar ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. jonathan leonides escobar et al., defendants and appellants. b259309 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta127185) appeal from judgments of the superior court of los angeles county, ricardo r. ocampo, judge. affirmed. wegman & levin, debra j. wegman and michael m. levin for defendant and appellant jonathan leonides escobar. william l. heyman, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant jorge gutierrez. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, scott a. taryle and michael c. keller, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________ 2 appellants jonathan leonides escobar and jorge gutierrez appeal from the judgments entered after a jury convicted each of them on two counts of attempted willful, deliberate, and premeditated murder (counts 1 & 2) and on count 3 shooting from a motor vehicle. on each of counts 1 and 2, as to escobar, the jury found a principal personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury. on each of counts 1 and 2, as to gutierrez, the jury found he personally and intentionally discharged a firearm, and personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury. on count 3, as to gutierrez, the jury found he personally used a firearm. the jury also found, as to each appellant on each of the above counts, the offense was committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with, a criminal street gang. (pen. code,  186.22, subd. (b)(1), 664, 187, 12022.5, 12022.53, subds. (c), (d) & (e)(1) & 26100, subd. (c).1) the court sentenced each appellant to prison for 80 years to life. we affirm. factual summary viewed in accordance with the usual rules on appeal (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established that in february 2013, 17-year-old justin padilla (justin)2 lived in an apartment at grand and imperial highway in los angeles. about 9:00 p.m. on february 27, 2013, justin and his friend diego fernandez (diego) were playing in the backyard. neither justin nor diego was a gang member. a toyota automobile drove up and stopped 21 feet from justin and 29 feet from closest to justin and diego. the car contained two hispanic men and the passenger had a scarf or bandana covering his mouth. the front passenger window was down. the passenger ask justin believed the question was a gang challenge. justin did not pull out a weapon and he never saw diego pull out one. the passenger began shooting. 1 unless otherwise indicated, subsequent section references are to the penal code. 2 to avoid confusion with another witness having the same last name, we refer to both victims by their first names. 3 justin heard eight or 10 shots and ran towards the apartment building. a bullet struck justin in the ankle and he fell. another bullet struck justin in the buttocks. justin rose and entered his apartment. as diego was running, he heard multiple gunshots but not more than 15. diego was not hit by gunfire. however, the prosecutor asked if diego the bullet made a hole in the gate. diego heard justin falling behind him. diego went back to justin as shots were fired. the toyota drove away. los angeles police officer billy lee was off-duty and driving his personal car on grand when he heard shooting. he heard six to eight more shots and saw muzzle flashes coming from the front passenger window of a toyota about 130 to 150 feet in front of him in the southbound curb lane. the front passenger was shooting in a westerly direction towards an apartment complex on the northwest corner of grand and imperial highway. lee saw arm and hand extending out the window and the hand was holding a firearm. after the shooting, the toyota sped away. lee called 911 and followed the toyota. lee, later assisted by los angeles police officers gil padilla and phillip sudario in a patrol car, engaged in a high speed pursuit of the toyota. during the pursuit, the toyota crashed into a car, a black object was thrown from of the toyota, and the pursuit resumed. the pursuit ended near the 405 and harbor freeways. the driver and passenger exited the toyota and fled. sudario ran after the driver, escobar, and detained him. the passenger, gutierrez, fled into nearby bushes and lee saw officers detain him. later, los angeles police detective joseph kirby was escorting escobar through the police station when escobar yelled at gutierr los angeles police detective rosa torres went to the shooting scene and found eight .40-caliber casings on grand. the casings were consistent with occupant firing a firearm while reaching out the window. torres observed bullet damage on a fence near a gate, and on a fence towards the rear of the apartment complex. los angeles police officer marcos mercado went to the harbor freeway near the rosecrans onramp (where the black object had been thrown from the toyota) and found parts of a 4 .40-caliber semiautomatic handgun. residue, which meant he had discharged a firearm, had been in the immediate vicinity of a discharging firearm, or had contacted the surface of an object (e.g., a gun or bullet) already contaminated with residue. several officers testified to having personal interaction with appellants prior to the shooting. identified escobar in court. fernandez testified he was on patrol on march 4, 2011, when he contacted escobar at 1219 106th street in the company of eric diaz and luciano islas.3 in an admissibility hearing conducted under evidence code section 402, fernandez described sually contacted [escobar], walked up to him, introduced myself, and saw him and two other individuals. fernandez testified at trial that when fernandez asked whether escobar was affiliated with a gang, escobar admitte(jm) and that his moniker was smiley. escobar also showed fernandez his tattoo with the letters scla. based on a photograph, fernandez identified, in court, that the tattoo was the one he saw during the march 2011 contact. , testified that the scla tattoo identified the south central clique of the jm gang and that he had seen scla tattoos on other jm members. other law enforcement personnel testified to their prior contacts with gutierrez. los angeles police officer jose bonilla identified gutierrez in court and testified to a may 23, 2012 conversation with gutierrez and javier alvarez. according to bonilla, gutierrez and alvarez told him they were jm members, known respectively by the los angeles county hooper testified that on october 13, 2011, he contacted gutierrez and three other people 3 the card was not admitted into evidence. arevalo testified that diaz and islas told him they were junior mafia gang members with the monikers scrappy and lefty, respectively. 5 including gustavo reyna and javier alvarez who were gathered at 107th and budlong in los angeles. arevalo recalled that various unidentified jm members told him that gutierrez was a jm member known as speedy. arevalo also testified that emmanuel mendoza, a jm member known as flaco who sometimes served as an unpaid informant, told arevalo a jm member known as speedy. testifying as an expert, that he saw gutierrez with other gang members at 107th and budlong (in jm territory) on october 13, 2011, had with jm members who told him gutierrez, also known as speedy, was an active jm member, and (5) the fact emmanuel mendoza told arevalo that mendoza and his brother speedy. 4, 2011 admission to fernandez (memorialized in a field identification card) that he was occurred in jm gang territory (1219 106th street), and (3) the fact that escobar had a o further opined that appellants were respected jm members who were soldiers, i.e., violent members assigned to commit shootings, identifying as the basis for his opinion his conversations with various unidentified jm members. when cross-examined about that opinion, arevalo denied that gang members told him gutierrez was a soldier arevalo testified that gang members characterized explaining his qualifications to testify as an expert, arevalo testified he was assigned to a gang unit and had investigated the jm criminal street gang and the crimes it committed in his jurisdiction since 2009. prior to this case, arevalo had testified dozens of times as a jm expert and as a south los gang (south) expert. jm had about 80 documented members and arevalo had spoken with more than 12 of them. during the 6 evidence code section 402 admissibility hearing, he testified he learned about gangs by talking to gang members and their families casually and consensually out in the field or when he happened to chat with them while working as a jailer. arevalo always corroborated what he learned from gang members. arevalo explained the hierarchy of respect in gangs, testifying that gang members gain respect from their peers by putting in work (committing more violent and conspicuous crimes). he contrasted lower level gang members who break into cars or peddle . the ones tsigns, graffiti, and symbols, and types of hats worn by jm members. arevalo provided testimony specific to the day of shootings. he stated that earlier the same day, about 7:00 a.m. on february 27, 2013, south members shot jm members javier alvarez and carlos reyna at imperial highway and vermont, killing reyna and injuring alvarez. in response to a hypothetical question based on evidence, arevalo testified the present shooting was committed for the benefit of, and in association with, the jm criminal street gang. the shooting benefited jm because carlos reyna, a well-respected jm member, had been murdered earlier that day. the present shooting happened shortly retaliate if something happened to a jm member. shooting also created fear in the community, making it less likely community members activity. although the shooting was not at south members, arevalo testified the shooting benefited jm because it was carried out in south territory. arevalo opined the present shooting was committed in association with a gang because the driver and shooter were jm members, explaining that when gang members went on missions, the gang members brought trusted persons who would act as backup, gang member had committed a crime. arevalo opined the present shooting was a gang crime because it in the midst of growing sentiment that south members killed carlos reyna, making it 7 incumbent on jm to retaliate against south members or in south territory.4 arevalo found no documentation the victims (justin or diego) were gang members. in the defense case, martin flores, testified one possibility was the present shooting benefited the gang, but another possibility was the shooter had a did not know what was happening. he opined that the rule in hispanic gangs was not to target a random civilian. gutierrez presented witnesses testifying about his good character, nonviolent nature, and lack of gang affiliation. issues gutierrez asks this court to conduct an independent review of the in camera hearing on his pitchess5 motion. he also claims (1) insufficient evidence supports his convictions, the premeditation and deliberation findings, and the gang finding, (2) the trial court erroneously imposed consecutive sentences, concerning which constituted cruel and unusual punishment. escobar claims (1) the people relied on testimonial hearsay to prove the gang enhancement, (2) the sixth amendment prohibits an expert witness from disclosing testimonial hearsay as basis evidence at trial, (3) under california law, adisclosure of testimonial hearsay as basis evidence violated sixth amendment comment on exercise of a constitutional right. 4 . . . . everyone in junior mafia or south los, knew that to that, that will be 5 pitchess v. superior court (1974) 11 cal.3d 531 (pitchess). 8 discussion 1. the trial court fulfilled its responsibilities under pitchess. gutierrez filed a pretrial pitchess motion seeking information from the personnel files of arevalo on various issues. the supporting declaration reflected that on may 15, 2013, arevalo told a deputy district attorney that gutierrez had and belief, denied gutierrez made any statement to arevalo. at the may 21, 2014 hearing on the motion, the court granted the motion, limited to the issues of dishonesty and moral turpitude, then conducted an in camera hearing and ordered sealed the transcript thereof. following the in camera hearing, the court indicated that, after reviewing what the los angeles (the real party in interest) had presented in camera, the court was not ordering discovery. gutierrez asks this court to conduct an independent review of the in camera hearing. trial courts are granted wide discretion when ruling on motions to discover police officer personnel records. (people v. samayoa (1997) 15 cal.4th 795, 827 (samayoa); people v. memro (1995) 11 cal.4th 786, 832.) we have reviewed the contents of the sealed transcript of the may 21, 2014 in camera hearing. the transcript constitutes the trial court during said hearing, and fails to demonstrate the trial court abused its discretion by failing to disclose information. (cf. samayoa, at p. 827; see people v. mooc (2001) 26 cal.4th 1216, 1228-1230, 1232.) the trial court fulfilled its responsibilities under pitchess. 2. and the premeditation and gang findings. gutierrez claims there is insufficient evidence supporting his convictions and the premeditation, deliberation, and gang findings. we disagree. requires the specific intent to kill and the commission of a direct but ineffectual act toward accpeople v. lee (2003) 31 cal.4th 613, 623.) evidence of attempted murder the defendant harbored express malice 9 toward the victim, i.e., the defes death or knew to a substantial certaintys death would occur. [citation.](people v. anzalone (2006) 141 cal.app.4th 380, 389.) the act of discharging a firearm toward a victim at close range in a manner that could have inflicted a mortal wound had the bullet been on target is sufficient to support an inference of intent to kill. (people v. smith (2005) 37 cal.4th 733, 741.)6 moreover, the law applicable to premeditation and deliberation is settled.7 in the present case, there was substantial evidence supporting the convictions and the findings of premeditation and deliberation. justin and diego, neither of whom was armed or a gang member, were innocently playing building when escobar drove up in a toyota with gutierrez. escobar pulled the toyota 6 the court, using calcrim no. 600, instructed the jury, inter alia, that (1) to prove attempted murder, the people had to prove the defendant intended to kill a person, and (2) the attempted murder of diego was based on the kill zone theory the defendant intended to kill justin by killing everyone in the kill zone, including diego, or based on the theory the defendant intended to kill diego. 7 means considered beforehand. (people v. perez (1992) 2 cal.4th 1117, 1123.) deliberation and premeditation can occur in a brief period of time. the true test is not the duration of time as much as it is the extent of the reflection. (people v. thomas (1945) 25 cal.2d 880, 900.) people v. anderson (1968) 70 cal.2d 15, 26-27, sets forth three categories of evidence relevant to whether a defendant harbored premeditation: planning activity, prior relationship, and (in the context of murder) the manner of killing. (people v. hovarter (2008) 44 cal.4th 983, 1019.) the act of obtaining a weapon is evidence of planning consistent with a finding of premeditation and deliberation. (people v. koontz (2002) 27 cal.4th 1041, 1081-person may show sufficient deliberation. (people v. bolin (1998) 18 cal.4th 297, 332-333.) a jury may determine whether premeditation exists the type of weapon employed and the manner of its use; the nature of the wounds suffered by the [victim]; the fact that the attack was unprovoked and that the [victim] was unarmed at the time of the assault; the conduct of [the] assailant in . . . neglecting to aid [the victim], people v. cook (1940) 15 cal.2d 507, 516.) the jury may also consider efforts to conceal the weapon used. (people v. clark (1967) 252 cal.app.2d 524, 529.) 10 over to the curb, placing gutierrez, who was on the passenger side, as close as possible to the victims. the positioning of the toyota evidenced planning activity, as did the fact the front passenger window was down when the car came to a stop. conceal his face with a scarf or bandanna evidenced planning and demonstrated consciousness of guilt. appellants were gang members and gutierrez asked justin and the fact gutierrez immediately fired meant appellants arrived with the gun loaded, intending to shoot. gutierrez fired not once, but at least eight times in a westerly direction toward the location where justin and diego were playing, wounding justin in the buttocks and ankle. casing evidence discovered at the location of the shooting was consistent with the passenger firing the gun while reaching out the window. reaching out the window demonstrated an intent to shorten the distance between gutierrez and the victims. although the bullets missed him, diego heard one strike a nearby gate. diego was close enough to justin to hear him fall and to try to help justin before the shots ended. appellants flight from the scene, speeding away in the toyota, manifested consciousness of guilt. (cf. people v. pensinger (1991) 52 cal.3d 1210, 1246;  1127c.) lee pursued appellants, and padilla and sudario later joined lee and conducted a high speed chase. during the pursuit, one of the appellants, or both of them, threw out of driver side window a .40-caliber semiautomatic handgun, further manifesting consciousness of guilt. after the toyota finally stopped with police in pursuit, appellants fled from the toyota on foot, again evidencing consciousness of guilt. was also consciousness of guilt. (people v. slocum (1975) 52 cal.app.3d 867, 887.) gutierrez had gunshot residue on his hands, evidence he was the shooter. as we discuss post, there was substantial evidence appellants were jm members who committed the present shootings for the benefit of, and in association with, jm, in retaliation for shooting of other jm members earlier that day. 11 the fact the bullets were not lethal does not undermine the evidence of intent to kill. there was substantial evidence gutierrez fired a fusillade of bullets in the direction of justin and diego conclusion that to kill justin and diego. the f-caliber weapon does not vitiate intent to kill. (people v. lashley (1991) 1 cal.app.4th 938, 945.) we conclude there was sufficient evidence gutierrez and escobar committed the attempted deliberate and premeditated murders of justin and diego to uphold the convictions. we also find sufficient evidence to support the gang findings. in his opening brief, only evidence of [his] connection to a gang, other than the reject the argument because it is not supported by the record. fernandez testified that on march 4, 2011, escobar admitted to fernandez that escobar was a jm member. fernandez testified from personal knowledge and recollection of his encounter with escobar, only using the field identification card (which was not admitted into evidence) was corroborated by the scla tattoo he displayed to fernandez in 2011, a tattoo that remained on his body at the time of trial, and was identified by arevalo as a tattoo worn by other gang members. when fernandez encountered escobar in 2011, escobar was in jm gang territory and in the company of luciano islas, who, on another occasion, admitted to arevalo that he was a jm gang member. a new york mets hat typically worn by jm members was also found in appellants the location of the shooting (in or on the border of the south territory), its perpetration by two jm gang members (one of whom asked the victims where they were from), and its occurrence hours after jm members learned that one of their members was the victim of a fatal shooting attributed to a rival gang, provide additional evidence of -related purposes. the evidence supports a finding of substantial evidence escobar committed the present 12 offenses for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with any criminal street gang, with the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang members within the meaning of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1). (cf. people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 59-63, 68; people v. leon (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 149, 163; people v. romero (2006) 140 cal.app.4th 15, 19-20; people v. morales (2003) 112 cal.app.4th 1176, 1198-1199.) the evidence gutierrez committed the crimes for gang-related purposes is likewise sufficient to support his gang finding. 3. the court did not erroneously fail to exercise informed discretion when imposing consecutive sentences on counts 1 and 2. a. pertinent facts. the people filed a three-page sentencing memorandum asking the court to impose a 40-year-to-life prison sentence on each of the two counts. the second page listed the offenses and requested a sentence for -- he memorandum asked the court to impose consecutive sentences. aside from referencing the charges on which the jury found appellants guilty, and firearm allegations, the memorandum did not present argument in favor of imposing consecutive, as opposed to concurrent, sentences. neither appellant filed a sentencing memorandum. although the probation report did not expressly address the issue of consecutive versus concurrent sentences for either appellant, it did address aggravating and mitigating factors pertinent to any exercise of discretion in sentencing. with regard to gutierrez, it reported he was 21 years old at the time of the present offenses. he was convicted on two prior offenses: a 2012 misdemeanor conviction for driving without a license (veh. code,  12500, subd. (a)) and a 2012 felony conviction for evading a peace officer (veh. code,  2800.2, subd. (a)). the court placed him on probation for three years, during which he reported for probation supervision and paid $140 toward his $3,942 financial obligations. 13 the report a potentially fatal scene in a residential community. the report listed as aggravating factors (1) gutierrez was on probation when the crime was committed, (2) his prior performance on probation was unsatisfactory, (3) he had engaged in violent conduct that indicated a serious danger to society, and (4) the manner in which the crime was carried out indicated planning, sophistication, and mitigating circumstances. with regard to escobar, the probation report recounted that escobar was 20 years old at the time of the present offenses and had outstanding 2012 charges for possession of a controlled substance and vandalism, resulting in a pending case. (health & saf. code,  11377, subd. (a);  594, subd. (b)(1).) the report noted that the attempted murder it listed as an aggravating factorgreat violence, great bodily harm, threat of great bodily harm, or other acts disclosing a high degree of cruelty, viciousness, or callousness[and] sophistication. the report recommended a state prison sentence listing, as a mitigating factor, escobar lack of a prior criminal record. during the sentencing hearing, the court opened by stating it had read and and also had sentencing memorandum. the court then invited argument from who the -- the limitations n recited mitigating factors that gutierrez was a young man with a supportive family, and a good kid who did not get into trouble. although letters of recommendation are not part of the record on appeal, they were submitted to the court and, as argued by counsel, evidenced 14 ise that because basically, he, if given the opportunity, could have been anything. the court then inquired whether the prosecution had submitted a victim impact statement (there was none). before imposing sentence, the court addressed the mitigating factors for gutierrez (noting he was ). the court then stated, gutierrez who had the gun in his hand. it was mr. gutierrez who decided to pull the trigger. although that does not make a difference, i did need to address that issue ethe court sentenced each appellant to prison on each of counts 1 and 2 to 15 years to life for attempted premeditated murder, plus 25 years to life for a firearm enhancement, and ordered each appellant to serve the terms on counts 1 and 2 consecutively, with the result 80 years to life. as to both appellants, the court stayed punishment on count 3 pursuant to section 654. b. analysis. gutierrez claims because it was unaware it had discretion to impose concurrent rather than consecutive 40-year prison sentences on counts 1 and 2. escobar joins in the claim.8 as noted in people v. downey conferred and compelled by law constitutes a denial of a fair hearing and a deprivation of fundament 8 here, are disapproved. (people v. bryant, smith and wheeler (2014) 60 cal.4th 335, 363-364.) however, to forestall a claim of ineffective assistance of appellate counsel (cf. people v. holford (2012) 203 cal.app.4th 155, 159, fn. 2; see people v. turner (1990) 50 cal.3d 668, 708), our analysis and disposition of this sentencing issue applies to escobar as well. 15 where . . . a sentence choice is based on an erroneous understanding of the law, the matter must be remanded for an informed determination. [citations.] (id. at p. 912.) we find, however, that the record does not support an inference that the trial court was unaware of its discretion. there is no dispute that a prison sentence of 40 years to life on each of counts 1 and 2 was mandatory. (people v. oates (2004) 32 cal.4th 1048, 1062-people v. campos (2011) 196 cal.app.4th 438, 445, 448-454 [mandatory 15-year minimum parole eligibility term for attempted premeditated murder with gang finding];  186.22, subd. (b)(5), 187, subd. (a), 664, subd. (a), 12022.53, subds. (a)(1) & (18), (d) [mandatory firearm enhancement of 25 years to life], (g), & (h).) discretion to determine whether several sentences are to run concurrently or consecutively. (pen. code,  people v. bradford (1976) 17 cal.3d 8, 20.) we presume the trial court was aware of the law (people v. mosley (1997) 53 cal.app.4th 489, 496; evid. code,  664) and therefore understood it had discretion to impose concurrent sentences. the conduct of the trial court supports the inference it knew and understood the extent of its discretion. because the 40-year prison sentence on each count was mandatory, the only possible relevancy of evidence in mitigation was to guide the determination whether to impose consecutive or concurrent sentences. understanding of its discretion to impose concurrent sentences is manifested in its election to review the probation report, invite and hear argument from counsel at the sentencing hearing, its inquiry whether the prosecution submitted a victim impact statement, and its express consideration of mitigating factors. if the trial court believed it had no discretion whatsoever, it had no reason to engage in this conduct. as noted in people v. leung (1992) 5 cal.acourt believed that consecutive terms were mandatory, it would not have stated reasons for their imposition since none 16 preciation of its discretion to impose concurrent or consecutive sentences is further manifested by its comments regarding mitigating factors after reminded the court of its discretion acknowledged that it although it is not entirely clear which aspect of the sentencing the court referenced in its final comments about mandatory sentencing, the fact the comments immediately follow firearm indicate that the court was referring to the mandatory sentencing on the firearm enhancement. in the context of factors, it is not rethe only discretion in sentencing available to be exercised.9 4. there was nright to confrontation. in crawford v washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36 [158 l.ed.2d 177] (crawford), the held admitted only where the declarant is unavailable, and only where the defendant has had a prior opportunity to cross-people v. johnson (2015) 61 cal.4th 734, 761, fn. omitted.) in people v. geier (2007) 41 cal.4th 555 (geier), our supreme court observed that davis v. washington (2006) 547 u.s. 813 [165 l.ed.2d 224] 9 although gutierrez claims his prison sentence constituted unconstitutionally cruel and/or unusual punishment, he waived the issue by failing to object on those grounds below. (cf. people v. benson (1990) 52 cal.3d 754, 786, fn. 7; people v. norman (2003) 109 cal.app.4th 221, 229; people v. dejesus (1995) 38 cal.app.4th 1, 27.) with respect to the sentence of 40 years to life on each of counts 1 and 2 (i.e., life with the possibility of parole ( 664, subd. (a)) with a 15-year minimum parole eligibility term ( 186.22, subd. (b)(5)) plus 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement ( 12022.53, subd. (d)), we conclude his sentence did not violate constitutional proscriptions against cruel or unusual punishment. (cf. people v. zepeda (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 1183, 1212-1216; people v. gonzales (2001) 87 cal.app.4th 1, 16-ineffective assistance of counsel. as noted in people v. pope (1979) 23 cal.3d 412, 426, act in the manner challenged . . . unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed (people v. mendoza tello (1997) 15 cal.4th 264, 266.) 17 clear that the confrontation clause applies only to testimonial hearsay statements and not geier, at p. 603.) although the supreme court in crawford under circumstances which would lead an objective witness reasonably to believe that the statement would be available for use at a later trial [statements made crawford , at pp. 52, 68.) recently, in people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665, the california supreme court reversed a finding by the jury that a gang allegation was true, -specific statements relate(id. at p. 670) [s]ome of those hearsay statements were also testimonial and therefore should have been excluded under crawford.10 (id. at pp. 670-671.) in sanchez, the gang expert, detective stow, testified that the defendant was a member of the delhi gang (delhi) and possessed a firearm, and narcotics for sale, for the benefit of delhi. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 673.) as the basis for his testimony, stow relied on information and/or statements contained in police documents, i.e., (1) a 11 presence during, and/or his statements to police about, two shootings of gang members, respectively, (3) a field identification card relating a police contact with the defendant, who was in the company of a delhi member, and (4) a police report relating a police contact and the . (id. at pp. 672-673.) 10 sanchez was decided after argument in this case. we invited further briefing from the parties addressing the impact, if any, of sanchez on this case. we have reviewed and considered the additional briefing. 11 sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 672, fn. 3.) 18 stow admitted he had never met the defendant and was not present when the defendant was given the step notice or when the other police contacts with the defendant occurred. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 673.) the police reports were not admitted into evidence. (id. at p. 694.) as proof of the truth of the matters stated, the supreme court concluded there was no denying that such case-specific facts are offered as true. without independent competent proof of these facts, the jury had no basis on which to accept the (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 684.) cannot do is relate as true case-specific facts asserted in hearsay statements, unless they are independently proven by competent evidence or are (id. at p. 686.) sanchez went on to review post-crawford case law and observed that statements are nontestimonial when made in the course of police interrogation under circumstances objectively indicating the primary purpose of the interrogation is to enable police assistance to meet an ongoing emergency, but statements are testimonial when the circumstances objectively indicate there is no such ongoing emergency and the primary purpose of the interrogation is to establish or prove past events potentially relevant to later criminal prosecution. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 688.) sanchez noted that other post-crawford decisions turned on the formality of the statement at issue. (id. at p. 692; see people v. dungo (2012) 55 cal.4th 608, 619.) sanchez concluded that (1) the step notice signed by a police officer under penalty of perjury and relating information about, and statements made by, the defendant, and (2) the police reports, which were compiled during a police investigation of completed crime, were testimonial. (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at pp. 694-697.) sanchez also concluded that a field identification card, if made in the course of an ongoing investigation of a crime, would be testimonial. (id. at p. 697.) on the other hand, testimony providing information that was not case-specific and that concerned 19 general gang behavior, its territory, and conduct was relevant and admissible. (id. at p. 698.) establish facts recorded in field identification cards. instead, the people called and subjected to cross-examination, several officers who had contact with appellants. although escobar (joined by gutierrez) contends that arevalo improperly relied on fi cards (other than the one dep. fernandez testified about),the record demonstrates that arevalo only relied on fernandezs field identification card when he testified about escobar. the only field identification card not pertaining to fernandez that arevalo referenced was field identification card identifying appellant gutierrez. because both fernandez and bonilla testified from personal knowledge at trial, their statements in police reports were not hearsay and did not implicate the confrontation clause. including gang members and p crawford is incorrect as a matter of law. the key issue for distinguishing testimonial statements from nontestimonial statements under crawford is whether the information was elicited in a formal setting like a preliminary hearing, a police interrogation, or a formal investigation. as noted in people v. cage (2007) 40 cal.4th 965 (cagestatement must have been given and taken primarily for the purpose ascribed to testimonyto establish or prove (id. at p. 984.) cage noted that, according to crawford, formal statement to government officers bears testimony in a sense that a person who makes a casual remark to an acage, at p. 984, fn. 14, italics added.) while testimony based on casual conversations may constitute statements inadmissible under the rules governing hearsay, it is not testimonial hearsay for purposes of crawford. in supplemental briefing, escobar identifies additional testimony that he contends was admitted in violation of crawford: testimony south members shot at jm 20 members earlier that day, testimony ,his testimony . as explained below, we find no error in the admission of these statements. before permitting arevalo to testify at trial, the trial court allowed appellants to cross-examine arevalo in an evidence code section 402 hearing conducted outside the presence of the jury. during that hearing, arevalo testified that he was present when alvarez, a jm member who was a victim of the 7:00 a.m. shooting attributed to south, told homicide detectives that he recognized the shooter as a south gang member. trial counsel argued in retaliation for the early morning shooting should be excluded as testimonial hearsay because the the trial court overruled the objection, concluding the testimony was admissible nontestimonial evidence because it came from a witness who was not in custody and was being interviewed as a victim. however, confrontation clause error under crawford does not depend on whether the out-of-court declarant is a suspect or a victim; it depends on the circumstances under which the hearsay statement was made. in cage, a victim waiting in the emergency room an hour after sustaining injuries described the circumstances of his stabbing to a police officer who asked although the conversation was informal, our supreme court concluded statements were testimonial noting that requisite solemnity was imparted by the potentially criminal consequences of lying to a (cage, supra, 40 cal.4th at p. 986.) there is no dispute that knowledge that alvarez identified the south shooter came from a conversation with homicide police officers who were investigatihave constituted testimonial hearsay in violation of the confrontation clause if offered for the truth of the matter. 21 however, offered for the truth of the matter, they were offered to show his motivation to retaliate. as such, they were nonhearsay. arevalo junior mafia gang members was likewise admissible because jm perception (rather than the accuracy of that perception) motive to retaliate. we therefore conclude that arevalo sixth amendment rights were not compromised. (cf. people v. hill (2011) 191 cal.app.4th 1104, 1136; see cage, supra, 40 cal.4th at p.9 84 & fn. 14.) we also find no error in . these statements were properly admitted as opinions based on admissible evidence agangs and the circumstances of their involvement in the shootings in this case. 5. no impermissible prosecutorial jury argument occurred. kirby testified he was working about 9:00 p.m. on february 27, 2013. the prosecutor asked what role kirby had in the investigation, and kirby replied, i interviewed the two defendants that nightviolated griffin v. california (1965) 380 u.s. 609 [14 l.ed.2d 106] (griffin) because the testimony implied escobar had invoked his fifth amendment rights when he was interrogated. the prosecutor explained she had intended only that kirby testify he had regarded the challenged testimony as concluded no error had occurred under doyle v. ohio (1976) 426 u.s. 610 [49 l.ed.2d 91] (doyle) or griffin. the court struck the for any purpose. 22 kirby later testified that while he was escorting escobar in the station, he heard counsel suggested escobar was innocently driving and was surprised by the shooting. during final argument, the prosecutor argued escobar did not pull over for the police, exit the car with hands up, protest his innocence, and say he was a witness and not a crime partner. escobar characterizes reference to interviewing appellants and the as doyle and/or griffin error. in doyle, the united states impeachment silence, at the time of arrest and after receiving miranda warnings, violated the due doyle, supra, 426 u.s. at p. 619, italics added.) griffin holds it is error for a prosecutor to comment, directly or indirectly, on the failure of the defendant to testify. (people v. hughes (2002) 27 cal.4th 287, 371-372.) on the state of the evidence. (people v. hovey (1988) 44 cal.3d 543, 572 (hovey).) in determining whether griffin error has occurred, we ask whether there is a reasonable likelihood jurors could have understood people v. clair (1992) 2 cal.4th 629, 663.) as noted in hoveyindirect, brief and mild references to a tion that an inference of guilt can be drawn therefrom, are uniformly held to constitute hovey, at p. 572.) we hold no doyle, griffin, or other constitutional error occurred. 23 l instruction. with respect to the uninjured victim, diego fernandez, the trial court read that portion of calcrim no. 600 pertaining to a kill zone.12 gutierrez urges this court to reverse the judgment on the grounds there was no evidence he intended to kill justin by killing everyone in the area where justin was located.13 was no indication that bullets were sprayed over a wide area encompassing [diego]gutierrez points to other evidence the shooter aimed in a downward direction as suggesting an intent to instill fear rather than strike the victims. as explained in people v. bland (2002) 28 cal.4th 313, 329-330 (bland), a person who desires to kill a particular target may concurrently intend to kill others within a kill zone; where a defendant intentionally creates a kill zone to ensure the death of his attack, an intent to kill others concurrent with the intent to kill the primary victim. for a group consisting of a, b, and c, and attacks the group with automatic weapon fire . . . has intentionally created a kill zone to ensure the death of [the] primary victim. (id. at pp. 329-330.) under these circumstances, the trier of fact may reasonably infer from the method employed an intent to kill others concurrent with the intent to kill the primary victim. (id. at p. 330.) 12 rson may intend to kill a specific victim or victims and at the same time to kill everyone in a particular zone of harm or kill zone. in order to convict the defendant of the attempted murder of diego fernandez, the people must prove that the defendant not only intended to kill justin padilla but also either intended to kill diego fernandez, or intended to kill everyone within the kill zone. if you have a reasonable doubt whether the defendant intended to kill diego fernandez or intended to kill justin padilla by killing everyone in the kill zone, then you must find the defendant not guilty of the attempted 13 gutierrez also contends any failure to object constituted ineffective assistance of counsel. 24 in bland, the court concluded a defendant who shot a flurry of bullets intending to kill the driver of a car concurrently intended to kill the passengers and could be convicted of the attempted murder of others in the automobile (the kill zone). similarly, in this case, the record contains substantial evidence the victims were playing basketball together when gutierrez rapidly fired a barrage of bullets (eight or ten bullets) in their direction. there is evidence the victims were close to one another during the shooting. when one or more bullets struck justin, diego was close enough to hear him fall. another bullet struck a gate near diego. these facts are sufficient to support a finding diego was in a kill zone appellants created intending to kill justin, and gutierrez concurrently intended to kill justin and anyone in the zone, including diego. we therefore conclude it was not error to give the kill zone instruction (and any failure by counsel to object to the instruction was not ineffective assistance of counsel). disposition the judgments are affirmed. hogue, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. lavin, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 