 filed 1/27/16 p. v. alvarez ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and appellant, v. david raymond alvarez, defendant and respondent. b259510 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba410600) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, clifford l. klein, judge. affirmed and remanded with directions. janice y. fukai, alternate public defender and felicia kahn grant, deputy alternate public defender, for defendant and respondent. jackie lacey, district attorney, phyllis c. asayama, roberta schwartz and leslie meller, deputy district attorneys, for plaintiff and appellant. _________________________ 2 the people appeal from the trial courts grant of defendant and respondent david raymond alvarezs new trial motion, which resulted in the reversal of his kidnapping conviction. for the reasons given below, we will affirm the trrt for further proceedings. background viewed in accordance with the usual rules of appellate review (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established the following. 1. evidence of the alleged kidnapping. on april 25, 2013, around 3:30 a.m., alyssa alves was walking alone on the lorena street bridge. alves testified she had been walking for a few hours because my boyfriend was gone and i wanted to . . . just get away from downtown. a van drove up to her and stopped. defendant alvarez got out, grabbed alves, and pulled her into the van. alves testified that a red blanket she had wrapped around her while she was walking fell into the street when alvarez grabbed her. alves found herself in the back of the van, lying face down with alvarez on top of her. alvarez taped alvess wrists behind her back. as he was doing this, he asked where she lived and she told him, downtown, san pedro and 6th street. alvarez asked if she wanted a ride, and alves said yes [b]ecause i was scared that he might hurt me. alvarez offered her a cigarette, which she declined. after alvarez had driven the van for about ten minutes, a police car came up behind them and flashed its lights. alvarez pulled over. when the van stopped moving, alvarez gave her a tool and said take the tape off your hands. when alves wasnt able to cut the tape, alvarez did it himself. at that point, the officers rescued alves. alves acknowledged she did not have a very clear recollection of the incident because she had been on a lot of medication for months and months. a year prior to the incident she had been hospitalized for depression. on the day that she testified, she had taken medication for anxiety and depression. alves said she had not been on any medication or drugs the night of the incident, but she acknowledged having been 3 interviewed by a detective gonzalez that night, and her confusing testimony about this interview was arguably inconsistent with her denial of having been on medication: q. where did that [interview] take place? a. oh, it i went to jail. i was at i i dont know if it was twin towers. i dont know what it was called. i was still on medication. q. okay. what medication were you on? a. i dont remember. q. so you were on medication when you were at twin towers, correct? a. yeah. q. were you on medication when you were interviewed by the detectives? a. yeah. q. and when did that interview take place? do you remember? a. no, i dont remember. q. how long had you been in the jail before it took place? a. i wasnt in jail. q. you said you were at the twin towers. a. oh, the which interview? because there was two interviews. q. where was the first interview? a. i dont know. at a jail. they had picked me up. i was by 6th street, and they picked me up. q. where did the second interview take place? a. i wherever i was in jail the second time, twin towers, or wherever that was. q. do you have a clear recollection of all of the events that happened that night? a. no. alves testified she had not been worried about being arrested for using drugs on the night of the incident, and that one of the interviewing officers had assured her she was not in any trouble. 4 alves denied that she had slept on the sidewalk or asked anyone for money that night. however, shown a transcript of her police interview, she acknowledged having said that she had done both things. asked about the contradiction, alves testified she did not know why she said that to the detective. shown a photograph the police had taken of the vans interior, alves acknowledged that she could see her red blanket on the back seat. los angeles county deputy sheriff fernando galvan testified he was on patrol with his partner that night when, about two or three miles from the lorena street bridge, they saw a white van stopped over the limit line at an intersection. galvan made a u-turn, got behind the van and followed it, while activating his lights. as he drove, galvan noticed a woman in the back of the van sit up or kneel up and look in our direction. thebriefly looked in our direction, she started going towards the front of the van. and as she was doing that, i saw that both her hands were behind her back. the van slowed down briefly, accelerated, and then slowed down again before finally stopping. when the officers approached the van, alvarez was sitting in the drivers seat. the first thing alves said to galvan was, this guy just kidnapped me. galvan saw brown-colored tape on alvess left wrist and on her sweater. her left wrist appeared to be fresh, raw, and irritated. galvan saw a piece of the same kind of tape near the vans sliding door, and there was also a roll of tape inside the van. 2. trial court grants alvarezs new trial motion. the trial in this case was very short. alvess direct testimony covered no more than five pages in the reporters transcript, followed by 16 pages of cross-examination, one page of redirect, and three pages of re-cross-examination. galvans entire testimony covered about 13 pages. the peoples closing argument covered five and a half pages in the reporters transcript, which was followed by defense counsels closing argument of a little less than two pages. the jury convicted alvarez of kidnapping (pen. code,  207) after deliberating for about two hours, of which 30 minutes was taken up by a readback 5 of testimony. alvarez admitted the charged prior prison term and prior serious felony conviction allegations (pen. code,  667.5, 667, subds. (a)-(i)). after the trial court appointed new defense counsel to handle post-verdict proceedings, alvarez filed a new trial motion raising two ineffective assistance of counsel claims: (1) that defense counsel should have requested a jury instruction on false imprisonment as a lesser included offense; and (2) that defense counsels closing argument had been inadequate. the trial court denied ineffective assistance of counsel claim on the first ground (not asking for a false imprisonment instruction), and then addressed the second ground: the problem ive always had literally . . . the minute defense counsel sat down it was such a short argument and i can go through the various issues i anticipated a defense attorney would bring up. . . . some contradictions on her signed statement by police, whether she had a red blanket. i dont know how important that is. whether or not she was on medication; prior psychiatric issues; wandering around at 3 in the morning; burden of proof being beyond a reasonable doubt, instructions of credibility of witnesses. [] the problem i have is sometimes it can send a message to the jury. i dont think the short argument by itself is grounds for reversing the verdict and granting a new trial. sometimes cases are so strong and dead-bang there is really nothing to argue in which case a two and 1/2 page argument would not indicate incompetency of counsel. [] i always thought it was a triable case. there is a reason why defense attorneys get to argue the case. thats part of the trial. if the defense attorney doesnt argue the case, then that seems to be a critical part of trial is missing and i thought it was the worst argument ive ever heard . . . . urging the trial court to deny alvarezs new trial motion, the prosecutor asserted defense counsels closing argument had not been inadequate and, in any event, there was no resulting prejudice. the prosecutor argued alves had been a sympathetic witness and there is only so much, as far as credibility, that defense counsel could have attacked because of the strong corroborative evidence given by deputy galvan. [] [alves] testified about being taped. when deputy galvan found her there was tape on one wrist. 6 she testified about . . . trying to cut that tape. one wrist had tape and the other wrist had what [galvan] described as a fresh, raw and irritated look. [] based on the photographic exhibits admitted into evidence, there was a roll of tape in the back [of the van], there was a sharp object in the back. all of these things added up to corroborate the victims statements . . . . the prosecutor also noted the trials brevity: this trial including voir dire, if im not mistaken, only lasted three days. the trial court was not convinced: i never felt comfortable with [defense counsels closing] argument the minute he stopped, and i just think there are too many points left out. [] i dont think mr. alvarez got a fair trial and that potentially could have affected the verdict. basically there was no argument. it was not the kind of case that could be argued in a few minutes. there are cases where defense counsel does make that correct tactical decision, but in this case i didnt think it was that way. [] so ive never actually granted this motion before but im going to do it. grant the motion for new trial based upon incompetency of counsel. contention the people contend the trial court erred by finding defense counsel failed to provide effective assistance during closing argument. discussion 1. defense counsels closing argument. during the peoples portion of closing argument, the prosecutor emphasized that deputy galvans testimony had corroborated the core details of alvess testimony, and argued that the evidence as a whole amply made out all the elements of kidnapping. when defense counsels turn came, he initially attacked the officers credibility, saying galvan testified that he saw through the back window of this van . . . in which the window was tinted. he saw this woman with their [sic] hands behind their back. and i suggest to you that this part of this officers testimony is blatantly false. there is no way that officer saw that through that window. [] why did he do that? he did that because he realized he had a squirrely witness who had some problems with remembering what was going on, and so he was going to make sure that when this came 7 to the court, that there was tape around this womans arms, and he saw it. he didnt see it. he did see what he took a picture of, but nothing more. . . . [] now, this is a picture of the van with the tinted window . . . and think about it. here he has got his lights shining from his police car behind him, and theyre going to reflect off of that window. and there is no way he is going to be able to see inside that van from behind the van. defense counsel then switched his focus to alves: the first thing she said when they got out of the car with the police officers was, he kidnapped me. she told you she was afraid she was going to be arrested, and thats my point. thats why she told the police that she had been kidnapped, because she didnt want to go to jail. . . . [] now, talking about roll of tape thats in the car, that does not appear to be the same kind of tape . . . that was around her wrist, and thats another thing that . . . you can consider. this woman got into that van voluntarily. she was going to be taken home. they got stopped by the police. she was afraid she was going to get arrested, and then . . . weve got this story about being kidnapped. [] you saw her demeanor. you saw her, and then you listened to what she had to say about her memory and how she wasnt afraid. she told the police officer that was interviewing her that she wasnt afraid. [] is this the kind of testimony you want to use to convict somebody? i say no. 2. legal principles. we explained in strickland [v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668 [104 s.ct. 2052] (strickland)] that a violation of [the sixth amendment right to effective assistance of counsel] has two components: [] first, the defendant must show that counsperformance was deficient. this requires showing that counsel made errors so serious amendment. second, the defendant must show that the deficient performance prejudiced entation fell below an 8 result of the proceeding would have been different. a reasonable probability is a williams v. taylor (2000) 529 u.s. 362, 390-391 [120 s.ct. 1495].) g-to criminal defendants and on the functioning of the criminal justice system itse(people v. ledesma strickland that a court reasonable professional assistance because it is all too easy to conclude that a particular (bell v. cone (2002) 535 u.s. 685, 702 [122 s.ct. 1843].) nonetheless, counsel has wide latitude in deciding how best to represent a client, and important because of the broad range of legitimate defense strategy at that stage. closing [citation], but which issues to sharpen and how best to clarify them are questions with many reasonable answers. indeed, it might sometimes make sense to forgo closing therefore highly deferential . . . yarborough v. gentry (2003) 540 u.s. 1, 5-6 [124 ing argument rarely occur; when they do, it is due to an argument against the client which concedes guilt, people v. moore that a different, or better, argument could have been made is not a sufficient basis for finding deficient people v. ledesma (2006) 39 cal.4th 641, 748.) 9 trial court has broad discretion in ruling on a motion for a new trial, and there the determination of will not be disturbed unless a manifest and unmistakable abuse of discretion clearly people v. davis (1995) 10 cal.4th 463, 524.) in the context of a sixth amendment ineffective assistance of counsel claim, this means a reviewing court must measure both the deficient representation prong and the prejudice prong by the same abuse of discretion test. ineffective representation of counsel is subject to an abuse of discretion standard of tion of prejudice subject to this standard, decision was irrational or arbitrary, or that it was not grounded in reasoned judgment and guided by legal principles and policies appropriate to the particular matter at issue. (people v. callahan (2004) 124 c.a.4th 198, 209 . . . witkin, cal. criminal law (4th ed. 2012) criminal trial,  268, p. 448.)1 3. discussion. as the foregoing discussion of the governing standards of review demonstrates, there are in this case two countervailing principles of deference. on the one hand, deference must be paid to the tactical choices a defense attorney makes during the course of a criminal trial, particularly with respect to the sort of closing argument defense 1 determinations whether a defendant was prejudiced by juror misconduct in the context of a new trial motion that is denied [citation], our supreme court recently clarified that orders granting a new trial on a finding of prejudicial juror misconduct are reviewed for an abuse of discretion [citation]. although the court . . . did not expressly extend this rule to all orders granting a new trial, we discern no reason, and the people offer none, why the same standard of review should not apply to other findings of prejudice that are adjudicated in granting a people v. callahan, supra, 124 cal.app.4th at p. 209.) 10 counsel chooses to make. on the other hand, deference must also be paid to a trial a defendant has suffered ineffective assistance of counsel requiring the trial court to grant a new trial motion. in this case, we believe this clash of principles is best resolved by respecting the fact that it was the trial judge who saw the witnesses in the flesh and heard their testimony in a live setting. as the court of appeal in people v. andrade (2000) 79 cal.app.4th 651, 660, explainedhindsight, we are reluctant to second-guess tactical decisions made by trial counsel. [citations.] we are equally, if not more reluctant, to second-unfair trial, i.e., a miscarriage of justice. in this respect, an ineffective assistance claim made in a motion for new trial differs from one raised for the first time on appeal or an initial determination, and intelligently evalua inadequate. our supreme court has consistently refused to find ineffective assistance of counsel predicated on a claim that a closing argument was too short to be competent,2 and yarborough v. gentry, supra, 540 u.s. at p. 6.) here, however, the trial court was clear that the problem it saw was not merely the 2 see, e.g., people v. dickey (2005) 35 cal.4th 884, 927 [three-page long closing reasonably competent representation, and we find no reasonable probability that a people v. lewis (2001) 25 cal.4th 610, 675 [two-page long penalty phase closing argument at capital tri the length of an people v. mayfield (1993) 5 cal.4th . . closing argument was inadequate in principle because briefly made, we cannot agree: brevity and eloquence are not necessarily 11 brevity of the closing argument, but the fact that had so completely failed to address important issues that it wound up being the worst [closing] argument the court had ever heard. as to the competency prong of the strickland ineffective assistance of counsel test, it could be argued that some of the issues the trial court wanted defense counsel to address would not have been all that fruitful. whether alves red blanket had been lost on the street, or instead had been carried into the van, seems an unimportant minor detail. similarly, alvess inability to explain why she inaccurately told a detective about sleeping on the street and soliciting money that night had no direct connection to her kidnapping allegation. however, highlighting this evidence, as well as evidence of her mental health history and possible use of psychiatric drugs, could have impeached alvess general credibility, which would have assisted the defense claim that her story certavarez guilty beyond a reasonable as for the prejudice prong of the strickland test, alvarez points out there was a blatant factual inaccuracy at the core of the closing argument because defense counsel incorrectly asserted that alves had testified she was afraid she was going to be arrested. defense counsel relied on this assertion as the basis for his primary claim that alves invented the kidnapping story because she was afraid of being arrested for using drugs. in fact, however, alves expressly testified that she was not afraid of being arrested. indeed, she testified that one of the police officers had assured her she was not in any trouble. and there was a second inaccuracy. in trying to discredit deputy he did see what he took a picture of, nothing more. . . but galvan never testified he 12 saw arms taped; he testified only that while driving behind the van he saw her stand up and go towards the front of the van with her hands behind her back. while one might be tempted to conclude that, regardless of the omissions and misstatements in , the strength of the circumstantial evidence would have led any reasonable juror to conclude a kidnapping did occur, we are mindful of the fact that it was the trial judge not this court who saw the witnesses testify. and in this regard we again cite people v. andrade, supra, 79 cal.app.4th at p. 661: al decision is so unreasonable that the trial court is compelled to intervene. the trial court found that this was such a case. yet, dismissing the finding as arbitrary, the people seek to force the trial court to sentence the defendant, despite its belief that the result was unfair. we cannot grant this request. [c]riminal defendants, regardless of their guilt or innocence, are entitled to a fair trial . . . and the trial court is obligated to grant a new trial if it finds the result of the first trial to have been unfair. [citation.] [] a trial court serves as a gatekeeper on a motion for new trial. it opens the gate only rarely, a testament to the fact that the vast majority of trials resulting in conviction are fairly conducted. in these cases, motions for new trial are routinely made, routinely denied, and are routinely affirmed on appeal. in the remaining cases, however, the trial court grants the motion, and we affirm those rulings in the absence of a clear showing of abuse of discretion. we conclude the trial court here did not abuse its discretion by granting alvarez a new trial. 13 disposition remanded to the trial court for further proceedings. not to be published in the official reports edmon, p. j. we concur: aldrich, j. jones, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 