filed 9/17/15 p. v. snowden ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. kioki snowden, defendant and appellant. b259000 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la074666) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, joseph a. brandolino, judge. affirmed as modified and remanded with directions. david m. thompson, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, susan sullivan pithey and zee rodriguez, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. appellant kioki snowden was convicted by a jury of kidnapping, robbery, rape and related offenses. on appeal, he contends the trial court erred in admitting 2 portions of his post-arrest interview with detectives in which he referred to his further the introduction of iew represented ineffective assistance of counsel. we find no error on the part of the trial court and no ineffective assistance of counsel. appellant and respondent agree that the sentence on count three (robbery) must be stayed under penal code section 654, and that the abstract of judgment must be amended to reflect the correct sentence on count two (kidnapping to commit robbery).1 we agree and accordingly, we modify the judgment and affirm. factual and procedural background a. information appellant was charged by information with kidnapping to commit rape (count one,  209, subd. (b)(1)); kidnapping to commit robbery (count two,  209, subd. (b)(1)); second degree robbery (count three,  211); forcible rape (count four,  261, subd. (a)(2)); sexual penetration by a foreign object (count five,  289, subd., (a)(1)(a)); forcible oral copulation (count six,  288a, subd. (c)(2)(a)); sodomy by use of force (count seven,  286, subd. (c)(2)(a)); three counts of forcible rape (counts eight, nine and ten,  261, subd. (a)(2)); and identity theft (count 11,  530.5, subd. (a)).2 it was further alleged in connection with counts one through ten that appellant personally used a deadly weapon, a knife, within the meaning of section 12022, subdivision (b)(1). with respect to counts four through ten, it was alleged that appellant used a deadly weapon within the meaning of 1 undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 count 12, a second count of identity theft, was dismissed by the prosecution before the case went to the jury. 3 section 12022.3, subd. (a), that the kidnapping and movement of the victim substantially increased the risk of harm ( 667.61, subds. (a) and (d), and that appellant tied or bound the victim ( 667.61, subds. (a) and (e).) b. evidence at trial according to the testimony of the victim, lauren r., she left work at 5 p.m. on july 4, 2013. she was in her car in the parking lot of the topanga mall when appellant approached with a three-inch knife. appellant saiddo exactly as i and fearing that appellant would hurt her, lauren decided to cooperate with him and do everything he told her to do. once appellant was in the passenger seat, he card and $50 in cash. he then instructed her to drive to an area where he could they stopped to refuel at a station in pasadena, where appellant took the keys and tied hands to the steering wheel while he pumped gas. they next drove to a residential neighborhood, where appellant ordered lauren into the back seat, tied her hands behind her back, and placed a blanket over her. appellant drove to a parking lot and stopped the car. lauren said: p appellant responded: appellant commenced a lengthy sexual assault of lauren. lauren testified that he fondled and put his mouth on her breasts. he penetrated her vagina with his fingers. he put his penis in her vagina and rectum, and instructed her to orally copulate him when he lost his erection. he paused and changed positions several times before ejaculating. her hands were tied during the initial portion of the 4 assault.3 afterward, appellant instructed lauren to get dressed and drive to a nearby atm. afraid he would be unsatisfied with the amount of money in her checking account, lauren used her cell phone to transfer $1,000 from her savings account. appellant withdrew money from her account using her atm card and instructed her to drive him to union station. before leaving her in the car, s behind her back. lauren was able to untie her hands. in a state of shock from her ordeal, she did not immediately contact authorities, but drove around trying to orient herself. at approximately 8:00 p.m., she arrived at a party and met up with friends, who her friends called 911 and waited with her while police and an ambulance arrived. a forensic examination revealed bruising on her upper arms and thighs, red marks around one of her wrists, and redness and swelling around her vagina. the bodysuit she was wearing was ripped. dna found in swabs of seminal fluid taken from the car and from lauren during the forensic exam video from the security camera at the gas station showed appellant entering the at 6:47 p.m. on july 4, and leaving to pump gas. parking lot and appellant getting out and walking into the lobby. after his arrest, appellant was interviewed by two detectives. in a tape of the interview played for the jury, appellant stated he had been waiting in the mall parking lot for someone to rob when he spotted lauren. he said he got into her car planning to rob her, but also said he did not have a plan and had her drive around while he formulated one. when he first got into the car, he brandished a weapon -- 3 appellant untied lauren prior to instructing her to orally copulate him. in addition, he took off his shirt during the assault at her request and she observed multiple tattoos she was latter able to describe to investigators. 5 a nail file, which he assumed she thought was a knife. lauren said: appellant said if she did whatever he told her to do she would not get hurt, and told her to . while they appellant admitted tying her hands to the steering wheel when they stopped for gas, and tying her wrists and placing her in the back seat before driving her to the parking lot where, after telling g to . . . penetrated her in several positions and had her orally copulate him. he admitted touching her breasts and putting his penis in her vagina. he denied sodomizing her. he claimed that she asked to be untied prior to during the sexual assault. however, he also stated that just prior to the assault, she he admitted leaving her tied up in the car when he left it near union station. he admitted using her bank card to get money from her account july 4 and the next day. he said he took $25 from her wallet when he first got in the car, and a small bag of change when he left. the defense presented no evidence. c. verdict and sentence the jury found appellant guilty on counts two (kidnapping to commit robbery), three (second degree robbery), four (forcible rape), five (sexual penetration), six (forcible oral copulation), and 11 (identity theft). the jury found appellant not guilty on count seven (forcible sodomy) and counts eight, nine and ten (forcible rape). as to count one (kidnapping to commit rape), the jury found appellant guilty of the lesser included offense of kidnapping ( 207, subd. (a)). it found the allegation of use of a knife true as to counts one, two and three. it found 6 the movement of the victim allegation true with respect to count four, and found the tying or binding allegation true with respect to counts four and five. the court sentenced appellant to a term of 84 years to life, consisting of: on count one, the upper term of eight years, plus one year for the weapon allegation; on count two, seven years to life, plus one year for the section 12022, subdivision (b)(1) enhancement; on count three, one year (one-third the middle term), plus four months for the section 12022, subdivision (b)(1) enhancement; on count four, 25 years to life; on count five, 25 years to life; on count six, 15 years to life; and on count 11, eight months (one-third the middle term). the court also imposed various fines and assessments. this appeal followed. discussion a. interview 1. background in a portion of the interview played for the jury, the detectives asked appellant why he had stayed in the car with lauren for so long if he intended only to rob her, and whether he had i was -- at first, i was like -- i was going to do some like ted bundy shit, but --. . . --appellant what he had been planning to do when they arrived at the parking lot where the sexual assault took place, referencing prior mention of ted 7 . [] . . . [] . . . so i would probably [have] the detectives later asked appellant about his tattoos. he said they were had just been done. appellant explained [c]-- and he just attacks. he to another tattoo]. [] . . . [] if the tattoos were associated with a gang. appellant said: -- i would never during pretrial proceedings, defense counsel made a general objection to introduction of the taped interview, but the sole specific discussion at that time was to statements -- redacted by the prosecution -- concerning prior record. later, counsel specifically objected under evidence code section 352 to playing any portion of the interview containing a reference to ted bundy. the prosecutor argued that inclusion of these portions of the interview was necessary to establish and during the kidnapping, to establish that he intended to do more than rob the victim and that he had formed an intent to commit rape prior to arriving at the parking lot. the court found the evidence admissible, me to be relevant. . . . people have to prove -- and it may also be relevant to an argument, which, again, the people have the burden of proving, . . . s and some . . . possible defense arguments fear. and so, clearly, the defendant is admitting that his intention was to do, as 8 as well, to an argument that he acted, . . . with that intent when he was dealing with the victim. [] his intent of what he was doing with the victim. [] . . . [i]t survives a 352 prior to opening statements, defense counsel learned that the prosecutor planned and to play portions of his interview. she objected under evidence code section 352 to ,and to allowing the prosecutor to utilize portions of the interview that were the court overruled the objections, finding comments about the tattoo they were made during his discussion of the crime with the detectives and gave did what he did and the fact that he did it. during closing argument, the prosecutor contended actions in . he further stated: somehow she knew the person that was in front of her was really dangerous, that this person in so she did everything he said. everything he wanted, she did, because she wanted to survive. . . to see the sunrise on july 5th.when addressing the evidence to support count one (kidnapping to commit rape), the prosecutor further , for . . . car. . . . he tells her to get on the freeway, directs her. . . . they end up in pasadena; according to his own statement, [he] was going to ted bundy her at that 9 parking lot. defense counsel argued that the evidence had not established appellant had a specific intent to rape or rob the victim when he committed the kidnapping. she te with appellant, her failure to attempt to escape or to draw attention to her predicament, and her request that appellant untie her and take his shirt off during the assault could reasonably have been construed as consent to the sexual activities. in rebuttal, to refute the the sexual acts, circumstantial evidence s . . . : way to pasadena, he says, 2. analysis appellant contends the court erred in refusing to exclude, under evidence code section 352, from the portions of the interview played to the jury. we find no error. trial courts have broad discretion in determining the admissibility of evidence, particularly when objection is made under evidence code section 352. (people v. pollock (2004) 32 cal.4th 1153, 1170; people v. jones (2013) 57 cal.4th cretion will not be disturbed except on a showing thin an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd manner that resulted in a manifest miscarriagpeople v. goldsmith (2014) 59 cal.4th 258, 266.) the ground stated and . . . the error or errors complained of resulted in a 10 miscarriage of justice. (people v. earp (1999) 20 cal.4th 826, 878, quoting evid. code,  353, subd. (b).) a section 352 objection will fail [u]nless the dangers of undue prejudice, eigh the probative value of relevant evidence . . . .people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 439.) the prejudice contemplated by evidence code section 352 is not so sweeping as to include any evidence the opponent finds inconvenient. evidence is not prejudicial, as that term is used in a section 352 context, merely because it undermines the opponents position or shores up that of the proponent. the ability to do so is what makes evidence relevant. the code speaks in terms of undue prejudice.(doolin, supra, 45 cal.4th at pp. 438-439, italics deleted.) unduly prejudicial evidence consists of evidence which uniquely tends to evoke an emotional bias against the defendant as an individual and which has very little effect on the issues(id. at p. 439.) in other words, evidence should be excluded as unduly prejudicial when it is of such nature as to inflame the emotions of the jury, motivating them to use the information, not to logically evaluate the point upon which it is relevant, but to reward or punish one side because of the jurors emotional reaction. in such a circumstance, the evidence is unduly prejudicial because of the substantial likelihood the jury will use it for an illegitimate purpose. (ibid.) here, appellant was charged with kidnapping to commit rape. the evidence on this point was conflicting. appellant stated during the interview that his initial intent had been only to rob lauren, that he had no plan, and that he instructed her to drive around until he could formulate onehis intention like ted bundy shit,appellant formed the intent at an early point in the kidnapping to rape his victim. the references to ted bundy along with his 11 ,also supported the inference that he conveyed an air of threat and menace, which reluctance to attempt to escape, and her seeming compliance with some of the sexual activities forced upon her. , even after hearing this evidence, that appellant intended to commit rape when he drove lauren to the parking lot where the sexual assault took place. his claim that the jurors were unduly prejudiced by this evidence is disproven by their verdict: they found him not guilty of three counts of rape and one count of sodomy, as well as the charge of kidnapping to commit rape -- and found several of the enhancements not true. in view of the relevance of the evidence and the absence of anything in the record to support that it inflamed the jury or led it to resolve the issues based on bias and emotion moreover, even had we found error, we would deem it harmless. lauren testified that appellant kidnapped her at knifepoint, forced her to drive around for hours while she pleaded with him not to hurt her, tied her up three times, drove her to a parking lot and sexually assaulted her. her testimony was corroborated by fingerprint evidence, dna evidence, multiple surveillance videos and medical evidence of the assault. appellant admitted in a recorded statement that he lay in wait for an appropriate victim to rob, that he immediately threatened lauren with a weapon and told her to do as instructed or she would get hurt, that he knew she was and that when asked if he was going to hurt her, he responded . . . he admitted tying her up, penetrating her in multiple positions, and directing her to orally copulate him. he admitted that he hurting her real from her account. the evidence that appellant kidnapped and robbed lauren was effectively uncontested, and the evidence he sexually assaulted her was 12 overwhelming. in short, there was no reasonable chance that the verdicts would have been different had tinterview not been introduced. (see people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836.) b. competency of trial counsel defense counsel objected only to use in opening statement of the and to playing parts of the interview out of context. counsel did not object to having the jury hear the portion of the interview tape in which appellant discussed his ctm and other tattoos, either during pretrial proceedings or when the interview was introduced. accordingly, any contention on appeal with respect to the admission of that portion of the interview tape was forfeited. (see people v. hinton (2006) 37 cal.4th 839, 893, fn. 19.) appellant contends that the failure to object to the admission of that portion of the tape . in order to establish ineffective assistance of counsel sufficient to overturn a conviction, a defendant er an objective standard of professional reasonableness and (2) prejudice under a test of reasonable probability of an people v. berryman (1993) 6 cal.4th 1048, 1081, overruled on other grounds in people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800.) people v. abilez (2007) 41 cal.4th 472, 493, fn. 3.) [on a claim of ineffective assistance of counsel], defendant must overcome the strong presumption that counsels actions were sound trial strategy under the circumstances prevailing at trial. (people v. freeman (1994) 8 cal.4th 450, 498if the record on appeal sheds no light on why counsel acted or failed to act in the manner challenged, an appellate claim of ineffective assistance of counsel must be rejected unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed 13 to provide one, or there simply could be no satisfactory explanation. [citatiopeople v. abilez, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 493.) prosecution introduced emultiple tattoos, which lauren saw when he removed his shirt during the sexual assault. when asked about his tattoos during the interview, appellant denied that they were gang related, stating that he was not and never would be a gang member. in light of the obvious relevance and admissibility of the tattoos, defense counsel could have discussion of them would dispel any inference of gang membership the jury might otherwise draw. we need not speculate, however, during the interview and the overwhelming evidence of his guilt on the charges of which he was convicted, any reference to the meaning behind his tattoos did not affect the verdicts. rial counsel successfully persuaded the jury to find him guilty of the lesser included offense on the most hotly contested count (count one: kidnapping with intent to rape) and to return not guilty verdicts on four other counts. we perceive no basis for second-guessing her tactics or concluding that a better outcome would have been achieved had they been different. c. sentence on count three in closing argument, the prosecutor informed the jury that the robbery charged in count three occurred shortly after appellant got into the car -- when he took bank card and cash -- and was completed as soon as he moved her a substantial distance from the mall parking lot. the court sentenced appellant on count two (kidnapping to commit robbery) to seven years to life, plus one year for the section 12022, subdivision (b)(1) enhancement. it imposed a consecutive sentence of a year and four months on the count three robbery. when a kidnapping 14 for robbery and a robbery are committed pursuant to a single intent or objective, as when a defendant kidnaps the victim in order to rob him or her and immediately carries out that objective, section 654 precludes punishment for both. (people v. lewis (2008) 43 cal.4th 415, 519, disapproved on another ground in people v. black (2014) 58 cal.4th 912; people v. beamon (1973) 8 cal.3d 625, 639-640, disapproved on another ground in people v. mendoza (2000) 23 cal.4th 896.) the parties agree that the robbery charged in count three and the kidnapping to commit robbery in count two were committed pursuant to a single intent or objective. accordingly, the sentence must be modified to reflect that the robbery conviction in count three is stayed, and the abstract of judgment must be amended accordingly. d. abstract of judgment as stated above, appellant was sentenced to seven years to life on count two (kidnapping to commit robbery), plus one year for the enhancement under section 12022, subdivision (b)(1). the abstract of judgment erroneously states that on count two and must serve an additional the parties agree the abstract of judgment must be amended to reflect the correct sentence. 15 disposition the judgment is modified to reflect that the sentence for the robbery conviction in count three is stayed. in all other respects, the judgment is affirmed. the superior court is directed to prepare an amended abstract of judgment reflecting this change and further reflecting that the sentence for kidnapping with intent to commit robbery in count two is seven years to life with an additional one year for the enhancement. when completed, the amended abstract of judgment shall be forwarded to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published in the official reports manella, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. willhite, j. 