filed 7/12/16 p. v. sims ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. keith john sims, jr., defendant and appellant. b260086 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba396843) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, robert j. perry, judge. affirmed. mark s. devore, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, steven d. matthews, supervising deputy attorney general, and robert c. schneider, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury convicted keith john sims, jr., (sims) of three counts of making criminal threats against his wife yuliis keaton (keaton) and stepson tamajae lewis (lewis) (pen. code,  422, subd. (a))1 (counts 1, 6, 7), one count of assault with a deadly weapon on keaton ( 245, subd. (a)(1)) (count 2), and one count of stalking keaton ( 646.9, subd. (a)) (count 5). (people v. sims (may 13, 2014, b244905) [nonpub. opn.].) the jury found true that sims personally used a knife in counts 1 and 2. (ibid.) on appeal, sims contends that the trial court abused its discretion in denying his motion to discharge court-appointed counsel, erica pines (defense counsel), brought pursuant to people v. marsden (1970) 2 cal.3d 118 (marsden motion). the principal disagreement between sims and defense counsel concerns which individuals to call as witnesses. because we conclude that the disagreement between sims and defense counsel concerned a disagreement on trial tactics that did not rise to the level of inadequate legal representation and that the trial court did not abuse its discretion in accepting for her trial strategy decisions, we affirm the marsden motion. background because this is a second appeal, we need not provide a detailed account of the principal facts related to the charged offenses or the proceedings below as our prior opinion contains such a discussion. (people v. sims, supra, b244905.) instead, we take up where the record in the prior appeal left off. i. in the first appeal, we directed the trial court to hold a marsden hearing. in the prior appeal, sims asserted that the trial court had erred in refusing to conduct a marsden hearing after he had advised the trial court that had been no offer of proof or statement by sims or defense counsel concerning the subject matter of his new trial motion and because the trial court had erred in failing to hold a marsden hearing, we 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 remanded for the limited purpose of determining whether the marsden motion should have been granted. we gave the following instructionsmarsden motion is meritorious, the court is to permit defendant to substitute counsel and determine if there is a reasonable probability the result at trial would have been different but for any asserted error. . . . if the marsden motion, and any new trial motion brought people v. sims, supra, b244905 at p. 23.) ii. on remand, the trial court conducted a marsden marsden motion. on october 8, 2014, the trial court held a hearing s marsden motion. at the beginning of the hearing, sims presented three exhibits including his handwritten declaration in support of his marsden motion alleging that defense counsel had been ineffective for, inter alia, not acceding to his request to call his wife keaton as a witness at trial.2 after his stepson at trial, sims requested defense counsel to call keaton as an ostensibly favorable witness to recant her claim of spousal abuse; sims asserted that keaton was ; defense counsel refused at the marsden hearing, otential favorable witness, sims for a based on ineffective assistance of counsel. the trial court sua sponte proffered a reason supporting 2 hn that 4 agreeing with the trial court, defense counsel explained that she had thoroughly investigated keaton as a potential witness but she had made a tactical decision not to call keaton for several reasons: that [keaton] should not testify because . . . . [] [at a crawford3 hearing to determine what evidence would come in if keaton did not testify] that if ms. keaton did not testify, that counts 3 and 4 would likely be dismissed in an 1118.1 motion . . . . and i an 1118.1 was granted as to counts 3 and 4, so he was convicted of two fewer strikes.4 further, defense s proffered testimony recanting her prior statement to the police covered only one of the multiple incidents charged in the information: specifically, the incident that formed the basis of counts 3 and 4 that defense counsel 5 second, defense counsel explained that keaton intended to disclose in her proffered testimony that sims was on parole, and therefore he feared another arrest, as the reason why sims was hiding in the closet when the police arrived at residence 3 crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36. 4 t on motion of the defendant or on its own motion, at the close of the evidence on either side and before the case is submitted to the jury for decision, shall order the entry of a judgment of acquittal of one or more of the offenses charged in the accusatory pleading if the evidence then before the court is 5 count 3 (criminal threats made against keaton) and count 4 (assault with a deadly weapon against keaton) stemmed from events that occurred on january 22, 2012 people v. sims, supra, b244905 at pp. 45.) the remaining counts concerned september 2011 threats against lewis and keaton, incidents of following and harassing keaton between september 2011 and january 22, 2012, and a november 4, 2011 assault upon keaton. (ibid.) 5 to arrest him on january 22, 2012 (and not that sims was hiding because of an assault by sims against keaton which would have supported an inference of consciousness of guilt). for that reason, defense counsel concluded, thought [that the jury learning] the fact that mr. sims was on parole, coupled with the fact that the court had let in his prior stalking conviction, would be way too damaging for mr. sims . . . not only would [the jury] not believe what ms. keaton was saying, but they would convict him of all of the intentional component of the defense strategy to demonstrate fabricating the allegations of spousal abuse. specifically, according to the defense disapproved of the relationship between keaton and sims, both keaton and lewis had motives to fabricate the story of domestic abuse. thus, witness would have lied [about the spousal abu in sum, defense counsel explained that her decision not to call keaton as a witness in court, . . . to decrease the number of strikes he can get convicted of, and argue the fact that [keaton] is not here, in part, because she is a bad mother . . . . [] . . . as opposed to putting up a recanting witness that i did not find to bei thought her excuses would be more damaging to mr. sims . . . . furthermore, her statements that nothing happened did , sims wanted me to file a motion for new trial based on the fact that we had a new witness which was . . . keaton, and i told him that i cannot in good faith put that motion before the court because i do not believe she is a new witness. she is a witness i chose 6 after confirming with sims that there were no further complaints that needed to be addressed, the trial court denied the marsden represented him very well. in fact, i even said so. to quote the court, i said, you fought very hard for your client, at page 1510, and i feel that way today. i thought you were well represented, and i thought the evidence was quite substantial. and i think . . . lewis was the princip[al] witness in the case. [] marsden motion. i have satisfied myself t the trial court marsden discussion i. jurisprudence on a marsden motion to substitute court-appointed counsel the law governing a marsden motion is well settled. a defendant is entitled to relief if the record clearly shows that the . . . appointed attorney is not providing adequate representation [citation] or that defendant and counsel have become embroiled in such an irreconcilable conflict that ineffective representation is likely to result [citations].(people v. memro (1995) 11 cal.4th 786, 857.) the defendant pursuing a marsden motion must make a sufficient showing that the failure to replace counsel would substantially impair(ibid.) does not have the right to present a defense of his own choosing, but merely the right to people v. welch (1999) 20 cal.4th 701, 728.) we do not find marsden ers inadequacy involve tactical disagreements. (people v. dickey (2005) 35 cal.4th 884, 922; people v. welch, supra, 20 cal.4th at pp. 728729.) tcontrol the trialin re atchley (1957) 48 cal.2d 408, 418.) to make mandatory the appointment of different counsel in all cases involving a disagreement between the defendant and his court-appointed attorney regarding trial tactics would not only add to the expense of the state in furnishing counsel for the indigent but would also give too great a chance to delay trials and otherwise embarrass effective prosecution for people v. williams (1970) 2 cal.3d 894, 906.) 7 specifically, tof trial people v. williams, supra, 2 cal.3d at p. 905.) such decisions trial people v. lindsey (1978) 84 cal.app.3d 851, 859.) further, [i]n seeking discharge of a court appointed attorney the defendant must show more than the fact the attorney made a mistake, he must show lack of competence. (people v. lee (2002) 95 cal.app.4th 772, 779.) marsden motion to relieve appointed counsel under the deferential abuse of discretion standard. (people v. hart (1999) 20 cal.4th 546, 603.) ii. marsden motion. , , and then allowed sims to reply with several opportunities to articulate his concerns. under such circumstances, tpeople v. taylor (2010) 48 cal.4th 574, 600.) for instance, the trial court reasonably could find that defense counsel had properly made an informed tactical decision not to call keaton as a witness because of the multiple sound reasons proffered by defense counsel at the marsden hearing: (1) to force the prosecution to trial without its main complaining witness, (2) to obtain dismissal of counts 3 and 4, (3) to prevent the jury from learning that sims was on parole when the police arrested himfor fabricating her account of domestic abuse. in people v. lindsey, supra, 84 cal.app.3d 851, the defendant and appointed counsel disagreed over which individuals to call as witnesses. (id. at p. 859.) on appeal, this district held that the decision regarding which witnesses to call was a tactical one left to trial counsel 8 id. at pp. 859860.) similarly here, given the many disadvantages to calling keaton as a witness, defense counsel reasonably believed that simss request would lead to a net loss. (see, e.g., people v. vines (2011) 51 cal.4th 830, 878 [tactical decision whether to call alibi witness]; people v. williams, supra, 2 cal.3d at pp. 900, 905906 [same]; people v. dickey, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 922 [theory to the jury].) on appeal, sims contended that violent strikes.6 based on that misunderstanding, according to sims, because his case had previously been dismissed, defense counsel believed that the law allowed the prosecution one more dismissal and that the prosecution would not be able to proceed at trial without esulting in a second dismissal) and -file the however, the trial court reasonably concluded thatthe primary 6 relied on by sims occurred in the following colloquy: . . . [] . . . i asked [defense counsel] if she had the preliminary hearing transcript from the original case, which i take to mean the original filing, and [defense counsel] advertised that she was unaware that counsel]: well, first of all, i knew very much that this was a refile. that was part of why proceeding to trial when there was no complaining witness present was important, because there had already been one dismissal in this case. because there are violent strikes alleged, technically they could have proceededallowed two dismissals on violent strikes. however, that is not usually the practice of the r a continuance. i knew very well that this was 9 an inaccurate understanding of the law but rather the numerous sound tactical reasons articulated by defense counsel at the marsden hearing. (see people v. taylor, supra, 48 cal.4th at p. .) even if defense counsel did make a good faith mistake as to whether the charged offenses were any such mistake did not deny sims the effective assistance of counsel because multiple valid reasons supported tactical decision not to call keaton as a witness.7 (see people v. lee, supra, 95 cal.app.4th at p. 779.) based on this record, the conflict between sims and defense counsel over whether to call keaton as a witness was a tactical disagreementand a disagreement in which counsel seems to have taken the wiser view. (people v. dickey, supra, 35 cal.4th at p. 922.) thus, s complaints fell short of establishing that defense counsel had not been providing adequate representation or that she and sims had become embroiled in such an irreconcilable conflict that ineffective representation is likely to result. (people v. memro, supra, 11 cal.4th at p. 857.) simsof dissatisfaction on appeal was that defense counsel refused simss request to call his parents as character witnesses to discredit keaton; marsden motion d . however, at the marsden hearing, defense counsel controverted simss factual assertions and presented or in his best interests: (1) d 7 on appeal, the people argue that regardless of any misunderstanding of whether serious felonies,e, in fact, been precluded from re-time pursuant to section 1387. the record before us, however, is insufficient to reach a conclusion about whether the prosecutor could have re-filed the matter a third time. section 1387 bars the third prosecution of a felony unless certain exceptions apply. the record on appeal does not contain information essential to determining whether those conditions apply here; nor have the parties fully briefed the issue (other than conclusory statements unsupported by record references). 10 many, many recesses speaking with in the ante room, neither parent ever told defense counsel that keaton had fabricated the accusations of domestic abuse;8 (2) sims and his parents failed to disclose promptly to defense counsel their desire for the parents to testify as witnesses; if either parent had expressed a desire to testify, defense counsel would not have allowed them to sit in the courtroom during the trial;9 (3) because parents only made statements to defense counsel concerning keaton and simss relationship generally and how these things have happened before, defense counsel believed the trial court would deem those statements inadmissible (for lack of personal knowledge or not qualifying as a prior consistent statement); and (4) defense counsel presented plenty of documents [to the jury] to attack [keatons] credibility [for example] the custody records. of the events version, the trial court, being familiar with the case and observing the demeanor and presentation of both sims and defense counsel at the marsden representations (people v. myles (2012) 53 cal.4th 1181, 1207.) in people v. mylesdoingand that appointed counsel refused to pursue defendantlines of investigation; yet appointed counsel informed the trial court that he and the 8 assistance of counsel. (people v. jennings (1999) 70 cal.app.4th 899, 907.) 9 exclude from the courtroom any witness not at the time under examination so that such (people v. valdez (1986) 177 cal.app.3d 680, 687.) a court may disqualify a witness if counsel is at fault for choosing to have a potential witness present during other witnessestestimony and later calling that person as a witness in knowing violation of a courtexclusion order. (id. at p. 692; people v. nguyen (2015) 61 cal.4th 1015, 1063.) 11 ibid.) marsden motion, the california supreme court held that the trial court, faced with a credibility question between defendant and appointed counsel, acted within its authority to accept appointed (ibid.) similarly here, we must defer to the trial courtdeterminations and thus decline to overturn its findings on appeal.10 sims also argues witnesses to discredit keaton stemmed from a legally erroneous assumption: defense counsel allegedly believed that in light credibility and therefore the proffered character witnesses were 11 but sims has selectively parsed this comment from the larger argument defense clearly understood presented in front of a jury i think is very important. it goes to he reading in context defense counselstatement on which sims reliesand since we must reasonably competent attorneywe adopt a more reasonable interpretation of the statement. we read her statement as an informed choice among tactical alternatives: defense 10 in addition, the trial strategy proffered by sims appears likely to create a risk of jury confusion by requiring contradicting credibility determinations: he first would tell the jury to deem credible keatons testimony on his behalf and then he would present character witnesses to discredit keaton on the stand. 11 their relationship and who know that they have a rocky relationship and ms. keaton can character. in my opinion, i thought these people would be character witnesses, which ere. [] i have plenty of documents, in my opinion, to attack her credibility as far as the custody records, and i do not think that what the . . . family members were telling me could have 12 counsel chose an alternate method based on documentary evidence to challenge kcredibility in front of the jury. such a reading is consistent with the very next statement circumstances can make the tactical choice that a jury may well give documentary evidence more weight than the testimony of given their obvious ity. further, we must give wider latitude to oral statements made in the heat of a hearing where it is easier to misstate a point or make ambiguous statements that could be more clearly stated later with hindsight. potentially erroneous statement regarding the relevance of testimony from character witnesses is not sufficient to compel discharge of appointed counsel. to the effective assistance of counsel, we cannot conclude that the trial court abused its marsden motion. (see people v. memro, supra, 11 cal.4th at p. 857.) iii. independent counsel to prosecute his marsden motion. sims faults the trial court for not appointing independent counsel to assist him in preparing for, and presenting arguments during, the marsden hearing. however, sims cites no authority requiring such an appointment; indeed, the rule is to the contrary. (people v. memro, supra, 11 cal.4th at pp. 858859; people v. hines (1997) 15 cal.4th 997, 10241025.12) constitutional right to the assistance of a separate attorney to argue that appointed trial 12 the people rely on people v. sanchez (2011) 53 cal.4th 80; sims disputes the relevance of that case; yet, both parties fail to cite people v. memro, supra, 11 cal.4th 786 or people v. hines, supra, 15 cal.4th 997. 13 people v. hines, supra, 15 cal.4th at p. defendant in making a marsden motion is likely to cause unnecessary delay, and may damage the attorney-client relationship in those cases in which the trial court ultimately concludes that the motion should be denied. we see no need for trial courts to appoint independent counsel to ibid.) the trial court here did not err in refusing to appoint new counsel for the purpose of helping sims prosecute his marsden claim. iv. the records in underlying case number b244905. if a party wants this court to take judicial notice of a matter, that party must file a motion seeking judicial notice as required by california rules of court, rules 8.252 and 8.366(a). sims has not filed a separate motion that complies with these requirements; rather, he inserts a one-sentence request in his opening brief. his request is not properly before us, as it does not comply with our court rules; accordingly, we decline to rule on the request. disposition the order is affirmed. not to be published. johnson, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. chaney, j. 