filed 7/22/16 p. v. beal ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. derrick beal, defendant and appellant. b260599 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba405493) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, robert j. perry, judge. affirmed. paul couenhoven, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and yun k. lee, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _____________________ 2 appellant derrick beal appeals from the judgment entered following his conviction by jury of second degree murder with findings a principal personally and intentionally discharged a firearm causing great bodily injury and death, and appellant committed the offense for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with, a criminal street gang. (pen. code,  187, 12022.53, subds. (d) & (e)(1), 186.22, subd. (b)(1).) the court sentenced appellant to prison for 15 years to life for the murder, plus 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement. we affirm. factual summary viewed in accordance with the usual rules on appeal (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established as follows. on may 24, 2012, sophia orellana lived in the area of 52nd and denker. she testified as follows. during the late afternoon or the evening on the above date, orellana was in front of a house near 52nd when she heard two black men talking loudly. one man (hereafter, the assailant) pushed the other (later identified as hicks, the decedent). orellana turned to flee and heard three or four gunshots. hicks lay on the ground. the assailant wore dark attire. monique mcghie testified as follows. about 6:45 p.m. on may 24, 2012, mcghie was in her kitchen in her home in the area of 52nd and denker when she saw two people fighting outside. mcghie turned around and heard gunshots. she looked outside and saw hicks on the ground. a male wearing a red top was running on denker. a bicycle was in the vicinity. aand mcghie recognized it. however, she could have seen appellant anywhere. the running male looked like christopher whetstone. 3 jamil bivens testified as follows.1 in may 2012, bivens belonged to the 55 neighborhood crips gang (hereafter, neighborhood crips) with appellant and whetstone.2 lived in a pink duplex, in particular, in a house next to a bungalow. on may 24, 2012, bivens was in the back of the duplex with six or seven people, including whetstone, dion williams, and jeremy stephenson. appellant approached, asked bivens for a gun, derogatory reference to the neighborhood crips. bivens retrieved a gun from gave the gun to appellant. . whetstone followed appellant on a pink and blue bicycle that had been hanging on a gate. the latter bicycle was, in a way, but everyone around the neighborhood used it. appellant and whetstone rode towards 54th. whetstone was wearing a red sweatshirt bearing the embroidered v that made referred to the neighborhood crips. about five or ten minutes after appellant and whetstone rode towards 54th, appellant returned. bivens, williams, and stephenson were still at the house. bivens saw returned. bivens asked what was going on and appellant replied, [n]othing. appellant also said he would tell bivens later. appellant indicated the group needed to leave the 1 in a hung jury and a mistrial as to all defendants. bivens subsequently pled guilty or no contest to charges arising out of the present pursuant to a leniency agreement according to which he would be sent to prison for eight years if he testified truthfully. at the conclusion of the retrial, the jury convicted appellant as previously indicated but acquitted whetstone. 2 the parties stipulated neighborhood crips was a criminal street gang for purposes of penal code section 186.22. 4 area. whetstone returned but was not wearing the red sweatshirt. bivens identified appellant and whetstone at trial. dion williams testified as a hostile witness. williams testified he used to be a member of the neighborhood crips. appellant was known as tiny western, whetstone was known as blu flag, and bivens was known as infant western. appellant, whetstone, and bivens were wilin may 2012, the 51 trouble gang and the neighborhood crips were rivals. the 51 trouble gang claimed the area around 52nd and denker. on may 24, 2012, williams was at the back of a pink duplex. williams told police he saw appellant come into the back and speak to bivens. williams saw appellant take what looked like a gun and leave on a bicycle. williams heard gunshots and saw appellant return. williams identified appellant and whetstone at trial. williams made statements to detectives in recorded interviews as follows. during a june 2012 interview, williams initially denied hearing about a shooting but later admitted he knew what detectives were talking about and told them the following. williams and others were in a backyard of a duplex near 54th and denker. appellant bivens gave the burner to appellant. appellant took the bicycle, went out front, and left. williams told police, like five minutes later, williams heard about five or six gunshots. williams told an alley. appellant was wearing a black hoodie and rode a black and blue bicycle that had been sitting in the back; it was the neighborhood bicycle. in october 2012, williams told detectives that on the day of the shooting, williams was at the bungalow with appellant, bivens, and others. bivens gave appellant a revolver. appellant left and returned. 5 about 6:50 p.m. on may 24, 2012, police arrived at 52nd and denker and found hicks face down in the street. he had $207 on him. police recovered from the scene a baggie containing 30 individual packages of a substance resembling cocaine base, a phone case, blood--a red sweatshirt was in a trash can between 52nd and 54th. no firearm or shell casings were at the scene. police released a video from surveillance cameras at and/or near 5300 denker depicted the following. on may 24, 2012, about 6:46 p.m. and 14 seconds, two people were riding bicycles, one following the other, northbound on denker towards the murder scene. one rider was wearing dark clothing; the other was wearing a red sweatshirt. about 6:47 p.m. and 58 seconds, a person wearing a white top was near the trash can from which police recovered the red sweatshirt. about 6:48 p.m. and 23 seconds, two people were traveling southbound on denker.3 one was riding a bicycle and the other, wearing a white top, was running. cell phone records reflected , and calls between father.4 on may 25, 2012, text messages were sent phone with a phone number ending with 7977. in one message, someone at the 7977 number ed, lol, 3 time displayed on the cameras was about 20 minutes slow. the actual times above account for that fact. 4 6:13 p.m., 6:18 p.m., 6:42 p.m., 6:50 p.m., and 6:51 p.m. the last five calls used a cell tower at 5921 south western. calls at 6:55 p.m. and 6:57 p.m. used a cell tower at 1340 west 58th. on may 25, 2012, two text messages were sent from the whetstone 6 a deputy medical examiner testified hicks died as a result of multiple gunshots wounds. three bullets were recovered from his body. a criminalist testified they were all fired from the same .38-caliber or .357-caliber revolver. about 4:00 p.m. that day, appellant, in jail, had a telephone conversation with genisha jones, the conversation, appellant told jones, shit, that bitch ass nigga came to court in another conversation, jones referred to and appellant said, inter alia, call that nigga and tell them niggas, man, them niggas did poorly on their job, man. cuz came to los angeles police officer brent sforzini, a gang expert, testified as follows. sforzini was assigned to monitor various gangs including the neighborhood crips.5 the territory of the neighborhood crips was bounded by 54th on the north and western on the west. the rivals of the neighborhood crips included the 51 trouble gang (a crips gang) on the north and the van ness gangsters (a bloods gang) on the west. the area of 52nd was claimed by the 51 trouble gang. appellant and whetstone admitted to sforzini they were members of the neighborhood crips. sforzini talked to gang members daily about what was happening in their lives and occurring in their neighborhoods. according to sforzini, a gang member gained respect within the gang by committing crimes, especially violent crimes in the presence of another gang member who could corroborate the crime occurred. a gang member who shooting enjoyed a greater level of respect because of the violence of the act. when an individual gang member entered a rival 5 on may 5, 2012, sforzini detained numerous neighborhood crips members, including bivens, whetstone, williams, and stephenson, who had gathered to celebrate gang hood day at a blue house at 5410 denker. the house and pink bungalows next door were a neighborhood crips stronghold. citing this reference to the house at 5410 aimed by the neighborhood crips. 7 mitted a violent crime, it benefited the gang because it created fear in the communitythe gang did not fear reprisal from the rival gang. when one gang disrespected a rival gang by entering the latterterritory and yelling derogatory terms concerning the rival gang, the rival gang would often retaliate. the target was not necessarily a known rival gang member. sforzini testified a gang to smore often than not the crime was opportunistic and the gang would commit crime whether or not the target was a rival gang member. there was no evidence hicks belonged to a gang. in response to a hypothetical question based on evidence, sforzini testified as follows. the shooting was committed for the benefit of a criminal street gang. this was so because showed a willingness to commit the crime created fear in the community. that the victim was a drug dealer and not a gang member was irrelevant because gang members sought to commit a crime of opportunity to create fear and bolster their reputation. the shooting was committed in association with a gang because one gang member handed a gun to another gang member and the latter rode a bicycle into rival gang territory. appellant presented no defense witnesses. issues appellant claims (1) there is insufficient evidence appellant had specific intent to benefit the gang, (2) the trial court erred by excluding evidence of gang culture, and (3) quest to represent himself. 8 discussion 1. there was sufficient evidence of the requisite specific intent. appellant claims there is insufficient evidence of the specific intent required by the penal code section 186.22, subdivision (b) gang enhancement. that subdivision the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any criminal conduct by gang membersrelying on familiar principles,6 we reject appellant concedes the people proved he was a gang member who shot hicks in rival gang territory. appellant also concedes there was evidence appellant (1) obtained a gun from bivens, (2) said he needed the gun because enemies were driving around in a black car and insulting neighborhood crips, (3) rode a bicycle two blocks, (4) entered a there was ample evidence of all of these facts and we accept the concessions. there was also ample evidence, and there is no dispute, appellant was a neighborhood crips member who murdered hicks in rival gang territory. appellant complained to fellow gang members that enemies were insulting the gang. appellant obtained a gun from bivens, a fellow gang member. there was evidence when appellant obtained the gun, williams and fellow gang members knew appellant was about to go and do something. it was reasonably inferable from and the video evidence that the murder occurred only a few minutes after appellant left. 6 on appeal we review the record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it discloses substantial evidence, i.e., evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid value, from which a reasonable trier of fact could find appellant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. if the circumstances reasonably justify the trier of contrary finding does not warrant a reversal of the judgment. we presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier of fact could reasonably have deduced from the evidence. unless it is clearly shown that on no hypothesis whatever is there sufficient substantial evidence to support the verdict, the conviction will not be reversed. the same standard of review applies to true findings on gang enhancement allegations. (people v. williams (2009) 170 cal.app.4th 587, 623-624.) 9 there was also evidence a fellow gang member, possibly whetstone, accompanied appellant to the shooting scene. it was reasonably inferable frthat this second gang member accompanied appellant to corroborate appellant had committed violent crbenefit the gang by creating fear in the community and by signaling did not fear reprisal from the rival gang. appellant rode to the shooting scene on a bicycle belonging to williams, appaccompanied appellant rode a bicycle belonging to bivens, another neighborhood crips member. there was evidence whetstone, or the person who accompanied appellant, was wearing a sweatshirt bearing letters referring to the neighborhood crips. after williams heard shots, he knew appellant had fired them. when appellant returned following the shooting, he again associated with bivens, williams, and stephenson, fellow gang members. appellant told bivens nothing had happened, but also indicated he would later tell bivens what happened, a fact from which it reasonably could be inferred appellant wanted one or more fellow gang members to know what he had done. appellant reflected concern for his fellow gang members when he told them they needed fellow gang members had been congregating. the day after the murder, appellant laughingly suggested that he wanted his girlfriend to stop fellow gang members like williams from testifying against appellant. sforzini, a gang expert, testified to the effect the murder, accomplished by neighborhood crips because it showed a willingness to commit the crime and bolstered he also testified the shooting was committed in association with a gang because one gang member handed a gun to another gang member and the latter rode a bicycle into rival gang territory. he further testified that the fact hicks was not a gang 10 member was not dispositive, because gang members would commit opportunistic crimes in rival gang territory. we hold there was sufficient evidence to convince a rational trier of fact, beyond a reasonable doubt, that appellant murdered hicks for the benefit of, and in association with, a criminal street gang for purposes of penal code section 186.22, subdivision (b), including sufficient evidence appellant had the within the meaning of that subdivision. none of the cases cited by appellant, or his arguments, compel a contrary conclusion. this includes his arguments hicks was a nongang member and a dope dealer unassociated with the black car to which appellant referred when he asked bivens for a gun, and that hicks fought with someone other than appellant. 2. the trial court did not erroneously exclude evidence about gang tax collecting practices. prior to the retrial, the prosecutor moved to exclude, inter alia, evidence of cocaine base found near hicks, a vial of pcp found down the street, and third party culpability evidence. appellant commented the present case involved circumstantial evidence because no one could say appellant and whetstone were the shooters, and the jury would be instructed to look for reasonable explanations pointing to innocence. appellant argued hicks a large quantity of drugs when he was shot indicated the incident was simply drug-related, not gang-related. appellantcounsel argued, in the alternative, there would be evidence a rival gang had tax collectors and a person failing to pay taxes could be shot, therefore, this was a reasonable exculpating explanation as to appellant and whetstone even though the cocaine base was found near the victim. the court ruled evidence of rock cocaine found in or around hicks was admissible, but excluded evidence of be blaming this rival . . . . the issue 11 is, is the evidence sufficient to show that the defendants who are on trial here did the appellant claims the trial court erroneously excluded the evidence about gangs collecting taxes from drug dealers. relying on familiar principles,7 we disagree. appellant proffered the tax collecting evidence to prove that hicks may have been murdered by someone else from a different gang based on evidence hicks was a drug dealer and certain rival gang members collected taxes from drug dealers and might harm those who refused to pay. the problem is appellant failed to assailant (1) actually was a rival gang member who collected taxes, (2) knew hicks was a drug dealer, (3) believed hicks owed taxes to the rival gang, (4) believed hicks was 7 the standard for admitting evidence of third party culpability is the same as for other exculpatory evidence. the evidence has to be relevant and its probative value cannot be substantially outweighed by the risk of undue delay, prejudice, or confusion under evidence code section 352. to be admissible, the third-party evidence need only at the same time, appellate courts do not require that any evidence, however remote, must be admitted to show a evidence of mere motive or opportunity to commit the crime, without more, does not suffice to raise a reasonable . there must be direct or circumstantial evidence linking the third person to the actual perpetration of the crime. (people v. hamilton (2009) 45 cal.4th 863, 914.) evidence that does not connect the third party to the crime is inadmissible as third party culpability evidence and irrelevant to the issue of reasonable (ibid.) moreover, testimony based on speculation is irrelevant. (people v. chatman opinion. (mitchell v. united national ins. co. (2005) 127 cal.app.4th 457, 478.) expert opinion based on speculation or conjecture is inadmissible. (lockheed litigation cases (2004) 115 cal.app.4th 558, 564.) further, as a general matter, the ordinary rules of evidence do not impermissibly infringe on an l right to present a defense, and this principle applies to third party culpability evidence. (people v. cudjo (1993) 6 cal.4th 585, 611.) culpability issues for abuse of discretion. (people v. elliott (2012) 53 cal.4th 535, 581; people v. waidla (2000) 22 cal.4th 690, 717.) we similarly review for abuse of (people v. thornton (2007) 41 cal.4th 391, 429.) 12 refusing to pay the taxes, or (5) argued with, pushed, or shot hicks because the rival gang member believed hicks was refusing to pay taxes. the trial court did not err or abuse its discretion by excluding the proffered evidence as speculative, and inadmissible third party culpability evidence. nor did the application of ordinary rules of evidence, as here, violate apdefense. s a contrary conclusion. although appellant asserts in his reply brief that the issue he raises does not involve third party culpability evidence, this is contradicted by the opening brief which argues that the court erred by evidence was admissible to show that the circumstances of the killing suggested it resulted from a dispute between hicks and a rival gang tax collector (as opposed to the and opportunistic) necessarily asked the jurors to infer third party culpability (i.e., that appellant was not the person who committed the crime). appellant did not offer it to prove, for example, he was acting as a tax collector when he murdered hicks.8 8 as to whether exclusion of the evidence was prejudicial, third party culpability evidence goes to the issue of identity, and there was ample evidence appellant was the l is diminished by the facts the vote was nine to three in favor of conviction (see people v. christensen (2014) 229 cal.app.4th 781, 799) and different trials are tried differently. we note bivens did not testify at the first trial. people v. soojian (2010) 190 cal.app.4th 491, 520, cited by appellant to support his argument of prejudice, does not compel a conclusion contrary to ours because soojian did not involve consideration of the impact of a prior hung jury on the issue of prejudice arising from alleged evidentiary error at a retrial. the jury deliberations were not inordinately long and any length in the deliberations, and/or any readbacks of testimony, can be reconciled simply as the actions of a conscientious jury. (see people v. houston (2005) 130 cal.app.4th 279, 301.) to the extent appellant argues the excluded evidence was admissible to show someone other than appellant was such a tax collector, the exclusion was not error or prejudicial because the evidence was properly excludable under evidence code section 352 given the risk the jury would confuse it with third party culpability evidence. 13 3. a. pertinent facts. on november 21, 2014, the jury convicted appellant and the court continued the case to december 9, 2014, for sentencing. on december 9, 2014, appellant moved for a new trial based on insufficiency of the evidence supporting the gang allegation. the court denied the motion. the court asked whether appellant waived arraignment for judgment and sentence. the holidays to early january 2015 so he could marry and see his family before sentencing. the court denied the request and again asked whether appellant waived arraignment for judgment and sentence. then told the court appellant wanted to represent himself. the court indicated the motion was untimelyi see this as a delaying tactic . . . [asserted because] i turned you down on trying to stick around in jail for the holidays [by requesting a postponement of sentencing] the court asked what appellant believed he would gain by representing himself. suggested appellant should discuss those issues with appellate counsel. the court told appellant he would not accomplish anything if the court granted his motion at a point when nothing but sentencing remained to be imposed before an attorney would be 14 appointed for his appeal. appellant later indicated he wanted to [himself]. the court denied request for self-representation.9 b. analysis. appellant claims the trial court erroneously denied his motion to represent himself. we disagree. a motion for self-representation that is not made a reasonable time prior to the commencement of a sentencing hearing is untimely. (cf. people v. miller (2007) 153 cal.app.4th 1015, 1024.) an untimely motion to represent oneself is addressed to the sound discretion of the court. (cf. people v. mayfield (1997) 14 cal.4th 668, 809 (mayfield).) when ruling on such an untimely motion, a trial court properly considers the five factors discussed in people v. windham (1977) 19 cal.3d 121 (windham).10 9 later waived arraignment for judgment and sentencing, the court sentenced appellant, and the court indicated the matter was concluded. appellant asked permission to address the court and the court advised him he could say whatever he wished. appellant represented that during trial, he had seen two jurors sleeping, he had (the record on appeal contains no mistrial motion.) the court indicated it had not observed what appellant was claiming. appellant interrupted and said he had seen it. the court denied seeing the jurors were inattentive. the court said it thought the jurors were interested in the case and seemed to be attentive to the presentation of the evidence. the court indicated appellant had made a record and thanked appellant. the following 10 easons for the request, the length and stage of the proceedings, and the disruption or delay which might reasonably be expected to follow the granting of such a motion. (cf. mayfield, supra, 14 cal.4th at p. 810.) 15 moreover, -representation made in passing anger or frustration, . . . or one made for the purpose of delay or to frustrate the orderly people v. marshall (1997) 15 cal.4th 1, 23.) faretta] motion made out of a temporary whim, or out of annoyance or frustration, is not unequivocaleven if the defendant has said he or she seeks self-people v. stanley (2006) 39 cal.4th 913, 932.) in the present case, appellant points to nothing in the record of the december 4, 20continuance request that the issue was raised. the trial court reasonably could have cthat he wanted to represent himself so he could study prosecute his appealwere vague and/or makeweights. the trial court also reasonably could have concluded appellant uttered the above assertions out of frustration over continuance request. appellant did not explain why he did not raise in his motion for a new trial any matters he was concerned about, did not suggest his new trial motion was the product of ineffective assistance of counsel, and did not explain why appellant had not made a self-representation motion earlier. 16 a-laden insults to the court after it denied his request provide we conclude tuntimely motion to represent himself. (cf. people v. doolin (2009) 45 cal.4th 390, 452, 454-455, fn. 39.) s a contrary conclusion. this includes his argument the trial court failed to exercise, and abused, its discretion by failing to consider the windham factors. the trial court was not required to expressly state the reasons for its decision. (windham, supra, 19 cal.3d at p. 129, fn. 6.) substantial evidence supports the inference the court had the windham factors in mind when it ruled, and there were sufficient reasons on the record for the court to euntimely request to represent himself. nothing more was required. (people v. bradford (2010) 187 cal.app.4th 1345, 1354; see windham, at p. 129, fn. 6.)11 11 -representation motion was error, it does not follow that we must reverse. we evaluate any such error for prejudice under the standard enunciated in people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836. (people v. nicholson (1994) 24 cal.app.4th 584, 594-595.) given the strong evidence the firearm finding, there was no prejudice. to the extent the trial court erroneously believed appellant had to make any self-representation motion prior to trial, any such error was not prejudicial -representation motion apart from any such erroneous belief. (see people v. gamble (2008) 164 cal.app.4th 891, 901; people v. gutierrez (1996) 48 cal.app.4th 1894, 1896.) 17 disposition the judgment is affirmed. hogue, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. aldrich, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 