filed 9/14/17 p. v. plascencia ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. arturo plascencia, defendant and appellant. b260422 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga091652) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, michael d. carter, judge. affirmed. jean margaret wiebe; louisa b. pensanti for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, zee rodriguez and esther p. kim, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 factual and procedural background defendant arturo plascencia was convicted of one count of kidnapping his girlfriend andrea. on appeal, he contends that there was insufficient evidence and that the court improperly excluded ev i. procedural background on march 13, 2014, defendant was charged by information with attempted willful, deliberate and premeditated murder (pen. code,  664/187, subd. (a); count 1),1 kidnapping ( 207, subd. (a); count 2), criminal threats ( 422, subd. (a); counts 3 and 4), and assault with a firearm ( 245, subd. (a)(2)). as to count 5 only, there was an allegation that defendant personally used a firearm ( 12022.5, subd. (a)). defendant pleaded not guilty to all of the counts and denied the special allegations. the court to section 995, and defendant proceeded to trial on the remaining counts. the jury convicted defendant of kidnapping, and acquitted him on the remaining counts. the trial court denied probation and sentenced defendant to a term of three years in state prison. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal. ii. factual background a. 1. the charged incident on december 1, 2013, at about 5:00 p.m., defendant arturo plascencia drove his live-in girlfriend andrea2 to work at 1 all further undesignated references are to the penal code. 2 for the sake of clarity, we refer to the victim by her first name throughout this opinion. 3 watch football. during the two hours that he was there, andrea tried to break up with defendant by telling him she was seeing at 9:19 p.m., defendant texted andrea at work, and asked her to come outside so he could give her something. andrea went out to the parking lot, as she believed that defendant was going to give her keys she had left in the car. defendant was standing next to his parked tahoe suv, about 50 yards from the restaurant. andrea was uneasy because she knew that defendant was mad and he normally parked closer, next to the however, she walked closer to defendant, and stopped about 10-12 feet from defendant, as she saw that his arm was in the rear cargo area of the tahoe, as if he was holding onto something. andrea asked defendant what was in his hand, and said that she needed to go back to work and took a step backwathe shoulder and arms, and forced her into the front passenger seat of the tahoe, in a facedown position, bruising her neck and chest, and ripping her shirt. they struggled, and andrea hooked her feet underneath the running board to prevent defendant from shutting the passenger door. defendant then tried to open the rear passenger door, appeared to be looking for something, and 4 at this point, andrea was able to get out of the car. she ran a few feet, was tackled to the ground by defendant, ran a few more feet and was again tackled to the ground by defendant. a as a see a gun that day, andrea assumed he had a gun with him as she knew that he had three guns, an ar-15, a shotgun and a .22 rifle, he was furious and he kept his arm in the cargo area of the after the incident, at about 11:00 p.m., defendant went to the house of a friend, ignacio monge. defendant related that he thought the police were looking for him, and gave his ar-15, .22 rifle, shotgun, magazines and ammunition to mr. monge for safekeeping. 2. the investigation deputies and detectives from the los angeles county t arrived to investigate the incident. andrea was visibly upset, had a torn shirt and redness around the neck. deputies went to the apartment shared by defendant and andrea looking for the firearms. they did not find the firearms, but saw items strewn around the apartment, including a sweater on a christmas tree, and items that had been spray painted. the next morning, defendant surrendered at the temple backseat floorboard of the tahoe. later that morning, they recovered the three guns from the home of mr. monge. 5 3. prior incidents of domestic violence on october 29, 2013, approximately one month before the violence, at the apartment of defendant and andrea. defendant kneed andrea in the ribs and chest, hit her in the left jaw with either his fist or the butt of a gun, and threw her to the floor by the neck. deputies were called to the apartment, however, andrea refused to tell them what had happened. another time, defendant did not want andrea to leave the apartment, so he locked her in the bathroom and pointed an ar-15 at her. b. the defense case -year-old son, testified that although he never lived with his father, they often went camping together. defendant purchased a machete which he used while camping. defendant directed his son to leave the machete under the seat of the tahoe. in addition, multiple character witnesses testified that defendant was calm, peaceful and kind, and not violent.3 the -year-old daughter briana plascencia, his cousins alicia lourette and grace rullan, and his ex-wife leticia plascencia. finally, defendant testified. andrea was originally his after approximately 10 to 11 months of dating, defendant moved 3 initially, some of the witnesses testified about specific instances of conduct; once the prosecutor objected, the testimony was limited to reputation and opinion. 6 rtment in september 2013. andrea was jealous -wife leticia. this jealousy sometime led to anger, where andrea would throw things at defendant such as pillows, a brush, shorts or a phone. sometimes andrea would throw punches at defendant; he never hit her. on december 1, 2013, defendant drove andrea to work. he stayed to watch a football game. while he was watching the game, andrea told him she was dating someone. he was mad and shocked, so he went back to their apartment, where he broke shelves, spray painted and then cut up a sweater and a jersey that he had purchased for andrea. he put the sweater and jersey in a plastic bag. defendant then texted andrea and told her that he had something to give her. defendant drove to the parking lot where he waited for andrea. andrea walked over to defendant, who was waiting outside ta the car; defendant complied and said he wanted to give her something. andrea gave a quizzical look, and defendant tried to [ opened the passenger door, guided her to the car, and andrea fell then opened the back door to reach for the bag, and when he andrea got up and ran away; defendant followed and 7 retrieved his guns and some of his ammunition. he gave his guns to his friend ignacio monge. discussion i. sufficiency of the evidence defendant contends that there was insufficient evidence of kidnapping. in assessing a claim of insufficiency of the evidence, judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. snow (2003) 30 cal.4th 43, 66; see also people v. vines (2011) 51 cal.4th 830, 869.) we presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier of fact could reasonably deduce from the evidence. (people v. medina (2009) 46 cal.4th 913, 919.) subject to justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends. [citation.] we resolve neither credibility issues nor evidentiary conflicts; we look for substantial evidence. [citation.] a reversal upon no hypothesis whatever is there sufficient substantial s verdict. (people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357; see also jackson v. virginia (1979) 443 u.s. 307.) 8 in order to establish a kidnapping under section 207, subdivision (a), the prosecunlawfully moved by the use of physical force or fear; (2) the movement was without the persons consent; and (3) the (people v. bell (2009) 179 cal.app.4th 428, 435; see also people v. arias (2011) 193 cal.app.4th 1428, 1434 defendant appears to only challenge the first and second elements.4 first, he contends that andrea never testified that ound a person was unlawfully moved by the use of physical force or fearin this case, trial evidence established that defendant used force to move andrea. specifically, defendant grabbed her in a bear hug by the shoulder and arms and forced her into the front passenger seat. once in the tahoe, they struggled, defendant drea even hooked her feet underneath the running board to prevent defendant from shutting the door. moreover, there was also sufficient evidence that defendant moved andrea by the use of fear. andrea assumed that defendant had a gun with him that day, anshe was afraid when she saw defendant in the parking lot because she thought he would hurt her. 4 as such, we do not address the third element, asportation. 9 next, defendant maintains that the prosecution did not establish that the movement was without the persons consent. specifically, defendant claims that he huggeo work and took a step backwards. further, andrea struggled with defendant, and tried to prevent him from shutting the door of the tahoe. finally, when she was able to escape, she ran away and told a bystander a post-arrest insufficient to support his conviction for kidnapping. without citing any authority, defendant suggests that calcrim no. 224,5 shifte 5 calcrim no. 224, as given, provides: a fact necessary to find the defendant guilty has been proved, you must be convinced that the people have proved each fact essential to that conclusion beyond a reasonable doubt. defendant guilty, you must be convinced that the only reasonable conclusion supported by the circumstantial evidence is that the defendant is guilty. if you can draw two or more reasonable conclusions from the circumstantial evidence, and one of those reasonable conclusions points to innocence and another to guilt, you must accept the one that points to innocence. however, when considering circumstantial evidence, you must accept only 10 regarding consent.6 this claim is not cognizable. it is merely a claim that an instruction that is otherwise correct on the law should have been modified to make it clearer. argue on appeal that an instruction correct in law was too general or incomplete, and thus needed clarification, without first (people v. hillhouse (2002) 27 cal.4th 469, 503.) if defendant had been concerned the instruction somehow shifted the burden of proof, he should have requested a clarification. he did not do so.7 moreover, insofar as defendant is asserting that the instruction diluted the defendant was obligated to seek amplification or clarification of the instructions. (people v. lucas (2014) 60 cal.4th 153, 295.) defendant suggests that we should not apply the forfeiture doctrine by asserting these errors affected his state and federal constitutional rights. (see defendant, the appellate court may, without exception having been taken in the trial court, review any question of law involved 6 the contention appears to conflate required elements, mental states and affirmative defenses. defendant contends: apply the principle incorrectly to mental states which are exculpatory insofar as consent is the only one of these concepts at issue in this appeal, we are limiting our analysis to consent. 7 at the jury instruction conference, the trial court indicated that it was going to give, inter alia, calcrim no. 224, and specifically inquired whether there were any objections or requested additions to the instructions; defense counsel indicated she had no objections, and requested no additions. 11 in any . . . instruction . . . which affected the substantial rights of people v. covarrubias (2016) 1 cal.5th 838, 904substantial rights, we may review his claim under section 1259 .) in any event, there is no reasonable likelihood that the jury misunderstood the instruction in the manner that defendant contends. the instruction did not shift the burden of proof. indeed, calcrim no. 224, in a portion not cited by defendant, instructs that that a fact necessary to find the defendant guilty has been proved, you must be convinced that the people have proved each the jury also received instructions regarding reasonable doubt and (calcrim no. 220), the evaluation of witness testimony (calcrim no. 226), and the evaluation of conflicting evidence (calcrim no. 302). ii. exclusion of evidence of purported drug use defendant contends that the trial court abused its discretion by excluding testimony that andrea may have ingested a drug-laced brownie prior to the day of the kidnapping. a. additional facts when cross-examining andrea, the following colloquy occurred: which was november 30, 2013, did you go out with your co-workers? 12 e counsel]: that would be november 30, 2013. -workers? about the day before? before this event? november 30, the last day of november, right before the trial court then excluded further cross-examination consumption of alcohol 24 hours earlier irrelevant, and, indicating that there would be a hearing regarding the consumption of psychedelic drugs at a later date. when she ate a brownie with some co-workers and she appeared disoriented. defense counsel argued that the testimony was relevant as the drug use may have impaired her perception. the prosecution objected on the grounds that the testimony was hearsay, irrelevant and improper character testimony. the court excluded evidence of 13 the hearsay conversation that the defendant had with andrea reasoning: on of drugs, i in particular and i think that the defense is attempting to put it on to basically dirty up the victim. there is no evidence that other than -- and when i am saying evidence, we b. analysis defendant makes two claims of error. first, defendant claims that the trial court erred in excluding evidence of the complainthat the evidence was admissible pursuant to people v. wheeler (1992) 4 cal.4th 284. both contentions fail. evid. code,  350), and relevance is definreason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of id., (people v. jones (2013) 57 cal.4th 899, 947.) [citations (people v. contreras (2013) 58 cal.4th 123, 152.) any material, disputed issue. [citation.] a fact may bear on the credibility of a witness and still be collateral to the case. (ibid.) determine the relevance of evidence [citation], and we will not disturb the courts exercise of that discretion unless it acted in an arbitrary, capricious or p 14 (jones, supra, at p. 947.) here, the trial court acted within its alleged drug use was irrelevant, in that there was no actual evidence of impairment. nor was any evidence produced regarding the amount of drugs andrea ingested, or how it affected her perception. even if it was marginally relevant, the trial court acted within its discretion in excluding the evidence which merely impugned the victim. (people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1215, 1259, fn. 30 [no abuse of discretion in excluding evidence that victim was an alcoholic].) made the testimony admissible and should have instructed on a prior misconduct admitted pursuant to people v. wheeler, [supra,] 4 no. 316. there was no evidence, however, of criminal drug use. and even if there was evidence of simple possession, unlike possession of narcotics with intent to sell, simple possession is not a crime of moral turpitude and thus has little bearing on the veracity of the witness. (people v. contreras, supra, 58 cal.4th at p. exclude impeachment evidence other than felony convictions where such evidence might involve undue time, confusion, or ].) it was unnecessary that the trial court expressly state that it had weighed the evidences prejudice against its probative value. (people v. padilla (1995) 11 cal.4th 891, 924, overruled on another point in people v. hill (1998) 17 cal.4th 800, 823, fn. 1.) guilt, any error in excluding the prior drug use evidence the night before the incident could not have affected the verdict. thus, had 15 the trial court erred, any error was harmless under either the test of people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836, or chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports bachner, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. lavin, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 