filed 6/22/16 p. v. martinez ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(a). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115(a). in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. daniel martinez, defendant and appellant. b260141 (los angeles county super. ct. no. pa076500) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, george g. lomeli, judge. affirmed. janet uson, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, shawn mcgahey webb and blythe j. leszkay, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________________ 2 introduction defendant daniel martinez was prosecuted for aiding and abetting a residential burglary by acting as the driver of the getaway car. the jury convicted defendant of burglary in the first degree, and found true the allegation that a person, other than an accomplice, was inside the residence. on appeal, defendant contends there is insufficient evidence to establish he knew the perpetrator of the burglary, tobias summers, planned to commit a burglary, and therefore the people failed to establish he statements to police, his conduct at the scene, the testimony of an eyewitness who overheard defendant and summers discussing a burglary, and constitute sufficient evidence to support the conviction. accordingly, we affirm. factual and procedural background a. the burglary viewed in accordance with the usual rules on appeal (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206), the evidence established that on march 26, 2013, defendant, summers, john morgan (, along with and his girlfriend, rented a room at a hotel in northridge. throughout the afternoon and evening, the group consumed alcohol and drugs, including methamphetamine obtained by defendant. at approximately midnight, morgan overheard a conversation between summers and defendant regarding a job. according to morgan, defendant asked summers if the morgan also the pair mdefendant and summers were speaking to each other in some type of code. summers and defendant left the hotel shortly after the conversation took place, in the early morning hours of march 27, 2013. 3 summers [ed] talking about the gangster shit. ood to mean that summers wanted to commit fucking robberies or some shit, or a crime involving theft of property. in his interview with a police detective, defendant after driving a short distance from the hotel, summers stopped the car in an alley near a residential neighborhood and got out of the car, leaving his keys with defendant. defendant waited in the car, in the passenger seat, for approximately 10 to 15 minutes. when defendant heard the sound of glass breaking in the distance, h defendant moved to the the car in the direction of the breaking glass, looking for summers in order to drive him away from the scene. when defendant did not see summers out on the street, he assumed summers was inside one of the houses. defendant returned to the alley, where summers initially left the car, and waited. after a few minutes, defendant saw two shadowy figuressummers and a young girlholding hands and walking quickly down the alley, toward the car. defendant drove the car toward them. when the car reached summers, he opened the back door to the car and pushed the girl into the back seat. summers then got into the car and sat in the front defendant started driving, then looked in the back seat and saw the young girl, who appeared to be eight- or nine-years-old. he was confused and surprised by presence, but continued driving. when defendant asked summers why the girl was there, summers responded, things got weird. i had to take her with me after defendant had driven a few blocks from the scene, he pulled the car over to the curb and urged summers to take the girl to a fire station or an emergency room. defendant then got out of the car and walked away. defendant returned to the hotel room at approximately 4 a.m. on march 27, 2013. defendant entered the room and sat on the bed, where morgan was sleeping. he told morgan that summers broke into a house and kidnapped a young girl. defendant 4 denied going into the house and told however, o hit that according to morgan, dfreak[ed] outhappenedparticularly the kidnapping later that morning, morgan and defendant were watching television and saw a breaking news report about a missing girl from northridge. when the station broadcast a picture of the missing girl, defendant identified her as the girl summers brought to the car that morning. police officers interviewed defendant twice during the course of their investigation. in addition to recounting the events relating to the burglary and kidnapping, defendant told the officer he had known summers for approximately 10 years. in the past, defendant said, he was [summers] out with a robberythe b they lost touch when defendant went to prison after stealing a car, but had recently reunited. defendant also would premeditate his crimes, plan the details, and scope out locations in advance. b. the charges on october 30, 2013, the people filed an information charging defendant with one count of kidnapping ( 207, subd. (a)) and one count of residential burglary ( 459), alleging as to both counts that the offense was a serious or violent felony, or an offense requiring registration pursuant to section 290, subdivision (a), and required the sentence to be served in state prison.1 ( 1170, subd. (h)(3).) in connection with the burglary count, it was also alleged that a person, other than an accomplice, was inside the residence during the commission of the crime. ( 667.5, subd. (c).) defendant pled not guilty as to both counts and denied the special allegations. 1 the information also named summers and, in addition to charging him with burglary and kidnapping, contained 36 additional counts pertaining to sexual assault of the 10-year-old kidnap victim. 5 c. the verdict and sentence defendant jury trial took place over the course of several days in october 2014. the jury found defendant guilty of burglary in the first degree, and found true the allegation that a person was present in the residence at the time of the burglary. the jury acquitted defendant of kidnapping. the court denied probation and sentenced defendant to the high term of six years in state prison, due to the particular vulnerability police in locating her even after seeing probation. the court imposed a $40 court operations assessment ( 1465.8, subd. (a)(1)), a $30 criminal conviction assessment (govt. code,  70373, subd. (a)), a $10 crime prevention fee ( 1202.5, subd. (a)), and a $300 victim restitution fine ( 1202.4, subd. (b)). defendant appeals. discussion the evidence is sufficient to support the defendantburglary conviction under an aiding and abetting theory. defendant contends there is no substantial evidence he aided and abetted summers in committing the burglary. we disagree. the standard of our review is well established. when considering a challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence to support a conviction, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidence . . . from which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] whether, after viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the prosecution, any rational trier of fact could have found the essential elements of the crime beyond a reasonable doubt.[citation.] in so doing, a reviewing court presumes in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier could reasonably deduce from the evidence. [citation.] (people v. rangel (2016) 62 cal.4th 1192, 1212-1213 (rangel).) although we must ensure the evidence is reasonable, credible, and of solid value, nonetheless it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the 6 credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts on which that determination depends. [citation.] thus, if the verdict is supported by substantial evidence, we must accord due deference to the trier of fact and not substitute our evaluation of a witnesss credibility for that of the fact finder. [citations.] (people v. ochoa (1993) 6 cal.4th 1199, 1206.) the people sought to convict defendant of burglary on the theory that he aided and abetted summers in the commission of the offense. a person aids and abets the awful purpose of the perpetrator; and (2) the intent or purpose of committing, encouraging, or facilitating the commission of the offense, (3) by act or advice aids, promotes, (people v. beeman (1984) 35 cal.3d 547, 561.) with respect to burglary, the intent to aid and abet must be formed prior to or during the commission of the offense, i.e., before the perpetrator leaves the burgled premises. (see people v. montoya (1994) 7 cal.4th 1027, 1044-1045.) defendant does not dispute that summers committed a burglary. rather, he argues that although he was in the car while summers committed the burglary, he was unaware summers planned to do so, and therefore he did not intend to aid and abet summers. acalthough he eventually suspected summers may have been committing a crime, he did not know with certainty, and did not intend to assist him. it is true, as defendant notes, that [m]ere presence at the scene of a crime is not sufficient to constitute aiding and abetting . . . . (people v. nguyen (1993) 21 cal.app.4th 518, 529-530 [citing people v. durham (1969) 70 cal.2d 171, 181]; see also people v. em (2009) 171 cal.app.4th 964, 970.) however, because intent to aid and abet is rarely established by direct evidence, a jury may infer intent from circumstantial evidence: among the factors which may be considered in making the determination of aiding and abetting are: presence at the scene of the crime, companionship, and conduct before and after the offense. [citations.] (in re lynette g. (1976) 54 cal.app.3d 1087, 1094-1095; in re gary f. (2014) 226 cal.app.4th 1076, 1080.) 7 here, lary supports a reasonable inference that defendant intended to facilitate or encourage the burglary and engaged in conduct that did so. before defendant and summers left the hotel together, they talked about ,a job. defendant asked summers whether the job job,and summers responded it was construing this evidence in the light most favorable to the conviction, we conclude the jury could reasonably have inferred that summers surreptitiously disclosed his plan to commit a burglary during this conversation and could also have construed the qualification references to particular crimes, such as burglary. the fact that defendant and summers had known each other for many years, and had a history of committing crimes together, further supports the inference that they were using a code known to both of them, as morgan surmised. about this conversation has no probative value because morgan did not fully understand the conversation and could not discern exactly what crime summers and defendant planned to commit. however, it makes no difference whether summers and defendant disclosed their plans to morgan, or whether morgan understood the conversation. the relevant point is that defendant and summers had a conversation and they appeared to understand each other. the conversation, whether morgan understood it or not, supports a reasonable inference that defendant and summers later acted in concert and with a mutual understanding. nherently unreliable because morgan admitted that, during the week preceding his interview by police, he had ingested significant amounts of alcohol and drugs, and had been awake for six days straight prior to the interview. further, defendant contends moshould be discounted because it contained a number of inaccuracies and internal inconsistencies. in making these arguments, defendant invites us 8 credibility and the reliability of his testimony. we decline to do so. (see people v. whisenhunt .) in any event, even if summers did not fully disclose his intent to defendant during the conversation at the hotel, he did so during their subsequent conversation in the car. according to defendant, as soon as they drove away from the hotel, summers began talking to defendant , defendant admitted, during one of his police interviews, that he understood summers to mean he planned to commit a burglary or a robbery. thus, the jury could reasonably have concluded that done with knowledge of burglarious intent, and were therefore designed to assist summers with the crime. nevertheless, defendant argues the evidence does not establish he knew summers planned to commit a burglary. defendant points out that during his police interviews, plans. defendant distances himself from the incriminating statements he made during his police interviews, and instead emphasizes other statements he made during the interviews, in which he provided a number of different accounts of the conversations he had with summers in the car about their intended destination. by making these assertions, defendant improperly construes the conflicting evidence in favor of his innocence rather than in required. (see rangel, supra, 62 cal.4th at p. 1212 when considering a challenge to the sufficiency of the evidence to support a conviction, we review the entire record in the light most favorable to the judgment in any case, the jury was entitled to reject lf-serving denials of guilt and instead credit those statements which tended to incriminate him. (see people v. silva (2001) 25 rational trier of fact could disbelieve those s statements that were obviously self- 9 dactions in the alley during and immediately following the burglary provide additional evidentiary support for the conviction. first, defendant waited in the alley, for 10 to 15 minutes with no apparent purposeother than acting as the getaway driver. then, after he heard glass breaking, defendant concluded summers must have been breaking into a car or a house. he drove the car out of the alley and around the block, toward the sound of the breaking glass. on this point, the jury did not need to speculate intent because he admitted to police that when he drove around the block he was looking for summers and planned to drive him away from the crime scene. finally, after defendant drove around the block but was unable to find summers, defendant returned to the alley so that summers would be able to find him later, and would then have the means to flee. taken together, these facts provide ample support conviction. 10 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports lavin, j. we concur: aldrich, acting p. j. hogue, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 