 filed 11/16/16 p. v. patterson ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(a). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115(a). in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three people of the state of california, plaintiff and respondent, v. david patterson, defendant and appellant. b260894 los angeles county super. ct. no. ba401614 appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, sam o. ohta, judge. affirmed with directions. daniel g. koryn, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson, supervising deputy attorney general, and theresa a. patterson, deputy attorney general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________________ 2 introduction defendant david patterson was convicted of forcible oral copulation, kidnapping to commit rape, assault with intent to commit sodomy, and related one-strike, firearm, and prior-conviction allegations. on appeal, he contends that the trial court abused its discretion by admitting evidence of a condom that was not used in the crime, and that his sentence for aggravated assault should have been stayed under penal code section 654.1 we direct the trial court to correct the abstract of judgment to reflect its oral imposition of fines and fees. in all other respects, we affirm. procedural background by first amended information filed october 5, 2012, defendant was charged with forcible oral copulation with a prior sex offense ( 288a, subd. (c)(2); count 1) under the one strike law ( 667.61, subd. (a), (c) [prior sex offense], (d)(2) [kidnapping], (e) [firearm]), kidnapping to commit rape ( 209, subd. (b)(1); count 2), and assault with intent to commit sodomy ( 220, subd. (a); count 3). the information also alleged defendant used a firearm or deadly weapon to commit each crime ( 12022.3, subd. (a) [use of a deadly weapon in a sex offense];  12022.53, subd. (b) [use of a firearm in a violent offense]), and that he had two strike priors ( 667, subd. (b)(i);  1170.12, subd. (a)(d))2 and one prison prior ( 667.5, subd. (a)).3 1 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 on december 11, 2014, the people amended the information by interlineation to change the conviction dates of the prior strikes. 3 defendant pled not guilty and denied the allegations. after a bifurcated trial at which he did not testify, a jury convicted defendant of all counts and found each allegation true. defendant waived jury trial on the prior convictions. after a bench trial, the court found the strike priors and the prior sex offense true, but found the prison prior not true. convictions and sentenced him to 120 years to life. the court selected count 1 ( 288a, subd. (c)(2); forcible oral copulation) as the base term and sentenced defendant to 75 years to life25 years to life under the one strike law ( 667.61, subd. (a), (d)(1)) as it existed at the time of the offense, tripled for the two strike priors ( 667, subd. (e)(2)(a)(i)). the court imposed 10 years for the firearm enhancement ( 12022.53, subd. (b)), to run consecutive, and stayed the deadly-weapon enhancement ( 12022.3, subd. (a)) under section 12022.53, subdivision (f). the court imposed a third-strike sentence of 25 years to life for count 3 ( 220, subd. (a); assault to commit sodomy), and added 10 years for the firearm enhancement ( 12022.53, subd. (b)), to run consecutive. the court stayed the deadly-weapon enhancement ( 12022.3, subd. (a)) under section 12022.53, subdivision (f). while the court concluded that the one strike law did not require consecutive sentencing ( 667, 3 the information also charged defendant with failure to register as a sex offender ( 290.015, subd. (a); count 4), failure to file a change of address ( 290.013, subd. (a); count 5), and transient failure to register after moving to a residence ( 290.011, subd. (b); count 6). the 4, 5, and 6, -trial motion to dismiss them. 4 subd. (c)(6)) for count 3, it nonetheless exercised its discretion to impose a consecutive term ( 667, subd. (c)(7)). the court stayed count 2 ( 209, subd. (b)(1); kidnapping to commit rape) under section 654 because the kidnapping was committed in furtherance of the other two offenses. after concluding defendant harbored different criminal objectives for counts 1 and 3, the court declined to stay either of those counts. defendant filed a timely notice of appeal. factual background 1. the assault on february 22, 2010, 18-year-house and began walking toward the bus stop to catch the bus to school. on the corner of 99th street and main street, defendant grabbed her from behind and pressed a gun to her ribs. defendant was speaking to her in english, but e.g., a native spanish speaker, did not understand everything he said.4 defendant pushed e.g. into the front passenger seat of a blue chevrolet suv. the seat was reclined, and the suv smelled of marijuana. when defendant shut the passenger door, e.g. discovered that the inside door handle was broken; she was trapped. defendseat, and began driving. once inside the suv, defendant removed a gun from his waistband and pointed it at e.g. as he drove, defendant repeatedly motioned to her to stay down, and for the most part, 4 at trial, e.g. testified with the assistance of a spanish-language interpreter. 5 e.g. remained reclined in the passenger seat. e.g. repeatedly begged defendant to let her go. in response, he pointed the gun after driving for 10 or 15 minutes, defendant pulled into a deserted alley and parked. he got on top of e.g., pulled her pants down, and grabbed at her underwear and vagina. e.g. tried to dissuade defendant from raping her by telling him s and underwear. down and forced his penis into her mouth. e.g. orally copulated defendant, which caused her to gag and nearly vomit. next, defendant turned e.g. around, placed her face down on the reclined passenger seat, and pulled down her underwear. she felt his penis touch her backside and vagina. defendant held her buttocks and against her vagina. though e.g. was unsure whether defendant ejaculated, she felt a wet, slimy substance. eventually, defendant got off of her. e.g. dressed and asked defendant to let her go. defendant threatened to kill her if she contacted the police. defendant drove for about 10 minutes, ultimately stopping the car at 99th street and san pedro. he leaned over and rolled down the passenger window, which allowed e.g. to open the door from the outside. defendant repeated his warning; he told e.g. that he knew everything about her, including the identities of her boyfriend and family. then he told her to get out of the suv. friend magdalena that something awful had happened to her, she 6 encouragement, e.g. called her mother alejandra, who lived in alejandra said she would come to los angeles as quickly as possible; she got on a bus that afternoon. while e.g. waited for her mother to arrive, she spoke on the phone with her boyfriend; she could not stop crying. e.g. told her boyfriend that an african-american man with a gun had forced her into a blue car, tried to rape her, and forced oral sex on her. evening. she found her daughter crying; e.g. did not want anyone to touch her. e.g. told her mother that her attacker had taken her to an unknown location and forced her to perform oral sex. alejandra urged e.g. to contact the police, but she was too scared; defendant had threatened to kill her if she reported him. eventually, alejandra prevailed. after attempting to report the incident in person, e.g. and officers responded to the call. e.g. told them what happened to hera story consistent with her testimony in court. she described with something wrong with the interior door handle. the officers took e.g. to the hospital, where she was examined by a member of the sexual assault response team. when e.g. left the hospital with her mother at 2:30 the next morning, she did not want anyone to look at her; she was afraid of being attacked again. 7 2. the traffic stop on the evening of february 24, 2010, defendant was driving a blue 1995 chevrolet tahoe with a license plate number of 6erh334 near 98th street and main street in los angeles, when he was stopped by officers from the los angeles police at 9823 south main street.5 the officers cited defendant for speeding; because he was driving with a suspended license, they also impounded the suv. the officers told defendant he could retrieve the vehicle from the southeast division station. the following day, lapd detective monica cross interviewed e.g. e.g. described her attacker as a black male, six feet tall, 2530 years old, with brown eyes and a close shave. she said that he used a small black handgun and noted the chevrolet suv. 3. the identification e.g. and her mother returned to the police station the next day, february 26, 2010, to meet with a sketch artist. while e.g. was finishing with the sketch artist in a back room, defendant arrived at the station to retrieve his suv from the impound lot. he was accompanied by two women, one of whom later identified herself as lakisha patterson (lakisha). defendant gave his 5 the building is on the corner of 99th and main streetthe intersection where e.g. was abducted in a blue chevrolet suv. the suv was later discovered to include a change of address form listing the same address. 8 name and license plate number to detective sonny patsenhann, connected to the main lobby by a glass door.6 meanwhile, e.g. had finished describing her assailant to the sketch artist. she seconds later, defendant and his companions walked through the door from the main lobby. e.g. and defendant made eye contactand she recognized him immediately.7 defendant looked surprised, then immediately turned around and walked quickly out of the station; the women left with him. as soon as the door closed, e.g. hunched over; she was very upsetcrying and covering her face. by the time lakisha returned alone about a minute later, e.g. began talking intensely to her mother. she said she had just seen her rapist. alejandra and e.g. jumped up, and alejandra summoned help. cross appeared and took the officers searched the area, but could not find defendant. cross, e.g., and alejandra waited for several hours, hoping defendant would return to the station. when he failed to appear, cross 6 nutes after telling defendant to meet him there, but defendant was nowhere to be found. patsenhann spoke to a woman who had accompanied defendant to the station and told her he needed to see defendant so that he could sign the impound formbut defendant never returned to collect his suv. 7 size of a narrow hallway. defendant passed within inches of e.g. 9 pulled up a photograph of him using the information defendant had provided to patsenhann and placed it in a six-pack photo array. e.g. identified him.8 4. the investigation on march 8, 2010, lapd criminalist lori leonard -impounded suv. the door handle inside the passenger door was broken off. leonard discovered a used condom in the passenger door pocket. she also found an envelope containing a green, leafy plant material resembling marijuana, a temporary insurance card listing david patterson and lakisha patterson as the insured parties, and a pair of binoculars. leonard took swabs of two stains on the front passenger seat for biological testing. dna testing was performed on the condom, the seat swabs, underwear e.g. had worn at the time of the attack. the dna profile was a mixture of at least three individuals. e.g., were included as possible contributors. the condom found in the suv contained a mixed dna profile of two people, consistent with defendant and an unknown female; e.g. was not the female contributor. the swab 8 10 discussion 1. the court did not abuse its discretion by admitting evidence of the condom. that the evidence was irrelevant (evid. code,  210) and more prejudicial than probative (evid. code,  352), the court allowed the prosecutor to introduce evidence relating to a used condom found in 9 defendant contends the court abused its we disagree. 1.1 the evidence was relevant. only relevant evidence is admissible (evid. code,  350)and all relevant evidence is admissible unless excluded by the constitution or by statute (evid. code,  351; see cal. const., art. i,  28, subd. evidence relevant to the credibility of a witness or hearsay declarant, having any tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination of 21 intent, or motive. [citations.] (people v. carter (2005) 9 while defendant challenges the admission of the condom, the condom itself was not presented at trial or admitted into evidence. defendant appears to be challenging the photographs of the condom, which were taken during the vehicle search and admitted as exhibits 19 and 20, as well as the testimony about the dna testing performed on it. 11 36 cal.4th 1114, 1166.) a trial court has broad discretion in determining the relevance of evidence, but has no discretion to admit irrelevant evidence. (id. at pp. 11661167review for an abuse of people v. wallace (2008) 44 cal.4th 1032, 10571058.) the court in this case explained the general relevance of evidence found in the suv: claims that the assault occurred in a particular vehicle. she then was ticketed and his car was impounded, and so if there is anything that is inside that car that ties the car to the defendant as the driver, it would tend to corroborate the identification that [he] is the suspect of the alleged victim. [] so from that perspective any evidence that ties the defendant to the car [as] as to the condom evidence in particular, the court further in determining what actually occurred in this case, whether the defendant was, in fact, possessor and driver of that vehicle and whether or not the vehicle is used for sexual activity. and the existence of a condom where there is spermatozoa, which, when tested for dna, shows that the defendant was the donor of the spermatozoa tends to prove both, no. 1, that defendant was the possessor and driver of the vehicle; and, no. 2, that the defendant because we agree with the court that the evidence tended an issu (evid. code, 12  210)we need not determine whether its alternative rationale was correct. accordingly, the court did not abuse its discretion by concluding the evidence was relevant. 1.2 the evidence was not unduly prejudicial or time-consuming. a trial court may exclude relevant, otherwise-admissible substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue (evid. code,  people v. kipp (2001) 26 cal.4th 1100, 1121.) should be excluded as unduly prejudicial [only] when it is of such nature as to inflame the emotions of the jury, motivating them to use the information, not to logically evaluate the point upon which it is relevant, but to reward or punish one side becausreaction. in such a circumstance, the evidence is unduly prejudicial because of the substantial likelihood the jury will use people v. branch (2001) 91 cal.app.4th 274, 286.) in this case, thprobative . . . , and the probative value of the evidence is not contemplated by evidence code section 352. the court ot permit the prosecution to in any way argue that the defendant is using this vehicle as 13 a means of preying on women in general. that would be impermissible. i do not think that the review those conclusions for an abuse of discretion. (people v. cudjo (1993) 6 cal.4th 585, 609.) certainly, the condom evidence was highly probative on the -racial e.g. described. the exclusion of other corroborating evidence form and to his sibling relationship with lakisha patterson, evidence tand ownership of the suv. while this sort of corroboration always matters, it was particularly important in this case because defense counsel urged his opening statement, counsel stressed: have to continuously ask yourself where is the corroboration as we discussed in jury selection. what witness can verify the truth of what [e.]g. tells you. . . . in addition, you will see numerous contradictions in the statements that she gave at various times; so at the end of this trial, when you ask these important questions, you will see that there is a during voir dire, defense counsel so stressed the importance of corroboration that the court read the relevant instructions to the prospective jurors in case law. that defendant used condoms and had sex in his car were not circumstances that uniquely evoked an emotional bias. while 14 there may have been a possibility that jurors would use the evidence for an improper purpose, mere possibility is not enoughecutor about the permissible use of this evidence, there was no substantial danger that they would do so.10 thus, the court could reasonably conclude that any theoretical danger did not substantially outweigh the probative value of the evidence. ultimately, defendant did not demonstrate that he would evidence. nor did he demonstrate that any potential prejudice 11 the physical evidence comprised two sterile photographs; the condom itself was not presented as an exhibit or sent to the jury room. because the condom evidence was relevant and not unduly prejudicial, we hold the court did not abuse its discretion by admitting it. even assuming the evidence was improperly admitted, however, it is not reasonably likely that defendant would have achieved a more favorable result without it. (people v. watson 10 certainly, a limiting instruction would have been helpful in avoiding juror speculationbut there is no evidence that the defense requested such an instruction. 11 evidence was cumulative and clearly consumed the time in consumed very little time. the people presented the evidence through witnesses who were testifying already, and the evidence itself was but one line item on the lists of items recovered from the suv and tested for dna. 15 this was not a close case. was overwhelming. the prosecutor did not emphasize the condom in closing argumentand to the extent he mentioned it attacker. the jury deliberated for only three-and-a-half hours after a four-and-a-half day trial. in the end, the jurors rejected -seeking liar. it is not reasonably likely that two photographs of a used condom changed their minds on that point. 2. the court was not required to stay the sentence for count 3. under section 654, a defendant may not be punished for more than one offense arising from a single act or indivisible course of conduct. ( 654, subd. (a).) thus, if each of a crimes were merely incidental to or were committed to facilitate a single objective, he may receive only one punishment. (people v. latimer (1993) 5 cal.4th 1203, 1208.) whether a course of conduct is divisible, giving rise to more than one punishable act, depends on the intent and objective of the actor. (kellett v. superior court (1966) 63 cal.2d 822, 824825.) here, defendant was convicted of forcible oral copulation ( 288a, subd. (c)(2); count 1), kidnapping to commit rape ( 209, subd. (b)(1); count 2), and assault with intent to commit sodomy ( 220, subd. (a); count 3) (hereafter, aggravated assault) after abducting e.g. at gunpoint, forcing her to perform oral sex, and rubbing his penis against her anal opening. at sentencing, the court concluded that defendant kidnapped e.g. in furtherance of the two assaultive crimes, but that he committed each assaultive crime with a distinct criminal objective. accordingly, the court 16 stayed the sentence for count 2 under section 654 but did not stay the sentence for count 3. defendant argues that the oral copulation and aggravated assault were part of an indivisible course of conduct undertaken to satisfy one sexual goal. because the two crimes were committed in furtherance of a sole criminal objective, he sentence is valid because each act involved a separate application of force and neither was incidental to the other. we hold that substcount 3. 2.1 legal principles and standard of review punishment, not multiple conviction. [citation.] the statute itself literally applies only where such punishment arises out of ], its protection has been extended to cases in proximity of his offenses, which determine whether the transaction is indivisible. [citations.] we have traditionally observed that if all of the offenses were merely incidental to, or were the means of accomplishing or facilitating one objective, defendant may be found to have harbored a single intent and therefore may be punished only once. [citation.] 17 incidental to each other, he may be punished for each statutory vioviolations shared common acts or were parts of an otherwise people v. harrison (1989) 48 cal.3d 321, 335 (harrison).) factual questions for the trial court, which must find evidence to support the existence of a (people v. jackson (2016) 1 that a defendant harbored a separate intent and objective for each offense will be upheld on appeal if it is supported by substantial evidence. people v. islas (2012) 210 cal.app.4th 116, 129.) although the question of whether eaning of section a (people v. perez (1979) 23 cal.3d 545, 552, fn. 5 (perez).) 3. conclusion. thperez touchstone in determining how these general principles are to be harrison, supra, 48 cal.3d at p. 336.) in that case, the court held that section 654 did not bar punishment for each sex crime committed during a continuous 45-to-60-minute attack. the defendant argued that his offenses comprised an indivisible transaction because each one furthered (perez, supra, 23 cal.3d at p. 18 to trigger section 654. (id. at p. 552.) a surate with his perez, supra, 23 cal.3d at p. who attempts to achieve sexual gratification by committing a number of base criminal acts on his victim is substantially more culpable than a defendant who commits only one sid. at p. objective . . . id. at pp. 552553 & fn. 5.) in short, it would elevate form over substance. the committed as a means of committing any other [offense], none any other, section 654 did not apply. (id. at pp. 553554.) applied perez to uphold separate sentences for each sex crime committed in a single encounter, even where closely connected in time. [ciharrison, supra, 48 cal.3d at p. 336.) in conduct, depended on a divisible intent, the intent to commit sodomy. he who commits several sex offenses is more culpable than a defendant who commits only one. . . . stuff of mathematical exactitude, it also cannot be so loose as to fit all sex-related conduct under the umbrella of a single intent to commit any and all sex offenses. thus, here when the defendant 19 was left dissatisfied at the oral copulation and because of the commit sodomy. this intent did not arise, in my opinion, until facts evolved during the course of conduct in which the defendant changed courses. this was clearly a divisible intent, a criminal act deserving of additional punishment. i, therefore, do not find count 3 barred by that conclusion. defendant insists that he did not harbor distinct criminal sexually gratifying in its own right. if anything, [he] likely experienced sexual frustration by not being able to penetrate aggravated assault only because he found the oral copulation unsatisfying, defendant argues, he cannot be punished for both. put another way, defendant contends that he committed both oral copulation and aggravated assault in furtherance of one goalsexual gratification. in light of the perez 12 12 people v. latimer is also inapt. (people v. latimer, supra, 5 cal.4th 1203.) in latimer, the defendant kidnapped the victim to facilitate two brutal rapes. as in this case, the court reluctantly concluded that section 654 barred additional punishment for kidnapping. (id. at pp. 12071216.) separate punishment for each of the rapes, however, was proper. (id. at pp. 12161217.) we do not read latimer as limiting the holdings in perez, discussed ante, or harrison, discussed post. to the contrary, the latimer ve narrowly interpreted the length of time the defendant had a specific objective, and thereby found similar but consecutive objectives latimer, at pp. 12111212) to 20 to the extent defendant argues that his specific objectivevaginal rapewas, as a legal matter, narrower or less amorphous than the goal of sexual gratification at issue in perez, the supreme court has rejected that argument as well. (harrison, supra, 48 cal.3d at pp. 336338.) in harrisonand forcibly inserted his finger into her vagina three times. (harrison, supra, 48 cal.3d at pp. 325326.) since the victim was able to struggle free, each insertion lasted only seconds, and the entire incident lasted just a few minutes. (ibid.) the defendant one sexual penetration would have occurred but for . . . efforts to defend herself, which interrupted the initial vaginal penetration and caused subsequent id. at p. 338.) the court found this argument unpersuasive. relying on perez (ibid.) while each penetration occurred as part of a continuous, sexually a single, indivisible course of conduct. in this case, defendant urges that he should not be punished for aggravated assault because he committed that crime only after forcible oral copulation turned out to be an forestall any confusion about whether it approved of this approach, the . . . to question the validity of decisions finding consecutive, and therefore id. at p. 1216.) 21 same token, however, defendant should also not be rewarded where, instead of taking advantage of an opportunity to walk an opportunity that presented itself when e.g. gagged on his penisharrison, supra, 48 cal.3d at p. 338) we thus conclude, as a legal matter, that even if the aggravated assault was committed in furtherance of the specific goal of vaginal rape, section 654 does not apply. (see harrison, supra, 48 cal.3d at pp. 336338; people v. latimer, supra, 5 cal.4th at pp. 12111212, 12161217.) 4. the abstract of judgment is inaccurate. the sentencing court must impose a $40 court security fee ( 1465.8) and a $30 criminal conviction assessment (gov. code,  70373) on every criminal conviction, including counts stayed under section 654. (people v. sencion (2012) 211 cal.app.4th 480, 483484.) the court in this case properly imposed these fees on all three counts, resulting in a total court security fee of $120 and a total criminal conviction assessment of $90. the abstract of judgment, however, reflects a criminal conviction assessment of only $30. and may not add to or modify the judgment it purports to digest people v. mitchell (2001) 26 cal.4th 181, 185.) appellate courts (including this one) that have properly assumed ibid.), may order correction of an abstract of judgment that does not accurately reflect the oral pronouncement of sentence (id. at pp. 185188). the abstract of judgment in this case is inaccurate. we therefore direct the court to amend it to 22 reflect a $90 criminal conviction assessment (gov. code,  70373) and to forward a copy of the corrected abstract of judgment to the department of corrections and rehabilitation. disposition the judgment is affirmed. the trial court is directed to correct the abstract of judgment to reflect a $90 criminal conviction assessment (gov. code,  70373) and to forward a copy of the corrected abstract of judgment to the california department of corrections and rehabilitation. not to be published in the official reports lavin, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. stratton, j.* * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 