filed 12/21/15 p. v. garda ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. james robert garda, defendant and appellant. b260484 (los angeles county super. ct. no. va134736) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, roger t. ito, judge. affirmed. christian c. buckley, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, zee rodriguez and andrew s. pruitt, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 a jury found defendant james garda guilty of felony evasion of a police officer. (veh. code,  2800.2, subd. (a).)1 at the request of the prosecution, and without e statute defining the offense of flight from a pursuing peace officer does not require that the pursuing officer defendant now contends this pinpoint instruction was inaccurate and argumentative. we disagree and affirm. procedural history on june 11, 2014, the willful or wanton disregard for safety of persons or property while fleeing from pursuing police officers. ( 2800.2, subd. (a).) the people further alleged defendant suffered two code sections 667, subdivisions (b)-(j) and 1170.12, subdivisions (a)-(d). defendant pleaded not guilty and denied the allegations. the priors may have been too old to affect his sentence in this case. (see pen. code,  667.5, subd. (a). defendant proceeded to jury trial in august 2014. the jury found him guilty of the sole charged count. in a bifurcated proceeding, the trial court found true both strike prior allegations. people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497 to strike the strikes. the court sentenced defendant to four years in prison, calculated by doubling the midterm sentence of two years. defendant timely appealed. factual background on april 12, 2014, at approximately 2:53 a.m., california highway patrol (c.h.p.) officers william tenborg and james final were sitting in their patrol vehicle on the paramount boulevard on-ramp to the eastbound 105 freeway. the patrol car was a 1 all further statutory references are to the vehicle code unless otherwise specified. 3 equipped with a front-facing camera that automatically activates when the overhead lights are turned on. officer tenborg and officer final was in the front passenger seat. officer tenborg was wearing his tan c.h.p. uniform. both officers heard officer tenborg looked in his side mirror and saw the headlight of a motorcycle approaching at high speed. the motorcycle accelerated rapidly past the patrol car. as it passed, officer tenborg noted that it was a black motorcycle driven by an individual wearing dark clothes, black shoes, white socks, and a blue helmet. officer tenborg accelerated onto the 105 freeway and began following the motorcycle. the patrol car came within about 40 feet of the motorcycle, but the officers -the motorcycle and concluded it was traveling 90 miles per hour despite the speed limit of 65 miles per hour. the driver of the motorcycle, later identified as defendant, turned his head to the left and looked over his shoulder. the motorcycle all the way from the far-right lane into the carpool lane, in the process crossing the double-yellow line separating the carpool lane from the other lanes. while defendant was accelerating across the freeway, the rear tail light of the motorcycle turned off. officer followed defendant; the officers one either officer saw that night. officer tenborg accelerated hour in an attempt to keep up with defendant. defendant occasionally slowed such that the patrol car could keep pace, then accelerated to pull away. carpool lane line. officer tenborg turned the overhead lights off when the patrol car was 4 make unpredictable lane changes when they see patrol cars approaching on the freeway, and to encourage defendant to slow down. defendant the northbound 605 freeway. officer tenborg briefly lost sight of defendant as he went up and over the e to look over to the left and keep the motorcycle in his sight. the tail light of the motorcycle also was back on, which allowed officer final to see the motorcycle merge across the 605 and into the carpool lane. around the time defendant entered the 6department tactical flight deputy russell helbing joined the chase in his helicopter. northbound in one of the inner lanes of the 605 freeway. officer helbing knew the officer helbing estimated the motorcycle was traveling over 100 miles per hour. officer , the only one he saw on the 605 freeway. officers tenborg and final saw the helicopter illuminating the motorcycle. officer tenborg some point on the 605 freeway and kept them on. defendant a hard right swerve toward the far right lane, at which time he took the telegraph exit- defendant passed the eastbound exit, which -ramp, a - officer final advised officer tenborg to take the eastbound off-ramp so they could attempt to cut off defendant on telegraph road. officer tenborg took the eastbound off-ramp. when he reached the bottom of the ramp, he did a u-turn and parked near the end of the westbound off-ramp. defendant was stopped at a stop sign at the bottom of the westbound off-ramp. he and his motorcycle were still illuminated by the helicopter, and both officers tenborg 5 and fsaw at the start of the three-to-four minute chase. officers tenborg and final took defendant into custody, at which point defendant told officer tenborg he lived down the he also told officer tenborg he stopped when he saw the patrol car at the bottom of the off-mounting of his license plate. near the handlebars that turned the tail light off and on. defendant told officer tenborg he did not know what the switch did. the people showed the jury the video of the incident recorded camera. the accompanying audio recording was not offered or admitted into evidence. discussion defendant argues the court prejudicially erred by delivering the pinpoint instruction the people prepared and requested. he contends the instruction was the people dispute these to object to the instruction at trial. we find them unpersuasive. i. relevant procedural background -in-chief, the prosecutor advised the court people v. copass (2009) 180 cal.app.4th 37 (copass). the court told the prosecutor she would have to the prosecutor later, after both sides rested, the parties discussed jury instructions with the court. much of the discussion took place off the record, but the prosecutor asked the court on copass instruction 6 statute defining the offense of flight from a pursuing peace officer does not require that the pursuing officer continuously activate the emergency lights and siren where there is the court stated it had read copass and asked defense counsel if he wanted to be heard. the court then stated that the court then recessed to give the parties an opportunity to look through the instructions packet. after the recess, the court and parties further discussed the jury instructions. during that discussion, the court listed the calcrim instructions it planned to give and advised the parties it was going to deliver the copass instruction as well. the court the record before we bring the jur the court then instructed the jury. at the conclusion of the instructions, which included the copass instruction, the court asked counsel outside the presence of the jury if there was anything they wanted to put on the record. defense counsel did not respond. during closing argument, the prosecutor argued that defendant led the c.h.p. he allegedly committed (driving in excess of the posted speed limit, driving in excess of 100 miles per hour, making unsafe lane changes, and crossing a double yellow line). the prosecutor also mentioned that none of the witnesses saw any other motorcycles on the remind the jury that the lights could be seen on the video, and a second time as part of a checklist of the elements of the charged offense. 7 closing argument. defendant also posited a theory of mistaken identity, arguing that he would not have stopped at the bottom of the telegraph road off-ramp and cooperated with the c.h.p. officers if he had been the motorcyclist trying to evade them. defendant the evader, why would he wait at that exit? he could have doubled back and taken the southbound 605. he could have started a whole new pursuit defendant mentioned the cause to stop him because his license plate was not visible. ii. analysis a. defendantreserved. the people contend defendant affirmatively waived his right to challenge the copass alternatively, they contend the related but distinct doctrine of forfeiture bars his claim that the instruction was argumentative. we reject these contentions. the doctrines of waiver and forfeiture are distinct. forfeiture is the failure to a known (united states v. olano (1993) 507 u.s. 725, 733; people v. simon (2001) 25 cal.4th 1082, 1097, fn. 9.) s more (6 witkin & epstein, cal. criminal law (4th ed. 2012) reversible error,  41, p. 572.) the situation here is unusual in that the court expressly asked defendant if he wanted to be heard regarding copass the people have not directed us to any case law holding that such a response effects a waiver, however. 8 the general rule is that a party may not complain on appeal about a given instruction that was correct in law and responsive to the evidence unless the party made an appropriate objection. (people v. hudson (2006) 38 cal.4th 1002, 1011-1012.) but we may review any instruction that affects the defewithout a trial objection. (pen. code,  1259.) instructional error affected the substantial rights of the defendant necessarily requires an examination of the merits of the claimat least to the extent of ascertaining whether the (people v. andersen (1994) 26 cal.app.4th 1241, 1249.) in any event, defendants position is that the challenged instruction was legally incorrect, anhighlighting factual inferences in its favor. thus, defendant did not have to raise his arguments at trial to preserve them for appeal. (people v. ramos (2008) 163 cal.app.4th 1082, 1087.) we therefore review defendants claims on the merits. b. the instruction was correct in law. of appeal said in copasse code sec he contends that section 2800.2 is silent as to whether a whether a chase remains a single pursuit even when visual contact with the target is lost. therefore, defendant argues, the instruction as given was not a correct statement of law. we review the issue de novo (people v. posey (2004) 32 cal.4th 193, 218) and conclude the instruction was correct. section 2800.2, subdivision (a) providattempts to elude a pursuing peace officer in violation of section 2800.1 and the pursued vehicle is driven in a willful or wanton disregard for the safety of persons or property, the person driving the vehicle, upon conviction, shall be punished by imprisonment in the safety of persons or property includes, but is not limited to, driving while fleeing or 9 attempting to elude a pursuing peace officer during which time either three or more traffic violations that are assigned a traffic violation point count under section 12810 ( 2800.2, subd. (b).) section (copass, supra, 180 cal.app.4th at p. 41.) for a violation of section 2800.1 to occur, exhibiting at least one red lamp visible from the front and the person either sees or reasonably should have seen the lamp. [] (2) sounding a siren as may be reasonably necessary. [] (3) vehicle is distinctively marked. [] (4) ( 2800.1, subd. (a)). accordingly, by its incorporation of section 2800.1, section 2800.2 requires the pro defendant is correct that the statute itself sheds no light on the definition of a pursuit or whether the patrol vehicle must display its red lamp throughout the duration of a pursuit. copass, a case virtually indistinguishable from this one on its facts, interpreted the statute and its requirements, however. in copass, a c.h.p. officer patrolling in an aircraft observed a motorcycle (copass, supra, 180 cal.app.4th at p. 39.) the airborne officer alerted a second officer patrolling the roadway that the motorcycle was approaching. (ibid.) after using his radar gun to clock the motorcycle at 91 miles per hour, the officer on the roadway attempted to effect a traffic stop. (ibid.) at rapthe motorcycle. (ibid.) overhead lights, and pursued the motorcycle at speeds exceeding 100 miles per hour. (ibid.) 10 lights while he drove through side roads looking for the motorcycle. (copass, supra, 180 cal.app.4th at p. 39.) like the officers in this case, the officer testified that he turned his (ibid.) after a few minutes, the airborne officer spotted the motorcycle and alerted the officer on the roadway. the officer on the roadway did not reactivate his overhead lights, however, because he did not want to alert the driver, defendant copass, that he was nearby. (id. at pp. 39-40.) another driver to swerve and the officer to reactivate t (id. at p. 40.) all the while, the officer in the plane was watching copass, and saw him cross a double-yellow line. eventually, the officer in the patrol car was able to turn in front of copass, block his path, and arrest him. (ibid.) a jury found copass guilty of violating section 2800.2. (ibid.) on appeal, copass argued that the prosecution failed to establish the requisite violation of section 2800.1 because the officer did not have his emergency lights on and was not pursuing copass when copass committed one of the traffic violations required under section 2800.2, subdivision (b). (copass, supra, 180 cal.app.4th at p. 40.) the court rejected this contention. it reasoned that although the officer on the roadway was but one pursuit. at the inception of the pursuit, [the officer] activated his emergency lights. he reactivated the lights after he saw copass stopped at the stop sign before turning onto the highway. . . . it is a reasonable inference that copass was aware of the pursuit because initially he suddenly drove from the shoulder as [the officer] approached, drove at high speed along a side road to the highway, and turned into traffic forcing an oncoming vehicle into a left turn lane. thus copass received notice of the pursuit and the id. at p. 41.) the contested instruction in this casefrom a pursuing peace officer does not require that the pursuing officer continuously 11 plainly incorporates the sound reasoning and holding of copass. again, defendant concedes that point. he claims copass copass court was evaluating an argument that there was insufficient evidence of guilt because the police when one of the predicate vehicle code violations occurred. a holding that there can be sufficient evidence of guilt in a case where the lights and sirens are not on the entire time of the chase is not the same thing as telling the jury that the statute we fail to see the distinction. visible from the front and the it is silent as to when or for what duration the red lamp must be exhibited. but where there are gaps in statutes, it is the role of the courts to interpret and construe statutes enacted by the legislature. (people v. mendoza (2015) 241 cal.app.4th 764, 790.) the copass court did so, clarifying that the statutory language that the patrol car must have its lights on for the entirety of the chase. in other words, copass held that the jury may conclude section 2800.2 was violated even where the on during every moment of a pursuit. this is tantamount to a holding that the statute does not require continuous illumination of overhead patrol car lights in order to satisfy the purpose of the statute. the pinpoint instruction accordingly was correct. c. the instruction was not argumentative. defendant also contends that the instruction was argumentative because it drew inferences favorable to the prosecution and instructed the jury on what conclusion to draw from the evidence. we review this contention de novo. (people v. posey, supra, 32 cal.4th at p. 218.) 12 truction is argumentative when it recites facts drawn from the evidence in such a manner as to constitute argument to the jury in the guise of a statement of law. [citation.] invite the jury to draw inferences favorable to one of the parties from specified items of (people v. campos (2007) 156 cal.app.4th 1228, 1244.) in contrast, a proper instruction sets forth a principle of law applicable to the case, in plain language, and indicates no opinion as to any fact in issue. (people v. wright (1988) 45 cal.3d 1126, 1135.) specific evidence as such, but the theory of the . . . (id. at p. 1137.) here, the instruction statedthe pursuing officer continuously activate the emergency lights and siren where there is that is a principle of law applicable to the case, derived from copassinterpretation matter whether the poli we do not read the instruction that way. it used neutral language and did not indicate that the jury should find that officer tenborg continuously activated the lights or that there was a single pursuit. instead, it informed the jury that if it were to conclude that there was one pursuit, the statute did not activated continuously. used on the 2 2 13 disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. willhite, j. 