filed 5/23/16 p. v. hoover ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. george clay hoover, defendant and appellant. b260156 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ta133379) appeal from a judgment of the superior court for the county of los angeles. michael shultz, judge. affirmed. jeffrey j. gale, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and daniel c. chang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________ 2 summary a jury convicted defendant george clay hoover of criminal threats, stalking, and causing corporal injury to a person with whom he had a dating relationship. defendant admitted two prior strike offenses, and the court sentenced him to 20 years eight months in prison. on appeal, defendant contends the court should have granted his penal code section 1118.1 motion for judgment of acquittal as to the criminal threats charge, because the prosecution presented no substantial evidence that his statements to the victim caused her to be in sustained fear for her own safety. defendant also contends his admission of his prior convictions must be set aside because the record does not show the admissions were voluntary and intelligent under the totality of the circumstances. we find no merit in either contention and affirm the judgment. facts the victim in this case, carmen winston-tolliver, lived in compton with her daughter (sequoia miner) (antwon jackson), and her two-year-old granddaughter. she worked as a dispatcher for the los angeles police department (lapd), and had done so for 24 years. the victim began dating defendant in early 2014. the relationshifrom the start because defendant culminated in the criminal charges against defendant occurred in april and may 2014. the first incident the victim had a cell phone defendant had given her. defendant listened to the messages on the cell phone, and became angry when he heard a message referring to the the following day, april 14, they continued to argue, by phone, about the should be calling that cell phone bdefendant told her, --- 3 --- the victim was not afraid at that timshe also said she believed him, de------ -f------ (there were fences and two locked gates, to which she hthis defendant was drunk. he came in and they argued, again about the cell phone. according to the victim, e him up the next morning and told him to leave because she had to go to work. the april 15, 2014 incident the following day, april 15, defendant and the victim were on the phone again, the victim told him not to come over to he --- him not to come to her --- 4 the victim told her daughter and mr. jackson defendant] is at it again. s --- ------ kill you, too. f--- --- g up the mother-f------ phone on me. alike, either he was gonna stab me or i was gonna i was gonna pro the victim called 9-1--1-1 calls, one at 4:26 p.m. and one at 6:22 p.m., -boyfriend just called and ) ms. miner was looking out the window, and told her mother when she saw defendant arrive. they called the police for the second time. defendant knocked on the door, and when the victim did not answer, defendant walked across the street where two neighbors were standing. he handed a neighbor (who has since died) something that the victim believed to be a weapon, and looked like a pocketknife to ms. miner and mr. jackson. then, as he was crossing the street, the police detained him. (deputy anthony bautista, who responded to the 9-1-1 calls, said that none of the three (the victim, ms. miner or mr. jackson) mentioned the knife to him.) upset and he felt like either harming himself odeputy bautista listened to a few of 10 but there 5 deputy bautista would be to take him to a mental hospital to be evaluated just to make sure that he is 1 the victim told deputy ing threatened at the time, but she felt scared because he kept calling. but there was nothing there saying that, like, he was (the victim testified t scared, it was probably because they were there. ms. miner told deputy bautista were just tired of thdeputy bautista the next day, someone from the hospital called the victim on behalf of defendant, t call for three days, but after he was released, he starting calling again, over 30 times a day. the victim did not answer for seven or eight days, but finally talked to defendant because she arguments ------ the victim did not tell her daughter and mr. jackson that she had resumed her relationship with defendant because they were they found out, and s and gave it cause i just the may 2014 incidents threats, on either may 10 or may 16, 2014, the victim went 1 under welfare and institutions code section 5150, a peace officer may, upon probable cause, take a person into custody for evaluation at a designated facility for up to 72 hours when the person, as a result of a mental health disorder, is a danger to others, or to himself or herself id., subd. (a).) 6 to def2 they argued about could . . . . times even to a point whe(at trial, the victim did not remember if defendant made that statement on the victim nd crying. she could barely breathe defendant let go and the victim tried to walk to the front door, but defendant ------ when he drapunching her, and he kicked her, bi the hour and a half. eventually let her go home. cause, as crazy as he was acting, she did not call the police or tell her daughter or mr. jackson because she was . . . and mr. jackson to see the bruises 2 the testimony the information alleges that defendant made criminal threats on or about may 16, 2014; stalked the victim on or between april 1 and may 16, 2014; and inflicted the corporal injury on or about may 10, 2014. the verdict forms reflected those same dates. 7 (photographs of the bruises on her back, arm and leg were placed in evidence at the trial.) defendant continued to call and text the victim, threatenin telephone records showed defendant called the victim 30 times on may 10, and 107 times on may 16. the victim also received 80 or 90 text messages from defendant on the day of the assault. at some point on may 16, defendant told the victim when she got home on the day of the assault, the victim called her girlfriend, montoya, who also worked for the lapd as a dispatcher, telephoned a police lieutenant at her place of work and reported everything the victim had told her. at about 10:00 p.m. on may 16, deputy bautista again after being notified by the lapd -threats he spoke with the deputy bautista testified was issued on that date. after the incidents in may, stress. (at the trial in september 2014, the victim testified she ) defendant was charged by information with three felonies: criminal threats (pen. code,  422, subd. (a)), stalking ( 646.9, subd. (a)), and inflicting corporal injury on a person with whom he had a dating relationship ( 273.5, subd. (a)). the information also alleged two prior serious or violent felony convictions ( 245, subd. (a)(1)). at trial, the jury heard the evidence we have just described. 8 for a judgment of acquittal on all counts. (pen. code,  1118.1.) as to the criminal threats count, threat allegedly made on the 16th was immediate and unconditional; nor is there any corroborating evidence beyond the words of [the victim] to even show that such a thing tial evidence of corroboration that [defendant] uttered threats. whether they were uttered particularly on that exact date is a little unclear, but, again, the defense presented no evidence. on september 17, 2014, the court announced the jury had reached a verdict, and mr. hoover, i have no idea what the verdict is. i have not seen it, will not he event of an adverse verdict that is a guilty verdict on each one of the counts, we still have the issue of the prior convictions. [] [defense counsel] indicated he spoke with you, and at this that correct? the defendant: yes, sir, your honor. the court: all right. now, you do have the right to have a jury trial to determine the truth of those prior convictions. in fact, you have the right to have this jury determine the truth of those prior convictions. and at that jury trial you have the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses, the right to remain silent, and the right to the subpoena power of the court. those are called your jury trial rights. [] do you understand those rights? the defendant: yes, sir, your honor. the court: do you waive and give up those rights with respect to the priors? the defendant: yes, sir, your honor. 9 the court: and do you admit that you suffered a prior conviction in case ba186571 for penal code section 245 -- 245, subdivision (a)(1) on september 22nd, 1992, in the los angeles superior court? [] do you admit or deny? the defendant: i admit. the courtat you suffered a prior conviction on january 21st, 1986, for the same offense, penal code section 245(a)(1), in case no. a, as in apple, 633599. [] do you admit or deny that prior conviction? the defendant: yes. yes, sir, your honor. the court: admit or deny? the defendant: i admit. the court: counsel, do you join in the admission? defense counsel]: i do, your honor. the court: all right. the court finds the defendant understands the nature of the allegations alleged in the information, as well as the possible penalties and consequences, as well as the constitutional rights to a jury trial with the jury convicted defendant on all counts. the court sentenced defendant to 20 years eight months in prison (the high term of four years, doubled, on the domestic violence count; the midterm of eight months, doubled, on each of the other two counts, all to run consecutively; plus two consecutive five-two prior serious felony convictions (pen. code,  667, subd. (a)(1)), and made other orders not at issue in this appeal. discussion defendant contends the court should have granted his penal code section 1118.1 motion for judgment of acquittal on the criminal threats count, and that his admission of his two prior convictions should be set aside. neither claim has merit. 10 1. sufficiency of the evidence of criminal threats in ruling on a motion for judgment of acquittal . . . , a trial court applies the same standard an appellate court applies in reviewing the sufficiency of the evidence to support a conviction, that is, whether from the evidence, including all reasonable inferences to be drawn therefrom, there is any substantial evidence of the existence of each element of the offense charged.where the [penal code] section 1118.1 motion is made at the close of the prosecutions case-in-chief, the sufficiency of the evidence is tested as it stood at that point.(people v. cole (2004) 33 cal.4th 1158, 1212-1213.) from which a reasonable trier of fact could have found the defendant guilty beyond a (people v. cole, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 1212.) iew s ruling under [penal code] section 1118.1 that the evidence is (id. at p. 1213.) in people v. toledo (2001) 26 cal.4th 221 (toledo the crime of criminal threat into five constituent elements . . . id. at p. 227.) the prosecution willfully threaten[ed] to commit a crime which will result in death or great bodily injury to another person, (2) that with the specific intent that the statement . . . is to be taken as a threat, even if there is no intent of actually carrying it out, (3) that the threat--made verbally, in writing, or by means of an electronic communication device--on its face and under the circumstances in which it [was] made, . . . so unequivocal, unconditional, immediate, and specific as to convey to the person threatened, a gravity of purpose and an immediate prospect of execution of the threat, (4) that the threat actuallto be in sustained fear for his or her own safety or for his or and (5) that the s fear w under the circumstances.id. at pp. 227-228, quoting pen. code,  422, subd. (a).) 11 defendant contends the evidence was insufficient to establish the fourth element: that the threat actually caused the victim to be in sustained fear for her own safety. but also testified that, when she was talking to the police on the day of her 9-1-1 crelies on deputy she kept telling me, no, she did not feel threatened. she kept telling me that she still loved him . . . . (deputy incidents is unavailing. the record is clear that the criminal threats charge was founded physical assault on the victim, and while he was choking me, nobody could . . . .going to kill her. then, over the telephone on may 16, 3 as to that threat, deputy bautista, who said we have no difficulty concluding there was substantial evidence that both threats allto be in sustained fear for . . . her own safety . . . . toledo, supra, 26 cal.4th at pp. 227-228.) as to the first threat, we have the circumstances of the second threat which occurred in the wake of a physical assault 3 the court gave a unanimity instruction stating that the defendant was charged with committed. 12 fully justified the inference that the victim continued to fear for her own safety. deputy bautista came on the evening of may 16, criminal-and the victim told him that defendant messages from him. it may be that the victim did not think defendant would actually go so far as to kill her, or it may be that the police were present. but the evidence as a whole certainly permits (if not compels) the conclusion, beyond a reasonable doubt, that she continued to fear for her personal safety. there was no 2. must be set aside because the record does not show the admissions were voluntary and intelligent under the totality of the circumstances. specifically, defendant contends that, while the trial court advised him of his jury trial rights, him of the precise increase in the prison term that might be imposed, the effect on parole eligibility, and the possibility of being adjudged a habitual criminal as required supreme court precedents. defendant relies on in re yurko (1974) 10 cal.3d 857, 862 (yurko), and people v. cross (2015) 61 cal.4th 164, 179 (cross). we disagree with a. the legal background the applicable principles are stated in yurko and in people v. wrice (1995) 38 cal.app.4th 767, 770-771 (wrice). in yurko, the court concluded, rule of criminal that an accused, before admitting a prior conviction allegation, must be parole eligibility, and the possibility of being adjudged an habitual criminal. (yurko, supra, 10 cal.3d at p. 864.) instances will constitute error which, if prejudice appears, will require the setting aside of 13 a finding of the truth of an allegation of prior co (ibid.; see cross, supra, 61 cal.4th at pp. 170-171 [quoting yurko and describing yurko shows that a plea is voluntary and intelligent under the totality of the circumstances].)4 in wrice, the court of appeal repeated the yurko rule that a defendant who admits a prior criminal conviction must first be advised of the increased sentence that might be imposed.wrice, supra, 38 cal.app.4th at p. 770.) however, unlike the admonition required for a waiver of constitutional rights, advisement of the penal consequences of admitting a prior conviction is not constitutionally mandated. rather, it is a judicially declared rule of criminal procedure.ibid.; see people v. wright (1987) 43 cal.3d 487, 495 unlike an uninformed waiver of the specified constitutional rights which renders a plea or admission involuntary . . . , an uninformed waiver based on the failure of the court to advise an accused of the consequences of an admission constitutes error which requires that the admission be set aside only if the error is prejudicial to the accused.wrice consequently, when the only error is a failure to advise of the penal consequences, the error is waived if not raised at or before sentencing. (wrice, at pp. 770-771, citing people v. walker (1991) 54 cal.3d 1013, 1023 [pon a timely objection, the sentencing court must determine whether the error prejudiced the defendant, i.e., whether it is the defendant would not have pleaded 4 yurko also held that the decisions in boykin v. alabama (1969) 395 u.s. 238 and in re tahl (1969) 1 cal.3d 122 apply convictions. (yurko, supra, 10 cal.3d at p. 863.) in boykin, the high court held it was ve showing that it was intelligent and boykin, at p. 242.) the court explained that we cannot presume a defendant has waived three important constitutional rights the privilege against compulsory self-incrimination, the right to trial by j from a silent record. (id. at p. 243.) in tahl, our own supreme court held that each of those by the accused prior to acceptance of his guilty tahl, at p. 132.) in people v. howard (1992) 1 cal.4th 1132, the court changed the tahl rule. (howard, at p. 1178.) now, while california the record affirmatively shows that it is voluntary and intelligent under the totality of the id. at p. 1175.) 14 ; see people v. villalobos (2012) 54 cal.4th 177, 182 advisement as to the consequences of a plea is not constitutionally mandated,the error is waive ].) b. this case in this case, defendant has forfeited his claim because he did not raise it at or before sentencing. in any event, no prejudice appears. as respondent concedes, the trial court did not advise defendant of the precise penal consequences of his admissions. the record shows, however that defendant knew he faced a prison term well in excess of the 20-year eight-month sentence that was actually imposed. first, before calling for a panel of prospective jurors to hear the case, the trial court discussed with defendant a plea offer from the prosecution. the prosecution had offered a six-year term in state prison and dismissal of the stalking and domestic violence charges in exchange for a plea to the criminal threats charge. defendant told the court he understood the offer and had no questions about it. then: the court: you do understand that if you are convicted of all of the tial amount of time in prison. quite frankly, life, at this point. [] but the reason isection, called 654, might or might not apply or how the third-strike law is the only question is how [] you do understand that? the defendant: yes, sir, your honor. the court: do you have any questions about that? the defendant second, after defendant was advised of his constitutional rights, waived those rights, and admitted his two prior convictions (on sept. 17, 2014), the prosecutor filed a 15 sentencing memorandum seeking the maximum term, calculated to be 38 years four months to life. the memorandum expressly stated that defendant faced sentencing under the hree strikes law, and that his two prior convictions added 10 years to his sentence. defendant filed a sentencing memorandum requesting a sentence of 10 years eight months, and asking the court to strike his 1986 prior conviction based on its age. but recalled the sentence and resentenced defendant several days later, imposing the five-year enhancements for both prthe imposition of the two five-year priors cannot be avoided,and asked the court to impose the low term on the domestic violence count and concurrent terms on the other two counts. thus the record shows this is a case like wrice, where the court found the defendant (wrice, supra, 38 cal.app.4th at p. 771; see ibid. in sum, defendant forfeited his claim that he was not advised of the penal consequences of his admission of his prior convictions. defendant cites cross for the proposition that his claim cannot be forfeited, but cross involved , at trial, that he had suffered a prior domestic violence conviction, subjecting him to a longer prison term, defendant] of any trial rights or eliciting his waiver of those rights.cross, supra, 61 cal.4th at p. 168; see people v. trujillo (2015) 60 cal.4th 850, 859 [forfeiture doctrine has no application to advisements of federal constitutional rights given a defendant before guilty plea is taken].) here, defendant was fully advised of and waived his jury trial rights. but even had defendant not forfeited his claim, the record is clear that the error did not prejudice him: that is, there is no reasonable probability that defendant would not 16 have admitted the truth of his prior convictions if the court had specifically advised him of the penal consequences when he made those admissions. (cf. wrice, supra, 38 cal.app.4th at p. 771, citing people v. walker, supra, 54 cal.3d at p. 1023.) defendant was aware before his trial began that he faced the possibility of either 35 years or 85 years to life in prison. his claim that the record does not show his admissions were voluntary and intelligent is without merit. disposition the judgment is affirmed. grimes, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. rubin, j. 