filed 7/21/16 p. v. magallon ca2/4 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division four the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. andrew joshua magallon, defendant and appellant. b260596 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka106035) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, douglas w. sortino, judge. affirmed. janet gusdorff, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and jessica c. owen, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. 2 defendant andrew magallon and an accomplice stole approximately $67,000 worth of merchandise from a don roberto jewelry store. a jury found defendant guilty of four counts of second degree robbery (pen. code,  211),1 one count for each of the four workers present in the store during the robbery. the court sentenced defendant to a total of eight years in state prison: the high term of five years on count one, and consecutive sentences of one-third the midterm of three years on each of counts two, three, and four. defendant challenges both his conviction and sentence. he argues the conviction improper admission of three photographs: a self-portrait, commonly referred to as a from his cell phone, and two surveillance photos showing him at different don roberto locations after the robbery. he contends his sentence cannot stand because the court relied on improper aggravating factors to support imposition of the upper term. we are not persuaded by either argument and accordingly affirm the judgment of the trial court. procedural history ) filed an information charging defendant with four counts of second degree robbery ( 211, counts 1-4), three counts of false imprisonment ( 236, counts 5-7), one count of second degree commercial burglary ( 459, count 8), one count of grand theft of personal property ( 487, subd. (a), count 9), and one count of possession of a firearm by a felon ( 29800, subd. (a)(1), count 10). the people further alleged that defendant personally used a firearm within the meaning of sections 12022.53, subdivision (b) and 1203.06, subdivision (a)(1) in connection with the robbery counts and personally used a firearm within the meaning of section 12022.5, subdivision (a) in connection with the false imprisonment counts. the people also alleged, as to all counts, that defendant suffered two prison priors within the meaning of section 667.5, subdivision (b). defendant pleaded not guilty and denied the allegations. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 commercial burglary, and grand theft counts (counts 5-9) pursuant to section 1385. defendant stipulated that he suffered a prior felony conviction and proceeded to jury trial on the remaining counts: motion to bifurcate trial of his priors. the jury found defendant guilty on all four robbery counts. it acquitted him of the gun possession count, however, and also found all of the firearm allegations to be untrue. the court sentenced defendant to a total of eight years in state prison, calculated as the upper term of five years on count one plus one-third the midterm of three years (i.e., one year) on each of counts two through four, to run consecutively. the court also imposed various fines and fees, and awarded defendant 220 days of custody credits. defendant timely appealed. factual background on july 2, 2013, aurelia tapia, bibiana gil, tiffany lucero, and mirtha caldera were working at a don roberto store in azusa. miritha and, at least once, myrna. the preliminary hearing transcript, probation report, and information spell it mirtha. witness gil also spelled the name mirtha while she was testifying. at around 2:00 p.m., tapia and gil saw two males wearing hooded sweatshirts enter the store. one of the men was wearing a white hoodie, and the other was wearing a black hoodie. at trial, tapia, gil, and lucero2 all identified defendant as the male wearing the white hoodie. although both individuals wore their hoods over their heads, gil and lucero could see that tapia testified that the men told the store employees not to touch anything. tapia nonetheless pressed the silent alarm button. tapia, gil, and lucero all testified that 2 caldera was not called as a witness at trial. 4 defendant brandished what appeared to be a gun3 at them and told them to get on the floor where he could see their hands. defendant asked tapia where the money was and asked her to give it to him. she told him there was no money. defendant then told tapia, lucero, and caldera to go into the bathroom, and directed gil, who had an elastic keychain on her wrist, to open the jewelry cases. tapia, lucero, and caldera went into the bathroom, and gil began removing items from the jewelry cases. she placed the items on the counter, and to hurry up. gil remembered having seen defendant and the other perpetrator in the store the week before. she recognized defendant based on his face; she did not remember seeing a tattoo. defendant walked back and forth between the bathroom and the front of the store, telling the women in the bathroom not to move. tapia was able to look directly at his face but did not see a tattoo on his neck. he turned his head. gil eventually came to the bathroom and told the others that defendant and his accomplice had left. the police responded to the scene shortly thereafter. don roberto loss prevention officer attisdei arroyo testified that an inventory revealed that roughly $67,000 worth of jewelry was missing. several months after the robbery, azusa police department detective chris franks separately showed tapia, gil, and lucero a six-pack photo array photograph. all three women identified defendant as the person who robbed the don roberto store in july 2013. man with a neck tattoo, neither tapia nor gilboth of whom had been told about but had relied on that characteristic in selecting his 3 all three percipient witnesses unequivocally testified that defendant had a gun. defendant cross-examined them about their lack of firearm knowledge and presented expert testimony that it is not possible to ascertain whether a weapon satisfies the penal question. the jury acquitted defendant of the felon-in-possession charge and found the firearm allegations not true. 5 photo. tapia testified that she identified defendant face, his pointed nose, and the way his eyes look,while gil recognized his face and hair. the court admitted into evidence a selfie retrieved fro it showed defendant wearing a white hoodie and smoking something. his neck tattoo was not visible in the selfie. loss prevention officer arroyo testified that he obtained surveillance videos dated june 26, 2013 and july 2, 2013 from the azusa store. he also obtained a surveillance video dated july 30, 2013 from the santa fe springs location, and one dated november 8, 2013 from the la puente store. all of the videos were played for the jury, and one still photo from each of them was admitted into evidence. gil identified defendant in the june 26, 2013 and july 2, 2013 videos. monrovia police department detective sarah bushmeyer received the still photos when detective franks sought identification assistance from other law enforcement agencies. she recognized defendant, with whom she had several previous contacts, in all four still photos. detective franks testified that defendant identified himself in the still photos. franks further testified that defendant explained his repeated presence in multiple don roberto locations by stating that he had discussion i. admission of evidence defendant contends the court erroneously admitted inflammatory and minimally after the we are not persuaded. the court did not abuse its discretion in admitting the selfie of defendant smoking, and defendant forfeited his objection to the admission of the surveillance photographs. even if he had not, we find no error in their admission. a. governing principles all relevant evidence generally is admissible. (evid. code,  351.) evidence 6 probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will . . . create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the rt enjoys broad discretion in deciding whether prejudice (people v. michaels (2002) 28 cal.4th 486, 532.) evidence is reviewable for abuse [citation] and will not be disturbed except on a showing the trial court exercised its discretion in an arbitrary, capricious, or patently absurd (people v. rodriguez (1999) 20 cal.4th 1, 9-10.) b. analysis 1. selfie at trial, d to corroborate prosecution sought to admit a selfie retrieved the photograph, which we have examined, is a close-up depicting defendant from the shoulders up. he is wearing a light-colored hoodie, with the hood up, and is holding an object between his teeth and with his left hand. defendant objected to the admission of the selfie prejudicial under evidence code section 352. the court disagreed. the court the court reasoned that any prejudicial effect would be further concluded that any minimal prejudice would be outweighed by the probative value of the selfie-colored hoodie 7 video, aphotos that were admitted without objection. this ruling was not an abuse of discretion. identification was the primary issue in the trial, and the selfie was highly probative on this issue. it showed how defendantand his neck tattoolooked while he was wearing a light-colored hoodie and served to when defendant was so dressed. the selfie also provided the jury with a close-hair. common sense inference that wearing a hoodmultiple points of corroboration that appellant was the robber, other than exhibit 16 (the selfie)sufficiently persuasive to impugn trial strategy to argue on the other side of the scale, the court reasonably concluded that the risk of undue prejudice associated with the selfie was quite low. even if, as defendant suggests, illegal druselfie what, exactly, defendant was smoking, and no mention of the smoking or the nature of the substance was made during trial. defendant also argues the selfie was unduly prejudicial because the court ruled on its admissibility mid-attitudes regarding marijuana. we are not persuaded by this contention, for, as the trial court explicitly confirmed in open court, defendant had access to the selfie before trial. he could have brought the motion to exclude earlier, and crafted his voir dire accordingly. 8 2. post-robbery surveillance photos ntified himself in two don roberto surveillance photos that post-dated the robbery and explained that perhaps he visited those stores to search for anniversary presents. the people sought to introduce dmissions, and the court held a conference on that issue before the start of trial. defendant objected on relevance grounds, arguing that case. the people argued that the photos showed a pattern and, moreover, were crucial to robbery. was going to those places so often, h it was court should allow these subsequent jewelry store visits of mr. magallon to come into the jury hear. it seems to me it has relevance. it does shows [sic] a pattern of returning to the store. he identifies himself as being the person in the videos, he comes up with an explanation the people argue is not logical and not valid. i think it is relevant to the issue of whether or not he committed these other - - pardon me - - i believe the probative value substantially outweighs any possible prejudicial effect, so the court will allow it, assuming you can lay foundation under miranda detective franks -identification and explanatory statements. the people introduced the still photos themselves through detective bushmeyer, who testified that she received the photos from another law enforcement agency and recognized defendant due to her prior contacts with him. defendant did not object to the photos during regarding them or otherwise challenge the admission of the photos themselves; his objections prior to trial explicitly were directed . 9 defendant now argues that the court erred in concluding that the photographs were relevant to his participation in the july 2, 2013 robbery. he further contends that the anniversary gift) any more or less logica the people respond that defendant forfeited these contentions by failing to make them below, and we agree. defendant did not object to the admission of the surveillance photographs; his objections were aimed at the admission of his statements regarding those photographs. his challenge to the photographs on appeal accordingly is not cognizable. (see evid. code,  353, subd. (a); people v. demetrulias (2006) 39 cal.4th 1, 20.) even if it were, however, we are not persuaded that the photographs were irrelevant or unduly prejudicial. the photographs were important to and highly probative of the identification of defendant, a key issue at trial. the prosecutor did not mention any dates when discussing the photographs with detective bushmeyer or detective franks, and neither did the witnesses. any prejudice associated with the post-robbery nature of the photographs accordingly was minimal. defendant claims the prosecutor defendant intended to rob additional don roberto locations, but statements of counsel are not evidence. (in re zeth s. (2003) 31 cal.4th 396, 414, fn. 11.) furthermore, defendant did not object to those statements at trial. ii. sentencing defendant argues that the trial court abused its discretion by sentencing him to the upper term of five years on the base defendant points specifically involved the threat of great bodily harm, and further contends that the court improperly considered prior crimes of which he had been charged but not convicted. we are not persuaded. 10 a. governing principles under californias determinate sentencing law, which specifies three terms for most offenses, the decision to impose an upper term rests within the broad discretion of the trial court. (people v. sandoval (2007) 41 cal.4th 825, 836, 847.) a trial court may base an upper term sentence upon any aggravating circumstance that the court deems (id. at p. 848.) (people v. weber (2013) 217 cal.app.4th 1041, 1064; see also people v. osband (1996) 13 cal.4th 622, 728.) not arbitrary and capricious, that is consistent with the letter and spirit of the law, and that ion of the offense, the offender, and the public (people v. sandoval, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 847.) california rules of court rule 4.421 sets forth a non-exclusive list of appropriate aggravating circumstances the court may consider. (cal. rules of court, rule 4.408(a); people v. crabtree (2009) 169 cal.app.4th 1293, 1325-1326.) a trial court abuses its discretion if constitute an improper basis f (people v. sandoval, supra, 41 cal.4th at p. 847.) b. analysis the trial court articulated numerous aggravating factors listed in california rules of court rule 4.421 in support of its high term sentence. first, it found that the crime involved a threat of great bodily harm or violence or disclosed a high degree of viciousness. (cal. rules of court, rule 4.421(a)(1).) the court reasoned that even if responding to the silent alarm to use deadly force. second, the court concluded that the female (cal. rules of court, rule 4.421(a)(3).) third, the court found that defendant occupied a position of leadership in the commission of the crime in light of his commands to the victims upon entry into the store and his participation in casing the store 11 the week prior to the robbery. (cal. rules of court, rule 4.421(a)(4).) fourth, the court -robbery reconnaissance of the store evinced planning, sophistication, and professionalism. (cal. rules of court, rule 4.421(a)(8).) fifth, the court found that the robbery involved the taking of a large amount of money. (cal. rules of court, rule 4.421(a)(9).) were numerous and increasing in seriousness. (cal. rules of court, rule 4.421(b)(1).) in doing so, the court mentioned that some of his convictions originally were charged as more serious offenses. finally, the court found that defendant had served prior custodial terms, although they were in county jail rather than state prison due to realignment. the court also considered the mitigating factors listed in california rules of court rule 4.423 easons for selecting the upper term, evidently conceding that the court cited four proper bases for imposing the upper term. a single aggravating factor (people v. weber, supra, 217 cal.app.4th at p. 1064.) courts accordingly have concluded that a challenge to three of four aggravating factors cited by a trial al court relied on a fourth reason that adequately supports the upper term. (ibid.) we similarly conclude term sentence in this case was not an abuse of its discretion. moreover, we are not persuaded that the three reasons defendant attacks were invalid or unsupported by the record. particular use the this argument disregards testimony that victim caldera was and did not speak english and further ignores the unprotected and accessible nature of the jewelry store. 12 in other cases. vulnerability means defenseless, unguarded, unprotected, accessible, an attack upon a vulnerable victim takes something less than intestinal fortitude. in the jargon of football (people v. smith (1979) 94 cal.app.3d 433, 436.) it was not an abuse of discretion for the court to conclude that four female employees of a jewelry store housing thousands of dollars of merchandise, at least one of whom was elderly and did not speak the language used by the perpetrator, were unusually susceptible to an apparent armed robbery. of great bodily harm. he does not cite any legal authority in support of this contention, which we find unpersuasive in any event. it was not unreasonable for the court to conclude that an apparent armed robbery carried out in broad daylight by two young men posed a threat of great bodily harm or evinced a high degree of viciousness. s that the court improperly convictio the high term. during its comprehensive recitation of the relevant aggravating factors, the court noted that there is no charges rather essentially nonstoprules of court rule 4.421(b)(2). likewise, the fact that defendant served his felony sentences in county jail rather than state prison due to realignment does not render the 13 disposition the judgment of the trial court is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports collins, j. we concur: epstein, p. j. willhite, j. 