filed 2/18/16 p. v. marshall ca2/4 received for posting 2/19/16 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. lisa r. marshall, defendant and appellant. b260551 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma009179) appeal from an order of the superior court of los angeles county, kathleen blanchard, judge. affirmed. chris blaylock for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, margaret e. maxwell and tasha g. timbadia, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 her motion for dismissal pursuant to penal code section 1203.4.1 we affirm. factual and procedural background in 1995 marshall pleaded no contest to possession of cocaine base for sale (health & saf. code,  11351.5) pursuant to a negotiated plea. the court suspended imposition of sentence and granted felony probation for five years, subject to various terms and conditions, including that she serve 180 days in county jail. on may 15, 1995, marshall failed to appear to begin her jail term. her probation was revoked.2 on february 16, march 7, 2016. on september 22, 2014, marshall filed a petition for dismissal pursuant to section 1203.4. attached to the petition was a letter from the north carolina department of public safety, dated july 24, 2014. it stated that marshall had been placed on probation in california; was accepted for transfer by the state of north carolina in april 2012 with lowest risk/needs category. complied with all terms and conditions of her probation. the defendant paid the state of north carolina probation supervision fees in full, completed 240 hours of community service, successfully discharged from substance abuse treatment, provided no positive drug screens this period of supervision, remains in full compliance with monthly online reporting as directed by her probation officer, and has no pending charges as indicated by july 24, 2014, she had complied with all terms of her probation, including payment of all fines and completion of required community service hours. she wished to have her 1 all further undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 2 subd. (d), 459.) 3 n working as a cashier at a retail store and has been promoted to customer service manager. she has had no contacts with law enforcement since her conviction, and does not drink alcohol or - been an outstanding citizen, paying taxes, contributing to the community, and taking care of her elderly parents. she intends to help care for her mother, and her stepfather who has health issues. on september 22, 2014, the trial court summarily denied the petition. marshall appeals discussion marshall contends that the trial court abused its discretion when it denied her petition. we disagree. under penal code section 1203.4 . . . , a defendant who has been convicted of a crime and granted probation is entitled to have his record expunged after the period of if he comes within any one of three fact situations: (a) he has fulfilled the conditions of his probation for the entire period; (b) he has been discharged before the termination of the period of probation; or (c) in any case in which a court, in its discretion and the interests of justice, determines he should be granted relief. (people v. mclernon (2009) 174 cal.app.4th 569, 571-572; people v. butler (1980) 105 cal.app.3d 585, 587.)3 where ts order on a petition 3 which a defendant has fulfilled the conditions of probation for the entire period of probation, or has been discharged prior to the termination of the period of probation, or in any other case in which a court, in its discretion and the interests of justice, determines that a defendant should be granted the relief available under this section, the defendant shall, at any time after the termination of the period of probation, if he or she is not then serving a sentence for any offense, on probation for any offense, or charged with the commission of any offense, be permitted by the court to withdraw his or her plea of guilty or plea of nolo contendere and enter a plea of not guilty; or, if he or she has been convicted after a plea of not guilty, the court shall set aside the verdict of guilty; and, in either case, the court shall thereupon dismiss the accusations or information against the defendant and except as noted below, he or she shall thereafter be released from all 4 for relief under section 1203.4 turns on the interpretation of the relevant statutory provisions, we independently review the order. (people v. seymour (2015) 239 cal.app.4th 1418, 1428.) thus, there are three situations in which a defendant may be entitled to have his or her conviction dismissed. the first twowhen the defendant fulfilled the conditions of probation for the entire probationary period or when the defendant was discharged before the termination of the period of probationrequire the court to grant the requested relief if the conditions are met. the last requires the court to determine whether, in its discretion and the interests of justice, the relief should be granted. (people v. mclernon, supra, 174 cal.app.4th at p. 574; people v. holman (2013) 214 cal.app.4th 1438, 1459.) marshall contends that because she has fulfilled the conditions and terms of probation, the trial court was required, as a matter of law, to grant the petition. alternatively, she argues that denial of her petition was an abuse of discretion in light of her post-conviction record. she argues that honest, upright, and moral life evidenced and is the type of candidate the legislature had in mind when it passed the law allowing expungement. while , as she admits, she has not yet completed probation. qualification for relief under the first scenariofulfilling the conditions of probation during the entire probationary periodrequires exactly that: fulfillment of all the conditions of probation throughout the entire period of probation. any violation of any of the probationary terms will disqualify a probationer from seeking dismissal under the first scenario.people v. holman, supra, 214 cal.app.4th at p. 1459.) since marshall has not yet completed probation, she cannot have met the requirement that she fulfill all conditions throughout the entire period. marhsall obviously does not qualify under the second scenario, which applies only if penalties and disabilities resulting from the offense of which he or she has been 5 probation has been terminated and the defendant discharged before the probationary period has expired. (id. at p. 1460; people v. chandler (1988) 203 cal.app.3d 782, 790.) has fulfilled the conditions of probation for the entire period of probation, or has been discharged prior to the termination of the period of probation, or in any other case in which a court, in its discretion and the interests of justice, determines that a defendant should be granted the relief available under this section, the defendant shall, at any time after the termination of the period of probation, if he or she is not then serving a sentence for any offense, on probation for any offense, or charged with the commission of any offense, be permitted by the court to withdraw his or her plea of guilty 1203.4, subd. (a)(1), iunavailable until the defendant has completed or been discharged from probation.4 marshall may, of course, petition for dismissal under section 1203.4 once she has completed her probationary term. (people v. mclernon, supra, 174 cal.app.4th at p. 577.) 4 given that marshall would not have been eligible for dismissal under section 1203.4 in any event, we do not rearequired to hold a noticed hearing on her motion. 6 disposition the order is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports aldrich, acting p. j. we concur: lavin, j. jones, j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 