filed 9/22/15 p. v. rabago ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. rodolfo rabago, defendant and appellant. b260313 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ka104614) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, thomas falls, judge. affirmed. jennifer hansen, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, mary sanchez and zee rodriguez, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * 2 a jury convicted rodolfo rabago of kidnapping victim cecile bacani for the purpose of carjacking (pen. code,  209.5, subd. (a))1 and found true he personally used a deadly and dangerous weapon (a bb gun) ( 12022, subd. (b)(2)). appellant admitted allegations he suffered three prior strike convictions ( 667, subds. (b)-(j), 1170.12), two prior serious felony convictions ( 667, subd. (a)(1)), and one prior prison term ( 667.5, subd. (b)). the court denied his motion to strike one of his prior convictions pursuant to people v. superior court (romero) (1996) 13 cal.4th 497 (romero) and sentenced him to 36 years to life, consisting of 25 years to life under the three strikes law, plus one year for the deadly weapon enhancement, plus 10 years for the two prior convictions pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1). on appeal, he contends (1) the trial court abused its discretion in refusing to strike two of his prior convictions pursuant to romero; (2) his sentence constituted cruel and/or unusual punishment under the federal and state constitutions; and (3) the court misunderstood it had no discretion to strike his one-year sentence for the deadly weapon enhancement. we affirm. statement of facts at approximately 2:00 p.m. on february 6, 2014, bacani exited a tj maxx store in walnut and entered her car. after she shut the side and pointed a gun at her. she tried to lock the door and keep it closed, but he pulled it open, climbed over her, and got into the passenger seat. he kept the gun pointed at her around walnut, then headed west toward los angeles. at some point he told her to take her for about two-thirds of that time. they ended up in downtown los angeles. when bacani stopped at a stoplight, she noticed two marked police cars. she grabbed her purse and ran out of the car toward them. 1 undesignated statutory citations are to the penal code unless otherwise noted. 3 los angeles police officers jason janata and cesar mendoza were stopped at that stoplight at the intersection of first and spring streets when they saw bacani jump out of the passenger seat. the officers exited their car with weapons drawn and ordered appellant out of the car and onto the ground. appellant sat in the car for a few seconds and attempted to put the car in gear, then complied, at which point the officers detained him. he was wearing white cotton gloves. as officer mendoza walked him to the sidewalk, he t her, man. i just wanted her to take me officer mendoza checked the car and found a loaded black bb gun in a black bag in the passenger side floorboard. it resembled a real black handgun and did not have a bright red or orange tip. deputy sheriff yvonne shannon was assigned to the walnut station and went to los angeles later that day to take custody of appellant. while they were inside her car, she advised him of his rights, which he waived, and he told her what happened. he said he was waiting outside tj maxx on a bench when he saw bacani approach. he asked for a ride from her and she ignored him. when she came out of the store, he followed her to her car, took out the bb gun, forced his way into her car, and ordered her to drive away. they drove to los angeles, at which point she jumped out of the car yelling for help when she saw police cars. he explained he wanted to get to los angeles, but he did not know how to get there. he said he knew what he was doing was wrong. discussion 1. romero motion appellant admitted he suffered three prior convictions that constituted strikes under the three strikes law: a burglary conviction in 1999 ( 459); and kidnapping and attempted carjacking convictions in the same case in 2000 ( 207, 664/215). as part of his written sentencing memorandum, appellant requested the court exercise its discretion and strike his prior convictions pursuant to romero, citing the following circumstances: he had a history of drug use and drug convictions; he was homeless and uneducated; he 4 had been victimized in prison and attempted suicide numerous times; he was the victim of sexual abuse by family members when he was young; for the current offense, he did not harm bacani and his actions were impulsive; and he was remorseful and did not want to go to trial, but his counsel was unable to work out a plea deal and an open plea was not an option. the prosecution opposed the motion, arguing the vicurrent conviction, his criminal history, and his violent character placed him within the terms and spirit of the three strikes law. in particular, the prosecution emphasized the victions for kidnapping and attempted carjacking (which appellant has not disputed): january 18, 2000, victim, jose roberto diaz was parked in a shopping center parking lot when he was approached by the defendant. the defendant produced a black handgun and ordered the victim to get in the vehicle. defendant then got into the passenger seat and ordered the victim to drive, giving him directions as they went. defendant had victim pull over in a parking lot, was ordered to lay face down on the ground, where defendant robbed him of his money and jewelry. he then ordered the different places, driving around in circles at times. defendant forced the victim to drive him around for approximately 4 hours before exiting the vehicle. victim diaz drove directly to the police station. incident to police, detectives learned that another similar incident had just been reported. in that incident, defendant approached victim siliberto gomez and asked for a ride. the victim agreed. defendant got into the car and gave the victim directions. suddenly, defendant produced a handgun, across the victim, and tried to open the driver side door, attempting to push the victim out of the vehicle. scared for his life, the victim recalled seeing police cars parked nearby, 5 and drove straight towards them. defendant was apprehended and charged with both submissions follows: mr. rabago, you have been convicted of three separate extremely violent offenses. you have now picked up another kidnapping and kidnapping for purposes of carjacking, and that is, depriving the owner of the vehicle even temporarily. now any a bus and not paid for fair [sic]. you could have gotten on a train and not paid for fair [sic]. they do it every day. they catch them every once in a while, but then you end up that you meet the spirit of romero and its progeny. so i do want the record to reflect that i have considered romero. i have considered its progeny. i have taken a look at aggravating and mitigating factors. since there is a crossover, let me be clear. be in your motion tomotionsentencing memorandum. i disagree with you on that. i a crime of somebody who knows no other way of doing things other than using force and according to everything we have, she ignored him, which was her right. she went in the store, came out, and he carjacked her, got in her car, made her drive all overnot extremely sophisticated. 6 poor woman thought he was talking about pico rivera instead of the pico district in l.a. from there we do the sic] true. frankly, the prospects, your age[2] and the prospects of you ever leading a straight life are slim and none. [defense counsel] has done a wonderful job for you and has fought on your behalf, butand the court recognizes 3 under romero, a trial court retains discretion to strike or vacate prior felony conviction allegations under the three strikes law in furtherance of justice. (people v. williams (1998) 17 cal.4th 148, 158.) in exercising this discretion, the court must prior serious and/or violent felony convictions, and the particulars of his background, whole or in part, and hence should be treated as though he had not previously been id. at p. 161.) we review the people v. 2 appellant was 34 years old at the time of his sentencing. 3 convictions in the same case in 2000 should be treated as one strike or two. the court never directly answered that question before refusing to strike any of the prior convictions. we note they constituted separate strikes because they involved separate incidents and separate victims. (people v. rusconi (2015) 236 cal.app.4th 273, 275 [two manslaughter convictions involving two victims in one incident constituted two strikes].) fourth strike, so the court would have had to strike at least two of his prior convictions to affect his sentence under the three strikes law. because we find the court did not abuse its discretion in refusing to strike any of 7 carmony its decision is so irrational or arbitrary that no reasonable p(id. at p. 377.) the trial court acted well within its discretion in refusing to strike any of the court understood its discretion and carefully notwithstanding the factors raised by appellant, the prospects for the future placed him well within both the letter and the spirit of the three strikes law. the trial court properly viewed appellant as a career criminal. he was convicted of burglary in 1999. while on probation for that offense, he was convicted of kidnapping and attempted carjacking in 2000. he was sentenced to 15 years 10 months and paroled in september 2012. not two years later, he committed the instant offense, which was nearly identical to his 2000 kidnapping conviction: both involved appellant approaching the victim in a parking lot, forcing the victim into the car at gunpoint, and forcing the victim to drive him around for hours (sometimes in circles). the 2000 attempted carjacking conviction was also similar: he forced the victim to drive around at gunpoint and tried to push the victim out of the car, stopping only because the victim spotted police cars nearby. in all three instances, his actions created a high risk of harm to the victims involvedin the 2000 kidnapping he held the victim at gunpoint; in the 2000 attempted carjacking he tried to push the victim out of the car; and in the current case, bacani was forced to exit her car and run to safety in the middle of a busy street in criminal history, his prospects of leading a law-biding life are virtually nonexistent. appellant contends the trial court abused its discretion by not expressly considering his age and the lengthy sentence he still would have received in a two-strike case. (see people v. garcia also a relevant consideration when deciding whether to strike a prior conviction allegation; in fact, it is the overarching consideration because the underlying purpose of people v. 8 bishop also presents an open-ended inquiry because, when considered in conjunction with the how long the state maintains an interest in keeping the defendant as a public charge and the court did not expressly discuss e lesser sentence he could have received if the court struck two of his prior convictions, the prosecution set out the maximum sentence in its sentencing memorandum and the court expressly dered and rejected a lesser sentence. (people v. myers (1999) 69 cal.app.4th 305, 310 presumed to have considered all of the relevant factors in the absence of an affirmative people v. carmony, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 379.) 2. cruel and/or unusual punishment appellant contends his 36-years-to-life sentence violates the ban on cruel and unusual punishment in the eight amendment to the united states constitution and the corresponding ban on cruel or unusual punishment in article 1, section 17 of the california constitution. respondent argues appellant forfeited this argument because he failed to raise it in the trial court. we agree. (people v. russell (2010) 187 cal.app.4th 981, 993 (russell); people v. norman (2003) 109 cal.app.4th 221, 229shall reach the merits under the relevant constitutional standards, in the interest of judicial economy to prevent the inevitable ineffectiveness-of-nt has raised here in his reply brief. (russell, supra, at p. 993; see norman, supra, at p. 230.) under both the state and federal constitutions, a sentence may be cruel and/or unusual if it is grossly disproportionate to the crime committed. (lockyer v. andrade 9 (2003) 538 u.s. 63, 73 (andrade); people v. dillon (1983) 34 cal.3d 441, 478.) under federal law, the precise contours of the disproportionality question are unclear, but disproportionality andrade, supra, at p. so disproportionate to the crime for which it is inflicted that it shocks the conscience and in re lynch (1972) 8 cal.3d 410, 424.) are (1) the nature of the offense and the offender with regard to the degree of danger present to society, (2) comparison of the challenged punishment with the punishment prescribed for more serious crimes in the jurisdiction, and (3) comparison of the (russell, supra, 187 cal.app.4th at p. 993, citing lynch, supra, at pp. 425-427.) likewise limit our analysis to pointing out the circumstances discussed aboveincluding violent criminal history and the potential for violence and harm in the instant casemake this case far from one thaconstitution. (see people v. gray (1998) 66 cal.app.4th 973, 992-993 [rejecting proportionality challenge to 30-years-to-life sentence under three strikes law for attempted carjacking and attempted kidnapping].) likewise, this was not one of the exceedingly rare case[s] that violates the united states constitution. (andrade, supra, 538 u.s. at p. 73; see rummel v. estelle (1980) 445 u.s. 263, 265-266, 285 [rejecting challenge to life sentence for current conviction of obtaining $120.75 by false pretenses and prior convictions for passing a forged check for $28.36 and using fraudulent credit card to obtain $80 of goods or services].) 3. deadly weapon enhancement imposed the one-year low term for the section 12022, subdivision (b)(2) deadly weapon 10 enhancement4 12022(b)(2) [(deadly weapon enhancement)]. it was a bb gun. he completely did not know the difference nor would she based on the gun. she was scared to death, and she was frightened when she was in court. [] however, i do believe that the have in sentencing argues the italicized language demonstrates the trial court did not understand it had discretion to strike the section 12022, subdivision (b)(2) deadly weapon enhancement entirely, rather than impose the one-year low term. he ing decision was therefore an abuse of discretion and violated his due process rights. we disagree. appellant is correct the court retained discretion to strike the section 12022, subdivision (b)(2) enhancement. al matter, a court has discretion under section 1385, subdivision (c), to dismiss or strike an enhancement, or (people v. jones (2007) 157 cal.app.4th 1373, 1378-1379, fn. omitted.) that discretion includes striking enhancements under section 12022, subdivision (b). (jones, at pp. 1381-1382.) on the erroneous assumption it lacked discretion, remand is necessary so that the trial court may have the opportunity to exercise its sentencing discretion at a new sentencing 4 y uses a deadly or dangerous weapon in the commission of a felony or attempted felony shall be punished by an additional and consecutive term of imprisonment in the state prison for one year, unless use of a deadly or dangerous weapon is an element of that subdivision (b)(2) imposes one, two, or three years when the person described in subdivision (b)(1) is convicted of carjacking or attempted carjacking. 11 retiopeople v. brown (2007) 147 cal.app.4th 1213, 1228.) but remand for resentencing is not required if the record demonstrates silent concerning whether the trial court misunderstood its sentencing discretion. error haid. at pp. 1228-1229.) read in context, the courtsentencingweapon enhancement under section 1385. the court was most likely referring to its discretionary sentencing choice under section 12022, subdivision (b)(2) as compared to not involve discretionary choices: the 25-years-to-life three strikes sentence once the court romero request; and the imposition of two 5-year enhancements pursuant to section 667, subdivision (a)(1), which are mandatory and not subject to section 1385. ( 1385, subd. (b).) the court also stated it believed the sentence imposed was appropriate, demonstrating it would not have stricken the enhancement in any event. without a stronger showing that the court did not understand it had discretion to strike the section 12022, subdivision (b)(2) enhancement and would have exercised that discretion, remand for resentencing is not warranted. disposition the judgment is affirmed. flier, j. we concur: bigelow, p. j. rubin, j. 