filed 8/17/16 p. v. queseda ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. michael quesada, defendant and appellant. b260485 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma051089) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, john murphy, judge. reversed. theresa osterman stevenson, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, scott a. tarlyle and timothy m. weiner, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. ___________________________________ 2 introduction a jury convicted michael quesada of attempted voluntary manslaughter, as a lesser included offense of attempted murder, and assault with a deadly weapon. the jury found true the allegations that quesada personally used a deadly and dangerous weapon (a stabbing instrument) and personally inflicted great bodily injury. (pen. code,  12022, subd. (b)(1), 12022.7, subd. (a).)1 in a bifurcated proceeding, quesada waived his right to a jury trial, and he admitted he suffered a serious or violent felony conviction within the meaning of the three strikes law ( 667, subds. (b)-(i), 1170.12), suffered a prior serious felony conviction ( 667, subd. (a)(1)), and served two prior prison terms ( 667.5, subd. (b)). quesada, representing himself, filed a motion for a new trial. the trial court denied his motion for a new trial and his request to continue the sentencing hearing. the court then sentenced quesada to 15 years in prison. quesada raises four arguments on appeal. first, he argues that the trial court erred by refusing his request to instruct the jury on self-defense. second, he contends that the trial court erred in refusing to conduct an evidentiary hearing in connection with his motion for a new trial. third, quesada argues that the court abused its discretion in denying his request for a short continuance to allow him to prepare for sentencing. finally, quesada argues that the court erred in calculating his presentence custody -defense, the trial court erred in refusing to give the requested self-defense instructions. because we conclude the failure to instruct on self-defense was not harmless, we reverse. 1 statutory references are to the penal code. 3 factual and procedural background a. the combatants and their relationship this criminal prosecution arises out of a fight at a party in november 2010 between quesada and his friend, antonio canales. girlfriend, desiray yadao. at the time of the fight, canales lived with yadao and seven-year-had known each other for several years, and were friends when canales began dating yadao. although the two men had fought on prior occasions, these fights, according to canales, canales testified that he and quesada had engaged in quesada agreed that he and canales were friends. at the time of the fight, quesada was married to someone else and had another child from that marriage. quesada told investigators that, although yadao sometimes made it difficult for him to yadao had sole custody of their child, and quesada had supervised visitation. on november 20, 2010 canales and yadao went to a party at the home of a friend lenged canales to a fight. the two men engaged in a fistfight, which escalated when canales used a chokehold on quesada and quesada used a stabbing instrument on canales. as a result of the fight, canales suffered a collapsed lung. at trial, canales, yadao, and another person at the party, hancel villatoro, 4 b. testimony was very different on the two days he testified. on the first day, canales stated that he fought with someone at the party he did not know. he said he did not recall seeing quesada at the party and did not recall getting into a fight with him. canales testified that he has a bad memory because he drinks a lot of alcohol and smokes a lot of marijuana, although he did not drink or smoke at the party. he stated that a lot of people at the party were outside pushing each other and fighting, and that all of a sudden he got hit in the face. he did not realize he had been stabbed until after the fight. when the prosecutor showed canales pictures of stab wounds on his chest, shoulder area, left tricep, groin area, and neck, canales confirmed he received those wounds during the fight. canales stated he did not go to the hospital immediately because he did not think the wounds were serious. in fact, he did not think they were stab wounds, but something that just broke his skin. canales also stated on his first day of testimony that, two days after the fight, he went to the hospital because he was having trouble breathing. canales said he was under the influence of alcohol when he went to the hospital, and he did not recall the treatment he received or his conversations with law enforcement officers that day. on his second day of testimony, canales told a different story. he said stress could have interfered with his memory.2 he remembered that quesada was at the november 20, 2010 party and that he fought with him that night. canales testified that when he walked outside of the house he saw approximately 20 people fighting. he and face. the first punch did not knock canales down, but he and quesada subsequently tripped and both of them fell to the ground. at first, canales was on top, with one of his 2 canales was in custody during the trial for failure to comply with a subpoena to testify in this case. on the first day, he testified that he was not afraid to testify, but he did not want to be at the trial. on the second day, his testimony was more consistent with what he had told the police. he said he had been afraid, not because quesada or anyone else had threatened him 5 approximately 30 seconds, they rolled over and quesada was on top of canales, and quesada had both of his hands free. canales testified that while quesada was on top of him, canales reached up, put canales that the chokehold lasted five seconds. while canales had quesada in a chokehold, he felt specifically testified that first he put quesada in a chokehold, then he felt the stabbing to his groin, and then he yelled for someone to get quesada off of him. canales thought the fight lasted a minute or two. after people pulled quesada off of him, canales got up and walked back inside the house. canales saw people restraining quesada and telling him to leave. quesada was cursing at canales, but he was not making threats. canales testified that, once he was inside the house, other people at the party observed holes in his shirt and noticed the stab wounds. he drank a beer and played video games until about 4:00 a.m., when he left with yadao. canales did not see quesada come back to the house that night, nor did he canales after the fight. c. version of the fight yadao testified that on the night of the party canales had five or six beers and was after she had been at the party for approximately two hours, yadao heard the time, she was in another room with canales and others. ynamed joe, or anyone else, to come outside and fight him. when yadao went outside, eet him on the 6 in the face. yadao testified that, although there was a crowd outside arguing, canales and quesada were the only ones physically fighting. other people were standing around watching the fight, and she was watching from about 14 feet away. were on the ground, quesada was on top at first and was hitting canales. a minute later, canales was on top, and he was hitting quesada and holding him in a headlock. yadao was uncertain who was on top at the point canales had quesada in a headlock. yadao thought that canales held quesada in a headlock for about two minutes while quesada continued swinging and flailing his arms at canale body. yadao testified that canales into the house with canales. she did not see what quesada did after the fight, but he was not chasing after canales or threatening him. once inside the house, yadao saw that s, and they left the party an hour later, around midnight. in the car on the way home, canales told yadao that he did not know why the fight occurred. d. version of the fight me, he had known quesada for approximately six months. during the party on november 20, 2010, villatoro heard people saying that quesada was outside the house, and he heard people asking quesada to leave. when villatoro went outside, he heard quesada angrily yelling, him from fighting canales. villatoro knew that quesada came to fight canales because quesada had challenged canales to fight before, and the two had fought at another party at the same house in may 2010. after approximately 10 minutes, canales came out of the house to the front yard and took off his shirt, which villatoro understood as signaling an agreement by canales 7 to fight quesada. villatoro was watching from approximately 40 feet away. he did not see who threw the first punch, but he thought they both swung at the same time. he recalled seeing quesada in a headlock or a chokehold that lasted 10 or 15 seconds while quesada and canales were still on their feet. villatoro saw canales and quesada fall to the ground, but he did not remember who was on top first. he recalled that they were on the ground for one or two minutes and that it looked like an even fight. he then heard quesada with any type of weapon in his hand. villatoro was back in the house, he saw canales with his shirt off and saw wounds that , and the police did not come to the house. e. the investigation two days after the party, canales went to the hospital because he was in pain and was having trouble breathing. at that time, deputy christian chamness of the los receiving treatment at an urgent care facility in lancaster. based on information he obtained from canales, deputy chamness contacted quesada. they agreed to meet in a workplace, a construction site. at the meeting, deputy chamness found construction the front passenger area. deputy chamness looked through the car for other tools that could have been used to cut, impale, or puncture, but did not find any. he booked the screwdriver into evidence, but never had it analyzed for blood. deputy chamness asked quesada if he had been in a fight with canales. quesada acknowledged that he had been in a fight with canales in may 2010, but denied the november 2010 incident. deputy chamness described quesada as cooperative, even 8 family. the next day, sergeant richard cartmill interviewed quesada at the lancaster station jail and recorded the interview. the people played the recorded interview for the jury. in the recording, quesada denied attendnovember 20, 2010 and denied he had fought with canales that night. in response to elbow, quesada said he was working at a construction site and had fallen from a trash can while trying to push down the debris filling the container. quesada would not give contact information for his employer because he did not want to involve him. f. dr. loren rauch treated canales at the hospital for multiple stab wounds to the chest, and he diagnosed quesada with a collapsed lung as the result of one of the stab wounds. dr. rauch also testified that the wounds were not consistent with stabbing by a phillips head screwdriver. some of the wounds appeared linear, while others appeared caused by a cylindrical object, like a pen or a nail. g. the -defense and mutual combat or initial aggressor counsel for quesada asked the court to instruct the jury pursuant to calcrim nos. 3470 and 3471 on self-defense and the right to self-defense where the defendant engages in mutual combat or is the initial aggressor. the trial court acknowledged that it had anticipated quesada would request these instructions, but denied both requests. -defense is a defense to <insert list of pertinent crimes charged>. the defendant is not guilty of (that/those crime[s]) if (he/she) used force against the other person in lawful (self-defense/ [or] defense of another). the defendant acted in lawful (self-defense/ [or] defense of another) 9 if: 1. the defendant reasonably believed that (he/she/ [or] someone else/ [or] <insert name of third party>) was in imminent danger of suffering bodily injury [or was in imminent danger of being touched unlawfully]; 2. the defendant reasonably believed that the immediate use of force was necessary to defend against that danger; and 3. the defendant used no more force than was reasonably necessary to defend against that that there was insufficient evidence that quesada used only the amount of force that a reasonable person would believe was necessary under the circumstances. the court -defense. and that is the third element. . . . [reading from the instruction,] reasonably necessary to defend against danger. the defendant is only entitled to use that amount of force that a reasonable person would believe is necessary in the same situation. if the defendant used more force than was reasonable, he, the defendant, did not act in lawful self- counsel for quesada argued that the number of times quesada stabbed canales indicating that quesada inflicted the wounds wherever he could reach while struggling with canales, as opposed to making a forceful attempt to cause a deep wound to a vital would agree with you. but once he pulls that screwdriver out and stabs him 10 times, one going in two inches to puncture the lung, he has used more force than was reasonably necessary, under these circumstances, because what it was, it was a fistfight and a counsel for quesada argued refused to give the instruction. 10 a person who (engages in mutual combat/ [or who] starts a fight) has a right to self-defense only if: 1. (he/she) actually and in good faith tried to stop fighting; [and] 2. (he/she) indicated, by word or by conduct, to (his/her) opponent, in a way that a reasonable person would understand, that (he/she) wanted to stop fighting and that (he/she) had stopped fighting(;/.) give element 3 in cases of mutual combat. [and 3. (he/she) gave (his/her) opponent a chance to stop fighting.] if the defendant meets these requirements, (he/she) then had a right to self-defense if the opponent continued to fight. [however, if the defendant used only non-deadly force, and the opponent responded with such sudden and deadly force that the defendant could not withdraw from the fight, then the defendant had the right to defend (himself/herself) with deadly force and was not required to try to stop fighting(,/ or) communicate the desire to stop to the opponent[, or give the opponent a chance to stop fighting]. because there was no usal to give the mutual combat instruction, neither the attorneys nor the court discussed the bracketed part of the instruction that applies when there is evidence an initial aggressor or mutual combatant uses non-deadly force and his opponent responds with sudden, deadly force. -defense, counsel for quesada in closing argument argued facts that supported a self-defense theory. counsel argued that there was no evidence that quesada brought a weapon to the fight, such as the wounds indicated that quesada was just stabbing at areas he could reach, trying to get out it. tha 11 take a long time to stab 10 times? not when you think you are being asphyxiated, choked h. the verdict and sentence the jury convicted quesada of attempted voluntary manslaughter and assault with a deadly weapon. quesada, representing himself, filed a motion to dismiss and a motion self-defense. the court denied the motion for a new trial and sentenced quesada to 15 years in prison. quesada filed a timely notice of appeal. discussion a. standard of review and general law instructional errors are questions of law, which we review de novo. (people v. guiuan (1998) 18 cal.4th 558, 569-570; people v. jandres (2014) 226 cal.app.4th 340, principles of law relevant to the issues raised by the evidence. [citations.] the general principles of law governing the case are those principles closely and openly connected with the facts before the court, and which are necessary for the jurys understanding of the case. (people v. ramirez (2015) 233 cal.app.4th 940, 945, citing people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 154; see people v. martinez (2010) 47 cal.4th 911, 953.) in the case of defenses, the court must instruct the jury when it appears that the defendant is relying on the defense or if there is substantial evidence to support the (people v. cottone (2013) 57 cal.4th 269, 293; see people v. anderson (2011) 51 cal.4th 989, 996.) when the court knows that the defendant is relying on that defense. its inquiry then focuses on the sufficiency of such (people v. stevenson (1978) 79 cal.app.3d 976, 985; see people v. elize 12 (1999) 71 cal.app.4th 605, 615 [court should instruct on self-defense if there is substantial evidence of self-defense and the defendant requests an instruction].) in this context, substantial evidence is evidence that, if believed, would be sufficient for a uilt. (people v. eid (2010) 187 cal.app.4th 859, 879; see people v. mentch (2008) 45 cal.4th 274, 288.) in determining whether the evidence is sufficient to warrant a jury instruction, the court does not determine the credibility of the evidence, but only whether the evidence, if believed by a jury, would be sufficient to raise a reasonable doubt. (people v. mentch, at p. 288; see people v. orlosky (2015) 233 cal.app.4th 257, 269-270.) the court resolves any doubts regarding the sufficiency of the evidence to warrant an instruction in favor of the accused. (people v. moye (2009) 47 cal.4th 537, 556.) b. the court erred in refusing to give an instruction on self-defense because there was substantial evidence to support the defense to justify an act of self-defense . . . the defendant must have an honest and reasonable belief that bodily injury is about to be inflicted on him. [citation.][citation.] the threat of bodily injury must be imminent [citation], and . . . any right of self-defense is limited to the use of such force as is reasonable under the circumstances.(people v. minifie (1996) 13 cal.4th 1055, 1064-1065; see people v. casares (2016) 62 cal.4th 808, 846.) issues regarding self-defense are normally questions of fact for the jury. (people v. casares, at p. 846, see people v. vasquez (2006) 136 cal.app.4th 1176, 1179 [i]t was for the jury sitting as the trier of fact to decide whether appellant actually ; people v. romero (1999) 69 cal.app.4th 846, 853 jury must consider what would appear to be necessary to a reasonable person in a similar situationpeople v. clark (1982) 130 cal.app.3d 371, -defense, including . . . whether the force used was 13 another ground in people v. blakely (2000) 23 cal.4th 82, 92.)3 1. there was substantial evidence that the amount of force quesada used was reasonable the self-defense instruction the trial court refused to give, based on calcrim -defense is a defense to the crimes charged. the defendant is not guilty of those crimes if he used force against the other person in lawful self-defense or defense of another. the defendant acted in lawful self-defense or defense of another if: 1. the defendant reasonably believed that he or someone else was in imminent danger of suffering bodily injury . . . ; 2. the defendant reasonably believed that the immediate use of force was necessary to defend against that danger; [and] 3. the defendant used no more force than was reasonably necessary to defend against the people v. hernandez (2011) 51 cal.4th 733, 747; people v. humphrey, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 1089.) as noted, the trial court refused to give this instruction amount of force nos. 3470, 505;  197-199.) the court ruled that quesada, having stabbed canales 10 times with a screwdriver, once deep enough to puncture a lung, could not satisfy the third element of the self-defense instruction. the trial court erred. there was substantial evidence from which a jury could have found that the amount of force quesada used was reasonable under the 3 there are two types of self-defense, perfect and imperfect. both require an actual belief in the need to resort to self-defense. perfect self-defense also requires that the while imperfect self-defense does not. (people v. humphrey (1996) 13 cal.4th 1073, 1082.) while perfect self-defense is a complete defense to homicide, imperfect self-defense only reduces a homicide from murder to voluntary manslaughter. (see ibid.) 14 circumstances, despite the fact therdr. rauch -type stab wounds to the left although he estimated that the stab wound to the chest had to have been two inches dwounds were only one-half inch deep. canales testified that, except for the stab to the groin, he did not feel any of the stabs until after the fight, and he did not go to the hospital for some time after the fight because he did not think the wounds were serious. contrary not preclude a jury from concluding that the amount of force used was reasonable under the ipeople v. ross (2007) 155 cal.app.4th 1033, 1057 [for self-conduct should not consequences person cannot be expected to measure accurately the exact amount of force necessary to unless the force used was so excessive as to be clearly vindictive under the moreover, although tassertion that quesada stabbed was not a screwdriver, but a less dangerous object. significantly, dr. rauch testified that a phillips head screwdriver, the type that wounds were punctures, some linear, such that quesada could have caused them with a pen, a nail, or something similar that quesada found on the ground or had in his pocket. the police never analyzed blood, and the people never introduced it at trial. and the fact that quesada and canales had engaged in previous fistfights in which they had not used weapons is circumstantial evidence that quesada did not come to the party armed with a dangerous or deadly 15 weapon, but instead found something at the scene that he used when canales put him in a headlock. because there was substantial evidence regarding the third element of self-defense, that quesada did not use unreasonable force in defending himself from canales, the trial court should have let the jury decide whether quesada used no more force than was reasonably necessary under the circumstances.4 2. quesada was entitled to an instruction on self-defense even if he started the fight the people argue that quesada was not entitled to an instruction on self-defense because he was the initial aggressor. a person who starts a fight with non-deadly force, however, does not necessarily give up his or her right to self-defense. (see people v. ramirez, supraperson who contrives to start a fistfight or provoke a nondeadly quarrel does not thereby forfeit[ ] . . . his right to live], citing people v. conkling (1896) 111 cal. 616, 626.) for example, in people v. vasquez (2006) 136 cal.app.4th 1176, the defendant, who was in a wheelchair, called the victim into an alley to confront him about whether he had raped the id. at p. 1178.) reacting to the accusation, the victim lunged at the defendant and began to choke him. (ibid.) in response, the defendant pulled out a gun and shot the victim, killing him. (ibid.) the trial court refused to instruct the jury on imperfect self-defense because the court found the defendant created the need to defend himself by luring the victim into the alley. (id. at p. 1179 & fn. 3.) the court of appeal reversed, acknowledging that the defgenerally set in motion the circumstances that led [his] victim[ ] to attack 4 the trial court did not, and the parties on appeal do not, address whether there was substantial evidence on the first two elements of the self-defense instruction, whether quesada reasonably believed he was in imminent danger and whether immediate use of force was necessary. substantial evidence not only that the amount of force quesada used was reasonable, but also that quesada reasonably believed he was in imminent danger and that immediate use of force was necessary. 16 [him]. [citation.] but . . . the evidence suggested the victim[ ], not the defendant[ ], used unlawful force first. accordingly, [the defendant] was entitled to assert imperfect self- (id. at p. 1180; see people v. quach (2004) 116 cal.app.4th 294, 301-302 , but of a simple assault - here, although the people argue that quesada initiated the fight with deadly force, the evidence does not support their argument. to the contrary, there is substantial evidence that, although quesada started the fight using non-deadly force by hitting canales, canales was the first one to use deadly force by putting quesada in a headlock. on cross-examination, canales testified that the headlock, or chokehold, preceded the et him off me? a. yes. q: those three events give the right order? a: yes, sir. q: top of canales, but before canales put quesada in a headlock, canales testified that he did not feel the stab to his groin (the only stab he felt) until after he had quesada in a headlock. in addition, while the testimony of yadao and villatoro regarding how canales put quesada in a headlock and how long he kept him there differed in minor details, neither account supported an inference that canales put quesada in a headlock after the stabbing. because substantial evidence supported the theory that quesada started a fistfight with nondeadly force (punching) and resorted to deadly force (stabbing) only chokehold), a jury instruction on self-defense was warranted. (see people v. vasquez, supra, 136 cal.app.4th at p. 1180.) the people argue that, even if reasons. first, as quesada argues, the use of chokeholds may cause serious injury or death. (see, e.g., people v. banks (2014) 59 cal.4th 1113, 1132 [teacher put in chokehold by student 17 suffered bruised larynx, long-term throat pain, and temporary loss of voice], disapproved on other grounds by people v. scott (2015) 61 cal.4th 363; people v. brown (2016) 245 cal.app.4th 140, 160-chokehold that .) second, the issue is not whether canaquesada reasonably believed it was.5 the people cite people v. duke (1985) 174 cal.app.3d 296 for the proposition that headlocks are not deadly force. in duke the court concluded that the evidence of the headlock in that case did not support a conviction for assault with force likely to cause great bodily injury. (id. at p. 303.) thus, the issue in duke was not the chokehold endant used actually was likely to cause great bodily injury. (id. at p. 302.) duke did not hold that a headlock or a chokehold is never deadly force. as counsel for quesada argued to the trial court, although opinions may differ on whether canales would have choked quesada to death, the issue is not whether canales could or would have choked quesada to death, but whether quesada, in that moment, honestly and reasonably believed he was in imminent danger of serious bodily injury, and whether the amount of force he used was reasonably necessary to defend against the chokehold. (see people v. casares, supra, 62 cal.4th at p. 846.) fighting with [canales], communicated such a desire in such a way that a reasonable person would understand that he wanted to stop fighting, actually stopped fighting, or 5 the people also argue that did because quesada suffered only minor injuries. injuries, however, does not preclude a jury from finding, based on substantial evidence, that at the time of the fight quesada reasonably believed the headlock was life-threatening. (see people v. humphrey, supra, 13 cal.4th at pp. 1093-[j]ustification does not depend upon the existence of actual danger but rather depends upon appearances; it is sufficient that the circumstances be such that a reasonable person would be placed in fear for his safety and that the defendant acted out of that fear 18 6 it is true, as reflected in the second self-defense instruction the trial court refused to give, calcrim no. 3471, that a defendant who starts a fight (or engages in mutual combat) has a right to self-defense only if the defendant tries to stop fighting, indicates by words or conduct that he or she wants to stop fighting, and gives his or her opponent a chance to stop fighting. (see people v. johnson (2009) 180 cal.app.4th 702, 712; people v. quach, supra, 116 cal.app.4th at pp. 300-301.) and it is also true that there is no evidence quesada tried to stop fighting, indicated he wanted to stop fighting, or gave canales a chance to stop fighting. as also provided by calcrim no. 3471, however, a person who starts a fight (or where the person used non-such sudden and deadly force that the defendant could not withdraw from the fight.ee people v. frandsen (2011) 196 cal.app.4th 266, 271; people v. quach, supra, 116 cal.app.4th at pp. 301-302.) as the people appropriately concede, acknowledging that an initial aggressor or mutual combatant still has a right to self-defense when his or her the initial aggressor, completely forfeited his right to self-defense under all the headlock so suddenly that quesada could not try, announce or indicate that he wanted, or give canales an opportunity to stop fighting. the fight lasted a very short time, perhaps only a 6 as noted, at trial neither the court nor the parties addressed whether quesada was the initial aggressor or a mutual combatant and, if so, whether he was nevertheless entitled to instructions on self-defense. in his opening brief quesada noted that the trial court considered calcrim no. 3470 and calcrim no. 3471 separately, and he stated -defense during primarily that quesada was not entitled to self-defense instructions because he was the initial aggressor, quesada addressed that argument in his reply brief. the people do not argue that quesada forfeited his argument that the trial court erred by failing to instruct on self-defense pursuant to calcrim no. 3471. 19 minute or two. canales described wrestling with quesada and, after quesada rolled on ing yadao testified that canales had quesada in a headlock within a minute of when the fight began. these facts constitute substantial evidence that quesada did not have the opportunity to comply with the three elements of calcrim no. 3471.7 c. the trial in refusing to instruct on self-defense was not harmless having concluded that substantial evidence supported instructing the jury on self-defense, even though quesada was either the initial aggressor or engaged in mutual combat, we will not reverse unless, after an examination of the entire case and all the evidence, it is reasonably probable that quesada would have obtained a more favorable outcome had the error not occurred. (see people v. blakeley (2000) 23 cal.4th 82, 93, citing people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 836 (watson) and people v. breverman, supra, 19 cal.4th at p. 176.)8 under the watson standard, an instructional error is 7 the people argue that often thought about paybackthe may 2010 fight, and his statement at the end of the fight, that quesada did not act in self-defense. and perhaps they do. but the issue is not whether there was substantial evidence quesada did not act in self-defense, but whether there was substantial evidence that he did. and there was. 8 citing federal authority such as united states v. escobar de bright (9th cir. 1984) jury on self-the standard set forth in chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s.18, 24, where federal constitutional errors are reviewed under the standard mandating reversal unless the government proves the error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. the california supreme court has not yet determined which standard of prejudice applies to an erroneous failure to instruct on self-defense. (see people v. salas (2006) 37 cal.4th 967, 984; people v. simon (1995) 9 cal.4th 493, 506, fn. 11.) most courts of appeal that have addressed the issue of instructional errors related to defenses, however, have applied the watson standard (see, e.g., people v. villanueva (2008) 169 cal.app.4th 41, 52; 20 prejudicial where, after an examination of the entire cause, including the evidence [the reviewing court] is of the opinion that it is reasonably probable that a result more favorable to the appealing party would have been reached in the absence of the error. (watson, at p. 836.) probability under watson does not mean more likely than not, but merely a reasonable chance, more than an abstract possibility.people v. racy (2007) 148 cal.app.4th 1327, 1335; see people v. wilkins (2013) 56 cal.4th 333, 351.) the jury heard evidence that canales put quesada in a chokehold before quesada stabbed canales, that the stabbing instrument was not a screwdriver quesada brought with him to the fight, and that most of the wounds were approximately half an inch deep that quesada was not entitled to instructions on self-defense, the people were able to arily constituted illegal force: -defense in this case. if you found that the defendant did, had the trial court instructed the jury with calcrim nos. 3470 and 3471, including the paragraph explaining that an initial aggressor may only use deadly force in certain limited circumstances, there is a reasonable probability that quesada would have obtained a more favorable result. the jury would have had the opportunity to evaluate whether the stabbing was, as the prosecutor argued, necessarily illegal force. the jury would have known that quesada was justified in using deadly force, even though he started or agreed to the fight and did not try to or communicate he wanted to stop fighting, if (1) quesada used non- people v. russell (2006) 144 cal.app.4th 1415, 1431-1432), or concluded that the error was either harmless or prejudicial under either standard (see, e.g., people v. watt (2014) 229 cal.app.4th 1215, 1220; people v. sherow (2011) 196 cal.app.4th 1296, 1309). lenient (to the prosecution) watson standard, we need not decide which standard applies. (see people v. simon, supra, 9 cal.4th at p. 506, fn. 11; people v. russell, supra, 144 cal.app.4th at p. 1432.) 21 also would have known that the people had the burden to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that quesada did not use excessive (see people v. saavedra has the burden to prove a defendant did not act in self-defense, because self-defense people v. lee (2005) 131 cal.app.4th 1413, 1429 -defense . . . the people have the burden to prove beyond a reasonable doubt that the defendant did not act in self-people v. adrian (1982) 135 cal.app.3d 335, 340-341 [the people have the burden to prove beyond a reasonable -defense].) at a minimum, it is reasonably probable that one or more jurors would have found that the people had not proved beyond a reasonable doubt that quesada did not act in self-defense, which would have resulted in, at worst, a hung jury, or at best, an acquittal. (see people v. mason nstructed jury would not have voted to acquit [defendant], the views of some jurors may have been swayed resulting in people v. soojian (2010) under the watson standard a hung jury is considered a more favorable result than a guilty verdictpeople v. poletti (2015) 240 cal.app.4th -defense was not harmless. disposition the judgment is reversed. segal, j. we concur: perluss, p. j. zelon, j. 