filed 2/5/16 p. v. giddens ca2/3 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division three the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. antwuan giddens, defendant and appellant. b260780 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ya081809) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, scott t. millington, judge. modified, and, as modified, affirmed. linn davis, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, james william bilderback ii and jaime l. fuster, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 introduction defendant and appellant antwuan giddens was separately charged with crimes arising out of two shootings occurring almost two years apart. the cases were consolidated for trial, and giddens was found guilty of voluntary manslaughter and of attempted premeditated murder. he contends on appeal that it was reversible error to consolidate the cases. he also contends there was insufficient evidence to support his conviction for voluntary manslaughter. we reject these contentions, but we modify the sentence to correct an error. we affirm the judgment as modified. factual and procedural background i. factual background. a. june 7, 2010: the murder of joshua flynn. friends donald clark (take off) and joshua flynn (little pancho) were nutty block crips. on june 7, 2010, they 14-year-old r.p., were going , in blood territory. although they were going into blood territory, all three w the crips color, [s] its birth and r.p. had guns. at least two different groups banged on them as they walked, although they were given passes. but, when they were in front of the amber motel, two men asked clark where he was from. when clark said he was from nutty block crips, one man banged his saying centinela park families or center park. when clark said, , later identified as ernel jones, his hood. jones fuck naps, incensed, clark wanted to fight jones, knowing that flynn would back clark up. r.p. tried to push an angry clark away, telling him to leave it alone. but when jones rang out, fired from the man with jones, identified as giddens. clark and r.p. did not hear flynn say anything before the shots rang out. flynn, shot twice, died. 3 no gun was found on flynn, clark and r.p. no guns were recovered from the crime scene. video surveillance from the motel depicted part of these events. b. january 2, 2012: the attempted murder of jason mckinney. on the morning of january 2, 2012, ashley lewis and jason mckinney were at a pawn shop on la cienega. according to lewis, they were in the parking lot when giddens approached their car. mckinney said mckinney and githen he pu lewis was shot in each thigh. mckinney was hit multiple times, but survived. lewis did not hear mckinney threaten giddens, and she did not see mckinney with a gun. no guns were found at the scene or in the car. video surveillance of the shooting was introduced at trial. mckinney was not a gang member. he was a professional basketball player in europe. giddens was arrested on january 5, 2012. c. gang expert evidence. police officer kerry tripp testified that most black gangs in inglewood are blood gangs. gang activity is responsible for 85 to 95 percent of crime in inglewood. center park bloods is an inglewood gang, and giddens is a member. when officer tripp would caught with a gun. committing a murder or an assault against a rival gang member or police officer generates instant respect within a gang. a gang member who wants to move up in the gang should commit victims 4 of gang crimes are reluctant to testify against gangsters, fearing retaliation and being labeled a snitch. the amber motel, where flynn was shot, is in the territory of several gangs, including spot where center park bloods go. as of june 2010, giddens has many tattoos, including out as a sign of disrespect to crips. although the expert was not familiar with giddens, he testified that giddens is a center park blood, based on giddens gang tattoos and that he committed the subject crime with a fellow gang member. the expert, however, concerning giddens; namely, no field identification cards, no arrest reports, and no reports from other officers about him. jones, who was with giddens the day flynn was shot, is a center park blood known as big sin. crip gang members going into blood territory to put in work typically would not take a 14-year-old girl with them. . based on a hypothetical modeled on the facts of the flynn shooting, officer tripp opined that such a crime was committed in association with and for the benefit of center park bloods. d. defense case. 1. giddens was born on 108th street. when giddens was 11 or 12, he was jumped into center park bloods. he remained a member of the gang until just before graduating from high school, when he was jumped out. he was offered a football scholarship to the university of cincinnati, from which he graduated with a major in criminal justice and a minor in sociology. 5 w up, was shot at.1 after that shooting, giddens was robbed at a gas station near 108th street. after these incidents, giddens got a gun. he was carrying the gun on june 7, 2010. on june 7, 2010, giddens was at the amber motel, visiting geraldine reese. he also met up with friends ernel jones and brandon young. reese left the room to get food for the group. because jones or young wanted reese giddens and jones went outside to try and catch reese. they were waiting for reese in front of the motel when giddens saw clark, flynn, and r.p. he noticed them because they wore blue, a crip color in a blood neighborhood. giddens did not say anything to them, but jones did: jones asked clark where he was from. clark and flynn both said, naps. while jones was exchanging these words with clark and/or flynn, giddens was , but he also . flynn mad dogged giddens. flynn said p.k. pancho to giddens.2 flynn said, waistband. thinking he was going to get shot, giddens shot flynn. he did not shoot at r.p. and clark. after shooting flynn, giddens ran. scared that the police would not understand what happened, giddens became a fugitive for 15 months. during that time, he stayed with his childhood friend, mckinney, for five to six months. mckinney was also a center park blood. girlfriend would lead to the police being called, giddens left mckinney. 1 2 gi unclear as to whether flynn or clark said this, but inferentially it was flynn. 6 after giddens left, his friendship with mckinney fell apart, because mckinney, in january 2011, accused giddens of burglarizing his home. mckinney sent threatening messages to giddens via text and facebook going to run into you sooner or later. g to knock your dumb a [d], kill him. also, mckinney that if i was to run into him one day he will pursue what he said he was going to do to a pawn shop. while in the pawn shop, giddens noticed a woman who looked familiar. outside, giddens saw the woman with a man who looked like mckinney. would approach him from behind and to confirm that the man was indeed mckinney, giddens walked toward mckinney. giddens decided to talk to mckinney. ome and to stop sending threatening messages. giddens also told mckinney he had a gun, trouble. mak t he too was armed and lifted his shirt to show him the gun and took off the safety. giddens repeated want trouble and was going to walk away. me seen him close his door quick, so i turned and discharge my firearm because, in the past, seat for a weapon like he was . . . going to giddens did not see mckinney with a gun. giddens fled once again. 7 2. defense gang expert testimony. robert freeman is an expert in african-ed. if three nutty block crips and mad dogging, a bystander should be concerned. a gang member would be expected to back up a fellow ii. procedural background. giddens was charged separately in connection with these two events. first, an information, filed on may 23, 2012, alleged that giddens murdered flynn (pen. code,  187, subd. (a)).3 gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)) and gun ( 12022.53, subds. (b), (c) & (d)) enhancements were also alleged. a second case charged giddens with two counts of attempted murder, arising out of the shooting of mckinney and lewis. in september 2013, the flynn murder trial went forward, resulting in a mistrial after the jury deadlocked. on october 2013, the flynn and mckinney cases were consolidated. the amended information alleged: count 1, the murder of flynn ( 187, subd. (a)) with gang ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(c)) and gun ( 12022.53, subds. (b), (c) & (d)) enhancements; count 2, the attempted premeditated murder of mckinney ( 187, subd. (a), 664); and count 3, the attempted premeditated murder of lewis. gun enhancements were alleged as to counts 2 and 3 ( 12022.53, subds. (b) & (c)). on september 25, 2014, a jury found giddens not guilty of the second degree murder of flynn but guilty of voluntary manslaughter ( 192, subd. (a)). the jury found true the gun and gang allegations. the jury found giddens guilty of the attempted premeditated murder of mckinney and found true the gun allegations. the jury found 3 all undesignated statutory references are to the penal code. 8 giddens not guilty of the attempted murder and attempted voluntary manslaughter of lewis. on december 3, 2014, the trial court sentenced giddens, on count 1, to six years plus four years for the gun enhancement ( 12022.5, subd. (a))4 plus 10 years for the gang enhancement. on count 2, the court sentenced him to seven years to life plus 20 years to life ( 12022.53, subd. (c)), consecutive to the sentence on count 1. discussion i. consolidation of the flynn and mckinney cases for trial. a. additional background. after the jury hung in the flynn case, the people moved to consolidate it with the mckinney case. when the trial court asked the prosecutor why he had not tried to consolidate the cases before the flynn case went to trial, the prosecutor explained that , or the other trial was always in a argued, the cases should be joined for trial because evidence was cross-admissible. specifically, mckinney connected the cases: giddens confessed to mckinney he killed flynn. giddens then shot mckinney to eliminate him as a witness. defense counsel responded that no discovery had been turned over to substantiate such a motive for shooting mckinney. moreover, mckinney was not called at the first flynn trial. the prosecutor, however, represented that mckinney would be called at the second trial. defense counsel pointed out that there was a gang allegation in the flynn case but not in the mckinney case. thus, there was a risk gang evidence would prejudice defendant iself- . . . it[?] 4 the court reduced the gun enhancement to a section 12022.5, subdivision (a), enhancement. (people v. fialho (2014) 229 cal.app.4th 1389.) 9 the trial court found that the two cases involved the same class of crimes and that with regards to [the mckinney] case and consciousness of guilt with regards to [the flynn] appropriate. at trial, d the people rested without calling mckinney in its case in chief. during cross-examination of giddens in the defense case, the prosecutor asked whether, after flynn was killed, giddens and mckinney discussed shooting people. at sidebar, defense counsel objected that the prosecutor was eliciting hearsay statement: so i just want to know in a hhe prosecutor had failed to obtain regood-in contact with him, and i think i have every right to ask the defendant about these prior inconsistent statements-faith the prosecutor then asked giddens: staying with him, a heart-to-heart [conversation] we could call it, where the two of you discussed shooting joshua flynn on june 7, 2010? t it true that you told jason mckinney that you felt that your back was against the wall because your dream of being a pro athlete was over? 10 . . [] . . . [] [] . . . [] ed no. mckinney would go to the police you took the opportunity to try to murder him when you saw him; ue? [] . . . [] is it true that you shot ashley lewis on purpose to try to eliminate a witness to the murder of jason mckinney that you attempted; 5 giddens also testified that mckinney knew that giddens was wanted for questioning, but mckinney never asked if giddens killed flynn. b. the trial court did not abuse its discretion by joining the flynn case with the mckinney case. the law favors consolidation of charges. (people v. soper (2009) 45 cal.4th 759, 771-772 (soper); alcala v. superior court (2008) 43 cal.4th 1205, 1220; people v. manriquez (2005) 37 cal.4th 547, 574.) section 954 therefore provides that an connected together in their commission, or different statements of the same offense or two or more different offenses of the same class of crimes or offenses, under separate counts, and if two or 5 the record does not show that defense counsel later moved, for example, to strike this testimony. but the trial court told defense counsel it could argue in closing that overted. 11 more accusatory pleadings are filed in such cases in the same court, the court may order (see also soper, at pp. 769, 771.) if these statutory requirements for joinder are met, a court nonetheless may, in its discretion, order counts to be tried separately. ( 954; people v. thomas (2012) 53 cal.4th 771, 798.) a trial defendant must make a clear showing of prejudice. (thomas, at p. 798; soper, at pp. 773-774; williams v. superior court (1984) 36 cal.3d 441, 447, superseded by statute on other grounds, as stated in alcala, at p. 1229, fn. 19.) to determine whether a trial court abused its discretion, we consider, first, the cross-admissibility of evidence in hypothetical separate trials.6 (soper, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 774.) cross-admissibility of evidence alone is normally sufficient to dispel any suggestion of prejudice. (id. at p. 775; alcala v. superior court, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 1221.) if evidence would not be cross- benefits --on of the evidence of [citations.] in making that assessment, we consider . . . : (1) whether some of the charges are particularly likely to inflame the jury against the defendant; (2) whether a weak case has been joined with a strong case or another weak case so that the totality of the evidence may alter the outcome as to some or all of the charges; or (3) whether one of the charges (but not another) is a capital offense, (soper, at p. 775.) here, the statutory requirements of section 954 were met. the flynn case and the mckinney case were of the same class of assaultive crimes; namely, murder and attempted murder. (people v. jones (2013) 57 cal.4th 899, 924; people v. miller (1990) 50 cal.3d 954, 987.) because the statutory requirements of joinder were met, giddens, to 6 our review of a trial courts ruling on a severance motion is based on the record as it existed at the time of the ruling. (people v. mckinnon (2011) 52 cal.4th 610, 630.) 12 establish that the court abused its discretion, has the high burden of showing clear prejudice. even if we assume the absence of cross-admissibility, giddens has not met his burden. (see generally  954.1; people v. capistrano (2014) 59 cal.4th 830, 848-849 [cross-admissibility is not the sine qua non of joint trials]; alcala v. superior court, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. 1222 [absence of cross-admissibility alone is insufficient to establish prejudice].) the murder charge in the flynn case and the two attempted murder charges in the mckinney case were not particularly inflammatory vis--vis the other. giddens, however, contends that the gang allegation in the flynn case and the consequent introduction of evidence to prove the allegation were likely to inflame the jury with respect to the mckinney case, in which no gang enhancement was alleged. gang evidence can have a highly inflammatory impact on a jury, creating a risk the jury will improperly infer the defendant has a criminal disposition and is therefore guilty as charged. (people v. avitia (2005) 127 cal.app.4th 185, 192-193.) but that was not particularly likely here; namely, that the gang evidence introduced as to count 1 would have a spillover effect on counts 2 and 3. opinion was and although the expert testified that giddens was a center park blood, he had no evidence such as field identifications, arrest reports, and information from other officers that giddens was an active gang member. moreover, the flynn murder clearly took place in a gang context, but the mckinney shooting did not. flynn was shot after ted gang challenges with jones. in contrast, the mckinney shooting did not take place in a gang context. rather, the evidence was that mckinney and giddens were long time friends who had a falling out. there was no evidence giddens shot mckinney for a gang-related reason.7 7 admitted for a (calcrim no. 303.) 13 nor was giddens prejudiced by the joinder of a weak case (flynn) with a strong case (mckinney). when assessing the relative strengths and weaknesses of two joined weighedand severance is not requiredmerely because properly joined charges might make it more difficult for a defendant to avoid conviction compared with his or her chances were the charges to be separately tried. (soper, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 781.) the cases were of relatively equal strength. in both the flynn and mckinney cases, there was video surveillance establishing giddens was present when the victims were shot. none of the victimsflynn, mckinney, and lewiswere armed. guns were not found on the victims or at the crime scenes. was weak. although giddens asserts the vote was six to six on the lesser included offense of voluntary manslaughter at the time of deadlock, the record is unclear. the -six, five-seven, eight-four, depending -any event, it is unknown why the jury deadlocked, and dindicative of a weak case. giddens also suggests that consolidation did not further the public policy of expenditconsolidate the cases before the first trial on the flynn murder charge. nonetheless, consolidation potentially avoided a separate trial on the mckinney case; hence, there were two instead of three trials. (see generally people v. bean (1988) 46 cal.3d 919, 939-940 [foremost among the benefits of joinder is conservation of judicial resources and public funds].) reached a pretrial disposition had giddens been convicted in a retrial of the flynn murder charge is speculative. 14 c. joinder did not result in gross unfairness. joinder of the two cases nonetheless process of law. (see generally soper, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 783; people v. bean, supra, 46 cal.3d at p. 940 [even if denial of severance was proper at the time made, we must .) giddens first suggests which may or may not have ever occurred and to proffer a theory which was not although, ultimately, tfoundation because mckinney did not testify, the trial court found that the prosecutor had proof before the prosecutor cross-examined giddens about his alleged confession to he prosecutor said he was in contact with mckinney and was trying to 8 the court found that the prosecutor was proceeding in good faith. we cannot, on this record, second guess that finding. (see people v. hughes (2002) 27 facts harmful to defendant absent a good faith belief that such facts exist, record suggested such a good faith belief].) the prosecutor then cross-examined giddens about his alleged confession to mckinney. giddens, however, denied confessing to mckinney that he shot flynn. the jury was instructed that [n]othing that the attorneys say is evidence. . . . their questions are not evthat something is true just because one of the attorneys asked a question that suggested it we presume the jury followed that instruction. (people v. sanchez (2001) 26 cal.4th 834, 852 8 mckinney had been subpoenaed and ordered back on call, but he disobeyed the order. 15 was critical of any suggestion that giddens shot flynn simply because flynn was a rival gang member; shot mckinney to eliminate him as a witness; and shot lewis to eliminate attempted murder. the jury found giddens not guilty of the second degree murder of flynn and instead found him guilty of voluntary manslaughter. the jury therefore believed giddens acted in imperfect self-defense. the jury also found giddens not guilty of offenses related to the shooting of lewis. it wanted to eliminate her as a next, giddens contends that his trial was grossly unfair because consolidating the cases undermined his defense of self-defense: a jury might buy self-defense once, but twice? the jury, however, might haevents with respect to the flynn murder because the evidence of self-defense was, in some respects, stronger than evidence of the defense in the mckinney case. in the flynn case, clark testified that he, his girlfriend, in crip colors. despite being banged on several times, they continued on. when they encountered jones and giddens at the amber motel, clark and jones exchanged gang challenges. clark wanted to fight jones, and he expected flynn to back him up. although clark said he and flynn and r.p. had a gun, testimony established that the situation was tense and fraught with danger. to some extent, it therefore -defense. this contrasts with in connection with the mckinney shooting. there, the evidence was that giddens and his longtime friend mckinney had a serious falling out. when giddens saw mckinney at the pawn shop, giddens did not walk away; instead he approached mckinney. between them, giddens showed mckinney his gun and took off the safety. he shot mckinney, although giddens did not see a gun. lewis confirmed that mckinney did not have a gun. therefore, unlike the flynn case, -defense testimony was uncorroborated. 16 finally, we reject giddensment use of it to so undercut his self-defense testimony that deliberate and premeditated is required. as we have said, the gang evidence was clearly relevant only to the flynn case. that the jury found giddens guilty of only voluntary giddens was a predator, shooting flynn and mckinney to make a name for himself in the gang. ii. sufficiency of the evidence to support the voluntary manslaughter of flynn. giddens contends there is insufficient evidence to support his conviction of voluntary manslaughter of flynn based on imperfect self-defense. in a misapplication of the standard of review, he contends that the evidence supported only one conclusion: he killed flynn in perfect self-defense. we disagree. we review the whole record in the light most favorable to the judgment below to determine whether it discloses substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. (people v. snow (2003) 30 cal.4th 43, 66.) we presume in support of the judgment the existence of every fact the trier of fact could reasonably deduce from the evidence. (people v. medina (2009) 46 cal.4th 913, 919.) testimony [that] is subject to justifiable suspicion do not justify the reversal of a judgment, for it is the exclusive province of the trial judge or jury to determine the credibility of a witness and the truth or falsity of the facts upon which a determination depends. [citation.] we resolve neither credibility issues nor evidentiary conflicts; we look for substantial evidence. [citation.] a reversal for insufficient sufficient substantial s verdict. (people v. zamudio (2008) 43 cal.4th 327, 357; see also jackson v. virginia (1979) 443 u.s. 307.) testimony of a single witness, unless physically impossible or inherently improbable, is 17 sufficient to establish a fact and support a conviction. (people v. allen (1985) 165 cal.app.3d 616.) there was sufficient evidence that giddens acted in imperfect, as opposed to perfect, self-defense. perfect self-defense applies when a defendant actually and reasonably believes he is in imminent danger of being killed or of great bodily injury and uses no more force than necessary.9 (people v. humphrey (1996) 13 cal.4th 1073, 1082.) but a defendant acts in imperfect self-defense if he actually believes he is in imminent danger of being killed or of great bodily injury and actually believes that deadly force is necessary to defend against the danger, but at least one of those beliefs is unreasonable. (ibid.; people v. booker (2011) 51 cal.4th 141, 182.) whereas perfect self-defense is a complete defense, imperfect self-reduce[s] murder to manslaughter by negating the element of mal (people v. moye (2009) 47 cal.4th 537, 549.) here, giddens testified he actually believed he was in imminent danger of great bodily injury. his friend, jones, was exchanging gang challenges with clark, who was accompanied by flynn. giddens saw flynn draw a gun from his waistband. clark and r.p., however, testified that flynn did not have a gun, and no gun was found on flynn or at the crime scene. this was sufficient evidence from which the jury could conclude, for example, that giddens actually believed he was in danger, but his belief he needed to use deadly force against the danger was unreasonable. giddens, however, argues that his reasonable belief flynn had a gun was uncontroverted. giddens primarily cites clark that even if flynn had a gun, but determination whether flynn had a gun were quintessential issues for the jury. that the evidence leads to only one conclusionflynn had a gun and defendant therefore acted in perfect self-defenseis an improper request we reweigh 9 the jury was instructed on second degree murder, voluntary manslaughter, and perfect and imperfect self-defense. (calcrim nos. 520, 571.) 18 the evidence and reassess the credibility of witnesses. (people v. friend (2009) 47 cal.4th 1, 41.) iii. modification of sentence. on count 2, the attempted premeditated murder of mckinney, the trial court plus 20 years for the gun enhancement. the sentence, however, for attempted premeditated murder is life with the possibility of parole.10 ( 664, subd. (a).) the trial court also imposed 20 years for the gun enhancement, under section 12022.53, subdivision (c). the abstract of judgment, however, incorrectly states the gun enhancement was imposed under subdivision (d) of section 12022.53. the abstract of judgment must be corrected. (see generally people v. dotson (1997) 16 cal.4th 547, 554, fn. 6 [an unauthorized sentence may be corrected on appeal].) 10 establishes minimum terms before eligibility for parole. 19 disposition the judgment is modified to reflect that the sentence imposed for the attempted premeditated murder of mckinney is life with the possibility of parole consecutive to 20 years for the gun enhancement under section 12022.53, subdivision (c). the clerk of the superior court is directed to modify the abstract of judgment and to forward the modified abstract to the department of corrections. as modified, the judgment is affirmed. not to be published in the official reports aldrich, j. we concur: edmon, p. j. lavin, j. 