 filed 10/5/16 p. v. moreno ca2/7 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division seven the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. eddie richard moreno, defendant and appellant. b260796 (los angeles county super. ct. no. la075919) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, thomas rubinson, judge. affirmed. kevin smith, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and william n. frank, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _________________________ 2 introduction after eddie richard moreno and his cousin javier moreno were arrested in connection with a residential burglary (pen. code,  459), javier1 provided a written statement admitting he and eddie had committed the burglary; eddie denied his presence at the scene. both were charged with the crime, and javier pled guilty before trial. when the prosecutor called him to testify, javier denied eddieconfronted with his prior statement, javier confirmed the details of the burglary but said the jury found eddie guilty as charged, and the trial court sentenced him to state prison for a term of two years. (id.,  461, subd. (a).) eddie appeals, claiming he received ineffective assistance of counsel because his attorney failed to object to the admission of javier-of-court statements and to the argument. because these arguments are meritless, we affirm. factual and procedural background on october 23, 2013, at about 10:30 a.m., eddie and javier were sitting in front of in pacoima when two acquaintances (jose and darwin) walked up and asked for a ride. the four green chevy astro van and drove off. jose and darwin had a plan to break into a house in the neighborhood where jose used to live to steal electronics. javier was nervous about the idea, but they agreed he would drive to the house and wait in the van, while eddie, jose and darwin went inside. the three planned to knock on the front door and if no one answered, find a way in from the backyard. a house on kittridge avenue in reseda (kittridge house) and waited in the van. eddie, jose, and darwin got 1 because appellant and his cousin share the same last name, we refer to them by their first names. 3 out to see if anyone was inside and returned a minute later. javier was nervous because he saw men working at the house across the street, but jose called out in spanish to ask if they knew who lived at the kittridge house. one of the men, rafael balcazar, responded that he did not know. he saw the green chevy van make a u-turn and drive off before returning again. balcazar watched as three men wearing white t-shirts and blue or black shorts got out of the van and went around the side of the kittridge house; another man stayed in the then balcazar heard the sounds of glass breaking and a door being forced. he called 9-1-1 through the big window at the front of the kittridge house, he could see the men were moving around inside. after less than five minutes, the three men came back out, with each man cthey got back in the van and left. divide the stolen property. eddie and javier kept a laptop, an ipad, two ipods, a watch an jose and darwin kept a sony playstation, controllers and video games and some cash. javier then dropped off jose and darwin at a park nearby, before he and eddie continued on to house. when javier and eddie arrived there, eddie put the laptop and ipad in his bmw parked in the driveway. meanwhile, the police arrived at the scene of the burglary within about 10 minutes and spoke with balcazar. officers found two doors open at the back of the kittridge house; one had been kicked in. inside, several rooms had been ransacked and drawers were left open. after tracing the license plate number from the green chevy van to eddie , officer nicholas williams and his partner, both of whom were in plain clothes, drove in an unmarked car to and parked in a location where they could conduct surveillance of the house without being noticed. they observed the green chevy van was parked in front two men, later identified as eddie and javier, were talking with two other men in the front yard. all were wearing white t-shirts, and some were wearing dark shorts. eddie 4 subsequently his bmw with javier in the passenger seat, and they drove off. officer williams and his partner followed eddie and javier until another police officer in a marked police vehicle pulled over the bmw and detained eddie and javier. d detained the two men who the officers had seen speaking with eddie and javier in the front yard. a police officer transported balcazar show-up identification. balcazar separately identified eddie and javier, indicating he was certain eddie was one of the men who had entered the house and that he had seen both men in the van.2 after eddie and javier were arrested, eddie voluntarily waived his miranda3 rights and agreed to speak with the police. initially he stated that he had bought the laptop and ipad from craigslist.com. eddie said he did not remember. he then changed his story. he stated that two men he and javier were sitting on the front porch and asked if he wanted to buy the laptop and ipad. he said he agreed but did not remember how much he had paid; the police had not said the laptop and ipad he denied he had been present at the kittridge house during the burglary. after voluntarily waiving his miranda rights, javier gave an oral statement describing his involvement in the burglary and also describing the involvement of eddie, jose, and darwin. he stated that he and eddie agreed to drive javier and darwin in the chevy van, that eddie, jose, and darwin planned how they would carry out the burglary while en route to the kittridge house, and that eddie, jose, and darwin got out of the van 2 being detained by officer williams. balcazar did not identify either of these two men as being at the site of the burglary. 3 miranda v. arizona (1966) 384 u.s. 436 [86 s.ct. 1602, 16 l.ed.2d 694]. 5 and went inside the kittridge house while javier waited in the van. javier also stated that he saw eddie carrying a bag with multiple electronic items. javier also handwrote and signed a statement, involvemesic after writing his statement, javier told police that additional ice where to find it. after obtaining consent from the grandfather to search the chevy astro van, officer williams and his partner found items that had been stolen from the kittridge house, including louis vuitton luggage, cash, and a wallet. s bmw and found a laptop computer and an ipad under the passenger-side floorboard that had also been stolen from the kittridge house. both eddie and javier were charged with first degree residential burglary. (pen. code,  459.) approximately eight montdegree residential burglary and receiv- during trial, the people presented evidence of the facts summarized above.4 when the prosecution called javier in its case-in-chief, javier initially testified that he was intoxicated and did not remember the events on the day of the burglary, did not remember speaking to police on that day, and did not remember providing a written statement. the prosecutor received permission from the trial court to treat javier as a hostile witness. thereafter, the prosecutor showed javier the statement implicating eddie that javier had written on the day of his arrest. javier initially claimed he did not recall writing the statement but subsequently admitted that he had written and signed the he testified he had 4 the burglary victim identified all of the recovered property as his own or his ex- 6 said eddie was involved because the officer who interviewed him kept saying he already knew eddie was there. javier to confirm details he provided in the oral statement. javier confirmed that he told neighborhood, that eddie, jose, and darwin planned to break into a house, that he waited in a van while they burglarized the house, and they subsequently divided the proceeds bprior statement to officer williams implicating eddie was false. he testified that only he, jose, and darwin committed the burglary, entered the house, and divided the burglary eddie was going to give javier a ride to sell the stolen items. during cross-examination by defense counsel, javier testified that officer williams told -of-court written statement that eddie was my head, saying, i know eddie was involved. the prosecution then called officer williams, who testified that javier described the involvement that he, eddie, jose, and darwin each had in the burglary, including that he drove the three men in the chevy astro van to the kittridge house, that he stayed in the van while eddie, jose and darwin entered and burglarized the kittridge house, that the stolen property. officer williams also testified that javier never stated that eddie was not involved in the burglary. eddie did not testify in his own defense. the jury found eddie guilty as charged. the trial court sentenced him to state prison for the low term of two years. (pen. code,  461, subd. (a).) eddie filed a timely appeal. 7 discussion eddie argues he received ineffective assistance of defense counsel because of his -of-closing argument, forfeiting these meritorious issues on appeal.5 we conclude, however, wide range of reasonable professional assistance and, in any event, was not prejudicial. a. controlling legal principles to establish a sixth amendment claim for ineffective assistance of counsel, a (2) the deficiency was so prejudicial it is reasonably probable it produced the unfavorable result. (strickland v. washington (1984) 466 u.s. 668, 687 [104 s.ct. 2052, 80 l.ed.2d 674]; people v. johnson (2015) 60 cal.4th 966, 979-980.) under the strickland standard, a court must indulge a strong presumption that [defense] s conduct falls within the wide range of reasonable professional assistance. (strickland, supra, at p. 689.) tactical errors are generally not s decisionmaking must be evaluated in the context of the available facts. (id. at p. 690.) d]eciding whether to object is inherently tactical, and the failure to object will rarely establish ineffective 5 eddie is correct that the failure to object to the introduction of out-of-court statements as being inadmissible hearsay and objectionable arguments made in closing ordinarily forfeits such claims of error on appeal. (see evid. code,  353, subd. (a); people v. williams (2013) 56 cal.4th 630, 671 [in order to preserve a claim of misconduct, a defendant must make a timely objection and request an admonition; only if an admonition would not have cured the harm is the claim of misconduct preserved for people v. alexander (2010) 49 cal.4th 846, 908 [because he failed to object to testimony at trial, the defendant forfeited claim on appeal the testimony was inadmissible hearsay].) 8 assistance.people v. carrasco (2014) 59 cal.4th 924, 985; accord, people v. castaneda (2011) 51 cal.4th 1292, 1335.) to the extent the record on appeal fails to disclose why counsel acted or failed to act in the manner challenged, we will affirm the judgment unless counsel was asked for an explanation and failed to provide one, or unless there simply could be no satisfactory expeople v. maury (2003) 30 cal.4th 342, 389.) b. the failure to object to -of-court statements as hearsay did not constitute ineffective assistance in his opening brief, y could be used solely to impeach javier, which would have required a limiting instruction, in the burglary because they constituted inadmissible hearsay (evid. code,  1200),6 and -statements implicating alleged accomplices do not fall under any recognized exception to the hearsay rule.7 6 evidence code section 1200 provides: (a) hearsay evidence is evidence of a statement that was made other than by a witness while testifying at the hearing and that is offered to prove the truth of the matter stated. [] (b) except as provided by law, hearsay evidence is inadmissible. [] (c) this section shall be known and may be cited as the 7 in his opening brief, eddie conaranda-bruton rule [(people v. aranda (1965) 63 cal.2d 518; bruton v. united states (1968) 391 u.s. 123 [88 s.ct. 1620, 20 -of-court statements . . . on confrontation clause groundssupport his hearsay argument. aranda and bruton stand for the proposition that a nontestifying -incriminating statement that inculpates the other defendant is generally unreliable and hence inadmissible as violative of that -examination, even if a limiting instruction is (people v. capistrano (2014) 59 cal.4th 830, 869; see california v. green (1970) 399 u.s. 149, 163 & fn. 15 [90 s.ct. 1930, 26 l.ed.2d 489] [emphasizing the error in bruton arose because the declarant did not testify at trial; q.) (before bruton, in people v. aranda, supra, at pp. 528-530, the california 9 eddie ignores the hearsay exception for prior inconsistent statements (evid. code,  1235). this svidence of a statement made by a witness is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule if the statement is inconsistent with his testimony at the hearing and is offered in compliance with [evidence code s]ection 770 [authorizing the admission of extrinsic evidence of a prior statement if the witness is given the opportunity to explain or deny the prior statement during testimony].8 eddie does not dispute that -of-court statements to police were inconsistent with his trial testimony; to the contrary, that eddie was not present at the residence and did it is also undisputed that javier was asked directly about the content of his prior statements during his trial testimony and had the opportunity to address the inconsistency. (evid. code,  770, subd. (a).) therefore, under evidence code section 1235, le both to impeach the credibility of his contrary trial testimony and for the truth of his earlier statements to police. (people v. mckinnon (2011) 52 cal.4th 610, 672; people v. alexander, supra, 49 cal.4th at pp. 908-909; see also calcrim no. 318.) in his reply brief, eddie argues evidence code section 1235 does not apply here as statements should have been barred as unreliable hearsay testimony by an accomplice or co-defendant under the aranda-bruton rule . . . as a matter of state law, supreme court had reached a similar conclusion on nonconstitutional grounds. (id. at p. 530, fn. omitted onally compelled, but as judicially declared rules of practice to implement [pen. code, ] 1098 joint trials for jointly charged defendants].)) as we will discuss, eddie conflates the federal constitutional confrontation and state hearsay issues and mischaracterizes the state of the applicable law. 8 consistent with evidence code section 1235 (and without objection), the jury was you have heard evidence of statements that a witness made before the trial. if you decide that the witness made those statements, you may use those statements in two ways: [] 1. s testimony in court is believable; [] and [] 2. as evidence that the information in those earlier statements is true.(calcrim no. 318 [prior statements as evidence].) 10 he argues, aranda-bruton rule, as modified by (1971) 402 u.s. 622, 629-630 [91 s.ct. 1723, 29 l.ed.2d 222], and proposition 8 (cal. const. art. 1,  28), remains good law to bar as hearsay the introduction of prior out-of-court statements of an accomplice or co-because the aranda-bruton rule is more evidence code citing people v. boyd (1990) 222 cal.app.3d 541 (boyd) (and earlier cases), eddie argues aranda-bruton rule to exclude prior statements from an accomplice or co-defendant even where that witness takes the stand and is subject to examination. he is mistaken. in boyd, supra, 222 cal.app.3d 541, the court recognized that prior california aranda (id. at p. 561.) in contrast to aranda, however, in , supra, 402 u.s. 622, the united states supreme court had bruton . . . is violated only where the out-of-court hearsay statement is that of a declarant who is unavailable at t-id. at p. 627, citing california v. green, supra, 399 u.s. at p. 162.) [w]here a codefendant takes the stand in his own defense, denies making an alleged out-of-court statement implicating the defendant, and proceeds to testify favorably to the defendant concerning the underlying facts, the defendant has been denied no rights protected by the sixth and fourteenth (nelson, supra, at pp. 629-630; boyd, supra, at p. bruton, by its own terms and as refined by oneil, requires exclusion of evidence only when the defendant who makes the inculpatory extrajudicial statement does not testify.because both defendants had testified and were cross-examined at trial, the boyd case did not present bruton error. (boyd, supra, at p. 562.) 11 the boyd court then aranda rule was abrogated by proposition 8,9 aranda duplicates the protections available under the federal constitution, as defined in bruton and , the aranda rule survives the passage of proposition 8. the california rule is now coextensive with the federal rule.boyd, supra, 222 cal.app.3d at p. 563; accord, people v. coffman and marlow aranda rule is coextensive with that of bruton.) however, to the extent aranda required exclusion of inculpatory extrajudicial statements of codefendants, even when the codefendant testified and was available for cross-examination at trial, aranda was abrogated by proposition 8. there is no federal constitutional basis for requis statements when the codefendant testifies at trial and is subject to cross-examination. (boyd, supra, at p. 562; accord, people v. coffman and marlow, supra, at p. 43; people v. fletcher, supra, 13 cal.4th at p. 465.) he aranda/bruton rule addresses a specific issue that arises at joint trials when the prosecution seeks to admit the out-of-court statement of a nontestifying defendant that incriminates a codefendant. (people v. capistrano, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 869, italics added.) because javier was neither a codefendant nor on trial himself and because he testified and was available for cross-l, the aranda-bruton rule does not apply in this case. (people v. williams, supra, 56 cal.4th at pp. 667-668 [as the murder and pleaded guilty to second degree murder, bruton and its progeny are 9 the truth-in-evidence provision of proposition 8 (cal. const., art. i,  28, subd. (d))except as provided by statute hereafter enacted by a two-thirds vote of the membership in each house of the legislature, relevant evidence shall not be excluded in any criminal proceeding, including pretrial and post conviction motions and hearings, or in any trial or hearing of a juvenile for a criminal offense, whether heard in juvenile or adult court. nothing in this section shall affect any existing statutory rule of evidence relating to privilege or hearsay, or evidence code, sections 352, 782 or 1103. nothing in this section shall affect any existing statutory or constitutional right of the people v. fletcher (1996) 13 cal.4th 451, 465 & fn. 3.) 12 plicable, because these cases involve the use of out-of-court statements by un-cross- people v. richardson (2008) 43 cal.4th 959, 1007 [rejecting claim of aranda-bruton violation as inapplicable both because the declarant (1) was neither a codefendant nor on trial and (2) testified at -examination].) as the united states supreme court observed nearly 50 years ago in upholding the constitutionality of evidence code use of prior inconsistent statements on the theory that the usual dangers of hearsay are california v. green, supra, 399 u.s. at p. the whole purpose of the hearsay rule has been already satisfied [because] the witness is present and subject to cross-examination [and] there is ample opportunity to test him as to the basis for his former statement.ules and overlap (ibid.)a [s]tate hearsay rules to create new exceptions for the admission of evidence against a defendant[] will often raise constitutional id. at p. 156), but the confrontation clause does not require excluding from evidence the prior statements of a witness who concedes making the statements, and who may be asked to defend or otherwise explain the inconsistency between his prior and his present version of the events in question, thus opening himself to full cross-examination at trial as to both storiesid. at p. 164).10 10 confrontation serves three purposes: (1) ensuring reliability by means of an oath, (2) exposing the witness to cross-demeanor. (california v. green, supra, 399 u.s. at p. 158, fn. omitted.) the green court recognized that the out-of-court statement may have been made under circumstances subject to none of these protections, but noted, if the witness either admits he or she made the prior statement, or if there is other evidence to show the statement is his [or hers], the danger of faulty reproduction is negligible. (ibid.) in addition, the court found, although contemporaneous cross-examination may be preferable, the inability to cross-examine the witness at the time he [or she] made [the] prior statement cannot easily 13 citing a number of cases including bruton v. united states, supra, 391 u.s. 123, the green clause requires excluding the out-of-court statements of a witness who is available and testifyincalifornia v. green, supra, of our cases has been focused on precisely the opposite situation situations where statements have been admitted in the absence of the declarant and without any chance to cross-examine him [or her] at trial . . . through application of a number of traditional absence of the declarant . . . forty years later, in crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36, 59 [124 s.ct. 1354, 158 l.ed.2d 177], footnote 9, although it expressly precluded the use of many evidence, the united states supreme court expressly reaffirmed its decision in green: -examination at trial, the confrontation clause places no constraints at all on the use of his prior testimonial statements. [(]see california v. green, [supra,] 399 u.s. [at p.] 162 . . .).[)]11 (accord, people v. richardson, supra, 43 cal.4th at p. the receipt in evidence of a prior inconsistent statement does not violate the confrontation clauses of the federal and state be shown to be of crucial significance as long as the defendant is assured of full and effective cross-examination at the time of trial. (id. at p. 159.) the presence of the witness on the stand at trial responding to questions satisfies the final purpose of the confrontation right, allowing ts demeanor and, to some extent at least, his or her credibility. (ibid.) 11 because javier testified and was cross-in which the declarant did not testify such as lilly v. virginia (1999) 527 u.s. 116, 128 [19 s.ct. 1887, 144 lbcreates a special, and vital, need for cross-examination, a prosecutor desiring to offer such evidence must comply with brutonand people v. miranda (2000) 23 cal.4th 340, 354 [the aranda-bruton rule does not apply at preliminary -of-court statement incriminating defendant] is misplaced. 14 constitutions where the declarant testifies at trial and is subject to cross-examination. evidence code section 1235,12 admission on hearsay grounds is unavailing. (people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 635, because we conclude that the statements were properly admitted, [the] defendant is wrong that trial counsel was incompetent for not objecting to their admission.failure to make a futile or unmeritorious request is not ineffective assistance. (see people v. szadziewicz (2008) 161 cal.app.4th 823, 836.)13 indeed, given the considerable independent (and corroborating) evidence of re to object to the admission of introduction -of-court statements, eddie cannot establish he was prejudiced as a result. (people v. johnson, supra, 60 cal.4th at p. 980.) javier pled guilty to burglary before trial. when he testified, he admitted the details of the crime and his own role in it; he 12 see california v. green, supra, 399 u.s. at p. 154, footnote omitted [ 1235 represents a considered choice by the california legislature . . . concerning the extent to prior statements may be introduced at trial without violating hearsay rules of evidence 13 it is true that w(bruton v. united states, supra, 391 u.s. at pp. 135-136), but in recognition of this fact, when accomplices do take the stcarefully given the recognized motivation to shift blame onid. at p. 136, fn. omitted; people v. guiuan (1998) 18 cal.4th 558, 569; and see calcrim nos. 301, 335). further, penal code section 1111 provides not be had upon the testimony of an accomplice unless it be corroboratedone who is liable to prosecution for the identical offense charged against the defendant on trial in the cause in which the testimony of the accomplice is given. consistent with penal code section 1111 and the concerns raised by the use of incriminating accomplice statements, the jury was instructed that javier was an accomplice (if a burglary was committed); any statement he made was to be viewed with caution; and eddie could not (pen. code,  1111; calcrim nos. 301, 335; guiuan, supra, at p. 569.) 15 simply claimed eddie had not participated in the burglary. (he said he was one of three men involved in the burglary, not four.) balcazar identified both javier and eddie as two of the four meboth javier and eddie had left together in van, eddie had a laptop computer and ipad stolen from the kittridge house in his car when he was stopped shortly afterward, statements to police incriminated him. eddie has failed to demonstrate a reasonable more favorable to him. (ibid.) c. the failure tclosing argument was not ineffective assistance his closing argument, (1) times (when, according to eddie, balcazar had only seen them twice); and (2) asserting eddie admitted knowing the items he had in his possession were stolen (contrary to ). crepresents misconduct. (people v. williams, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. when a claim of misconthe question is whether there is a reasonable likelihood that the jury construed or applied any of the complained- during his closing argument, the prosecutor said balcazar saw three men get out of and back into the van twice and five of the men.14 14 the prosecutor prefaced his argument by stating that he wyour own perception of how the witnesses testified and what they stated and what the 16 although defense counsel did not object at the time, he told the jury in his own he urged the jurors to review their own notes and, if they had questions, reminded them the court reporter was available to them. the first time, [balcazar] said no one got out of the car. . . . five to ten minutes later the van came back . . . . at that point in time, three people exited the car . . . describing the he also told the jury baand urged couword for it or ,noting it had been over a year since the incident.15 in addition, he the men through the front door glass and also through the glass window.16 ts comments about the number of times balcazar saw eddie were founded on evidence in the record and fell within the permissible bounds of argument. 15 three men got out of the van (the first time was home, got back in the van before asking balcazar about who lived there, and then drove off. the three men then returned, went to the back of the kittridge house, entered, and returned to the van with the stolen property. at trial, balcazar initially testified he s]omeone came and contradicting himself, he testified that the first time the van pulled up, no one said anything to him and no one got out; the van parked, then made a u-turn and left that time. 16 it appears the prosecutor referred to a photograph of the house as an exhibit during . . so looking three men who ran into the backyard inside the a 17 (people v. williams, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 672.) moreover, in addition to the s own cautions in this regard, the trial court instructed the jury that they . . . presented . . . [at] (calcrim no. 200) and that no. 222). also, at back to the jury in its entirety. there is no reasonable likelihood the jury misconstrued or misapplied the remarks. (williams, supra, at pp. 671, 674; people v. dykes (2009) 46 cal.4th 731, 771-772.) it follows remarks did not constitute ineffective assistance. (williams, supra, at p. 671; people v. szadziewicz, supra, 161 cal.app.4th at p. 836.) eddie also claims ththat eddie admitted he had bought stolen property constituted misconduct because officer williams testified eddie told him co testimony post-arrest statement, the prosecutor argued: [eddie] that a burglary took place, [eddie] stuff from some . . . he changed his story t [eddie is] changing his testimony when confronted with the fact that the police know about the [burglary], you can infer the fact he realizesyou point has already explained to officer williams that [eddie] 17 17 knew he was in possession of stolen property, [from] which [it] can be inferred that he was aware of the burglary and in fact that he participated in it, and when [eddie] changed his story it just furthermore indicated that he h 18 prosecutor is given wide latitude during argument. the argument may be vigorous as long as it amounts to fair comment on the evidence, which can include reasonable inferences, or deductions to be drawn therefrom. . . . [citation.] (people v. williams (1997) 16 cal.4th 153, 221; accord, people v. jackson (2016) 1 cal.5th 269, 368.) here, the prosecutor summarized the evidence and then argued his interpretation of that evidence, urging the jury it could infer and kept [ing] his story,effectively admitting that he did know the property was stolen because he had stolen it himself. again, the prosecutor, defense counsel and the trial court repeatedly advised the jury the statements of counsel are not evidence. reading argument in the context of the record establishes the prosecutor did not engage in misconduct by mischaracterizing testimony and misleading the jury, but rather drew inferences from that testimony, within the range of permissible argument. (people v. thomas (1992) 2 cal.4th 489, 526-527; accord, people v. williams, supra, 56 cal.4th at p. 674.) defense disposition the judgment is affirmed. garnett, j.* we concur: perluss, p. j. segal, j. * judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. 