filed 10/28/16 p. v. delgado ca2/8 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division eight the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. fernando delgado, defendant and appellant. b260431 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba406196) appeal from the judgment of the superior court of los angeles county. ronald s. coen, judge. affirmed. patricia j. ulibarri, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, paul m. roadarmel, jr., and daniel c. chang, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. * * * * * * * * * * 2 a jury found defendant and appellant fernando delgado guilty of four counts of premeditated, attempted murder. the jury also found true special allegations regarding firearm use, infliction of great bodily injury, and that the attempted murders were committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in association with a criminal street gang. defendant was sentenced to a state prison term of 100 years to life, plus 40 years. defendant raises two contentions on appeal. he contends the trial court committed prejudicial error in violation of his sixth amendment rights expert to base his opinion in part on testimonial hearsay. he also contends his conviction on count 4 must be reversed because the court prejudicially instructed the jury with caljic no. 8.66.1 regarding the kill zone theory of liability. we conclude any errors in the admission of the testimonial hearsay and instructing the jury with caljic no. 8.66.1 were harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. we therefore affirm. factual and procedural background defendant was charged by information with four counts of premeditated attempted murder (pen. code,  187, subd. (a),  664; count 1andrew g., count 2alicia b., count 3larry g., count 4christopher r.).1 as to counts 1, 2 and 3, it was alleged that defendant caused great bodily injury to the victims. ( 12022.53, subd. (d).) as to all counts, it was further alleged that defendant personally used and discharged a firearm and committed the offenses for the benefit of, at the direction of, or in 1 we identify the parties by their first names only to protect their privacy. 3 association with a criminal street gang. ( 12022.53, subds. (b)&(c),  186.22.) the charges arose from a shooting on november 3, 2012. the trial testimony revealed the following facts material to our discussion. in november 2012, alicia lived in a duplex on south arizona avenue in east los angeles with her boyfriend, larry, her four children, including her eldest son, christopher, and her brother augustine. their home was located in an area claimed by a gang known as mariana maravilla. alicia had lived in the neighborhood her whole life, and knew some people in the area were mariana gang members, including someone she went to m.one of her children were involved with gangs. her boyfriend was a member of a gang known as the santa fe locos, but he wgang. larry did not hang out or talk to other members of his former gang who were from a different neighborhood. on november 3, alicia and larry came home from the store and found a hispanic male in their driveway, attempting to peer into their home. larry told the man to leave. the man pointed a gun at the[g] alicia recognized the man was defendant, but did not immediately tell larry she knew who it was. defendant left and alicia home (the other home in the duplex) to borrow a phone to call 911. while alicia waited for the police, larry and her son christopher to see if they could find the man. when the police arrived, alicia told them the man with the gun was a heavyset hispanic male, with glasses, wearing a dark shirt with the w 4 on it, and a black baseball cap. larry and christopher returned about 15 to 20 minutes later without having found anyone who looked like the man with the gun. the policand left. christopher then left in his car to pick up his friend andrew, who lived a couple of blocks away, because they planned christopher and andrew returned a few minutes later and christopher parked his car in front of the house. alicia and larry were still standing outside as christopher and andrew got out of the car. alicia and larry were close to the house, but still on the driveway. christopher was in front of his car, and andrew was standing near him, but more on the passenger side of the car. as they stood talking, a car drove by. andrew told christopher the people in the car were looking at them as they drove by. the car then reappeared and pulled in behind christopherthe front passenger door opened. defendant stepped out and immediately started firing his gun. christopher saw the muzzle flash and dove to the ground in front of his car to try to avoid being shot. al and saw larry fall to the ground, bleeding. alicia did not realize she had also been shot. she started to run to her to come back, when christopher and andrew told her she had blood on her back. she noticed that andrew was bleeding as well. alicia yelled for her neighbor to call the police. the police and paramedics arrived. alicia recognized one of the deputies as the same one who had responded to her earlier 911 call. she told the deputy that the shooter was same man who had been at their house earlier and pointed a gun at them. 5 larry, andrew and alicia were transported to the hospital to be treated for gunshot wounds. alicia later identified the person who shot them as defendant, whom the neighborhood and because his brother had been a friend of her before he passed away. she had no doubt that defendant was the shooter. she said she had not told anyone earlier that she knew who the shooter was because she was scared. christopher also recognized the shooter as defendant. he recalled that defendant had meaning that he had asked him if he was in a gang. on the night of the shooting, he did not tell the police he recognized defendant from the neighborhood because he was scared. christopher knew he described the shooter as having been dressed in all black, with a mustache and glasses. when christopher later identified defendant in a photographic lineup, the shooter. alicia testified that sometime before november 3, she had was pumped up, kind of like sweating, like like he had just was a couple of blocks from her home. jesus said that because augustine talks loud, the gang members thought he was disrespecting them. during the conversation, jesus started to cry and asked her what he should do. 6 at the time of the fight, augustine was living with their a couple of days after jesus told alicia about the fight, alicia saw tagging by the mariana ghad never seen before. her brother augustine then came to live with her, and was still living with her in november 2012. deputy rubin rosas testified that he responded twice to the residence on south arizona avenue the night of the shooting. the first time he responded was just after 7:30 p.m. alicia told him that she and her boyfriend had come home from the store and found a man crouching in their driveway and peering into their house. when they confronted the man, he pulled a handgun from the waistband of his pant--k boyfriend and son had gone looking for the man. deputy rosas obtained a suspect description from alicia, and he and his partner patrolled the neighborhood to see if they could find anyone matching that description. deputy males nearby bleeding from apparent gunshot wounds. alicia told deputy rosas that the shooter was the same man with the gun who had been at their home less than an hour before. deputy rosas also spoke to christopher, who was not injured during the shooting. christopher reported that a newer model toyota camry drove by their house slowly while they were all standing outside on the driveway. christopher said it then pulled up behind his car and a man got out of the front passenger seat and immediately began shooting. several shots were fired in 7 his direction, so he dove for cover in front of his car. after the shooting stopped and he saw the car pull away, he saw that his mother, larry and his friend andrew were all bleeding. christopher from earlier in the evening. the jury heard and read a transcript of a jailhouse telephone call between defendant, his mother, and an unidentified female in which defendant said in spanish the people from over there on arizona should get lost. he said if they did not get lost, he would get back at them fools. detective antonio guillen, a 22-year veteran of the los and a gang detective, tective in east los angeles is monitoring the mariana maravilla gang. detective guillen was also the lead detective investigating the shootings on november 3, 2012. detective guillen explained his background, training and investigation of numerous gang-related crimes. he explained gang culture generally and identified the common tagging and names associated with the mariana gang, including the letters and 140 documented members of the gang, but that several of the members had claimed the actual number was closer to 250. he sales, thefts, shootings, extortion and murder. he attested to two predicate offenses committed by mariana gang members in which he was the investigating detective. detective guillen was familiar with defendant as a known mariana gang member with the moniker tank. detective guillen 8 considered him to be one of the active members, along with individuals known as bam bam, , who were all members of the same clique. detective guillen authenticated gang-related tattoos, including after detective guillen initially arrested defendant, he heard a phone call made by defendant to a family member. detective guillen had not specifically told defendant he had been but during the phone call, defendant said he had been arrested during the course of the investigation, detective guillen learned that, a few months before the shooting, there had been a fight the mariana gang, including bam bam. he spoke with augustine over the telephone and augustine confirmed there had been a fight and he had beaten up bam bam. detective guillen tried to arrange to meet with augustine, but was unable to do so. he could not locate augustine, despite multiple efforts. detective guillen opined that generally there would be a response to a gang member getting beaten up in a fight, particularly a member with status like bam bam. it is important to the gang to respond in order to maintain respect. during the investigation, detective guillen also learned that the in the neighborhood was that was responsible for the shootings. detective guillen was unable to convince andrew, one of the victims, to comply with the subpoena to come to court because andrew and his family were afraid of retaliation if he testified. 9 detective guillen said alicia identified defendant in a so. she did not mention, at tname. when he later learned that alicia knew the shooter was someone from her neighborhood known as tank, he asked her why she had withheld that information. alicia told him she was scared of retaliation by the gang against her and her family but she changed her mind and decided to speak up because the father of her children had been gunned down and no one was ever prosecuted because no witness would come forward. detective guillen answered a hypothetical based on the facts of the shootings and stated his opinion that the shootings were carried out in a fashion that demonstrated they were were committed in association with and for the benefit of a gang. detective guillen escorted alicia and her family for court appearances to make them feel more comfortable. he explained that at the preliminary hearing, brother, antonio delgado, approach christopher, alicia and larry in the courthouse hallway. detective guillen walked up to the group and told mr. delgado he had to leave. detective guillen warned mr. delgado not to speak to witnesses. mr. delgado said he was just saying hello because he knew the family. after mr. delgado walked away, christopher told detective guillen that mr. delgado had given him a business card and told him that if he did not say anything, mr. delgado would buy him a car. defendant testified in his own defense. defendant said he grew up in the maravilla neighborhood of east los angeles and a maravilla gang when he was 16 or 17 years old. defendant admitted he had several prior convictions, including possession of narcotics with a firearm and 10 two firearm possession charges. he pled guilty to those crimes and served his time because he was guilty of those offenses, but he denied shooting at alicia and her family. defendant knew alicia and her brother augustine from the neighborhood about a block away from fendant also knew alhusband before he passed away. he never had any trouble with the family and denied ever threatening them. defendant was aware that augustine got into a fight with two mariana gang memberssometime around july 2012. they apand they all defendant said he teased because augustine was not a gang member or someone important. he was a friend they all knew from the neighborhood. it did not make him want to get revenge on augustine. he said that if a mariana gang member felt they had been disrespected, then the member would take care of the situation himself, and would not wait months to do it. if a member was disrespected and did not handle it, the gang would it is not his business. members in order to maintain respect for the gang as a whole. defendant said he was not aware of anyone in the gang that was worried or bothered by also said the gang would never retaliate against the wife or sister of someone who had disrespected them. christopher at school or anywhere. he also never asked his brother to talk to or bribe any witness. 11 defendant testified that on november 3, 2012, he went to a . manny is bam bam. defendant said he left around 7:00 p.m. to visit his friend christina ledesma and her boyfriend. christina lived about three or four miles from where the shooting occurred. defendant stayed at house until around 10:00 p.m., and only left to buy beer at the liquor store down the block. while he was at s, he received a couple of phone calls telling him about the shooting in his neighborhood. defendant acknowledged the recording of the phone conversation between him and his mother while he was in jail. he denied the translation of the spanish portion of the recording, including the word mochen, meant that he told his mother the people living oget lostthem fools he said the spanish phrase he used was slang for he was telling his mother he wanted her to get people to contribute money to help pay for an attorney for him and he had a lot of friends that lived on arizona avenue and that is what he was referring to in the call. on cross-examination, defendant admitted he used to sell christina and her boyfriend drugs and that, at the time he was arrested for the shootings, they owed him money. the jury heard and read the transcript of a jailhouse phone call in which defendant said in a derogatory way that christinas boyfriend was still paying his drug debt by paying money to defendants mother. alicia because they had gone to school together. he also knew 12 her family and particularly her husband, who had passed away. mr. delgado admitted he approached christopher in the hallway of the courthouse during the preliminary hearing. he said he did so only to express his sympathies to the family for what they had gone through and to ask christopher if he really felt that his brother had shot at them because he believed his brother was innocent. mr. delgado denied threatening christopher about testifying. he said he gave christopher a business card to be a professional. he said the detective then came up to him and told him not to talk to the witnesses. mr. delgado said he ran into christopher a few days later at the gym and asked him again whether he was sure the shooter had been his brother. he again said he was not trying to make any threat to christopher. mr. delgado knew his brother was a member of the mariana gang and he did not approve it. christina also testified for the defense. she said that she and defendant had been good friends since they were both about 13 years old, defendant came over to visit with them around 6:00 or 7:00 p.m. he did not leave until around 11:00 p.m., except for two quick trips to the store with her boyfriend. each time they were only gone a few minutes as they just walked down the block to the store. she remembered the evening because defendant got a phone call at some point which seemed to upset him, so the night was memorable. defendant also called her after he was arrested and told her he had been arrested for a shooting. christina said she hahe was in jail because of their friendship. christina was aware 13 that defendant was a member of the mariana gang with the moniker tank. the prosecution called detective guillen back to the stand for rebuttal. he testified he was fluent in spanish and that the spanish word mochen used by defendant in the phone call with ,he had breaking bread. the jury found defendant guilty on all four counts, as charged, and found the special allegations true. the court sentenced defendant to a state prison term of 100 years to life, plus 40 years. this appeal followed. discussion 1. the admission of auguillen defendant contends it was error for the court to allow detective guillen to testify about his telephone conversation with , augustine, regarding the fight he had with mariana gang members before the shooting. defendant objected to the admission of such evidence as testimonial hearsay that violated his sixth amendment right to confront and cross-examine witnesses. the court ruled the evidence was permissible motive evidence that could be admitted thgang expert without offending the constitution. while this appeal was pending, our supreme court decided people v. sanchez (2016) 63 cal.4th 665 (sanchez)2 which -specific 2 defendant submitted a supplemental letter brief regarding sanchez. 14 out-of-court statements, and treats the content of those the statements are hearsay. it cannot logically be maintained that the statements are not being admitted for their truth. if the case is one in which a prosecution expert seeks to relate testimonial hearsay, there is a confrontation clause violation unless (1) there is a showing of unavailability and (2) the defendant had a prior opportunity for cross-examination, or forfeited that ri (sanchez, at p. 686, fn. omitted.) in so holding, the cconcerning background information regarding his knowledge and expertise and premises generally accepted in his field. indeed, an distinguishes him from a lay witness, and, as noted, testimony relating such background information has never been subject to exclusion as hearsay, even though offered for its truth. thus, our decision does not affect the traditional latitude granted to experts to describe background information and knowledge in the area of his expertise. our conclusion restores the traditional distinction between an and case- (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 685.) cannot do is relate as true case-specific facts asserted in hearsay statements, unless they are independently proven by competent evidence or are covered by a (sanchez, supra, 63 cal.4th at p. 686.) 15 under sanchez, we find it was crawford3 error to allow detective guillen to testify about his out-of-court conversation with augustine in which augustine told him that, before the shootings occurred, he had gotten into a fight and beaten up bam bam, a mariana gang member. respondent does not contend that augustine was unavailable to testify. defendant had no opportunity to cross-examine augustine, and did not forfeit the confrontation clause objection. the evidence was case-specific and admitted for its truth as it formed part of the basis for -related motive for the shootings. the question then becomes whether the admission of such evidence was prejudicial. crawford error is analyzed under the federal harmless error standard set forth in chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24. (see people v. geier (2007) 41 cal.4th 555, 608.) reviewing the whole record in accordance with this standard, we conclude the error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. the record here demonstrates that even without detective hearsay statement, the evidence and the gang-related nature of the crimes was substantial. identity as the shooter was strong. defendant was well known to alicia and christopher from the neighborhood and both expressed certainty about identifying defendant in photographic lineups. further, the evidence was undisputed that defendant was a self-admitted member of the mariana gang and friends 3 crawford v. washington (2004) 541 u.s. 36 (crawford). 16 with bam bam, another active member of the gang. alibi defense was significantly impeached by the prosecution. further, before detective guillen testified, the jury heard from alicia. she explained how her family had lived in the neighborhood for years and that the neighborhood was known to be territory claimed by the mariana gang. she knew bam bam from the neighborhood and that he was a member of mariana. she said that before the shootings occurred in november 2012, her family had never had any trouble with the gang. then, sometime before the shootings, alicia explained that her brother jesus came over to her house, agitated and upset, and told her that started to cry as he explained they had fought with mariana members at a nearby market. alicia said that at the time of the fight, augustine was a couple of days after jesus told alicia about the fight, alicia saw alicia had never seen any mariana before the fight. augustine then came to live with her, and he was still living with her in november 2012 when the shootings occurred outside her home. thus, detective guillens testimony about his conversation with augustine was cumulative of alicias testimony. the admission of hearsay evidence that is merely cumulative of other direct evidence will ordinarily be deemed harmless. (people v. houston (2005) 130 cal.app.4th 279, 296; see also people v. jenkins (2000) 22 cal.4th 900, 1016.) more detailed and emotional about the fight and its impact on 17 her family, including her younger brother jesuss extreme distress, and . there was also strong circumstantial evidence that defendant was the shooter. in a jailhouse phone call, defendant said in spanish the people from over there on arizona should get lost, and if they did not get lost, he would get back at them fools. also, defendants brother twice tried to persuade christopher not to testify, in the courthouse and later at the gym. detective guillen was on the witness stand for the better part of two days, and the testimony about his conversation with augustine was relatively brief. the balance of detective rested on his extensive personal knowledge of defendants activities and the activities of his gang and fellow gang members. ow a gang motive and , based on his own personal knowledge and experience, about gang culture, known street gang was substantial evidence supporting the gang enhancement. it was not dependent on the cumulative testimony ; a fight which even defendant acknowledged had occurred a few months before the shootings but which he downplayed as insignificant and something the gang members laughed about. 2. the kill zone instruction defendant argues the court erred by giving caljic no. with respect to the attempted murder of christopher, the only victim who was not wounded (count 4). 18 we review claims of instructional error de novo. (people v. alvarez (1996) 14 cal.4th 155, 217.) the jury was instructed with caljic no. 8.66.1 as follows: concurrently intend to kill other persons within a particular zone of risk. this zone of risk is termed the kill zone. the intent is concurrent when the nature and scope of the attack, while directed at a primary victim, are such that it is reasonable to infer the perpetrator intended to kill the primary victim by [] whether a perpetrator actually intended to kill the victim, either as a primary target or as someone within a kill zone is an issue to be defendant contends the instruction misled the jury as to the intent element for attempted murder. he argues the instruction erroneously allowed the jury to convict defendant on count 4 for the attempted murder of christopher who was not the intended target simply because he was in an undefined zone of risk, without finding, as the law requires, that he had a specific intent to kill christopher. defendant did not object to the instruction, nor did he ask for a clarifying or amplifying instruction to correct any alleged ambiguities. respondent therefore argues the contention on appeal has been forfeited. defendant had a duty to request a clarifying instruction if he felt the language of the instruction as proposed necessitated it. (people v. estrada (1995) 11 cal.4th 568, 574.) defendant urges us not to find forfeiture because the erroneous instruction affected his substantial rights. (pen. code,  1259; people v. smithey (1999) 20 cal.4th 936, 976, fn. 7.) 19 the appropriate language for instructing a jury on the kill zone theory of attempted murder is currently under review by our supreme court in people v. canizales (s221958; rev. granted nov. 19, 2014). we need not resolve whether there is any error in the language of caljic no. 8.66.1, because the claimed error was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. the evidence demonstrated that the four victims were standing fairly close together in a group, talking to one another, christopher testified he saw defendant get out of the car, point his gun directly at them, and immediately start to fire. christopher said he saw the flash of the gun before he dove in front of his car, trying to protect himself. he was plainly in the line of fire prior to taking cover. alicia testified she heard at least four to five shots, enough shots to kill four individuals standing close together. the fact christopher ultimately escaped injury when the three other victims were all hit does not establish that defendant lacked the requisite intent to kill christopher. (see, e.g., people v. chinchilla was undisputed that defendant shot multiple times at fairly close range at a group of four individuals standing near to one another, hitting three of them. the method of the shooting demonstrated an intent to kill everyone in the group. moreover, the prosecutor did not mislead the jury with her argument. she argued defendant intended to kill each victim, and also argued a kill zone theory in the alternative. in so doing, she did not misstate the law regarding the requisite intent. she 20 explained that attempted murder requires the specific intent to kill. she also argued that with a kill zone theory of attempted murder, intent to kill may be established when defendants conduct evinces an intent to kill everyone in a group in order to reach the intended target. finally, the jury found true the allegations that each of the four attempted murders was committed willfully, deliberately and with premeditation. the jury, by their verdicts, therefore expressly found that defendant harbored the intent to kill each of the victims. disposition the judgment of conviction is affirmed. grimes, j. we concur: rubin, acting p. j. flier, j. 