filed 1/21/16 p. v. lester ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. luther d. lester, defendant and appellant. b260658 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ma063333) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, kathleen blanchard, judge. affirmed. christine m. aros, under appointment by the court of appeal, for defendant and appellant. no appearance for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________ 2 luther dean lester appeals from a judgment of conviction after jury trial, for second degree robbery (pen. code,  211),1 and second degree commercial burglary ( 459); as to both counts it was found that the crimes were committed for the benefit of a street gang. ( 186.22, subd. (b)(1)(a), (b), (c).) we find no prejudicial error, and therefore affirm the judgment. procedural history an october 28, 2014 amended information, alleged in count 1 that on or about june 14, 2014, appellant and william ray turner committed second degree robbery ( 211); in count 2 that appellant and turner committed an assault with a semi-automatic firearm ( 245, subd. (b)); and in count 3 that appellant and turner committed a second degree commercial burglary ( 459). count 1 alleged that turner personally used a handgun, and count 3 alleged that turner was armed with a handgun; count 2 alleged that appellant personally used a handgun in the commission of the crime. ( 12022.5, 1192.7, subd. (c) & 667.5, subd. (c).) as to each of the counts it was alleged that the crimes were committed for the benefit of, at the direction of, and in association with a criminal street gang. ( 186.22, subds. (b)(1)(a), (b)(1)(c).) a few days later the information was amended to eliminate count 2 in its entirety, as well as to eliminate the firearm allegations in each of the remaining counts. on november 13, 2014, a jury found appellant guilty of counts 1 and 3, and found the gang allegations true. on december 5, 2014, appellant was sentenced on count 1 to 13 years in state prison, constituting the middle term of three years, plus a consecutive 10 years for the gang enhancement. on count 3 he was sentenced to 12 years in state prison, constituting the middle term of two years, plus 10 years for the gang enhancement. the count 3 sentence was stayed pursuant to section 654. appellant filed a timely appeal from the judgment. 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code unless otherwise indicated. 3 factual background on june 14, 2014, john ruh was working at the dairy, a drive-through convenience store in lancaster, california. at approximately 8:30 p.m., a man entered the store wearing shorts and no shirt, head and throat, and told ruh to give him all the cash in the register, using threatening terms, including a reference to and to a known street gang. a customer then in the store fled. ruh opened the cash register and started to hand money to the man, who began to grab money from the register.2 when the man turned his back to leave the store, ruh jumped on back, with his arm around neck. at that point a second man, who ruh had not seen until then, pulled ruh from the assailanback, and the two men ran off, having taken about $200. ruh then called the police, reporting that he had been robbed at gunpoint by black kids, one wearing black shorts with no shirt, the other (whose face he did not see) wearing a white shirt. he described the weapon as a small semi-automatic pistol. a few days later ruh was able to identify turner as the robber with the gun, from a six-pack lineup shown him by the police; he could state only that the second man was a black male. at assailant was wearing, and a black bb gun under a mattress in one of the bedrooms. nicole hill was appellant-sister. appellant was arrested at the house , wearing a red hooded sweatshirt, blue jeans, a red belt, and black shoes with red laces. hill agreed to talk to officers a few weeks after the robbery, and was read her miranda rights on the way to the station. in a recorded interview hill told the police that lester and turner pasadena denver lanes; that they had gang 2 the jury viewed one or more video and audio recordings of the events in the convenience store, and was provided transcriptions of the audio portions of the recordings. 4 nicknames; that appellant had and that turner says a lot, and often talks with lester about the pasadena denver lanes gang. hill told the police on the afternoon of the robbery, turner and appellant had left the house as it was getting dark, sometime after 5:00 p.m.; they had returned something like an hour later; turner then left again perhaps 10 minutes later, and appellant also left after another five minutes. when they left, turner was wearing shorts with no shirt, and appellant was wearing a red sweater, gray sweatpants, and shoes with red laces. when turner and appellant returned to the house, appellant told hill they had gotten some money, something over $100. when hill asked him from where, he told her which hill understood to mean they had robbed someone. appellant store to check on [turner] what he was doing, i guess, when [turner] was trying to rob fighting with the guy and they went, [appellant] said i went, he went in there to try and help [turner], whatever. and then i guess they went off according to hill, appellant said he guessed turner went into the co, or that turner had said, hill said that appellant told her that he had seen turner take cash from the register, and that when he went to help turner, he had she identified appellant and turner from a surveillance video taken at the dairy. she also identified the gun, which turner had told her was a fake. hill (who did not testify voluntarily, and was taken into custody in order to obtain her trial testimony) testified that she did not know whether turner and appellant were pasadena denver lanes members; she had no recollection whether on the day of the robbery turner and appellant had left the house together, how long they were gone, or whether they had money when they returned; she did not remember them saying they had hit a lick or anything at all about a robbery; and she did not remember identifying 5 appellant as the man who could be seen in the surveillance video, pushing the robbery sdepartment detective specializing in gang members and gang-related crimes in los angeles county, testified that pasadena denver lanes is one of at least hundreds of blood gangs in the los angeles county area, with over 600 members in total and 30 to 40 members in the antelope valley. common tattoos ying a blood gang but with the pasadena denver lanes, as with other gangs, the threat of serious repercussions[g]enerally of street gangs in the los angeles basin generally, as well as of pasadena denver lanes, is to make money through criminal enterprise, using violent robberies, assaults, and narcotics sales, with the monetary area, using violence and intimidationincluding through display of gang tattoosto maintain the fear and respect of people, and of other gangs. this benefits the gang: if members of other gangs fear the local gangs territory or turf; and if people in the area fear the gang, their fear will deter them from . think the general law biding [sic] community is just going to avoid them because they 3 speaking about gangs in general, a gang benefits , and not just the reputation of the individual gang member. 3 the pasadena denver lanes ganvalley. 6 it benefits the reputation of the individual perpetrator, because any criminal activity and it also benefits the gang. consequences for the cri that gang members rarely act alone when committing crimes, for while one perpetrator might not be so intimidating, if you are victimized by multiple gang members, also a brotherhood in the sense that its members are obligated to protect one another; a at all . r own gang either turner or appellant, but opined for the jury that both are pasadena denver lanes members. he identified turner as a pasadena denver lanes . based his opinion of appellantpasadena denver lanes gang membership on appellantback and ; and on appellantffiliation with turner, a pasadena denver lanes member, and appellant was charged. testified that displaying gang tattoos and claiming gang affiliation are very intimidating, and that , although it does not identify a particular gang. he testified that committing a robbery not only obtains money for the perpetrator, but also benefits the gang and its criminal activities. that is because a percentage of the proceedsin order to fund its criminal activities, and in the case of the pasadena denver lanes, to pay an associated prison gang to protect its members who have been sentenced to life in prison. and it is 7 also vital to the gang to have another member nearby in order to assist and protect a member who is involved in a crime. by the evidence of gang affiliations in this case.4 and he admitted that the occurrence of a robbery does not itself show gang involvement, because making money is the objective of every robbery, whether gang related or not; and ia crime of opportunity, with no direction or gang approval. had no information about the actual use of any of the robbery proceeds, and no knowledge that any of the money was put to any gang-related use. arged robbery was done for the benefit of pasadena denver lanes. responding to a hypothetical question, he stated his opinion denver lanes: two pasadena denver lanes gang members walk down the street together. one is he then enters a convenience store and pulls out a replica (fake) handgun, while the other remains outside the store. the one who entered the store says to the clerk, give us everything you cash register and turns to leave the store. after the robber turns away, the clerk jumpgang members then run from the store. 4 ruh did not testify that he saw any tattoos on the robber, or that he heard any reference to a gang or gangs. 8 based this opinion on a number of factors, including the intimidation at the time of the robbery evident of gang association; from the fact that pasadena denver lanes and other such gangs need ; and from the fact that gang-related crimes almost invariably are conducted by more than one member, in order to provide a perpetrator with help if necessary. the facts on which he relied for his opinion each other, from the same gang and they committed this crime displaying their gang and calling out their blood gang in order to effectively commit that crime. whether it worked the prosecution agreed. it responded to the defense contention that the evidence failed to identify any benefit to the gang from the robbery, arguing that no benefit to the gang need be shown; the prosecution must show only that the crime was either in association with or for the benefit of a gangthe evidence showed that appellant intended to help a gang member commit a crime.the crime was done with a gang, because both turner and appellant are gang members; and appellant intended to help turner commit the robbery, because he entered the store with the intention to help his fellow gang member escape as noted above, the jury found appellant guilty of the robbery and the burglary, and found the gang-enhancement allegations true. discussion counsel for appellant filed a brief raising no issues (people v. wende (1979) 25 cal.3d 436), after sending him the record on appeal and advising him of his right to file a supplemental brief and to request that counsel be relieved. we have received no communications from appellant. after undertaking our own independent review of the record (people v. wende, supra, 25 cal.3d at pp. 441-442), and recent supreme court and court of appeal 9 authority, we have concluded that the record discloses no arguably meritorious ground for reversal of the judgment or modification of the sentence in this case. more specifically, we conclude that the evidence in the record is sufficient as a matter of law to satisfy the requirements for enhanced punishments provided by section 186.22, subdivision (b), constituting substantial evidence that the crimes charged were . . . that the specific intent to promote, further, or assist in any (caljic no. 17.24.2; see calcrim no. 1401 (rev. feb. 2014).)5 the jury was entitled to infer that the felonies committed by two gang members were done for the benefit of the pasadena denver lanes gang, based on the evidence that robbery is a typical criminal activity for that gang, both in order to fund the its reputation; that in perpetrating the felonies one gang member made a shirtless display of intimidating gang tattoos, and verbally identified to the victim; and that a second gang member (people v. albillar, supra, 51 cal.4th at pp. 60, 63 [expert opinion that particular criminal conduct benefited gang (by e.g., enhancing its reputation) supports inference that criminal meaning of section 186.22, subdivision (b)(1)], 68 [that the defendant intended to and did commit the charged felony with known members of a gang, the jury may fairly infer that the defendant had the specific intent to promote, 5 in considering the sufficiency of the evidence to support a gang enhancement, ht most favorable to the judgment to determine whether it contains substantial evidencethat is, evidence that is reasonable, credible, and of solid valuefrom which a reasonable trier of fact could find the defendant guilty beyond a reasonable doubt. [citation.] we presume every fact in support of the judgment the trier of fact could have reasonably deduced from the evidence. [citation.] if the circumstances reasonably justify the trier of facts findings, reversal of the judgment is not warranted simply because the circumstances might also reasonably be reconciled with a contrary finding. evidence nor reevaluates a witness (people v. albillar (2010) 51 cal.4th 47, 59-60.) 10 further, or assist criminal conduct by those gang memberspeople v. ramirez (2009) 172 cal.app.4th 1018, 1038-1039 [where evidence showed felonies would have financially supported gang, jury could conclude that the bene].) because the record discloses no arguably meritorious ground for reversal of the judgment or modification of the sentence in this case, we affirm the judgment of the superior court. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. chaney, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. johnson, j. 