filed 9/10/15 p. v. bui ca2/1 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division one the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. andrew van bui, defendant and appellant. b260295 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ga090862) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, jared d. moses, donald g. umhofer, and cathryn f. brougham, judges. affirmed. law offices of andy miri and andy miri for defendant and appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, assistant attorney general, victoria b. wilson and idan ivri, deputy attorneys general, for plaintiff and respondent. _______________________________ 2 andrew bui appeals from a judgment entered after a jury found him guilty of two counts of sexual penetration by a foreign object, two counts of forcible rape, one count of forcible oral copulation, one count of rape accomplished by use of drugs, and one count of sexual penetration by a foreign object accomplished by use of drugs. four of the offenses occurred during an encounter home with one adult female victim, and the other three offenses one week later during an encounter at his home with another adult female victim. the trial court sentenced bui to 30 years to life in prison. bui contends the trial court abused its discretion in declining to grant his motion to sever the four counts relating to one victim from the three counts relating to the other victim because the evidence demonstrated the first victim ingested a drink bui made for her and became intoxicated while the second victim ingested very little of the drink bui made for her and did not become intoxicated. bui argues the evidence of him drugging the first victim was prejudicial on the counts involving the second victim. bui also contends the trial court erred in declining to exclude testimony regarding pretext telephone calls the victims made to bui after the crimes under police supervision. bui asserts he was compelled to testify in his defense in order to present exculpatory evidence regarding the pretext calls y rulings concerning the calls. the prosecution did not elicit any testimony regarding the pretext calls during its case-in-chief. after bui cross-examined the victims regarding the pretext calls, the prosecution presented evidence on rebuttal showing officers accidentally deleted the audio recordings of the calls. for the reasons explained below, we find no error and affirm. 3 background preliminary hearing testimony1 j. victim, j. k., testified at the preliminary hearing. she stated she met bui on or about august 24, 2013, when she went to the honey badger caf to study. bui greeted j. when she entered the caf. he seated her and also waited on her. bui made conversation with j., telling her he was a hair stylist, makeup artist, and skincare and beauty consultant. he invited j. to contact him if she wanted to use his services. in the days following their first meeting, bui and j. exchanged text messages. on august 26, 2013, bui invited j. out to dinner with him and his friends. j. accepted the invitation. j. were there so she sat on a wall in the backyard and waited. when bui arrived, he lifted j. bui, his two friends, and j. went to a restaurant and ate dinner. j. did not drink any alcohol or take any drugs either before or to watch a movie. left, and j. and bui j. sat on a futon bedroom door. bui asked j. if she wanted something to drink and she said she did. she told him she did not want a drink with alcohol in it because she had school the next day.2 bui said he would make her a special drink without alcohol. j. could not see the ingredients because bui mixed the drink behind the door of a refrigerator in his room. j. saw bui place something in the drink. bui told her it was candy. bui handed the drink to 1 we summarize the relevant preliminary hearing testimony because, in deciding people v. mckinnon (2011) 52 cal.4th 610, 630.) 2 at trial, j. stated she was 26 years old at the time of the incident. 4 j. j. confirmed with bui that he had not added alcohol to the drink and he assured her he had not. j. consumed the drink in about a minute.3 bui did not make a drink for himself but he took one sip of the drink he made for j.. within minutes of finishing the drink, j. experienced sensations she had never felt before. she felt very relaxed. time seemed to be moving more slowly. her thoughts slowed down. things did not seem real. on prior occasions, she had consumed alcohol and it had never made her feel the way she felt after she consumed the drink bui gave her. bui lifted j. off the futon and carried her to his bed. bui and j. began kissing. the kissing was consensual and j. enjoyed it. sensations she was experiencing were due to the drink bui gave her. j. repeatedly asked bui if he had put something in her drink and he continued to deny it. she also told him she had to leave. bui told her she could not leave because she was incapable of driving, which confirmed her suspicion he had put something in her drink because she had not voluntarily ingested alcohol or drugs. j. tried to get off the bed, but bui pulled her back down. she used her arms and legs to try to push him away, but she was unsuccessful. . because bui had told her she was not capable of driving, j. asked bui to allow her to call a friend to come pick her up. during her struggle with bui, j. grabbed her cellular telephone from the futon and attempted to call and text her friend nathaniel, but she did not reach him. bui restrained j. . he placed his hand inside j.pants and penetrated her vagina with his fingers as she tried to push him away. then he after bui removed his own clothes, he placed his penis inside j.at that point, she surrendered and ceased resisting because she did not believe there was anything she 3 at trial, j. stated the drink was about eight ounces. 5 could do to stop it. she also experienced sensations she had never felt before, and noticed during the sexual intercourse, j.stopped what he was doing. j. was able to talk to nathaniel and ask him to come pick her up. bui told j. he did not want her friend to know where he lived. j. said she would not tell anybody where he lived if he let her go. bui walked out of his bedroom. j. put on j. nathaniel to come and meet her. nathaniel drove her to the hospital for testing because she wanted to determine if bui had drugged her.4 two days later j. went to the police station and reported the crimes. at the time of this incident, j. did not know the other victim, g. n. j. met g. the day before the preliminary hearing. during cross-j. about a recorded telephone call she made to bui under police supervision a couple days after she reported the crimes (the pretext call). the purpose of the call was to try to get bui to admit he had drugged her drink. during the call j. asked j. objection. g. victim, g. n., also testified at the preliminary hearing. like j., g. met bui in late august 2013 when she went to study at the honey badger caf where bui worked.5 over the next few days, they exchanged text messages. 4 at trial, the emergency room doctor who examined j. that night testified the hospital where he examined her was not equipped to test for date rape drugs. 5 at trial, g. testified that bui was her waiter at the caf. he told her he was studying to cut hair and could help her highlight her hair. 6 bui and g. arranged to meet on september 2, 2013 to study together. g. picked up bui at shop. they studied and talked for two to three hours. bui invited g. to his house to watch a movie and she accepted the invitation. he told her he wanted her to try a mixed drink he had made before. bui pointed out the city view and then walked g. upstairs to his bedroom. g. did not see anyone else at the house other than a man who was smoking outside. bui closed his bedroom door and turned on his movie player. bui made g. a drink using ingredients he pulled from a small refrigerator in his bedroom. she could see him mixing the drink. she seemed to recall he told her what type of drink he was making but, at the time of the preliminary hearing, she could not remember what he said. bui handed the drink to g. took a sip she might have taken another small sip before she handed the drink back to him. the g. ingested did not cause her to become intoxicated or have any other effect on her. bui drank some of the drink and set it down. they turned their attention to the movie. bui kissed g. g.s face and began kissing her lips. g. [the drink] g. tried to push bui away. he lifted her up over the futon and onto his bed. he continued to kiss g. and held her in a tighter grip. bui began touching g. bui removed g. bui did not stop. as g. raised her voice, bui 7 bui inserted a finger into g.s mouth on her vagina. he removed his pants and inserted his penis into her vagina. she continued to ask him to stop but he refused. she tried to push him away but his grip on her was too tight. bui removed his penis from g.nto her stomach. he retrieved a paper towel and cleaned her abdomen. g. grabbed her clothes and said she had to go home, but bui did not let her leave. he pulled her hand and told her to follow him. she was afraid, and hoped he would let her leave if she complied. he led her to the shower where he washed her, inserting his fingers into her vagina under the running water. he dried her off with a towel and helped her get dressed. he placed her underwear in a bag, handed the bag to her, and told her not to put on the underwear. bui asked g. g. repeatedly told bui she needed to go home because her father would be angry. five to 10 minutes later, bui allowed her to leave. he asked her to call him to let him know she arrived home. when she did not call, he called her. she told him she was still driving. he called a couple more times, but she did not answer. she texted him stating she had arrived home, even though she did not go home. g. drove to h happened. then she went to an ex-home and talked to her brother. her brother accompanied her to the police station. thereafter, she submitted to a sexual assault examination. g. had never met j. before she met her at the courthouse. charges an information charged bui with committing the following offenses against j. k. on or about august 26, 2013: sexual penetration by a foreign object (penal code,  289, subd. (a)(1)(a);6 count 1), forcible rape ( 261, subd. (a)(2); count 2), rape accomplished 6 further statutory references are to the penal code. 8 by use of drugs ( 261, subd. (a)(3); count 6), and sexual penetration by a foreign object accomplished by use of drugs ( 289, subd. (e); count 7). the information further charged bui with committing the following offenses against g. n. on or about september 2, 2013: sexual penetration by a foreign object ( 289, subd. (a)(1)(a); count 3), forcible oral copulation ( 288a, subd. (c)(2)(a); count 4), and forcible rape ( 261, subd. (a)(2); count 5). with respect to counts 1-5, the information included the special allegation that bui committed the offenses against more than one victim within the meaning of section 667.61, subdivisions (b) and (e), requiring punishment by imprisonment in state prison for 15 years to life. motion to sever counts bui filed a pretrial motion to sever the four counts relating to j. from the three counts relating to g.. he argued the legal theories pertaining to the two sets of charges are different because j. stated she became intoxicated from ingesting the drink bui gave her, but g. stated she did not become intoxicated from ingesting the drink bui gave her. therefore, accords charges relating to g.charges relating to j.. bui also argued will be tainted by leakage between the testimony presented as to each and the consequent danger that the jury will consider the evidence in the aggregate, rather than individually during oral argument on the motion, bui further argued it was likely he would testify in his defense as to one set of counts but not the other. the prosecution filed an opposition to the motion to sever counts, arguing joinder is proper here because (1) the incidents are connected in their commission 9 bui cannot demonstrate joinder is prejudicial based on a consideration of the applicable factors.7 the trial court (jared d. moses, j.) denied the motion to sever counts, explaining the charged offenses are of the same class of crimes and joinder promotes judicial economy. the court also found evidence of the offenses committed against one victim would be cross-admissible in a separate trial of the offenses committed against the other victim under evidence code section 1108.8 motion regarding pretext telephone calls bui filed a pretrial motion regarding the pretext telephone calls, which he styled as motion is based upon the fact that pretext telephone conversations with mr. bui, initiated and monitored by law enforcement, involving each of the two women claiming that [] they were raped, were deleted by an investigating detective. accordingly the only available evidence concerning the content or credibility of the statements of the participants to those conversations, including mr. bui, are witnesses that are adverse to the defendant. it is clear that the prosecution intends to have their witnesses, who are adverse[] to the defense, testify as to their recollection of the contents of those september, 2013 calls. therefore, it would appear that mr. bui may be compelled to take the stand in order to present his version of the conversations. mr. bui taking the witness 7 the relevant factors are whether (1) the evidence would be cross-admissible in separate trials, (2) some charges are unusually likely to inflame the jury against the defendant, (3) a weak case has been joined with a strong case, or with another weak case, so that the total evidence may unfairly alter the outcome on some or all charges, and (4) one of the charges is a capital offense, or joinder of the charges converts the matter into a capital casepeople v. scott (2011) 52 cal.4th 452, 469-470.) 8 which the defendant is accused of a sexual offense, evidence of tcommission of another sexual offense or offenses is not made inadmissible by section applicability of this statute further below. 10 stand would not be necessary if the recordings had not been deleted, resulting in compelled waiver of his 5th bui stated he denied the rape accusations the victims made during the calls, but due to the erasure of his verbal demeanor, and his attitude during the telephone conversations. bui asserted the remedies for spoliation under california law include (1) the unavailable was unfavorable to that party, include the preclusion o he did not indicate in the motion audiotape of the two pretext calls, to the extent that it deprives the defense of valuable evidence is a clear the prosecution filed an opposition, urging the trial court to deny the motion under california v. trombetta (1984) 467 u.s. 479 because the evidence was not exculpatory on its face, bui could obtain comparable evidence by other available means (cross-examination of the investigating detectives), and there is no indication of bad faith on the part of law enforcement.9 according to the opposition, both investigating detectives provided supplemental reports summarizing the pretext calls. the recordings download the recordings. the prosecution argued there waamendment rights merely because he had to choose whether to testify to present his version of the calls. 9 to establish a violation of his rights under trombetta, it must be shown both that evidence with an exculpatory value apparent on its face was destroyed and that defendant could not obtain comparable evidence by any other available meanspeople v. thomas (2012) 54 cal.4th 908, potentially exculpatory evidence is not a due process violation unless the defendant establishes bad faith on the part of law enforcement. (people v. carter (2005) 36 cal.4th 1215, 1246.) 11 seeking was exclusion of testimony regarding the pretext calls. the prosecutor informed the trial court she had not decided whether she planned to present testimony regarding the calls. in making its ruling, the trial court (jared d. moses, j.) stated it was deeming the motion a trombetta of the motion. the court next stated: in that bui admitted during the calls that he had sex the court concluded bui could not establish a trombetta violation because the evidence was not exculpatory on its face and there were witnesses available who could testify about the calls. the court also concluded bui could not establish a due process violation based on the erasure of potentially exculpatory evidence because bui could not demonstrate bad faith on the part of the detective. thus, the court denied the motion. at subsequent pretrial hearings on june 17-18, 2014, bui renewed his objection to court (donald g. umhofer, j.) to exclude the testimony. bui conceded the recordings were negligently erased and not intentionally destroyed. the court found the evidence was exculpatory in that bui denied he had sex with the victims without their consent. nonetheless the court denied calls because the court found bui could obtain comparable evidence by other available means (the testimony of the officers and the victims). trial, verdicts and sentence the case was tried before judge cathryn f. brougham. j. and g. both testified at trial. the prosecution did not elicit testimony regarding the pretext calls during its case-in-chief. 12 during cross-examination of j.out the pretext call. this is the first time the issue of the pretext calls was raised by either party at trial. j. explained the police asked her to initiate a call to bui to try to get him to admit he raped her. j. called bui and accused him asked j. to the accusationobjection on hearsay grounds. later, outside the presence of the jury, the court explained el there is no hearsay exception for the defense to introduce the defenstatements. during cross-examination of g.g. stated she called bui at the request of law enforcement to see if she could get him to admit to facts supporting the charges. g. to the call. j.g. emergency room doctor edward hernandez testified j. suspected she had ingested a date-rape drug. the hospital where j. was examined was not equipped to test for date rape drugs. the prosecution called an expert who testified about the appearance, taste, and effects of date rape drugs. for example, liquid ghb is often mixed with fruit juice to hide its salty flavor. ghb in pill form can be disguised in a drink as candy. bui testified in his defense. he stated j. came back to his home after they went to a restaurant with his friends. his friends left and j. stayed. j. asked him to make her a drink after he opened the refrigerator in his room and she noticed the ingredients in there and the martini glass on top of the refrigerator. bui was a bartender. he mixed j. a drink he made for family and friends containing ginger ale, midori melon liqueur, pomegranate syrup, and a japanese candy. bui denied placing a drug in the drink. he desj. shared the drink and j. ate the candy. 13 according to bui, after he and j. started watching a movie, they engaged in consensual sex. when they finished, j. got dressed and left his home. she was acting friendly. bui noticed his wallet was missing. while he was looking for it, he received a call from j.lived. bui later texted j. asking if she had taken his wallet. bui further testified, when he and g. went to the coffee shop to study, they spent about three hours in the parking lot kissing and touching each other before they entered the restaurant. after spending about one and one-half hours at the restaurant, they g. he could mix her a drink that tasted better than the mojito he had purchased at the restaurant. after they arrived at his home, he mixed for g. the same drink he had mixed for j. and placed a candy in it. bui played a movie and he and g. began kissing. bui initiated oral sex with g. and she consented. after they had consensual intercourse, they took a shower together, continuing their sexual relations. g. g. later texted him to say she had arrived home. during cross-examination of bui, of the pretext calls during his cross-examination of the victims, the prosecutor asked bui questions about the pretext calls g. and j. made to him under law enforcement supervision. according to bui, g. od, however, g. was accusing him of taking advantage of her. during the pretext call with j.say you did it. accusing him of having sex with her against her will and putting something in her drink. during the call, bui denied j. bui stated he was not mad at g. and j. when they made their accusations during the pretext calls. on redirect examination, bui testified further about the pretext calls. he stated he told g. during the call that he believed she wanted to have sex with him. he told j. 14 anything else in her drink. he also told j. he believed the sex was consensual and he on rebuttal, the prosecution called detective rebecca minor, who assisted with g.. g.g. accused bui of taking advantage of her and raping her, and bui denied the accusations. then bui told g. bui also told g. he did not hear her say no because the music and television were too loud, and he had attention relationship with her and he wanted to meet with her and sit down and talk with her and hold her hand and he was going to have to explain himself to her parents and her sister. . . detective minor prepared a report regarding g. also on rebuttal, the prosecution called investigating detective arlene guevara. she coordinated and listened to the pretext calls. the recordings of the calls were accidentally deleted when they were being downloaded. according to detective j.j. confronted bui about drugging her and having sex with her against her will. bui did not seem angry or upset during the call. he told j. the jury found bui guilty of all of the charged offenses (as listed above). as to counts 1-3 and 5 (sexual penetration by a foreign object, one count as to each victim, and forcible rape, one count as to each victim), the jury found true the multiple victim enhancement under section 667.61, subdivisions (b) and (e). as to count 4 (forcible oral copulation), the jury found the multiple victim enhancement to be not true. the trial court sentenced bui to a total term of 30 years to life in prison. due to the multiple victim enhancement, the trial court sentenced bui to an indeterminate term of 15 years to life on each of counts 1-3 and 5, with the sentence on count 2 to run concurrently with the sentence on count 1, and the sentence on count 5 to run concurrently with the sentence on count 3. on count 4, the court imposed a two-year 15 term to run concurrently with the sentence on count 3. on counts 6 and 7, the court imposed separate two-year terms to run concurrently with the sentence on count 1. discussion denial of motion to sever counts bui contends the trial court abused its discretion in denying his motion to sever the four counts relating to j. from the three counts relating to g., and the error requires reversal. under section 954, different offenses occurring at separate times may be charged together in the same information if the offenses belong to the same class of crimes, as do the offenses charged in this case. where, as here, joinder is permissible under section has the burden to clearly establish a potential of prejudice sufficient to warrant separate trials(people v. mckinnon, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 630.) a trial court has broad discretion to deny a motion for severance because joinder courspeople v. scott, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 469; people v. mckinnon, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 630.) in deciding whether the court abused its discretion in rulpeople v. mckinnon, suprathe relevant factors are whether (1) the evidence would be cross-admissible in separate trials, (2) some charges are unusually likely to inflame the jury against the defendant, (3) a weak case has been joined with a strong case, or with another weak case, so that the total evidence may unfairly alter the outcome on some or all charges, and (4) one of the charges is a capital offense, or joinder of the charges converts the matter into a capital casepeople v. scott, supra, 52 cal.4th at pp. 469-470.) the fourth factor is not applicable here because this is not a capital case. in considering the first of the factors listed above, we note cross-admissibility of evidence is not a hard and fast requirement for joinder of counts. as set forth in section in cases in which two or more different offenses of the same class of crimes or 16 offenses have been charged together in the same accusatory pleading . . . evidence concerning one offense or offenses need not be admissible as to the other offense or offenses before the jointly charged offenses may be tried together before the same trier of fact-admissibility of evidence is, however, a factor we consider in determining whether the trial court abused its discretion in denying a motion to sever counts. (people v. scott, supra[i]f evidence underlying the - in separate trials of other charges, that circumstance normally is sufficient, standing alone, to dispel any prejudice and justify a trial courts refusal to sever the charged oid. at p. 470.) here, pursuant to evidence code section 1108, evidence of the offenses committed against one victim would be cross-admissible in a separate trial of the offenses committed against the other victim. under evidence code section 1108, evidence of the may be admitted to prove the s disposition to commit such a sexual offense so long as the probative value of the evidence is not by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue evidence code section 352. here the probative value of the evidence is high given the similarity between the encounters: victim becomes acquainted with bui while studying at the honey badger caf; after first meeting, bui and the victim exchange text messages; bui invites the victim out to eat at a restaurant and then to his home to watch a movie; after foreplay, bui lifts the victim from the futon to his bed; bui engages in sex acts with the victim while she protests and resists. bui cannot demonstrate the probative value is substantially outweighed by prejudice or any other factor listed in evidence code section 352. evidence regarding the encounter with the other victim is not cross-admissible because j. became intoxicated after she ingested the special drink bui made for her while g. did not become intoxicated. there is substantial evidence bui intended to drug g. like he drugged j. in that he 17 prepared the same special drink for g. and, after she only ingested one or two small sips, he tried to spit more of it into her mouth as he kissed her. based on the similarity of the encounters, the cross-admissibility of the evidence weighs in favor of joinder of counts. the second and third factors also weigh in favor of joinder because the charges relating to one victim were not inflame the jury againstcharges relating to the other victim (second factor), and there was not a material disparity between the strength of the evidence as to each victim (the third factor). (people v. scott, supra, 52 cal.4th at pp. 469-470.) again, bui relies on the evidence showing j. became intoxicated from the drink he gave her while g. did not, in arguing the second and third factors weighs in favor of severance. j. the similarity between the two encounters, nor does it render g. for the foregoing reasons, bui cannot demonstrate the trial court abused its discretion in denying his motion to sever the four counts relating to j. from the three counts relating to g.. still must determine whether, in the end, the joinder of counts . . . resulted in gross unfairness depriving the defendant of due process of lawpeople v. soper (2009) 45 cal.4th 759, 783.) bui does not address this standard in his briefing, and we find no gross unfairness resulting from joinder of these cross-admissible counts. admission of evidence of pretext calls bui contends the trial court erred in denying his motion to suppress testimony compelled to testify in order to get before the jury exculpatory evidence of what he had said during the pretext cthis contention is meritless. although bui claims he wanted the court to suppress the testimony, and the denial of his motion to suppress the testimony prejudiced him, bui is the party who first elicited testimony regarding the pretext calls. the prosecution did not introduce any testimony about the pretext calls during its case-in-chief and would not have been permitted to introduce such testimony on rebuttal if bui had not opened the door by cross-examining the victims about the 18 pretext calls. to suppress the testimony he later elicited. bui next contends he was compelled to testify in violation of his fifth amendment low the victims to testify on cross-hearsay exception which would allow him to elicit his own out-of-court statements for their exculpatory value or the truth of the matter asserted. had he not first brought the issue of the pretext calls before the jury, bui would not have faced having to decide whether to testify to present his version of the pretext was one of his own making and not a result of any error by the court. disposition the judgment is affirmed. not to be published. chaney, j. we concur: rothschild, p. j. lui, j. 