filed 1/27/16 p. v. bolden ca2/5 not to be published in the official reports california rules of court, rule 8.1115(a), prohibits courts and parties from citing or relying on opinions not certified for publication or ordered published, except as specified by rule 8.1115(b). this opinion has not been certified for publication or ordered published for purposes of rule 8.1115. in the court of appeal of the state of california second appellate district division five the people, plaintiff and respondent, v. javier bolden, defendant and appellant. b260188 (los angeles county super. ct. no. ba397880) appeal from a judgment of the superior court of los angeles county, stephen a. marcus, judge. affirmed. joshua l. siegel for appellant. kamala d. harris, attorney general, gerald a. engler, chief assistant attorney general, lance e. winters, senior assistant attorney general, michael r. johnsen, supervising deputy attorney general, and steven e. mercer, deputy attorney general for respondent. 2 introduction defendant and appellant javier bolden confessed twice to the double murder and robbery of two university of southern california (usc) graduate students. he also confessed to an unrelated earlier attempted murder of a male outside a nightclub recorded confessions were not motivated by express or implied promises of leniency, threats, or other coercive police activity, and these confessions are voluntary. we find the omission of instruction on second degree murder and involuntary manslaughter is motion. the jury convicted defendant of the murders of ying wu (wu) and ming qu (qu) in counts 1 & 2 (pen. code,1  187, subd. (a)); the attempted murder of deionce davance ( 664/187, subd. (a); count 4),2 and assault on zanae flowers with a semi-automatic firearm ( 245, subd. (b); count 5). the jury found true two special circumstancesmultiple-murder and robbery-murderas to the murder counts. ( 190.2, subds. (a)(3) & (a)(17).) the jury also found true the following allegations: that a principal was armed with a handgun in all counts ( 12022, subd. (a)(1)); that defendant personally and intentionally used and discharged a handgun that caused great bodily injury in count 4 ( 12022.53, subds. (b)-(d)); that defendant personally used and discharged a semi-automatic firearm in count 4 ( 12022.5); and that defendant personally inflicted great bodily injury in count 5 ( 12022.7, subd. (a)).3 1 all further statutory references are to the penal code, unless otherwise specified. 2 count 3 originally charged defendant with a separate attempted murder but was deleted in the final amended information. 3 charged jointly with appellant, but later plead guilty to two counts of murder. he was sentenced to consecutive terms of life without parole. 3 the trial court sentenced defendant for the murders on counts 1 and 2, to two consecutive terms of life without parole, plus one additional year on each count for the principal-armed allegations. for the attempted murder conviction on count 4 defendant was sentenced to life, plus 25 years to life for the firearm enhancement. for the assault with a deadly weapon conviction on count 5, defendant was sentenced to 22 years, consisting of the upper term of 9 years, plus 13 years, consisting of 10 years for the firearm use enhancement, and 3 years for the great bodily injury enhancement.4 defendant raises six issues in his appeal from judgment. first, he argues his confession to the police was involuntary. second, he contends his jail cell confession to a confidential informant, posing as a fellow gang member was the tainted product of the earlier involuntary confession. third, he argues the booking exemption does not apply to the detect-miranda question illiciting his phone number. fourth, he argues he was entitled to a lesser included jury instruction on second degree murder and involuntary manslaughter. fifth, he intent-to-kill requirement, which was corrected in the jury instructions required a mistrial, and sixth, the errors were cumulatively prejudicial. we find no reversible error and affirm the judgment. 4 the trial court struck the principal-armed allegation in count 5, in accordance with 4 background 1. the february 12, 2012 shootings of deionce devance and zanae flowers on the evening of february 12, 2012, a party was held at the garr banquet hall, near western and 51st street, south of the usc campus. at least 100 people were inside. devance attended the party with tamara mckeever, his sister, charles darden, and zanae flowers. sometime before midnight, the lights came on, and the music was turned down. as devance and mckeever headed toward the exit, bolden entered with a large group of other african- and irate and he gangs after devance told bolden he almost hit mckeever, bolden punched him, and the two fought. at least twenty others joined in the fight. a security guard ejected devance and darden, who then stood on the sidewalk. outside, mckeever and flowers began to fight a group of females. on the sidewalk bolden approached devance and asked and then shot him. grabbing his stomach, devance fell. devance had been shot twice. one bullet went through the back of his head and exited his left eye. the second entered his left abdomen and existed his back. he sustained permanent, debilitating brain injuries resulting in paralysis, inability to speak, and the need for round-the-clock nursing care. upon hearing the gunshots, mckeever and flowers began running south. flowers was shot in the leg and fell, screaming. mckeever and darden were as the shooter. 5 2. the april 12, 2012 murder of qu and wu on april 12, 2012, about 1:00 a.m., jovanny ordonez was at home on raymond avenue near usc when he heard what sounded like a loud firecracker and glass breaking. looking out the window, he saw a bmw with its hazard lights blinking parked across the street. qu exited the car; crawled to the porch of a house, and knocked on the door, breaking the glass. when ordonez approached qu, the latter was on his back and choking on blood. ordonez called 911 and returned to qu who indicated someone else was in the car. at the bmw, ordonez noted wuslumped forward in the front passenger seat. she was not responsive. while at home, eury maldonado, a neighbor, heard two rapid gunshots and the sound of glass breaking. from his second floor balcony, maldonado observed two african-argued loudly and then ran off together southbound. maldonado could not see their faces, because they wore head coverings, i.e., the bleeding qu exited the car, maldonado called police. wu had been shot twice and died from gunshot wounds to her chest. qu died from blood loss due to a single gunshot wound behind his left ear. 3. the police investigation a. scene investigation at the devance and flowers shooting scene, the police found an expended 9-mm casing on the sidewalk in front of the nightclub and another about eight feet from where devance was lying. a live 9-mm round was retrieved on the ground about 30 feet away. at the wu and qu shooting scene, the police observed a hole in the bmw side window, which had been broken partially inward. no third party fingerprint or dna evidence was found. a 9-mm bullet was on the front passenger seat, and a second bullet was between that seat and the right front door jamb. two expended 9-mm casings were 6 in the street not far from the car. this firearm evidence and examination of the bmw itself indicated someone had fired into the car through t all the 9-mm casings found at both shooting scenes were fired from the same semiautomatic 9-mm handgun. d been stolen. b. cell phone investigation with respect to the february 12, 2012 shootingsed in the vicinity of the banquet hall at 11:23 p.m. and at 12:06 a.m. as to the april 12, 2012 shootingsthe shooting vicinity at 12:14 a.m. and 1:02 a.m. at 12:55 a.m., a call was made from and a half minutes. at 1:09 a.m., shortly after wu was shot, her cell that was not answered. between 1:32 and 2:07 a.m.vicinity of his house. at 1:36 a.m. phone was used not far from between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 a.m.as house. c. wiretap phone conversations and arrests of barnes and bolden pursuant to a wiretap warrant, the police recorded two phone conversations, one between bolden and barnes and the other between bolden and an unknown female. the recorded conversations were played for the jury. in the first conversation recorded on may 17, 2012, bolden and barnes discussed their robbery shooting through the window; and phones. in a phone conversation later the same day, bolden told an unidentified woman he no longer partied on western. when asked whypartied on western, i had to kill 7 barnes was arrested just after he left a cell phone store in compton where police recovered an iphone stolen during the qu and wu shooting incident. on may 18, 2012, at 6:03 p.m., the police arrested bolden and seized his cell phone. d. at the police station following his arrest, detectives carreon and hansen conducted a videotaped interview of bolden, which was played for the jury. prior to his miranda advisement, carreon asked bolden for his name, date of birth, address, and telephone number. bolden responded his name was javier bolden; his date of birth was - bolden was then advised of his miranda rights, which he understood and waived. during the interview, bolden admitted he and barnes were involved in the indicated their plan was to rob qu and wu. barnes shot both of them and snatched their phones. bolden stated because barnes was his bolden denied involvement in the 2012 february shooting of devance and flowers. e. confidential informant after the interview, bolden was placed in a jail cell with a confidential informant posing as a fellow blood gang member. the recording of their conversion was played for the jury. during this conversation, bolden discussed both shooting incidents. bolden . . . he tried to run . . . then he tried to bolden characterized the shooting of qu and wu as the product of an unsuccessful ca out there he explained the people 8 would not described the driver as being hit in the identified the car as a bmw. bolden admitted he also fired a shot but added the bullet did not brea he explained although they planned to steal the because they heard people come out [of] the house. in the car he stated they later sold [w]e got caught because of the 4. defense bolden relied on a mistaken identification defense and on the theory the prosecution failed to prove he had any involvement in the shootings. discussion boldewere voluntary bolden contends the trial court erred in refusing to suppress his incriminating statements made during the police interview because his confession had been coerced through threats, promises of leniency, and other unlawful police tactics. admission of hes his statements during the recorded interview were voluntary. circumstances regarding on may 18, 2012, interview began at 9:00 p.m., and lasted two hours and thirty-seven minutes, including a five-minute break. less than three minutes before any substantive questioning, bolden was advised of and waived his miranda rights. about halfway into the interview, bolden made statements incriminating himself as an aider and abettor to the qu and wu murders. he denied any involvement in the february 12, 2012 shooting incident. 9 during the initial hour, and prior to the incriminating statements, the detectives exhorted bolden to provide information about the shootings, tell the truth, and not lie. , you need to come clean with us. , [w]e want to talk to you about it. and we want you to be very , . . . very important to you that you start telling the truth and start thinking about yourself., shooting that you were involved in., kay. you need to be honest with me. you better start , want to go to jail for the rest of your life, if not until something else happens to you, you know what, you better start talking., h out , decision to not tell the truth will affect you for the rest of your life., only thing thats gonna onna . . . get you out of it, is you., [y]ou have an opportunity, right now, to tell the truth, to make sure that, hey, the truth came out, at least. the detectives also exaggerated the state of the evidence connecting bolden to the shootings and acphysical they told bolden he was implicated in the shootings through the evidence they possessed, including dna evidence, witness identification, camera footage, b5 ][physical evidence][barnes], your partner in crime there . . . got everything. we have the phone. you know, we have people identifying you guys. i mean . . . 5 detective hansen told bolden that barnes said bolden pulled the trigger. detective carreon admitted attributing statements to barnes was a ruse. 10 shows that .) additionally, the detectives told bolden about the serious consequences of the murders. detective hansen . detective carreon advised,really making a huge mistake covering up for something . . . as 5, 30 fied, saying you just onna be within four wall at 55 minutes into the interview, carreon advised bolden he might be eligible for est of your life in prison, if not, the death penalty. it is . . . . he advised: besides that, you he denied trying to trying to make [him] he added, us the truth. and we gave you the opportunity. and we we went around with you for a little bit. we not gonna do that anymore. . reon responded no and g your own destiny he cautioned, a jury would consider his failure to discuss truthfully what through this portion of the interview, bolden had laughed and smiled repeatedly. carreon 11 a- [w]ttle bit of remorse. right now-blooded killer to the jminutes later, he made additional incriminating statements regarding the qu and wu murders, including the claims that go out robbing people; barnes was the shooter. police interview statements to the police. in opposition, the defense argued the statements should be suppressed as involuntary, because the detectives used coercive tactics, namely, implying bolden would be better off if he told what happened and threatening him with the death penalty for the murders. following a hearing, the trial court, which had viewed the police interview video, granted the motion, because the statements were voluntary under the totality of the circumstances. the court found the brief reference to the death penalty was inconsequential, do mention the death penalty, . . . in the basnd no indication . . . trade-off, that [the detectives are] going to do something about the death penalty, [that] they are going to help [bolden] in some way pointed out 12 bolden did not break down immediately in the face of the death penalty comment and his the court also found no [s]psychol ation between [bolden] and the [detectives]certainly dealing with the [detecconsidered -and-mouse questions like guys ; have you the trial the court did find bold in addition to the above reasons, the trial based on these factual findings: the fact bolden was smiling demonstrated he was not overwhelmed by the death penalty; [v] -flowing standard of review an involuntary confession may not be introduced into evidence at trial. [citation.] the prosecution has the burden of establishing by a preponderance of the evidence that a defendant's confession was voluntarily made. [citations.] in determining whether a confession was voluntary, [t]he question is whether defendant's choice to co [citation.] 13 whether the confession was voluntary depends upon the totality of the circumstances. [citations.] on appeal, the trial court's findings as to the circumstances surrounding the confession are upheld if supported by substantial evidence, but the trial court's finding as [citation.](people v. carrington (2009) 47 cal.4th 145, 169. a finding of coercive police activity is a prerequisite to a finding that a confession was involuntary under the federal and state constitutions. [citations.] a confession may be found involuntary if extracted by threats or violence, obtained by direct or implied promises, or secured by the exertion of improper influence. [citation.] although coercive police activity is a necessary predicate to establish an involuntary cdoes not itself compel a finding that a resul [citation.] the statement and the inducement must be causally linked. [citation.] [citation.]people v. mcwhorter (2009) 47 cal.4th 318, 347.) it is well settled that a confession is involuntary and therefore inadmissible if it was elicited by any promise of benefit or leniency whether express or implied. [citations.] however, mere advice or exhortation by the police that it would be better for the accused to tell the truth when unaccompanied by either a threat or a promise does not render a subsequent confession involuntary. [citation.] the distinction that is to be drawn between permissible police conduct on the one hand and conduct deemed to have induced an involuntary statement on tdoes not depend upon the bare language of inducement but rather upon the nature of the benefit to be derived by a defendant if he speaks the trut [citation.] hen] the benefit pointed out by the police to a suspect is merely that which flows naturally from a truthful the subsequent statement will not be considered involuntarily made. [citation.] if . . . the defendant is given to understand that he might reasonably expect benefits in the nature of more lenient treatment at the hands of the police, prosecution or court in consideration of making a statement, even a truthful one, such motivation is deemed to render the statement 14 involuntary and inadmissible. . . . [citations.]people v. jimenez (1978) 21 cal.3d 595, 611-612, superseded in part by constitutional amendment as stated in people v. markham (1989) 49 cal.3d 63, 65 and overruled on another ground in people v. cahill (1993) 5 cal.4th 478, 509, fn. 17.) was voluntary. those potential circumstances include not only the crucial element of police coercion, [citation]; the length of the interrogation, [citation]; its location, [citation]; its continuity, [citation]; the defendant's maturity, [citation]; education, [citation]; physical condition, [citation]; and mental health, [citation.]withrow v. williams (1993) 507 u.s. 680, 693 (withrow).) no indicia of involuntariness infected bolde we have listened to and watchfulfilling our obligation to make an independent determination of the voluntariness of statements during the police interview. bolden claims his statements were involuntary in part due to coercive police tactics. he points out the police were in force when they arrested him and that they transported him by helicopter from his home in victorville to him he faults the police rview, the we are not persuaded these matters amount to coercive police tactics which would render his statements involuntary. first, bolden does not assert or demonstrate that the show of force during his arrest and/or the helicopter ride to the police station so intimidated and frightened him that his free will was impaired. granted, deprivation of withrow, supra, 507 u.s. 15 at p. 693.) however, he cites no authority for his novel proposition that the police must wait until morning to interview a criminal suspect, because the suspect is entitled to a night of rest before questioning. (people v. taylor leg].) further, bolden points to no evidence that during the interview, which took place at 9:00 p.m., not the middle of the night, and ended at 11:00 p.m., he was so sleep-deprived that his will was overborne. that the two shooting incidents occurred about midnight and 1:00 a.m., respectively, leads to a contrary inference. his contention is further belied by the fact he was sufficiently rested to engage in a lengthy conversation with the confidential informant shortly after his police interview. during the interview also lack significance. in response to his first complaint, carreon den felt cold despite his pajamas. bolden himself smiling, laughing, and banter with the detectives reveal his state of being cold was not so severe as to overcome his free will. rather, as reflected in the video and as the trial court -and-moudetectives. allowed his will to be overborne. the record refutes this contention. at the time of the interview, bolden was almost 20 years old. he did not display any indicia of vulnerability or susceptibility to coercion. during the interview, he was composed and unfazed by the situation, nor was he intimidated by the detectives with whom he smiled, laughed, and bantered. throughout the interview, bolden is calm, relaxed, and soft spoken. he demonstrates he is not easily intimidated, and is able to spar evenly with his questioners, attempting to turn the tables on them by repeatedly asking you got, what do you guys know. although he confessed to the murders of qu and wu, he steadfastly denied any involvement in the february 12, 2012 shooting. this is a significant compelling fact demonstrating his will was not overborne by the police. 16 additionally, his criminal record was not trivial. at the time of his arrest in this matter, bolden was on formal felony probation for making a criminal threat against a school officer and a prior arrest and conviction for animal cruelty. bolden further contends his incriminating statements were induced through improper promises of leniency and threats of increased punishment. no such promises or threats were made. the detectives made no express or implied promises of leniency to induce bolden to incriminate himself. rather, they merely exhorted him to tell the truth, be honest, and show remorse. such exhortations unaccompanied by promises of leniency are permissible. (people v. williams (2010) 49 cal.4th 405, 444 (williams); people v. holloway (2004) 33 cal.4th. 96, 115 (holloway).) similarly, the detectives did not threaten bolden with the death penalty unless he told them what happened. carreon brought up the death penalty only on one occasion and in so doing, he merely mentioned the death penalty in the context of pointing out to bolden the severity of the potential punishment flowing from a conviction for multiple murders. such advisement was truthful and permissible. (see, e.g., holloway, supra, 33 cal.4th at p. 115.) clear bolden did not understand it as a quid pro quo. this is not the constitutionally incriminating information as a direct result of such express or implied threats and citations.]williams, supra, 49 cal.4th at p. 443.) further, later in the ain extent of the evidence and did not render his statements involuntary. generally speaking, unless likely to produce a false confession, deception on the part of police is allowed. (people v. smith (2007) 40 cal.4th 483, 505-506 (smith).) 17 you got. the police are not barred from confronting a suspect with evidence that is nonexistent or which they do not in fact have. (id. at p. 506 [suspect falsely told gun residue test positive]; people v. farnam (2002) 28 cal.4th 107, 182 [misrepresentation as people v. jones (1998) 17 cal.4th 279, 299 [implication permitted that people v. watkins (1970) 6 cal.app.3d 119, 124-125 [suspect falsely told his fingerprints on getaway car].) further, the police are not prohibited from falsely representing the frazier v. cupp (1969) 394 u.s. 731, 739; people v. felix (1977) 72 cal.app.3d 879, 885.) bolden faults the detectives for failing to explain first degree felony murder does not require an intent to kill before they asked him who had come up with the robbery plan, whether he and his accomplices intended to shoot the victims, and whether they intended to kill them. he contends the sole import of this line of questioning was to imply, wrongly, that bolden would be guilty of a lesser homicide if the robbery had not been his idea and he had not intended to kill anyone and thereby lead him to admit to being involved in the killings but with a less culpable role. his position is without merit. although bolden was arrested for the murders of qu and wu during a robbery, he had not been charged with any particular crime at the time of his interview. the interview was part of the ongoing police investigation into the circumstances leading up to and resulting in the shooting deaths of qu and wu. the challenged line of questioning was within the permissible scope of such investigation. it is not the function of the police to determine what charges are to be brought against a suspect. rather, the prosecuting authority makes that determination based in part on the matters elicited in the police interview. the detectives did not cross the line by promising bolden he would be 18 charged with a lesser offense or obtain a lighter punishment if he admitted his involvement but denied any intent to rob and shoot the victims, much less kill them.6 boldewere voluntary bolden contends the trial court committed reversible error in denying his motion to suppress his jail cell statements to the confidential informant, because these statements point out his underlying premise is fatally flawed. as discussed above, his incriminating statements during the police interview were voluntary. further, between that confession and his confession to the confidential informant was attenuated his first. even if we assumed for argument sake the first confession was involuntary, we would still hold on this record that any cothis first confession is sufficiently attenuated so that this confession is voluntary and admissible. [w]hereas a result of improper police conductan accused confesses, and subsequently makes another confession, it may be presumed the subsequent confession is the product of the first because of the psychological or practical disadvantages of having [citations.]mcwhorter, supra, 47 cal.4th at pp. 318, 359.) presumption is rebuttable, with the prosecution bearing the burden of establishing a break in the causative chain between the first confession and the ibidthe degree of attenuation that suffices to dissipate the 6 in any event, admission of this confession was harmless beyond a reasonable confidential informant, which, as we shall discuss, clearly was not tainted in any way by chapman v. california (1967) 386 u.s. 18, 24 (chapman); cf. arizona v. fulminante (1991) 499 u.s. 279, 297-300; see also, people v. gonzalez (2012) 210 19 tarequires at least an intervening independent act by to break the causal chain in such a way that the second confession is not in fact obtained by exploitation of the illegality. [citations.] [citation.]id. at p. 360.) we have listened to and watchinformant. the totality of the reveal they were not obtained by exploitation of what transpired during the earlier police interview, and that no coercive tactics were employed. (people v. bradford (1997) 14 cal.4th 1005, 1041.) the jail cell conversation took place more than an hour after the police interview, in a different setting, and before a third party. the exchange between bolden and the confidential informant was not conducted in an adversarial or hostile atmosphere. following the police interview that ended at 11:03 p.m., bolden was alone for 27 minutes. at 12:30 a.m., he was placed in the jail cell with the confidential informant. the detectives were not present. bolden was alone with the informant, who represented himself to be a fellow blood gang member. moreover, the nature of the exchange reflected their encounter was friendly and intimate. bolden freely and without hesitation bragged to the informant about what had occurred in both shooting incidents and details about his own participation. it is noteworthy in the police interview bolden denied involvement in the february 2012 shooting with its gang overtones but readily bragged about it to the informant, who he thought to be a fellow older blood gang member. 7 7 our decision is limited to the facts, and we do not decide as a general matter that a recorded jail informant confession following a confession to police is always sufficiently attentuated to be admissible (cf. missouri v. seibert (2004) 542 u.s. 600 [improper two step interrogation technique to avoid miranda].) 20 is the miranda booking exception applicable to statement? following the close of evidence, defense counsel motelephone number statement to police prior to his miranda advisements. he argued the an it would in an ordinary case-type questions, prebooking information that does not require miranda admonishments. the court found the detectives were not asking for the number to obtain incriminating evidence and the police eventually would have obtained his number through other investigatory meand subscriber information were in the hands of the police well before he was booked. number was (323) 599-3681. detective lait testified (323) 599-3681 was one of the target numbers in his wiretap application and during his investigation, he learned this number was a cell phone primarily used by bolden. two incriminating recorded calls from this phone number involving bolden were played for the jury. bolden contends the trial court erred in refusing to suppress his statement regarding his phone number, because it was elicited in violation of miranda. without deciding whether the telephone number question is exempt from miranda under the booking exception, any error introducing this admission is harmless, in that there was ample, independent, uncontradicted evidence that inumber. an error in admitting a statement obtained in violation of miranda is reviewed under tchapman. (people of johnson (1993) 6 cal.4th 1, 32-33.) such an error is generally deemed harmless if there was other, properly admitted evidence establishing the fact sought to be proven by means 21 of the statement. (people v. coffman and marlow (2004) 34 cal.4th 1, 60.) here, other overwhelming independent evidence established number. as bolden concedes, the police had already obtained admissible phone records showing he was the cell phone subscriber for (323) 599-3681. the jury heard evidence those 599- detective lait testified he learned through his investigation, which preceded -3681 was the number for a cell phone being used incriminating cell phone calls for number (323) 599-3681 that had been recorded before his arrest and police the jury might have concluded that the cell phone was not actually his. thus, any error in failing to suppress the phone number portion of the statement was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. omission of lesser offense instruction harmless bolden contends the trial court committed reversible error by failing to instruct sua sponte on second degree murder and involuntary manslaughter as lesser included offenses of the premeditated murder charged in counts 1 (wu) and 2 (qu). omission of such instruction was harmless, because there is no reasonable probability of a better result if the instructions had been given. counts 1 and 2 each charged bolden with first degree murder on the theory of victim. in his opening statement, however, the prosecutor proceeded on a felony murder from these counts, he asked for time to consider such removal. the court indicated 22 during a discussion on jury instructions, the court reaffirmeindication of proceeding under a felony murder theory only. defense counsel did not request instruction on any other theory and declined to request instructions on lesser offenses. during argument, the prosecutor relied only on the felony murder theory. a trial court has a sua sponte duty to instruct on a lesser offense necessarily included in the charged offense if there is substantial evidence the defendant is guilty only of the lesser. [citation.](people v. shockley (2013) 58 cal.4th 400, 403 (shockley).) in other words, the state of the evidence must be such that a reasonable jury could conclude that the defendant committed the lesser, but not the greater, offense. (id. at p. 404.) this duty exists even where the lesser included offense is inconsistent with the defendant's own theory of the case and the defendant objects to the instruction. (people v. banks (2014) 59 cal.4th 1113, 1160 (banks).) included in another offense . . . , we apply either the elements test or the accusatory pleading test. elements test, if the statutory elements of the greater offense include all of the statutory elements of the lesser offense, the latter is necessarily included in the former. under the accusatory pleading test, if the facts actually alleged in the accusatory pleading include shockley, supra, 58 cal.4th offense that necessarily subsumes a lesser offense, and so long as there is substantial evidence that the defendant committed the lesser offense without also committing the greater, the trial court must instruct on the lesser included offensebanks, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 1160, italics added.) the evidence is substantial if a reasonable jury could find such evidence persuasive. (people v. benavides (2005) 35 cal.4th 69, 102.) any doubts regarding the 23 sufficiency of the evidence to support the lesser offense are resolved in favor of the defendant. (people v. tufunga (1999) 21 cal.4th 935, 944.) whether the trial court improperly failed to instruct on a lesser included offense is reviewed de novo. (banks, supra, 59 cal.4th at pp. 1113, 1160.) manslaughter are not lesser included offenses of first degree felony murder, they are lesser included offenses of a premeditated and deliberate murder with malice. [citations.]8 (people v. campbell (2015) 233 cal.app.4th 148, 161-162) urder is the unlawful killing of a human being with malice, but without the additional elements (i.e., willfulness, premeditation, and deliberation) that would support a conviction of first degree murder. [citations.](people v. hansen (1994) 9 cal.4th 300, 307; overruled on other grounds in people v. chun, supra, 45 cal.4th at p. 1119commission of a lawful act which might produce death, in an unlawful manner, or without due caution and circ.) the issue presented by bolden can be phrased: does substantial evidence exist from which a reasonable jury could find bolden committed second degree murder or involuntary manslaughter but not premeditated murder. (people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 162.) we need not, and therefore do not, reach this issue. the absence of instruction on second degree murder and involuntary manslaughter was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (banks, supra, 59 cal.4th at pp. 1113, 1116 [harmless error test under people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818, 837].) sufficient to warrant an instruction on a lesser included offense does not necessarily 8 first degree felony murder is a killing during the course of a felony specified in section 189, such as rape, burglary, or robbery. an unlawful killing in the course of the commission of a felony that is inherently dangerous to human life but is not included among the felonies enumerated in section 189 . . . . [citation.people v.chun (2009) 45 cal.4th 1172, 1182.) 24 amount to evidence sufficient to create a reasonable probability of a different outcome had the instruction been given. [citations.]banks, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 1161.) in this matter, oy first degree murder verdicts on counts 1 and 2 based on a felony murder theory, and the evidence in support of a lesser offense is minimal and not reasonably persuasive to the jury. (banks, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 1161; people v. lipscomb (1993) 17 cal.app.4th 564, 570 [evidence that the offense is less than or other than that charged.]) in returning a verdict of guilty on counts 1 and 2, the jury found true the felony special circumstance allegation as to each count, namely, the murders of wu and qu were . . . within the meaning of . . . the jury thus found bolden participated in the robbery of wu and qu. bolden was convicted as an accomplice to the actual murderer. as an aider and abettor, the jury necessarily found bolden acted with the intent to kill in finding true the felony murder special circumstance allegation.9 these findings are supported by overwhelming evidence, mainly from s own statements from b and he joined in the plan because barnes did; and he told barnes he was with him. after barnes shot qu and wu, bolden 9 [i]must be established where, as here, the defendant is an aider and people v. anderson (1987) 43 intent to kill is not an element of the felony-murder special circumstance; but when the defendant is an aider and abetter rather than the actual killer, intent must be proved; see also, people v. jones (2003) 30 cal.4th 1084, 1117.) the trial court did not instruct the jury on intent to kill as to this special circumstance. at best this omission is harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. (chapman, supra, 386 u.s. 18.) bolden does not challenge the sufficiency of the evidence on intent to kill. importantly, the court did instruct on the necessity of intent to kill as to the multiple murder special circumstance allegation, i.e., [t]he defendant, in this proceeding, has been convicted of more than one offense of murder , which the jury also found true. the jury therefore also found intent to kill in finding true the felony murder special circumstance. 25 phones. additionally, bolden told the confidential informant the [w]people. house, and [barnes] just snatched the phones. we got caught because of the fucking bullet he measured against such damning evidence, , shoot anyone and [heare simply self-serving and inconsequential denial of mistrial not abuse of discretion bolden contends the trial court abused its discretion in denying his mistrial motion. we disagree. initial erroneous ruling that intent to kill was not an element of the multiple-murder special circumstance was nonprejudicial, because the jury was instructed correctly on the law and defense counsel was afforded the opportunity to re-open his argument to address the issue of intent to kill before the jury, which opportunity the defense declined. during a discussion about jury instructions, the trial court indicated caljic nos. 8.80.1 and 8.81.3 regarding the multiple murder special circumstance would be given. no objection was made. pursuant to caljic no. 8.80.1, the jury would be instructed that a defendant who was an aider and abetter must have acted with the intent to kill.10 10 the applicable caljic no. 8.80.1 reads: [if you find that a defendant was not the actual killer of a human being, [or if you are unable to decide whether the defendant was the actual killer or [an aider and abettor] [or] [co-conspirator],] you cannot find the special circumstance to be true [as to that defendant] unless you are satisfied beyond a reasonable doubt that such defendant with the intent to kill [aided,] [abetted,] [counseled,] [commanded,] [induced,] [solicited,] [requested,] [or] [assisted] any actor in the commission of the murder in the first degree] [.] [, or with reckless indifference to human life and as a major participant, [aided,] [abetted,] [counseled,] [commanded,] 26 following to kill. after reviewing the use note for this instruction, the court initially [t]here in his closing argument, defense counsel argued the prosecution failed to prove bolden was involved at all in the shrebuttal argument. on the next day, the court reconsidered its prior ruling on the intent to kill issue. after indicating the court had reviewed section 190.2, subdivision (c)11 and people v. nunez and satele (2013) 57 cal.4th 1 (nunez),12 the trial court stated a trial court instruct the jury that to find true a multiple murder special circumstance allegation as to the defendant, [the jury] must find that the defendant precluded by the court from doing so. its not a big part of my argument, but obviously because - -.in interrupting counse- [induced,] [solicited,] [requested,] [or] [assisted] in the commission of the crime . . . which resulted in the death of a human bein 11 section every person, not the actual killer, who, with the intent to kill, aids, abets, counsels, commands, induces, solicits, requests, or assists any actor in the commission of murder in the first degree shall be punished by death or imprisonment in the state prison for life without the possibility of parole if one or more of the special circumstances enumerated in subdivision (a) has been found to be 12 in nunez, the court hwhen there is evidence from which a jury could base its convictions for multiple counts of murder on the theory that the defendant was guilty as an aider and abettor, and not as the actual perpetrator, the trial court must instruct the jury that to find true [this] allegation as to that defendant, it must find that the defendant intended to kill the murder victims. [citations.]nunez, supra, 57 cal.4th at p. 45.) 27 of my closing argument . . . was that mr. bolden was not defense counsel moved for dismissal of the multiple-murder special circumstance allegation for lack of intent to kill evidence. the court denied the motionintent to kill bolden asserted he himself bolden does not contend on appeal that the finding of intent to kill is not supported by substantial evidence. after stating he did not want to present additional argument because in so doing, . . . the crux of my pcomplete and total opportunity to re-argue. i will give you whatever time you need to argue regarding the issue of whether there needs to be an intent to kill on the multiple this was a situation of a chance to re- the jury was expressly instructed that the multiple murder special circumstance mindful of this instruction, the jury found the multiple murder special circumstance to be true. a trial court should grant a mistrial only when a party's chances of receiving a fair trial have been irreparably damaged, and we use the deferential abuse of discretion standard to review a trial court ruling denying a mistrial. [citations.]people v. clark (2011) 52 cal.4th 856, 990 (clark).) special circumstance does not require intent to kill where the defendant is an aider and abettor, rather than actual killer, was inconsequential. the court had not instructed the jury, and when the court did instruct the jury on the multiple murder special 28 circumstance, the court specifically directed the jury that it had to find bolden acted with the intent to kill. the trial court did not foreclose or preclude defense counsel from reopening to argue lack of intent to kill. rather, the decision not to argue against intent to kill was that of defense counsel alone. as a general matter, trial tactics are a matter within the sole province of defense counsel. (see, e.g., people v. williams counsel's decision to so argue is a matter of trial tactics and strategy that a reviewing court generally may not second-guess.]; cf. people v. najera efense counsel under the sixth amendment of the united states constitution].) defense counsel here part [his] closing argument . . . was that mr. counsel decided, and later reaffirmed his decision, not to reopen and argue lack of intent to kill because, in so doing, he would emphasize the issue bolden was not involved. this was a tactical choice on part, and reasonable. intent to kill on the part of bolden was not an equivocal issue. as the trial court pointed out, not only did he entertain the intent to rob when he positioned himself on the stood there armed with his own gun and by firing his gun after the shooter had fatally shot the victims seated in their car. additionally, not only would argument about the lack would no doubt allow the prosecutor during rebuttal to draw attention to the accordingly, the withdrawal of a crucial defense did not result from the absence of the multiple murder 29 the multiple murder special circumstances does not require intent to kill did not lead to necessitating the grant of the mistrial motion. (clark, supra, 52 cal.4th at p. 990). the denial of the mistrial motion was not an abuse of discretion. cumulative effect of claimed errors harmless bolden contends the cumulative effect of the errors committed is prejudicial and necessitates reversal of the judgment. we disagree. the cumulative effect of the claimed errors is harmless. (people v. homick (2012) 55 cal.4th 816, 884. ) not to be published in the official reports. 30 disposition the judgment is affirmed. kirschner, j. i concur: turner, p.j. judge of the los angeles superior court, assigned by the chief justice pursuant to article vi, section 6 of the california constitution. the people v. javier bolden b260188 baker, j., concurring i concur in the judgment. i write separately to explain the reasons why i conclude thmurder and involuntary manslaughter was harmless. a reviewing court assesses a claim that a trial court erred in declining to give a lesser included offense instruction under the people v. watson (1956) 46 cal.2d 818 test it is reasonably probable that a result more favorable to the appealing party would have been reached in the absence of the errorid. at p. 836; people v. banks (2014) 59 cal.4th 1113, 1161 (banks), overruled on other grounds by people v. scott (2015) 61 cal.4th 363, 391, fn. 3; people v. breverman (1998) 19 cal.4th 142, 176-a jury is likely to have done in the absence of the error under considerationwhether the evidence supporting the verdict is so relatively strong, and the evidence supporting a different outcome is so comparatively weak, that there is no reasonable probability the claimed error affected the result] (breverman).)1 as i read the majority opinion, it concludes the absence of instructions on second degree murder and involuntary manslaughter was not prejudicial error because (1) overwhelming evidence proved defendant guilty of felony murder and because (2) overwhelming evidence proved defendant had the intent to kill victims wu and qu. (ante, at p. 24.) the first conclusion is sound and it is dispositive; the second conclusionthat there is overwhelming killis both unnecessary and questionable on this record. 1 although the majority cites banks for the proposition that the people v. watson instruction on second degree murder and involuntary manslaughter was harmless beyond ante, at p. 23.) my analysis and conclusion rest solely on the people v. watson standard. 2 supreme court cases establish the failure to give instructions on second degree murder and involuntary manslaughter in this case was not prejudicial error. the jury in banks convicted the defendant of first degree felony murder for shooting a victim who was using an atm. (banks, supra, 59 cal.4th at p. 1155.) our supreme court held the defendant killed the victim to obtain money, rather than id. at p. 1161.) here, there is overwhelming evidencethat he and bryan barnes (barnes) were jointly engaged in robbing wu and qu when barnes shot and killed them. (see generally people v. cavitt (2004) 33 cal.4th 187 [discussing the elements of felony qu were killed during the commission of a robbery, it is not reasonably probable the jury would have convicted defendant of second degree murder or involuntary manslaughter rather than first degree felony murder. the absence of lesser included offense instructions was harmless for precisely that reason. (banks, supra, at p. 1161; people v. castaneda (2011) 51 cal.4th 1292, 1328.) findings to hold any error in failing to give lesser included offense instructions was not prejudicial. this, however, complicates an otherwise straightforward resolution of the issue. -murder special circumstance omitted an essential element: it did not require the jury to find that defendant, who was an aider and abettor, had the intent to kill. the jury was instructed, however, that it must find defendant intended to kill in order to conclude the prosecution had proven the multiple murder special circumstance. the majority relies on the multiple murder finding of an intent to kill to conclude the omission of the intent element from the -murder special circumstance instruction was harmless. (see ante, at p. 24, fn. 9.) i believe suf 3 determination the multiple murder special circumstance had been proven, that defendant had the intent to kill. i therefore agree that the omission of the intent to kill element from the robbery-murder special circumstance was harmless beyond a reasonable doubt. where the majority and i part company, however, is on the question of the strength of the evidence that defendant intended to kill wu and qu. i believe the evidence of such an intent, while sufficient, was not overwhelming. i therefore do not -murder special circumstance finding to conclude the absence of lesser included offense instructions was harmless. the rationale on which i rely also avoids placing heavy emphasis on an intent finding made by the jury in the absence of any argument to the contrary by defense counsel. there was overwhelming evidence that defendant was guilty of first degree felony murder. in light of that evidence, there is a de minimis chance, if any, that the jury would have returned not guilty verdicts on first degree murder and convicted defendant only of argument in favor of lesser included offense instructions, i would leave it at that. baker, j. 